Hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy. Asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied. Polyps were found in 185 subjects. The endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps' histology based on endoscopic appearance. No polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy. All subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy. Of them, 99 subjects (54%) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma, 69 (37%) had only hyperplastic polyps, and 17 (9%) had other findings. The endoscopists' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61% of the lesions. Of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps, 29% had additional adenomas at more proximal sites. Proximal adenomas were found in 28% of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps. Patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps. 
A biphasic pattern of anti-pre-S responses in acute hepatitis B virus infection. The clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-S1 and pre-S2 regions of hepatitis B virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis B and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed. Anti-pre-S antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-S1 and pre-S2 sequence. In acute, self-limited infection, anti-pre-S antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern. The early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when HBsAg and often HBeAg were present, but hepatitis B virus DNA was no longer detectable in serum. Anti-pre-S levels then fell, but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase, after development of anti-HBe, but before anti-HBs. Anti-pre-S responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered (88.2%) and in both patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease. Although the early antibodies to pre-S1 and pre-S2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection, these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis B virus DNA in patients in whom chronic hepatitis B infection developed. Thus the anti-pre-S response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution. 
Quantitation of intrinsic drug-metabolizing capacity in human liver biopsy specimens: support for the intact-hepatocyte theory. Hepatic drug metabolism is decreased in patients with severe liver disease, but it is unclear to what extent this is due to altered hepatic blood flow or reduced intrinsic metabolic capacity. In this study we quantitated in needle-biopsy specimens the intrinsic capacity of liver tissue from 67 patients with mild liver disease (n = 36), chronic active hepatitis (n = 16) and cirrhosis (n = 15) to metabolize two model compounds in vitro. Hydroxylation of the low-extraction drug bufuralol resulted in the formation of 251 +/- 25 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/gm wet wt/hr in mildly diseased liver tissue and was significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced in liver tissue exhibiting chronic active hepatitis (166 +/- 23 nmol/gm wet wt/hr) and cirrhosis (124 +/- 21 nmol/gm wet wt/hr). The formation rates of monoethylglycinexylidide, the main metabolite of the high-extraction drug lidocaine, varied widely and were not significantly different among the three groups. To relate the drug-metabolizing capacity to the hepatocyte content of liver tissue, morphometrical study was performed in the biopsy pieces originally submitted. The metabolic activity of each biopsy piece was then related to the fractional volume of hepatocytes it was calculated to contain. In mildly diseased liver tissue 355 +/- 35 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 12.4 +/- 1.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr- and in cirrhotic liver tissue 306 +/- 49 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 15.3 +/- 3.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr--were formed, respectively, and these differences were not significant. 
Carcinoma of the gallbladder. Gallbladder cancer remains difficult to diagnose preoperatively. However, recent work suggests that ultrasound may be effective. Gallbladder cancer remains highly lethal despite aggressive therapy. Extension of the disease beyond the mucosa predicts a poor chance of long-term survival. 
A chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. A small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described. The principal presenting symptoms are malaise, fever, and weight loss, although a wide variety of complaints are documented. Pulmonary involvement is uncommon. The granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate. There is no evidence of an associated arteritis. The disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs, particularly if the kidneys are involved, the prognosis is relatively good. We propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin. The characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed. The current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition. It is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis. First, it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients. Secondly, it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise. 
Hyposensitivity to vasopressin in patients with hepatitis B-related cirrhosis during acute variceal hemorrhage. It has been suggested that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state in a portal-hypertensive rat model. This study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion in 25 HBsAg-positive cirrhotic patients. Nine patients had active variceal hemorrhage before vasopressin infusion, and the other 16 patients were in a stable condition at the time of infusion. The two groups of patients were similar in baseline values except that a higher heart rate was found in patients with hemorrhage (96 +/- 20 vs. 73 +/- 10 beats/min, mean +/- S.D., p less than 0.01). Thirty minutes after vasopressin infusion (0.66 units/min), hepatic venous pressure gradient significantly decreased in both bleeding and stable patients (from 21 +/- 9 to 18 +/- 9 mm Hg, p less than 0.05; and from 18 +/- 4 to 8 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.0001, respectively). However, the decrease of hepatic venous pressure gradient was less obvious in bleeding patients as compared with stable patients (4 +/- 3 vs. 9 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.0001). A significant reduction of hepatic venous pressure gradient after vasopressin infusion was found in five bleeding patients without shock (from a median of 16 mm Hg [range = 12 to 26] to 11 mm Hg [range = 6 to 18], p less than 0.05), but not in four bleeding patients with shock (from 28 [range = 15 to 36] to 25 [range = 18 to 33] mm Hg, p greater than 0.05). 
Frequency of recovery of Blastocystis hominis in clinical practice. We examined the frequency of isolation of Blastocystis hominis from stools of patients seen in an indigent-care teaching hospital. Over a 2-year period, 2,744 stool specimens were examined prospectively. B. hominis was found in 262 stools (9.5% of all stool specimens and 53.5% of the positive specimens). Clinical data were obtained from 80 patients with stools positive for B. hominis. B. hominis was the only parasite isolated in 39 of 47 (83%) of the adults, compared with 17 of 33 (52%) of the children (p = 0.006). All but 2 of 52 patients without concomitant parasitic infection or bacterial pathogens in stool had gastrointestinal symptoms (41 abdominal pain, 26 diarrhea, and 5 vomiting), but no association was seen with fever, peripheral leukocytosis, stool occult blood, fecal leukocytes, or endoscopic or radiologic evidence of colitis. Therefore, B. hominis was frequently recovered from stools examined in a hospital clinical parasitology laboratory. The clinical presentations of patients in our series did not suggest that B. hominis was invasive. Most patients with B. hominis probably do not require treatment since they will either have spontaneous resolution of symptoms or will be found to have an alternative explanation for their problem. 
Postoperative pancreatic abscess due to Plesiomonas shigelloides. Plesiomonas shigelloides is being recognized with increasing frequency as a human pathogen. The organism is ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water, and clinical illness has been associated with foreign travel and ingestion of inadequately cooked seafood. We describe a 64-year-old Filipino woman who presented 2 weeks after elective cholecystectomy and pancreatic biopsy with left upper quadrant pain, abdominal distention, and fever. Computerized tomography of the abdomen revealed an abscess in the tail of the pancreas with fluid accumulation in the lesser omental sac. Percutaneous aspiration yielded purulent material, and P. shigelloides was recovered in pure culture. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of pancreatic abscess due to P. shigelloides. 
A prospective analysis of 1518 laparoscopic cholecystectomies. The Southern Surgeons Club. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The Southern Surgeons Club conducted a prospective study of 1518 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy for treatment of gallbladder disease in order to evaluate the safety of this procedure. RESULTS. Seven hundred fifty-eight operations (49.9 percent) were performed at academic hospitals, and 760 (50.1 percent) at private hospitals. In 72 patients (4.7 percent) the operation was converted to conventional open cholecystectomy; the most common reason for the change was the inability to identify the anatomy of the gallbladder as a result of inflammation in the region of this organ. A total of 82 complications occurred in 78 (5.1 percent) of the patients; this is comparable with the rates of 6 to 21 percent that have been reported for conventional cholecystectomy. Overall, the most common complication was superficial infection of the site of insertion of the umbilical trocar. A total of seven injuries to the common bile duct or the hepatic duct occurred during the operation, for a rate of 0.5 percent. Four of the seven injuries were simple lacerations, which were repaired after conversion to conventional cholecystectomy. The incidence of bile-duct injury in the first 13 patients operated on by each surgical group was 2.2 percent, as compared with 0.1 percent for subsequent patients. No complications were attributed directly to either cautery or laser-surgical technique, and similar numbers of complications occurred in academic and private hospitals. The mean hospital stay for the entire group was 1.2 days (range, 6 hours to 30 days). CONCLUSIONS. The results of laparoscopic cholecystectomy compare favorably with those of conventional cholecystectomy with respect to mortality, complications, and length of hospital stay. A slightly higher incidence of biliary injury with the laparoscopic procedure is probably offset by the low incidence of other complications. 
Interleukin 1 beta is expressed predominantly by enterocytes in experimental colitis. The cytokine interleukin 1 beta is an important mediator of inflammatory processes capable of inducing eicosanoid production, T-cell activation, and increased vascular permeability. In this study, in situ hybridization techniques were used to delineate the kinetics and cellular source of induced interleukin 1 beta in acute experimental colitis. The induction of interleukin 1 beta messenger RNA was an early phenomenon and occurred predominantly in undifferentiated cells located in the basal part of the mucosal crypts but not in differentiated enterocytes. The undifferentiated enterocytes retained the messenger RNA during differentiation and migration to more apical parts of the crypts. These results suggest that induction of interleukin 1 beta messenger RNA in enterocytes is causally related to the subsequent inflammatory changes seen in acute experimental colitis. 
Comparison of collagen propeptides as growth markers in children with inflammatory bowel disease. The serum concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of type I procollagen and the amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen as biochemical markers of growth activity were compared in 46 children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease. Significant correlations were noted between growth velocity and type I procollagen (r = 0.65; P less than 0.001) and type III procollagen concentrations (r = 0.64; P less than 0.001). Although the serum concentration of type I procollagen was generally about 15 times greater than that of type III, the respective serum concentrations were highly correlated (r = 0.66; P less than 0.001) at all growth velocities. The use of daily corticosteroid therapy was associated with significantly lower concentrations of both propeptides (P less than 0.01) than was alternate-day or no corticosteroid therapy, respectively. Children with growth arrest (0.0 cm/mo) had type I and type III procollagen concentrations similar to those found in adults. These observations indicate that the serum concentrations of both collagen propeptides reflect growth activity in children with inflammatory bowel disease and suggest that routine measurement of collagen propeptides may have clinical value in monitoring normal and abnormal growth. The data suggest that the measurement of one propeptide does not offer an advantage over the other. 
Alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver--always important? We have studied the clinical histories and liver biopsy findings in 1951 consecutive adult patients with suspected chronic liver disease, and in four known PiZ-homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient patients with emphysema (candidates for lung transplant) and no known liver disease, in order to assess the importance of periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver and their possible causal role in liver disease, and to assess the value of possible screening tests. Periportal granules were found in 30 (1.5 per cent) of the 1951 liver biopsies and in all four known PiZ-homozygous subjects. They were the sole putative aetiological agent in eight of 85 patients (9.4 per cent) with otherwise cryptogenic cirrhosis and present in 2.5 per cent of patients with cirrhosis of known aetiology (alcohol, autoimmune etc.). All but one were Z phenotype (seven homozygotes, 22 heterozygotes). alpha 1-Antitrypsin granules were seen in 12 patients (including three of four lung transplant candidates) with no histological chronic liver disease. Determination of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin levels was quite unhelpful in identifying these patients. This study does not support the concept that periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules are necessarily pathogenic, but in some cases they may be causally related to otherwise cryptogenic liver disease. The presence of granules gave no important diagnostic, therapeutic or prognostic information. 
Possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with Campylobacter pylori. This study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes (LTs) in gastritis associated with Campylobacter pylori. Biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of LTs. There was correlation between the LTB4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically. The level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive. The LTB4 level in mucosa infected with C. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa. These findings suggest that endogenous LTs may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with C. pylori. 
Human T cell lymphotropic virus infection in Guaymi Indians from Panama. Preliminary studies found that 9% of Guaymi Indians from Bocas del Toro province have antibody to human T cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I/II). The present study enrolled 317 (21% of the population) Guaymi Indians from Changuinola, the capital of Bocas del Toro province and 333 (70% of the population) from Canquintu, an isolated rural village. Demographic information and family relationships were ascertained and subjects were screened for neurologic diseases. Serum specimens were screened by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for HTLV-I/II antibody and positives were confirmed according to U.S. Public Health Service criteria. Twenty-five (8%) Guaymi residing in Changuinola and 7 (2.1%) from Canquintu were confirmed seropositive. In Changuinola, antibody was virtually limited to residents greater than or equal to 15 years of age (24 [16%] of 153) and rates were slightly higher in males than in females; in Canquintu, antibody rates did not increase significantly with age and appeared higher in females than in males. In Changuinola, there was no evidence for household clustering of infection. In contrast, HTLV antibody among Canquintu residents clustered significantly by household. HTLV-associated neurologic disease was not detected in either population. The atypical seroepidemiology observed in both locations might be explained if the virus endemic to the Guaymi differed from HTLV-I previously described in the Caribbean basin and Japan. 
Significance of anti-HBx antibodies in hepatitis B virus infection. Serological responses to hepatitis B virus-X determinants have been noted in human sera, but conflicting findings concerning the correlation of anti-HBx antibodies with different stages of hepatitis B virus infection or pathological sequelae have been reported. Using an adenovirus-based eukaryotic vector, the 17 kD X protein was efficiently expressed in 293 cells. Cellular extracts containing the eukaryotic X protein have been used to screen for anti-HBx antibodies by immunoblot analysis in a large panel of sera from patients affected by hepatitis B virus chronic hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute viral hepatitis. Sera from 32 of 171 (19%) chronic hepatitis B virus patients were positive for anti-HBx antibodies. Only one of thirty-two (3%) HBsAg-negative, anti-HBs/anti-HBc-positive chronic hepatitis serum was anti-HBx positive. Very few sera from primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients showed positivity for anti-HBx (8 of 149 or 5%). Anti-HBx were also detected in 8 of 48 (17%) acute viral hepatitis patients. In the four cases that were followed up weekly, anti-HBx antibodies appeared 3 to 4 wk after the onset of the clinical signs. To compare the X protein expressed in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells as a substrate for anti-HBx antibody detection, 171 sera were screened with HBx fusion proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. The prokaryotic cell extract test seems to be more sensitive. During the chronic phase of hepatitis B virus infection, the presence of anti-HBx antibodies detected with the eukaryotic cell extract correlates with the presence of well-established markers of ongoing viral replication: serum hepatitis B virus-DNA (p less than 0.001) and intrahepatic HBcAg expression (p less than 0.001). 
Two cases of adult T-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia. We report two cases of adult T-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia. After sudden onset of epigastralgia, acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients. There were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult T-cell leukemia. Thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult T-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis. This is the first report of such a complication in adult T-cell leukemia. 
Transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. A grade 4/6 systolic murmur, systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM), and severe mitral regurgitation (MR) documented by two-dimensional Doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension. The patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure. This could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure. 
Effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain. Intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain. In order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain, 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon. Five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm (proximal site) and 6 cm (distal site) above the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) before and after administration of atropine (10 micrograms/kg intravenously) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion. A standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain. Pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site. This was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites; however, contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site. Atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally. This attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures; however, contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension. These studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension. This difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension. 
Successful treatment of pancreatic pseudocyst with a somatostatin analogue and catheter drainage. We report a patient with bile duct stone-induced pancreatitis who subsequently developed a large pseudocyst that became infected after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was done for extraction of the stones. Percutaneous external drainage allowed control of the infection, but failed to seal the pseudocyst. We then treated the patient with a long-acting somatostatin analogue which shrunk the cyst within a week. Patients with pancreatic pseudocyst resistant to drainage should be offered a course of somatostatin before surgery is contemplated. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy using intracorporeal lithotripsy. Over a 13-month period (November 1988 to December 1989), we performed our first 104 laparoscopic cholecystectomies using an intracorporeal ultrasonic lithotripsy technique. The procedure in three of these patients was converted to an open operation because of hemorrhage with unexpected findings of cirrhosis in two patients and dense subhepatic adhesions in a third. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successfully used in three other patients in whom common bile duct stones were identified. We encountered only three postoperative complications out of all the laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed. One complication was a biliary fistula that closed spontaneously 1 week after surgery. The remaining complications were attributable to abscesses, one subhepatic and one pelvic, which were aspirated and drained laparoscopically. There were no deaths. Advantages of the laparoscopic approach included decreased perioperative pain, shortened hospitalization, absence of scar, and more rapid return to prehospitalization activities. 
Persistent hepatitis B virus following interferon alfa therapy and liver transplantation. A 44-year-old man with chronic hepatitis B virus infection and cirrhosis was treated with recombinant human interferon alfa for 67 days immediately before orthotopic liver transplantation and immunoprophylaxis with hyperimmune globulin to hepatitis B virus in the peritransplant period. Dot blots for hepatitis B virus DNA demonstrated marked reduction in viremia after 41 days of interferon alfa treatment. Southern analysis for hepatitis B virus in liver showed a pronounced decrement in actively replicating forms in the explant, although hepatic infection was still detectable. After liver transplantation, tests for serum hepatitis B virus DNA and hepatitis B surface antigen remained negative. The patient died 32 days after transplantation of causes unrelated to hepatitis B virus. DNA isolated from liver and other visceral organs at autopsy showed infection of the engrafted liver and the persistence of monomeric relaxed circular forms of hepatitis B virus DNA in pancreas, kidney, and spleen. Thus, graft reinfection occurred despite aggressive antiviral therapy and immunoprophylaxis combined with liver transplantation. Existing viral serological markers appear insufficiently sensitive to assess residual infectivity. 
Biliary lithotripsy: in vitro analysis of gallstone fragmentation for equivalent stone volumes. The relationship between gallstone fragmentation during extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and gallstone volume is poorly understood. Clinical results of ESWL show that the highest stone-free rate at 6 months occurs with radiolucent single gallstones 20 mm or less in diameter. In an in vitro study, individual gallstones from cholecystectomy specimens were divided by size and composition into nine single- and nine multiple-stone groups; the stones were then paired on the basis of similar volume. ESWL was performed in a phantom and the size of the largest fragment was measured at 500, 1,000, and 1,500 shock waves. At 1,500 shock waves, sandlike particles were present in six of nine single stones versus two of nine multiple stone groups; the mean size of the largest fragment at 1,500 shock waves was 2.1 mm (single) and 4.4 mm (multiple) in diameter. When corrected for volume, the authors' data suggest that single stones are more easily broken into fragments smaller than 5 mm in diameter than multiple gallstones. The implication, especially when spark-gap technology is used, is that more shock wave energy (ie, an increased number of shock waves at a higher kilovoltage) will be necessary to achieve the same results when treating patients with multiple stones versus a single gallstone with a similar stone volume. 
Selective intestinal decontamination prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In a prospective randomized study, selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin was performed during hospitalization in 32 cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels. The incidence of infections was compared with that in a control group of 31 nontreated cirrhotic patients of similar characteristics. We found a significantly lower incidence of infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs. 13/31 (41.9%); P less than 0.005] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/32 (0%) vs. 7/31 (22.5%); P less than 0.05] in patients receiving norfloxacin. The lower incidence of extraperitoneal infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs. 7/31 (22.5%); P = 0.052] in the treated group did not reach statistical significance. The incidence of infections [1/28 (3.6%) vs. 9/22 (40.9%); P less than 0.01] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/28 (0%) vs. 5/22 (22.7%); P less than 0.05] in cirrhotic patients admitted because of ascites was also significantly lower in the treated group. The decrease in the rate of mortality observed in the group undergoing selective intestinal decontamination did not reach statistical significance. These data show that selective intestinal decontamination is useful to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and extraperitoneal infections in hospitalized cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels. 
Preoperative stabilisation in congenital diaphragmatic hernia. Between January 1983 and November 1986, 26 newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia were treated by early operation at a mean of 7 hours of age. A further 23 infants admitted between December 1986 and December 1989 were stabilised for a mean period of 40 hours before operation. There was no significant difference in survival between the two groups. Delayed operation is not detrimental to infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. 
Hemodynamic effects of H2-receptor antagonists. Histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage. These agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions; however, hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted. Clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients. Ranitidine, also studied in this setting, does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes. The newer H2RAs, famotidine and nizatidine, have not been evaluated in critically ill patients. 
Cross-national changes in the effects of peptic ulcer disease. OBJECTIVE: To describe and to analyze the changing effects of peptic ulcer disease over time. DESIGN: Variables relating to peptic ulcer disease from 1970-1986 were compared. The variables included rates of mortality, hospitalizations, operations, physician visits, and endoscopies, and the amount of disability-related loss of work and early retirement in six countries (Belgium, England and Wales, the Federal Republic of Germany, The Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States). MEASUREMENTS: Nonparametric epidemiologic time-trend analysis. MAIN RESULTS: The historic, slow, declining trend in mortality and hospitalization rates continued. The rate of operations for peptic ulcer disease exhibited a large, one-time reduction, then returned to a parallel declining trend, but at a lower level. The rate of physician visits declined by 50%. The greatest changes were found in the rate of endoscopy use and in disability-related loss of work and early retirement, where increasing trends were quickly followed by decreasing trends. The elderly, especially women, generally did not share many of these benefits. CONCLUSIONS: The effects of new interventions can be understood more fully by examining several variables in many countries over a long time. Contrary to expectations, the effects of the widespread use of histamine H2 antagonists have been more indirect (affecting work loss and disability retirement more) than direct (affecting high-cost medical service use and mortality less). 
Primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma. Patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment. When this report was written, 7 years had passed since he underwent operation, and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected. In Patient 2, a 61-year-old woman, multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas, and the metastases were resected. After 2 years, multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found, and thus aggressive surgery was performed. Currently, 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma, the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms, although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred. To date, only four cases (all in women) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported. Case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported, and, in addition, this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years. In Case 2, however, each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern. The histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier. Thus, all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas. However, it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered. 
Ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. The Emory University experience. The ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has become a practical alternative to proctocolectomy for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and polyposis coli. To evaluate its success, the Emory University Affiliated Hospital experience from February 1984 to March 1989 was retrospectively reviewed. There were a total of 50 patients identified; 84 per cent had ulcerative colitis, and 16 per cent had polyposis coli (familial polyposis and Gardner's syndrome). The majority of these patients underwent a two-stage operation, but one-third required a three-stage procedure due to difficulty in mucosal proctectomy or toxic megacolon. J-pouch construction was performed in 72 per cent of patients, S-pouch construction in 14 per cent, straight ileo-anal anastomosis in 8 per cent, and lateral isoperistaltic ileo-anal anastomosis in 6 per cent. Of the 50 patients, 36 (72%) have had closure of the temporary ileostomy. Fourteen patients have not had ileostomy closure due to change in diagnosis to Crohn's disease, operative complications, or ileostomy closure pending. The combined operative morbidity per patient for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and the closure of the ileostomy was 32 per cent. This included bowel obstruction, 16 per cent; pelvic abscess, 6 per cent; and ileo-anal separation, 4 per cent. Follow-up on patients with ileostomy closure ranged from 6 months to 4 years (mean, 1.3 years). Stool frequency was 5.9 stools per 24 hours at 6 months and improved with time. During the follow-up period, all patients were eventually completely continent of stool during the day, and most became completely continent of stool at night. 
Nonpropulsive esophageal contractions and gastroesophageal reflux. Nonpropulsive esophageal contractions radiologically described as tertiary contractions or "corkscrew" esophagus suggest the presence of an underlying motility disorder and may lead to impaired acid clearance. The goals of this study were to determine the prevalence and role of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in patients with tertiary contractions. Thirty-five consecutive patients with spontaneous, repetitive, nonpropulsive esophageal contractions noted on esophagography were studied with endoscopy, infusion esophageal manometry, and 24-h ambulatory pH monitoring. All patients had esophageal symptoms, mainly dysphagia, heartburn, and chest pain, but only three were found to have esophagitis by endoscopy and biopsy. Nineteen patients had repetitive, nonlumen-obliterating, nonperistaltic (tertiary) contractions, six had corkscrew esophagus, and 10 had forceful, lumen-obliterating simultaneous contractions (rosary bead esophagus). Twenty patients (58%) had GER by pH criteria with mean values: % time pH less than 4, 40.9; %upright pH less than 4, 41; %supine pH less than 4, 44.3%; number of episodes with greater than 5 min of pH less than 4, 12. Esophageal motility revealed "nutcracker" esophagus in eight, low LESP in two, and nonspecific esophageal motility disorder in 10. Symptoms or severity of nonperistaltic contractions did not correlate with GER. Radiologically demonstrable free reflux or the presence of heartburn did not predict GER. We conclude that 1) GER occurs in up to 58% of patients with nonpropulsive (tertiary) esophageal contractions on esophagography, and may play a role in the induction of abnormal peristaltic activity of the esophageal body; 2) GER is usually not associated with endoscopic evidence of esophagitis or characteristic symptoms, and is recognized by 24-h pH monitoring. We speculate that detection and treatment of GER may improve the symptomatic management of patients with nonpropulsive esophageal contractions. 
The Exeter Dysphagia Assessment Technique. The Exeter Dysphagia Assessment Technique (EDAT) uses noninvasive equipment to record, simultaneously, "feeding respiratory patterns," the time drink entered the mouth, and associated swallow sounds during feeding. The easily portable equipment enabled patients' swallowing ability to be tested, at the bedside if necessary, using a small amount of fruit-flavored drink. The results appear in chart form. EDAT findings from groups of normal subjects aged 2-90 years were compared with those from patients with dysphagia of neurologic origin and normal subjects under experimental feeding conditions. The results revealed maturation of the feeding respiratory pattern in the teenage years and remarkable consistency thereafter. Differences in the recordings between the normal and abnormal subjects were sufficiently marked to allow the findings to be used in the diagnosis of other patients with dysphagia of doubtful neurologic cause. Interpretation of the charts and recorded timings of the oral and pharyngeal stages of swallowing permitted a more accurate identification of sensory nerve, motor nerve, and functional involvement causing dysphagia of neurologic origin and may be used as a guide to the origin of the sensory deficit. 
Risk factors for transmission of hepatitis B virus to Gambian children [published erratum appears in Lancet 1990 Dec 22-29;336(8730):1596] Risk factors for hepatitis B virus transmission were examined in 973 Gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years. 33% had evidence of infection with hepatitis B virus and a third of these were carriers. A significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars, and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child's bed. There was no association between infection and traditional scarring, circumcision, or injections. Skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis B virus between children in West Africa. 
Miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure. A 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period. Despite full supportive measures, he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant DIC and hepatic, renal, and respiratory failure. Postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems. Miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure. 
Operative choledochoscopy: common bile duct exploration is incomplete without it. This paper reviews the reported experience of operative choledochoscopy. Development of choledochoscopes to the currently available rigid and flexible instruments is described. The collected results of both rigid and flexible choledochoscopy are reported. Retained stones occurred in 97 of 2712 stone-positive explorations with the rigid choledochoscope (3.6 per cent) and in 35 of 1726 stone-positive explorations with the flexible choledochoscope (2.0 per cent). Choledochoscopy should now be a mandatory part of common bile duct exploration. 
Antibiotic use among children in an urban Brazilian slum: a risk factor for diarrhea? [published erratum appears in Am J Public Health 1991 Apr;81(4):417] Among a cohort of children in a poor urban setting in Brazil, the relative risk for the occurrence of a new episode of diarrhea in the two weeks following antibiotic use vs all other weeks was 1.44 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.33, 2.45). Among children ever [corrected] exposed to antibiotics, the odds ratio was 1.34 (95% CI = 0.84, 2.16) after stratifying by individual child and controlling for previous diarrhea. Further research is needed to confirm whether antibiotics are a risk factor for diarrhea in such settings. 
Ischemic colitis in a crack abuser. We report a case of acute colitis temporally associated with smoking crack. Colonoscopy revealed a patchy left-sided hemorrhagic inflammation from the rectosigmoid colon to the splenic flexure. Biopsy specimens were consistent with resolving ischemic colitis. This entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute bloody diarrhea in recreational drug users. 
Carbohydrate malabsorption. Its measurement and its contribution to diarrhea. The major purpose of this research was to gain insight into the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on fecal water output. To do this we measured daily fecal output of total carbohydrate, reducing sugars, and organic acids (a product of bacterial fermentation). Normal subjects were studied in their native state and when diarrhea was induced by mechanisms that did and did not involve carbohydrate malabsorption. Patients with malabsorption syndrome were also studied. We concluded that: (a) Excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products can be expressed as a single number by converting organic acids to their monosaccharide equivalents. (b) Diarrhea per se causes only a trivial increase in fecal carbohydrate excretion. (c) The molar output of osmotic moieties in feces due to unabsorbed carbohydrate can be determined by adding fecal reducing sugars to organic acids and their obligated cations. This expression parallels almost exactly the effect of increasing doses of lactulose (a nonabsorbable sugar) on fecal water output; one excreted millimole obligates 3.5 g of stool water. This relationship can be used to predict the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on stool water output in patients with diarrhea. (d) 12 of 19 patients with malabsorption syndrome due to various diseases had excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products; of the diseases that cause malabsorption syndrome, combined small and large bowel resection is most likely to result in excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and monosaccharide equivalents. In 6 of these 19 patients carbohydrate malabsorption appeared to be the major cause of diarrhea. 
What affects continence after anterior resection of the rectum? Functional results after anterior rectal resections are commonly considered satisfactory but variable percentages of postoperative incontinence are often reported. Continence was evaluated after 20 low anterior resections (LAR) and 13 high anterior resections (HAR) by means of clinical assessment, anorectal manometry, and evacuation proctography. Whereas all HAR patients had perfect continence, 10 patients (50 percent of the LAR group had occasional episodes of soiling from liquid feces, 5 patients (25 percent had frequent soiling or occasional incontinence for solid feces, and 1 patient (5 percent had frequent solid stool loss requiring surgical treatment. Anal canal resting pressure at 3 and 4 cm from the anal verge was significantly lower in the LAR group (P less than 0.02 and P less than 0.05, respectively) than in the HAR group. However, the maximum voluntary contraction did not differ between the two groups. Rectoanal inhibitory reflex was found to be present in 17 of the 20 patients with LAR and in all patients with HAR. The volume at which the anal sphincter is continuously inhibited was significantly reduced in the LAR group (P less than 0.001). Also, the conscious rectal sensibility volumes were found to be significantly reduced for threshold, constant, and maximum tolerated volume. Threshold volume for internal sphincter relaxation was lower than the threshold volume for rectal sensation in some patients with LAR. This could allow postoperative fecal soiling. Rectal compliance was decreased (P less than 0.001) in the LAR group. Evacuation proctography, performed in six LAR patients affected by major soiling or solid stool loss, revealed an abnormal obtuse anorectal angle and pathologic lowering of the perineum at rest and during defecation. The concomitance of internal and sphincter impairment, reduction in rectal compliance, and previous pelvis floor muscle damage are postulated as cause affecting continence in patients who underwent LAR. 
Disseminated, nonmeningeal gastrointestinal cryptococcal infection in an HIV-negative patient. Gastrointestinal cryptococcosis is extremely rare, especially in patients with no involvement of the central nervous system. We describe a 63-yr-old man undergoing prednisone therapy for chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis who presented with peritonitis, colitis, and skin lesions. Pathological studies revealed necrosis and numerous cryptococcal organisms in the colon, omentum, and skin, and cultures yielded Cryptococcus neoformans. The patient died of multisystem organ failure following emergency exploratory surgery performed when he had onset of symptoms of a bowel perforation after an endoscopic biopsy. Clinicians should be aware that gastrointestinal cryptococcosis can occur in the absence of infection of the central nervous system or lungs, and that it may affect relatively healthy patients who are immunocompromised because of splenectomy, chronic liver disease, or steroid therapy. 
Antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree. Spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth. To date, it has not been reported antenatally. A 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus. After the infant was delivered at 32 weeks, a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct. The infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well. This case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth, can be diagnosed antenatally, and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites. 
Colonoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of ileocecal tuberculosis. Two cases of ileocecal tuberculosis are presented. The diagnosis was achieved by endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC), while endoscopic biopsies and brush cytology were negative. The usefulness of endoscopic FNAC in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal tract tuberculosis is highlighted. 
Anatomy of anal sphincters and related structures in continent women studied with magnetic resonance imaging. Five anally continent nulliparas of reproductive age were studied with magnetic resonance imaging. The internal and external anal sphincters could be easily delineated, as could the intervening longitudinal musculature, puborectalis muscle, anococcygeal raphe, anorectal lumen, vagina, uterus, bladder, urethra, coccyx, and pubis. The shape of the sphincters was nearly cylindrical, with an anterior component averaging 18.3 mm thick and 28.0 mm long. Fifty-four percent of this anterior thickness was attributable to the internal sphincter. The anorectal angle varied considerably, with a mean of 86.8 +/- 19.1 degrees (range 60-112). The angle between the portion of the rectal lumen supported by the anococcygeal raphe, or levator plate, and the plane of the puborectalis muscle was consistent at 149.0 +/- 6.3 degrees (138-154). The finding of anterior anal sphincters with substantial thickness and length contrasts markedly with a view often pictured in the literature of a female anal sphincter that narrows anteriorly to half its posterior length and forms a small bundle of muscle rather than a broad band. Knowledge of these relationships is important in primary repair of obstetric sphincter lacerations as well as in surgical correction of anal incontinence. 
Enhanced expression of CD2 antigen on lung T cells. CD2 molecules not only function in the adhesion of T cells to other cell types but also in the activation of T cells via an alternative pathway. To investigate the possible roles of CD2 molecules in the activation and accumulation of lung T cells, using monoclonal antibodies and a flow cytometer we evaluated CD2 antigen expression on lung and blood lymphocytes in 10 normal subjects, 30 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis, 7 patients with interstitial pneumonia associated with collagen vascular disease, 5 patients with farmer's lung disease, and 8 patients with Crohn's disease. The mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of CD2 on lung T cells obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was significantly higher than that on blood T cells in all study groups except the control group. In patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis this enhancement of the expression of CD2 antigen was observed only on CD4+ T cells. Since ligands for CD2 are present on immunocompetent cells of other types in the local pulmonary milieu, these results suggest that increased expression of CD2 molecules could facilitate the communication and interaction of lung T cells with their environment in the lung and thereby possibly contribute to the local accumulation of T cells. 
Amelioration of cholinergic-induced pancreatitis with a selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist. Acute edematous pancreatitis follows excessive cholinergic stimulation in patients exposed to anticholinesterase-containing insecticides. We describe the role of cholecystokinin and the benefits of cholecystokinin receptor blockade in this form of pancreatitis. A cholinergic mimetic (carbachol) was administered to rats weighing 300 to 350 g and produced a form of edematous pancreatitis that mimics that seen in humans. Animals received carbachol intraperitoneally, either alone (250 micrograms/kg of body weight) or with cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist devazepide (3 mg/kg of body weight) and were killed 4 hours later. Carbachol administration resulted in a 19% increase in pancreatic weight, a fourfold increase in serum amylase levels, and a 14-fold increase in serum lipase levels. Plasma cholecystokinin levels, however, were not altered. Devazepide administered prior to cholinergic hyperstimulation blocked pancreatic weight increase and reduced elevations in serum amylase levels twofold and lipase levels fourfold. Although cholecystokinin levels are not elevated in this model of pancreatitis, blockade of even low, background concentrations of this regulatory peptide is beneficial. 
Hepatic amino-nitrogen clearance to urea-nitrogen in control subjects and in patients with cirrhosis: a simplified method. The functional hepatic nitrogen clearance during amino acid infusion is a measure of liver cell mass. The clinical feasibility of the test has so far been limited by methodological problems. A simplified procedure was used to measure the urea-nitrogen synthesis rate and functional hepatic nitrogen clearance in nine subjects with normal liver function and in nine patients with cirrhosis. The method was based on only four consecutive 2-hr urine collections and five blood samples. Total body water was calculated from a nomogram based on age and anthropometric data, whereas the gut urea hydrolysis was assigned one fixed fraction of synthesis (0.17 in control subjects and 0.26 in patients with cirrhosis). Finally, a solution of a single amino acid, alanine, was infused as substrate for urea synthesis. Urea-nitrogen synthesis rate increased linearly with increasing alpha-amino-nitrogen concentration, and the slope of the regression (functional hepatic nitrogen clearance) was reduced in cirrhosis from 37.5 +/- 7.0 L/hr to 18.4 +/- 6.7 L/hr; p less than 0.005. The hepatic nitrogen clearance was linearly related to the clinical status (Child-Pugh score), to routine liver function tests and to galactose elimination capacity (r = 0.869), a well-established, quantitative, liver function measure. The simplified method makes the measurement of hepatic nitrogen clearance suitable for routine clinical use. The test might prove useful to study the alterations of nitrogen metabolism in cirrhosis, with special reference to hepatic encephalopathy. 
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy and acute fatty liver of pregnancy. An unusual but favorable association? During the 26th week of a first pregnancy, a 25-year-old woman presented with pruritus suggesting an intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. The pruritus, however, persisted despite the premature delivery of a normal newborn at the 35th week. Moreover, aspartate aminotransferase activity increased, reaching a maximum of 38 times normal level on the 17th day after the delivery. Thus, an acute fatty liver of pregnancy was suspected and confirmed by liver biopsy. This patient appeared to have both intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy and acute fatty liver of pregnancy, an association not previously reported. It is suggested that intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy caused premature delivery, which in turn may have prevented the onset of severe maternal and fetal complications caused by acute fatty liver of pregnancy. 
Bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children: a clinical study. Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children, aged 4 to 28 months, hospitalized with acute diarrhea. The dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days. Significant benefits were noted in the BSS group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency, significant improvement in clinical well-being, and shortening of the disease duration. Patients treated with BSS had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay (6.9 days) compared with placebo-treated patients (8.5 days). Also, intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the BSS-treated group. Bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic Escherichia coli from the stools in 100% of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination. Bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects. Blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic. In this study, BSS provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea, allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff. 
Irritable bowel syndrome in office-based practice in the United States. United States estimates of the frequency of visits to physicians and patterns of medical care for the diagnosis of the irritable bowel syndrome were derived from the 1975, 1980-1981, and 1985 National Ambulatory Medical Care Surveys. These surveys of office-based physicians allow national estimates of various aspects of ambulatory care. The overall rate of visits with the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome in 1980-1981 and 1985 were 10.6 per thousand U.S. population. Women had 2.4 times the rate of visits by men and rates rose in both sexes until middle-age. Irritable bowel syndrome was the leading digestive disease diagnosis among gastroenterologists but only the seventh leading diagnosis among all physicians. Gastrointestinal symptoms, association with mental disorders, prescriptions, and disposition were also examined in patients with visits for irritable bowel syndrome. Among records with digestive tract symptoms and a first listed diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome, stomach or abdominal pain was listed on only about one half of records and disorders of bowel function were listed on fewer than 40%. In 1975 and 1985, irritable bowel syndrome was noted approximately twice as often as other digestive diseases at visits with mental disorder symptoms and diagnosis, although mental disorder symptoms and diagnoses were noted at fewer than 15% of visits with irritable bowel syndrome. Medications were prescribed at approximately 75% of visits for irritable bowel syndrome; the most common were gastrointestinal medications followed by combination gastrointestinal-psychoactive medications. Subsequent appointments were scheduled following at least 50% of the visits of patients with irritable bowel syndrome. 
Infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death. Physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiencies. Reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT II) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle. We describe here a CPT II deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia, high plasma creatine kinase level, heart beat disorders, and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy. CPT II defect (-90%) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that (-75%) of two "classical" CPT II-deficient patients previously studied: It resulted from a decreased amount of CPT II probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis. Consequences of CPT II deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients. An impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the "classical" form of the deficiency. The metabolic and clinical consequences of CPT II deficiency might depend, in part, on the magnitude of residual CPT II activity. With 25% residual activity CPT II would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver, heart, and fibroblasts. As observed in the patient described herein, CPT II activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues. 
NSAID-induced gastrointestinal damage. A critical review of prophylaxis and therapy. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) cause acute diffuse injury to the gastroduodenal mucosa, and also cause chronic focal ulcers that may bleed or perforate without warning symptoms. Acute and chronic lesions are distinct, are pathogenetically different, respond differently to drugs, and require different management strategies. The principal rationale for antiulcer therapy in NSAID users is to prevent or reduce potentially fatal outcomes; to date no evaluated drug meets this criterion for efficacy. Antacids and H2-receptor antagonists, based on open uncontrolled studies, appear to heal both gastric and duodenal ulcers, and maintain them healed during continued NSAID use; larger gastric ulcers show delayed healing with conventional doses of H2-receptor antagonists during NSAID therapy. No such delay occurs with omeprazole therapy. The suggests that if NSAID-associated gastric ulcers are treated with H2-receptor antagonists, larger doses should be given for longer periods. In patients with no pre-existing ulcer disease, H2-receptor antagonists given prophylactically prevent duodenal but not gastric ulcers; sucralfate does the same. In individuals without peptic ulcer disease taking NSAIDs, misoprostol, given as prophylaxis, reduces the development of gastric ulcers; its beneficial effects on ulcer healing or symptoms during continued NSAID therapy, or its ability to prevent duodenal ulcers or ulcer complications, are not established. Because of diarrhea, the 400 micrograms/day dosage is recommended, especially in the elderly. 
Role of the protease-antiprotease balance in peritoneal exudate during acute pancreatitis. The peritoneal exudate formed during experimental pancreatitis is toxic when administered intraperitoneally or intravenously to other animals. Overwhelming of the peritoneal antiprotease defences by proteolytic enzymes released from the pancreas may be a key factor responsible for this toxicity and is examined in the current study. Human pancreatitis exudates possessed tryptic amidase activity indicating trypsinogen activation. The trypsin inhibitory capacities of exudates were reduced indicating a degree of consumption of the peritoneal antiproteases. Of 21 exudates examined, three showed marked reduction of their trypsin inhibitory capacity indicating almost complete consumption of their antiproteases. All three patients were shocked at the time of sampling, two dying of fulminant pancreatitis within 24 h. Overwhelming of the peritoneal antiproteases was not confirmed, but may occur in a few instances where proteolytic enzyme release or zymogen activation continues. Intraperitoneal administration of exogenous antiproteases prolongs survival in rats with pancreatitis and has been suggested as a therapy in man. The current data suggests that few patients are likely to benefit from such an approach. 
Schatzki's ring: long-term results following dilation The purpose of this study is to report long-term results of 61 patients with Schatzki's ring who were dilated for relief of dysphagia. The severity of Schatzki's ring was mild in 28 patients (46%), moderate in 26 (43%), severe in 5 (8%), and indeterminate in 2 (3%). Follow-up information was available in 56 of 61 patients (mean, 75 months). During follow-up, 35 patients (63%) developed recurrent dysphagia and required repeated dilations: 19 patients (34%) had one to two dilations, 9 patients (16%) had three to seven dilations, 6 patients (11%) had more than seven dilations; 1 patient underwent surgery for resection of the Schatzki's ring (2%). The mean (range) dilation-free interval was 50.1 months (11.8 to 100 months) in mild cases, 44.5 months (8.9 to 82 months) in moderate cases, and 28.6 months (9 to 76 months) in severe cases. There was no significant correlation between the severity of Schatzki's ring on initial presentation and the subsequent dilation-free interval. Our data indicate that recurrent dysphagia is common among patients with Schatzki's ring after a successful dilation, and that the severity of Schatzki's ring is not a good prognostic indicator of the need for subsequent dilation. 
Pancreatic function in Crohn's disease. We investigated exocrine pancreatic function in a population of patients with Crohn's disease in order to correlate the pancreatic function with clinical and laboratory variables. A total of 143 patients affected by Crohn's disease and 115 control subjects were studied. All had a Lundh meal test. As a group patients with Crohn's disease had significantly decreased activity of both amylase (p less than 0.02) and lipase (p less than 0.001) in duodenal aspirates. In patients with Crohn's disease enzyme activities were not correlated to duration of disease or to extent or localisation of previous bowel resection. The lowest enzyme values were found in patients with the most extensive bowel involvement, and they were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in patients with disease confined to the terminal ileum. The differences between enzyme values in other subgroups of patients were not significant. For the patient group as a whole no correlation was found between disease activity and enzyme values, but for the most uniform group of patients, those with terminal ileitis, pancreatic function was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients with moderate and severe disease compared with patients with mild disease. Thus at least two factors seem to be responsible for impaired pancreatic function in Crohn's disease: firstly disease activity and secondly localisation or extent of disease. 
Gastrointestinal complications after cardiac transplantation: a spectrum of diseases. Cardiac transplantation has become an accepted treatment modality for end-stage cardiac failure. The gastrointestinal (GI) tract represents a potential source of posttransplant morbidity and mortality. To define the scope of this problem, records of all patients undergoing cardiac transplantation at UCLA between January 1984 and July 1989 were reviewed. In all, there were 120 patients (90 males and 30 females) with a mean age of 45.4 yr. Among them, there were 61 patients (51%) who developed a total of 112 posttransplant GI complications. Of the entire 120 patients, 41 (34%) developed minor complications and 20 (17%) sustained major GI morbidity. Eighteen patients (15%) underwent either endoscopy or surgical intervention. These data suggest that most cardiac transplant recipients will experience some form of GI complication, although most are minor and can be managed conservatively. However, when major, life-threatening complications occur, evaluation and intervention should proceed expeditiously. The gastroenterologist and GI surgeon should play complimentary roles in the care of these complicated patients. 
Omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy. Transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices. A small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy. Such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain, stricture formation, and recurrent hemorrhage. The use of omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients (6 women, 4 men; age range, 27-86 years) with cirrhosis (PBC, 4; sclerosing cholangitis, 2; chronic active liver disease, 2; alcohol, 1; and cryptogenic, 1) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 (range, 8-21) sessions of sclerotherapy. The ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose H2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate. In each case one or more complications had occurred: severe pain in 3, stricture formation in 4, and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases. After an 8-week course of omeprazole, 40 mg daily, endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution. In 2 cases the ulcer recurred, with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient. Both cases responded to repeat therapy. These results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers. 
Further study of mucosal repair by sofalcone in experimental gastritis. The effect of sofalcone on the glandular structure and cell proliferation in the gastric mucosa of rats with gastritis induced by the administration of sodium taurocholate (TCA) for 6 months was examined by histoquantitative analysis and [3H]thymidine autoradiography. Morphometric observation revealed that, with TCA treatment, mucosal thickness, parietal cell mass, and the ratios of the length of the glandular portion/total length of the gastric gland were decreased in both the fundic and pyloric glands. Inflammatory cell infiltration and collagenous fiber proliferation were present in the gastric mucosa following TCA and indicated the presence of atrophic gastritis. These atrophic changes and inflammatory cell infiltration were reversed by a 3 week administration of sofalcone. Cellular proliferative activity assessed by the labeling indices of the gastric mucosa increased in TCA-induced gastritis in rats. The administration of sofalcone to rats with TCA-induced gastritis significantly increased labeling indices, particularly in the pyloric glands. From these results, it appears that sofalcone stimulates the compensatory increase in proliferative activity of generative cells, which then may become available to heal the gastritis. 
Alcoholic liver disease. Alcoholic liver disease presents a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild asymptomatic fatty liver to alcoholic hepatitis and severe life-threatening liver failure with ascites, hemorrhaging esophageal varices, and encephalopathy. Although still poorly understood, the mechanism of this injury is probably the result of numerous direct toxic and metabolic effects of alcohol on the hepatocyte. Therapy consists primarily of abstinence and supportive care. However, several newer treatments are actively being studied. These include prednisolone, anabolic steroids, glucagon and insulin, propylthiouracil, and cyanidanol. Colchicine is promising as an agent to inhibit fibrosis. Complications of cirrhosis, including ascites and variceal hemorrhage, are the result of end stage disease. A return to old techniques of ascitic fluid management suggests that therapeutic large-volume paracentesis with albumin infusion is a safe and effective form of therapy. Variceal hemorrhage is best treated with sclerotherapy, vasoconstrictors, and balloon tamponade. Little has been done to alter the ultimately dismal prognosis and long-term survival of alcoholic liver disease. 
Choledocholithiasis in Chinese immigrants with cholelithiasis. During the period from January 1987 to December 1989, admissions for biliary tract disease at the New York Infirmary--Beekman Downtown Hospital were split almost evenly between Chinese immigrants from southeast Asia and all other ethnic groups (Caucasian, Hispanic, black, et cetera). However, the incidence of choledocholithiasis in patients undergoing cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis was much higher in the Chinese immigrant population, 37.2 versus 11.8 per cent, a highly significant difference (p = 0.001). In addition, we often found the disease to be of greater severity in Chinese patients. They were more likely to have large numbers of stones in the duct and more likely to have significant ductal enlargement. This increased risk was essentially constant regardless of age. Because of this threefold risk of choledocholithiasis when operating on a Chinese immigrant from southeast Asia for cholelithiasis, intraoperative cholangiography is mandatory, even in those without other indications for common bile duct exploration. 
Anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer. In a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy (AMPT, n = 77) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty (TVP, n = 69) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years. The mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years. One elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the TVP group. Acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups, indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation. Recurrent ulcers were more common after AMPT (five) than TVP (two) (P = 0.29, n.s.). Dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner (P less than 0.001) after TVP, with 31 instances as opposed to eight with AMPT. The mean operating time was increased by 6 min when AMPT was performed rather than TVP. The results of this study have shown that AMPT is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall Visick grading. However, continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure. 
Helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in Kuwait. Two hundred and four patients, mainly Arabs, attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in Mubarak Al-Kabeer Hospital, Kuwait, were examined for evidence of infection with Helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation. Biopsy specimens of antrum, body, and duodenum; gastric juice; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological, cytological, and histopathological methods. Clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenitis and duodenal ulcer, but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae. H pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 (96.6%) of the patients. Histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity, but bacteriological culture was less reliable. The proportion of positive cases was high, compared with other reported series, which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study, the selected population (all with gastrointestinal symptoms) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population. 
The combination of prednisone and colchicine in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of the biliary tract. The cause of the disease is unknown, and no effective medical treatment exists. In this study, 12 patients received a combination of low-dose prednisone (10 mg/day) and colchicine (0.6 mg bid). Their course was compared with that of a group of concurrent historical controls. At 6 and 12 months, there was significantly more improvement in liver test results over baseline values in patients receiving prednisone and colchicine than in the untreated controls. At 24 months, however, no significant differences in biochemical tests were appreciated between treated and untreated patients. Analysis of serial liver biopsies showed no differences in histologic change in the two groups. During the 2 yr of follow-up, there were two deaths in the control group but none in the treated group. Four untreated patients developed ascites; gastrointestinal bleeding developed in three untreated patients, one of whom developed ascites. In contrast, in the treated group, ascites and bleeding developed in only one patient. We conclude that the combination of colchicine and prednisone does not retard histologic progression or progression of standard liver tests after 2 yr of therapy. There is a trend toward less clinical deterioration and improved survival after 2 yr of treatment. On the basis of these findings, we would not advocate empiric use of these drugs for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis, but suggest that, if they are to be used at all in PSC, they be evaluated in a controlled clinical trial as treatment for this as yet incurable disease. 
Surgical aspects of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis. Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis (SEP) is associated with the administration of beta-blocking agents as well as continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. The predisposing factors in the latter group are recurrent peritonitis, presence of acetate in the dialysate, and antiseptics used during bag exchanges. We report a case of SEP following chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and review the literature on this benign yet potentially lethal condition. Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis frequently leads to intestinal obstruction, small-bowel necrosis, enterocutaneous fistulas, and malnutrition. There is a high incidence of anastomotic failure when a resection and primary intestinal anastomosis is performed in patients with SEP. Although SEP is not commonly reported in the surgical literature, its importance to surgeons is indicated by the fact that the overall mortality rate is close to 60% in patients with SEP who develop surgical complications. 
Asialoglycoprotein receptor function in benign liver disease: evaluation with MR imaging. An arabinogalactan-coated ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (AG-USPIO) preparation specific for asialoglycoprotein (ASG) receptors on hepatocytes was used as a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging contrast agent in the evaluation of a spectrum of benign liver diseases in animal models. The activity of hepatocyte ASG receptors, which directly reflects liver function, was directly assessed by measuring liver relaxation times in vitro and MR signal intensity in vivo. The following measurements allowed three-dimensional assessment of liver function: (a) liver relaxation time, (b) native MR signal intensities of liver, (c) response of liver to the AG-USPIO probe (percentage decrease of liver signal intensity after intravenous administration of 10 mumol/kg of AG-USPIO: normal liver 55%, fatty liver 57%, acute hepatitis 36%, chronic hepatitis 29%, and cirrhosis 46%), and (d) redistribution of hepatocyte-specific AG-USPIO to the spleen (present in hepatitis and cirrhosis but not in normal liver and fatty liver). The results of this study indicate that cellular hepatic abnormalities can be detected and quantitated with MR receptor imaging. 
The VER as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine. Abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent, for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined. As in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence. By recording the fast wave activity (beta rhythmn) in the visual evoked response (VER) to red and white flash, the pattern stimulation, 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls, outside the attack phase. Comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed, from the VER findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity, that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine. We found that both clinically and electrophysiologically, abdominal migraine changes with age; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks, and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the VER. 
Transcatheter treatment of splenic artery aneurysms (SAA). Report of two cases. Splenic artery embolization with steel coils was performed in two patients who both had large splenic artery aneurysms and hepatic cirrhosis complicated by hypersplenism. A good clinical effect was noticed after the procedure. It was concluded that this treatment is safe and effective and decreases the risk of splenic artery rupture. It also corrects hypersplenism. Transcatheter embolization appears to be a preferable alternative to surgery in such cases. 
Differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites. The recent identification of the cystic fibrosis (CF) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in CF. A three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product, termed the CF conductance regulator protein, accounts for 70% of cases of CF in white subjects. However, this gene defect occurs in only 37% of affected blacks. Analysis of CF genes from American blacks has revealed a number of mutations, most of which are unique to that population. We therefore searched for potential differences in expression of CF between 24 black and 48 white patients with CF matched for birth date and gender. Black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms (38% vs 10%). Black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations (2 vs 6.9), a better mean forced vital capacity (77% vs 62% of predicted), and higher chest roentgenogram scores (18.2 vs 14.4) than white patients. Complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration (21% vs 2%) and peptic ulcer disease (13% vs 0%) in blacks. Survival time appeared to be longer in blacks, but the difference was not statistically significant. We conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with CF, which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations. 
Role of upper gastrointestinal investigations in a screening study for colorectal neoplasia. Should patients with positive faecal occult blood screening tests who are free of colorectal neoplasia undergo upper gastrointestinal investigation? Altogether 16,985 faecal occult blood tests were completed in a group of 18,818 asymptomatic patients (45-75 years) offered screening at two yearly intervals. A total of 447 (2.6%) were positive and underwent large bowel investigations. No neoplastic disease was identified in 283 (63%) of them. Fourteen (5%) also underwent gastroscopy for upper gastrointestinal symptoms, benign conditions were identified in five and a gastric carcinoma in one. No further investigations were instituted in the remaining 269 subjects who have now been followed up for a median period of 5 years (2-8 years). Five have been referred for benign upper gastrointestinal conditions, but none for upper gastrointestinal malignancy. Thirty one subjects have died - one from gastric cancer (a patient who had undergone a previous partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer and who had persistent upper gastrointestinal symptoms). The remaining deaths were unrelated to the upper gastrointestinal tract. Nineteen people who have left the trial area have been monitored for the development of malignant disease; none have presented with upper gastrointestinal malignancy. These data support the view that upper gastrointestinal investigations need not be performed routinely in this group of subjects, but may be reserved for those with relevant symptoms. 
Comparison of gall bladder bile and endoscopically obtained duodenal bile. In 10 patients with gall stone disease (eight women, two men; mean (SD) age 47.4 (13) years), bile was obtained by endoscopic aspiration after stimulation of the gall bladder with ceruletid and also by fine needle puncture of the gall bladder under local anaesthetic. The total lipid concentration of the puncture bile samples was mean (SD) 11.9 (4.7) g/dl, significantly higher than the endoscopic bile samples (3.9 (3.3) g/dl, p less than 0.001). Total bile acids, phospholipids, and biliary cholesterol (expressed in mol%) and cholesterol saturation index showed no significant differences between the two types of samples. The glycocholic acid concentration in the endoscopically obtained bile (27.7 (6.6) mol% v 23.3 (5.4) mol%; p less than 0.01) was significantly higher than the puncture bile samples. Puncture bile exhibited a significantly shorter nucleation time (3.5 (3.3) days v 19.6 (11.9) days; p less than 0.001). For determination of the nucleation time, endoscopic bile aspiration after gall bladder stimulation with ceruletid led to adequately concentrated samples in 50% of the study subjects. Cholesterol monohydrate crystal formation in native bile was observed in six samples of puncture bile and in three samples of the endoscopically obtained bile. The presence of cholesterol crystals and the determination of nucleation time in the puncture bile were the best discriminants between cholesterol and pigment gall stones and correlated well with computed tomogram analysis. 
Transient and distant infections alter later intraperitoneal abscess formation. Transient nosocomial infections, such as line sepsis and pneumonia, are common in today's critical care patient population. Although generally well treated, the effect of these transient antigen exposures on the immune system is unclear. We have previously shown that prior intraperitoneal inoculation with live bacteria leads to increased numbers of intraperitoneal abscesses. Data presented here demonstrate in a murine model that two immunizations with live Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis, or both, administered systemically via intracardiac injection or at a focal distant site in subcutaneous tissue, significantly increased the number of mixed E coli/B fragilis intraperitoneal abscesses when induced 1 week later. Further, immunization with E coli, either alone or in combination with B fragilis, increased the total number of anaerobes recovered per mouse. Transient or focal sublethal infections can significantly alter an animal's immune response to later infectious insults, particularly the formation of intraperitoneal abscesses. 
Kaposi's sarcoma of the colon in a young HIV-negative woman with Crohn's disease. We report a case of isolated colonic Kaposi's sarcoma in a 36-year-old HIV-negative woman with refractory Crohn's disease of the colon and perineum following 11 months' treatment with azathioprine. The clinical features of this case are quite different from those classically described in Kaposi's sarcoma. Among the known risk factors, iatrogenic immunosuppression would appear to be the most probable. 
Collagenous colitis as a cause of chronic diarrhea. When the usual workup for chronic diarrhea fails to provide a diagnosis and the endoscopic findings are normal, alternative etiologies must be considered. This case of collagenous colitis represents such an alternative diagnosis. The patient is a 65-year-old woman who complained of abdominal cramps and watery diarrhea for an 8-month span. The key element to her diagnosis was subepithelial collagen deposits of the mucosa of the colon. Her symptoms were resolved with supportive care, diet, and diphenoxylate. Essential features and treatment of collagenous colitis are reviewed. 
Anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with AIDS. Report of six cases. Lesions due to cytomegalovirus (CMV) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient. This is particularly the case in patients with AIDS, where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved. The authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to CMV in patients with AIDS. These lesions, confirmed histologically, were either isolated or associated with other localizations. Treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur. The current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in HIV-infected subjects. 
Esophageal motility in an adult with a congenital H-type tracheoesophageal fistula. Congenital H-type tracheoesophageal fistulas (TEF) are rare. Long-standing respiratory symptoms are the most common presenting complaints. Patients with these fistulas have a congenital esophageal motor abnormality characterized by uncoordinated, low-amplitude peristalsis of the esophageal body; both low and normal lower esophageal sphincter pressures have been described. These findings persist despite fistula repair. A case history of an adult patient with congenital TEF is presented and the literature is reviewed. This patient is unusual in that esophageal symptoms (dysphagia) were more prominent than the usual respiratory symptoms. 
Diurnal fluctuations of arterial ketone body ratio in normal subjects and patients with liver dysfunction. To explore the metabolic aspects of chronic liver disease, diurnal changes of arterial ketone body ratio (acetoacetate/3-hydroxybutyrate), reflecting hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were investigated in normal subjects, patients with chronic liver disease (Child's class A or B), and patients with hepatic failure (Child's class C). Ketone body ratio in normal subjects increased after breakfast from 0.96 to 2.00, after lunch from 2.17 to 2.38, and after dinner from 1.23 to 2.55 with blood glucose level ranging from 103 to 141 mg/dL (5.7 to 7.8 mmol/L). By contrast, the ketone body ratio in the Child A or B group changed little and remained within a range of 0.70-1.35 despite a large change in blood glucose level from 102 to 176 mg/dL (5.7 to 9.8 mmol/L). Ketone body ratio in Child's class C remained near or below 0.4 with no response to glucose administration, despite a marked elevation in blood glucose level. These results indicate that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential undergoes diurnal changes in sharp response to meals in normal liver function but that these fluctuations are absent in patients with liver damage (Child's class A, B, and C). Furthermore, it remains at low levels in severe liver failure (Child's class C). It is also suggested that hepatic mitochondrial redox potential plays an important role in the regulation of blood glucose levels. 
Omeprazole 20 mg three days a week and 10 mg daily in prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse. Double-blind comparative trial. In a double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial of 195 patients with duodenal ulcers who after a short-term study had relief of pain and healed ulcers proved endoscopically, 65 were randomized to receive 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week (once in the morning from Friday to Sunday), 64 to receive 10 mg omeprazole once daily in the morning, and 66 to receive placebo for up to 6 months. The patients underwent repeat endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric fundic mucosa (qualitative assessment of argyrophilic cell population), assessment of symptoms, and laboratory screening with measurement of basal serum gastrin concentrations at 3 and 6 months or more often if indicated by recurrence of symptoms. At 3 months, endoscopically proved ulcer relapse occurred in 16% receiving 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week; 21% receiving 10 mg omeprazole daily; and 50% receiving placebo. At 6 months, corresponding rates were 23%, 27%, and 67% with 95% confidence intervals of difference between the placebo group and omeprazole groups of 28%-60% and 24%-56% (P less than 0.00001), respectively, and between omeprazole groups of -19%-11% (NS). No major clinical or laboratory side effects were noted. Thus both omeprazole regimens are effective and safe in preventing duodenal ulcer relapse. 
Resting and total energy expenditure in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease often present with weight loss. Among possible causes, an elevated energy expenditure has frequently been suggested but is the least documented. In this study resting metabolic rate (RMR) and total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) were measured in 15 outpatients with inflammatory bowel diseases and in eight healthy control subjects. Measured RMR as a percentage of that predicted from fat-free mass was not significantly different for control subjects (102 +/- 9.8%, mean +/- SD) and patients (100 +/- 13.3%). TDEE, expressed as a multiple of RMR, was 1.70 +/- 0.31 for control subjects and 1.78 +/- 0.24 for patients. When patients were subgrouped as greater than or equal to 90% or less than 90% desirable body weight, a mean increase over RMR predicted from fat-free mass was seen in the underweight patients (106 +/- 9.3%) but not in normal-weight patients (99.0 +/- 15.6%). Mean TDEE/RMR values for the patient subgroups were 1.70 +/- 0.30 and 1.88 +/- 0.08, respectively. We conclude that stable outpatients with inflammatory bowel disease have only a minimal increase in energy needs. 
Cellular immune response to hepatitis B virus-encoded antigens in acute and chronic hepatitis B virus infection. The proliferative response of PBMC to hepatitis B virus (HBV) envelope, core, and e Ag was analyzed prospectively in 21 patients with acute self-limited HBV infection and compared with the response of patients with chronic HBV infection and different levels of HBV replication (i.e., hepatitis e Ag (HBeAg)- or anti-HBe-positive) and liver damage (i.e., chronic active hepatitis or chronic asymptomatic carriers). Our results indicate that: 1) HBV-infected subjects who develop a self-limited acute hepatitis show a vigorous PBMC response to hepatitis B core Ag and HBeAg, as expression of T cell activation; 2) appearance of a detectable lymphocyte response to HBV nucleocapsid Ag is temporally associated with the clearance of HBV envelope Ag; 3) in patients with chronic HBV infection the level of T cell responsiveness to hepatitis B core Ag and to HBeAg is significantly lower than that observed during acute infection; 4) T cell sensitization to HBV envelope Ag in acute and chronic HBV infection is usually undetectable and when measurable is expressed transiently and at low levels. These results may reflect immune events of pathogenetic relevance with respect to evolution of disease and viral clearance. 
A retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease: initial treatment. We have reviewed results of therapy in 740 patients with grades II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic marrow transplantation. At the beginning of therapy, 597 patients (81%) had rash, 369 (50%) had liver dysfunction and 396 (54%) had gut dysfunction. Initial treatment was with glucocorticoids (n = 531), cyclosporine (n = 170), antithymocyte globulin (ATG) (n = 156) or monoclonal antibody (n = 3) either singly (n = 633) or in combination (n = 107). Parameters of GVHD severity in each organ were recorded weekly, and evaluation of response was made using values at the initiation of secondary treatment or, for patients without such treatment, using values on day 29 of primary treatment or the last recorded value before death, whichever occurred first. Minimal criteria for improvement or progression were defined for each organ, but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present. Improvement rates were 43% for skin disease, 35% for evaluable liver disease and 50% for evaluable gut disease. Overall complete or partial responses were seen in 44% of patients. Multivariate analyses were carried out to identify patient, disease or treatment factors associated with likelihood of overall improvement and likelihood of response in at least one organ. A similar analysis was also carried out to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure (defined as initiation of secondary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy). In all three models, GVHD prophylaxis using cyclosporine combined with methotrexate was associated with favorable GVHD treatment outcome compared to prophylaxis with either agent alone, and treatment with glucocorticoids or cyclosporine was more successful than treatment with ATG. Other factors associated with unfavorable outcome in the model of time to treatment failure and also entered in one of the response models were recipient HLA disparity with the donor, presence of a liver complication other than GVHD, and early onset of GVHD. Results of this analysis indicate that glucocorticoids represent the best initial therapy available for treatment of acute GVHD, although much room for improvement remains. 
Hormonal and enzymatic parameters of hepatic regeneration in patients undergoing major liver resections. Thirteen patients who underwent 40% to 80% removal of their livers had blood samples drawn initially and daily on postoperative days 1 to 7. The enzyme marker of heightened polyamine metabolism, ornithine decarboxylase, and the indicator of DNA synthesis, thymidine kinase, were measured. In addition, the hormones (insulin, glucagon, estradiol and androgen), which in animals are known to reflect and possibly modulate regeneration, were measured. Changes in all these indices followed the same pattern as in rats, dogs and swine but at a slower rate. Ornithine decarboxylase and estradiol increased within 24 hr, but thymidine kinase and insulin rises did not become statistically significant until 3 to 5 days. Using these plasma or serum indices as surrogate measures of biochemical events in the liver itself, regeneration reached a maximum after 4 or 5 days. By computed tomography scan analysis, restoration of hepatic cell mass was not complete until 3 wk. 
Variceal rebleeding after portosystemic shunting. Strategies and solutions to a vexing problem. The purpose of this review was to discuss an approach to the treatment of recurrent bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices after portosystemic shunt. From our own clinical experience, as well as that of others, it appears that re-establishment of portal decompression should offer the best chance at long-term survival. Luckily, innovations in angiographic technique have allowed attainment of this goal without the inordinate risk of an operative procedure. However, not all patients' situations will be amenable to such treatment. For some of them, operative decompression of the portal venous system can be carried out in an anatomic area previously untouched. For those patients in whom no decompression is possible, direct endoscopic treatment of the varices will offer an alternative, albeit temporizing, approach. 
Antropyloric muscle thickness at US in infants: what is normal? The authors reviewed the ultrasonographic (US) images and medical records of 145 consecutive infants who were seen for evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract because of chronic vomiting and/or regurgitation. At US, the antropyloric muscle of each patient was measured in the midlongitudinal plane. On the basis of this measurement, the patients were divided into the following categories: group 1 (1-2 mm; 99 patients), group 2 (greater than or equal to 3 mm; 40 patients), and group 3 (2- less than 3 mm; six patients). Patients in group 1 were considered to have normal antropyloric muscle thickness, those in group 2 had abnormal thickness, and those in group 3 had muscle thickness that was not definitely normal or abnormal. The final clinical diagnoses for all of the infants in the three groups confirmed the authors' initial impressions that antropyloric muscle thickness of less than 2 mm was anatomically normal, muscle measuring 3 mm or greater was abnormal and diagnostic for pyloric stenosis, and muscle from 2 to less than 3 mm was abnormal but not specifically diagnostic for pyloric stenosis. Two of the six patients in group 3 eventually were diagnosed as having pyloric stenosis; thus, the authors believe that only those patients with antropyloric muscle less than 2 mm thick should be considered unequivocably normal. 
Granulomatous vasculitis in Crohn's disease [published erratum appears in Gastroenterology 1991 Aug;101(2):595] This study investigated a possible vascular origin for granulomas in Crohn's disease. Twenty-four consecutive resected specimens of small and large intestinal Crohn's disease were preserved by arterial perfusion-fixation with 10% formol saline, at mean arterial pressure (100 mm Hg). Fifteen specimens contained granulomas on routine examination of H&E-stained sections. These 15 specimens were examined in detail using a range of immunohistochemical staining techniques to identify vascular structures and granulomas. A total of 485 granulomas were found, 85% of which were identified as being directly involved in vascular injury. The majority (77%) of granulomas were deep to the mucosa; they were found most frequently in the submucosa (42%). The techniques used in this study enhanced the recognition of granulomatous vasculitis. The results suggest that the majority of granulomas in Crohn's disease form within walls of blood vessels. Vascular localization of granulomatous inflammation suggests that the intestinal microvasculature contains an early element in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. 
Persistent mullerian duct syndrome. Persistent mullerian syndrome is rare. A case of phenotypically normal male with persistent mullerian structures that consisted of a bicornuate uterus, fallopian tubes, and upper third of the vagina is reported. These unusual structures were found in association with bilateral cryptorchidism and a right inguinal hernia, and were diagnosed while repairing the hernia in the neonatal period. The uterus and fallopian tubes were removed via laparotomy when the child was eighteen months old; at the same time a bilateral orchiopexy was performed. To avoid damage to the vas deferens, which lay in closely to the mullerian structures and could not be separated from the vaginal wall, a small segment of the upper third of the vagina was retained. The testicles, although normal on pathologic examination, have shown poor response to hormonal stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin. Long-term follow-up for these patients is necessary because they have an increased risk of testicular tumors developing. 
Management of childhood diarrhoea by pharmacists and parents: is Britain lagging behind the Third World? OBJECTIVE--To investigate the role of community pharmacists in providing advice and treatment for children with diarrhoea; to investigate mothers' responses to diarrhoea in their children. DESIGN--Cross sectional questionnaire study of a random selection of community pharmacists and of mothers attending child health clinics. Pharmacists were interviewed and given a questionnaire and a separate group was visited by a researcher posing as a parent; mothers were interviewed at the clinic. SETTING--Newcastle upon Tyne. SUBJECTS--20 pharmacists were interviewed and visits by a researcher posing as a parent were carried out to 10 different pharmacists; 58 mothers were interviewed. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Advice given by pharmacists was contrasted with standard advice on management of diarrhoea in children. RESULTS--Half of the pharmacists interviewed and 70% of pharmacists visited by a researcher posing as a parent recommended inappropriate treatment of childhood diarrhoea (such as antidiarrhoeal drugs and withholding breast milk), and only 30% at interview stated that they would ask for the age of the child. Mothers' knowledge of home treatment was inadequate. All pharmacists in the posed visits recommended a purchased treatment. CONCLUSION--Pharmacists are widely used by parents for consultation for children's ailments but their advice is not always appropriate; hence they should be given more consistent training in recognising and managing clinical problems. Medical advice on management of diarrhoea is also inconsistent and should be modified to conform to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. 
Incidence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis: application to prophylaxis of first bleeding. Because several studies have suggested that beta blockers are effective in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis, screening for oesophageal varices might be appropriate. We prospectively studied 84 cirrhotic patients without obvious evidence of large oesophageal varices and previous bleeding during a mean follow up of 16 months. At entry to the study 41 patients had no oesophageal varices and in 43 these were grade 1. The subsequent percentages of patients without large oesophageal varices were 74% at one year and 52% at two years. Univariate analysis showed that a longer duration of cirrhosis (p less than 0.05) and grade 1 oesophageal varices at entry (p less than 0.001) were predictive factors for the occurrence of large oesophageal varices, whereas, multivariate analysis showed that the initial size of the oesophageal varices (p less than 0.001), a high initial Child-Pugh score, and a smaller improvement in Child-Pugh score during the study were independent risk factors. Among patients with grades 0 and 1 oesophageal varices at the start of the study the proportions with large oesophageal varices at two years were 31% and 70% respectively. We have calculated that, accepting a maximum risk of first bleeding of 10% without prophylactic treatment, a patient without oesophageal varices should be screened endoscopically every other year, while a patient with grade 1 disease should benefit from one annual upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. 
Antagonism of serotonin S3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens The control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we evaluated the effect of serotonin S3 receptor blockade with ondansetron (GR 38032F) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy. Cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous (IV) doses of 0.15 mg/kg. Most patients had breast cancer. Cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin (65% of patients) or with fluorouracil (85% of patients: 50% with Adriamycin [doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH] and 35% with methotrexate). All placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting, whereas 70% of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit (P = .008). Median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo (P less than .001). Seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite, compared with 10% of placebo patients. Adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient. Diarrhea and headache were the most common events, both occurring more frequently in the placebo group. There were no extrapyramidal reactions, and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient. These results suggest that serotonin S3 receptor antagonists represent a novel, effective, and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies. In addition, our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin, acting on S3 receptors, mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy. 
Antiemetic prophylaxis with promethazine or droperidol in paediatric outpatient strabismus surgery. This randomized, double-blind study evaluated the antiemetic efficacy and the side-effects of promethazine pretreatment (0.5 mg.kg-1 IV + 0.5 mg.kg-1 IM) versus droperidol + placebo pretreatment (droperidol, 0.075 mg.kg-1 IV + physiological saline, 0.02 ml.kg-1 IM). One hundred unpremedicated ASA physical status I children ranging from two to ten years, and undergoing outpatient strabismus surgery were studied. All children received inhalational anaesthesia with halothane, nitrous oxide and oxygen. Neither opioids nor muscle relaxants were used. The incidence of vomiting and/or retching and the incidence of side-effects were determined in the post-anaesthesia recovery room (PARR), in the short-stay surgical unit (SSSU), and after discharge from the hospital (including the journey and the stay at home during the first postoperative day). Promethazine and droperidol were equally effective in reducing the incidence of vomiting before discharge to two and eight per cent respectively. On the contrary, the incidence of vomiting after discharge and overall were significantly less with promethazine (ten and ten per cent) than with droperidol pretreatment (54 and 56 per cent) (P less than 0.0001). Promethazine permitted the time to discharge from the hospital to be reduced to an average of three hours, without increasing the incidence of vomiting postdischarge. Promethazine pretreatment is much less expensive than droperidol pretreatment. The incidence of restlessness was significantly less with droperidol (eight per cent) than with promethazine (36 per cent) (P less than 0.001). Promethazine pretreatment demands the use of an analgesic like acetaminophen in order to reduce the incidence of postoperative pain and restlessness. 
The isolation and characterization of a Norwalk virus-specific cDNA. Norwalk virus, an important cause of epidemic, acute, nonbacterial gastroenteritis in adults and children, has eluded adaptation to tissue culture, the development of an animal model, and molecular cloning. In this study, a portion of the Norwalk viral genome encoding an immunoreactive region was cloned from very small quantities of infected stool using sequence-independent single primer amplification. Six overlapping complementary DNA (cDNA) clones were isolated by immunologic screening. The expressed recombinant protein from a representative clone reacted with six of seven high titer. Norwalk-specific, postinfection sera but not with corresponding preinfection sera. Nucleic acid sequence for all clones defined a single open reading frame contiguous with the lambda gt11-expressed beta-galactosidase protein. Only oligonucleotide probes specific for the positive strand (defined by the open reading frame) hybridized to an RNaseA-sensitive, DNaseI-resistant nucleic acid sequence extracted from Norwalk-infected stool. Furthermore, RNA extracted from serial postinfection, but not preinfection, stools from three of five volunteers hybridized to a Norwalk virus cDNA probe. Clone-specific oligonucleotide probes hybridized with cesium chloride gradient fractions containing purified Norwalk virion. In conclusion, an antigenic, protein-coding region of the Norwalk virus genome has been identified. This epitope has potential utility in future sero- and molecular epidemiologic studies of Norwalk viral gastroenteritis. 
Omeprazole. Overview and opinion. Omeprazole, a substituted benzimidazole, is a specific inhibitor of the enzyme H+/K(+)-ATPase, which is found on the secretory surface of the parietal cell. This enzyme, the "proton pump," catalyzes the final step in acid secretion. Omeprazole is a powerful inhibitor of gastric acid secretion. At the time of writing, omeprazole has been licensed in the United States for the treatment of severe grades of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) as well as GERD unresponsive to treatment with currently available agents, and for the treatment of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and other gastric hypersecretory states. Most recently, it has been recommended by the FDA advisory committee for approval as first-line therapy in duodenal ulcer disease. 
Effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis. OBJECTIVES: Because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control, we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects. Therefore, we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mTc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis. All patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects. RESULTS: During the infusion of motilin, gastric emptying was accelerated, and it was no longer significantly different from control values. CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects. 
Treatment of hepatitis B virus-associated membranous nephropathy with adenine arabinoside and thymic extract. Previously we found that corticosteroid treatment in the hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated membranous nephropathy (HBVMN) was not associated with a favorable outcome. To distinguish the differences of the HBV DNA in macrophage, T and B cells among HBVMN patients with or without corticosteroid treatment, serial studies at different time points were investigated. HBV DNA appeared as an "episomal" molecule as with 3.2 kb in macrophage, T and B cells. This molecule disappeared after 12 months among HBVMN patients without corticosteroid treatment. HBV DNA, by contrast, appeared as episomal form even three years later in T cells, with frequent proteinuria among HBVMN patients with corticosteroid treatment. This finding indicates that the use of corticosteroids leads to a potential risk of enhancing HBV viral replication in T cells. We studied 24 HBVMN patients who had previously received corticosteroid treatment and had persistent proteinuria, who were administered combination therapy with adenine arabinoside for two weeks and thymic extract (Thymostimulin) for six months to decrease urine protein loss and obtain seroconversion. These 24 patients had heavy (22 of 24, 91.6%) or mild (2 of 24, 8.4%) proteinuria prior to adenine arabinoside and thymostimulin treatment. All 24 patients demonstrated HBV DNA in mononuclear cells and simultaneously exhibited sera positive with HBsAg and HBeAg. In contrast, after treatment only one case (4.2%) had heavy and two cases (8.4%) mild proteinuria; HBV DNA was demonstrated in macrophage (4 of 24, 16.7%), T cells (9 of 24, 37.5%), and B cells (6 of 24, 25%) as well as serum (24 of 24, 100%) prior to treatment. 
Cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis. Cholangiocarcinoma is more likely to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Our aims were to describe the clinical presentation, course, and management of patients afflicted with both cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis and to estimate the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. A retrospective analysis was conducted of 30 patients with both primary sclerosing cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma managed at our institution during an 8-year period. Development of cholangiocarcinoma was heralded by rapid clinical deterioration with jaundice, weight loss, and abdominal discomfort. Cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis often was detected at an advanced tumor stage, which precluded effective therapy, and overall median survival was 5 months. Earlier recognition and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma in such patients will be necessary to increase survival rates. Seventy patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were followed prospectively in a clinical trial of medical therapy for an average of 30 months. Twelve patients died and five were found at autopsy to have cholangiocarcinoma. The potential for cholangiocarcinoma to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis may indicate that liver transplantation should be considered earlier in the course of the disease. 
Diltiazem therapy for symptoms associated with nutcracker esophagus. A randomized double-blind, cross-over prospective trial in 22 patients was designed to evaluate possible effect of an oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, on symptoms of chest pain and/or dysphagia in patients with nutcracker esophagus. We studied 22 consecutive patients referred to an esophageal diagnostic center for evaluation of noncardiac chest pain or dysphagia having high amplitude esophageal contractions, 14 of whom completed the study. Diltiazem (60-90 mg qid) was compared with placebo, each being administered for 8 wk. Patients were evaluated with esophageal motility pre- and posttreatment periods and with regular symptom assessment throughout each 8-wk treatment. Active diltiazem therapy resulted in significantly lower (p less than 0.05) mean distal esophageal peristaltic pressure (128 +/- 20 mm Hg; +/- SE) than placebo (158 +/- 16 mm Hg). Mean chest pains scores were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower with diltiazem therapy than with placebo. Only nine of the 14 patients fulfilled presently acceptable criteria for diagnosing nutcracker esophagus, and the diltiazem effect was similar, although not significant, because of the smaller sample. Conclusions: In this preliminary study involving 14 patients, the oral calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, appeared to improve noncardiac chest pain associated with strong esophageal contraction, the nutcracker esophagus. These improved symptoms were associated with significant decreases in contraction pressure. 
Breakdown of gastric mucus in presence of Helicobacter pylori. The potential of Helicobacter pylori to degrade gastric mucus was examined. Colonies of H pylori cultured from antral mucosal biopsy specimens of patients with non-autoimmune gastritis were washed with sterile saline, passed through a sterilisation filter, and the filtrate examined for urease, protease, and mucolytic activity. The filtrate failed to hydrolyse bovine serum albumin, or to degrade stable mucus glycoprotein structures of high particle weight that had been separated from human gastric mucus on Sepharose 2B. The high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was, however, extensively degraded when incubated with H pylori filtrate (which possessed urease activity) in the presence of 2 M urea, to release fragments of Mr approximately 2 X 10(6). The high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was also broken down to a comparable extent when incubated with Jack bean urease in the presence of 2 M urea, or 1 M ammonium carbonate, or 40 mM carbonate-bicarbonate buffer (pH 8.7), but not when treated with 4 M urea alone, or Jack bean urease alone. These results indicate that the loss of high particle weight mucus glycoprotein in gastric mucus from patients with gastritis and gastric ulcers is unlikely to be due to the mucolytic action of an extra-cellular protease produced by H pylori, but it may result from the destabilising effects of a carbonate-bicarbonate buffer, generated at the mucosal surface when H pylori urease hydrolyses transuded plasma urea. 
Traumatic diaphragmatic hernia and intestinal obstruction due to penetrating trunk wounds. We have reported two cases of intestinal obstruction due to traumatic diaphragmatic hernia, both resulting from apparently trivial knife wounds. When TDH is due to a penetrating injury, it tends to produce symptoms of intestinal obstruction. A high index of suspicion, a chest x-ray film, and barium studies of the gastrointestinal tract are usually needed to make the diagnosis, though CT scans, ultrasonography, laparoscopy, and radionuclide scanning may also be useful. Surgeons and emergency physicians should be aware of the potential for TDH when there is a history of a penetrating wound of the chest or abdomen. 
Risk factors for gallstones among Chinese in Taiwan. A community sonographic survey. A health survey of adults aged 30 years or more was carried out in southwest Taiwan to determine the prevalence of gallstones and to study risk factors associated with gallstones. Blood samples were collected and abdominal sonographic examination and anthropometric measurements were performed on a total of 923 people. The 40 gallstone cases detected resulted in a prevalence of 4.3%. The risk factors explored included age, sex, hepatitis, obesity, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes mellitus (DM). Age and DM were the only significant factors associated with gallstones in our study. With a reference group of 30-39-year-olds as a comparison, multiple logistic regression analysis showed a trend effect with odds ratios of 1.73, 3.74, and 6.32 for age groups of 40-49, 50-59, and 60 or above, respectively. The odds ratio for DM was as high as 2.59. However, sex, body weight index, chronic hepatitis B, and hyperlipidemia were not significantly associated with gallstones. 
Diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations. Infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients. In particular, cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation. We are evaluating a new antiviral agent, ganciclovir 9-[1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl] guanine (DHPG), used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections. Between March 1, 1987, and June 30, 1989, we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease. From this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with DHPG. Tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract (11 patients) or colonoscopy (three patients). Invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient, who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with DHPG and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis. While 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with DHPG, four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered. No DHPG toxicity was observed. We believe treatment with DHPG is indicated in this patient population, but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation. 
Comparison of anterior sphincteroplasty and postanal repair in the treatment of idiopathic fecal incontinence. Both postanal repair and anterior sphincteroplasty with levatorplasty have been advocated in the treatment of idiopathic fecal incontinence. To assess the functional results of these procedures, physiologic and radiologic measurements were carried out prospectively in 33 patients with idiopathic incontinence undergoing operative treatment, and 12 age- and sex-matched controls. Sixteen patients had anterior sphincteroplasty and levatorplasty and 17 had postanal repair. A satisfactory postoperative outcome was defined as perfect continence or incontinence of flatus only. Ten patients in the anterior sphincteroplasty group had satisfactory results (64 percent) and 10 in the postanal repair group (59 percent). Preoperatively, both groups had decreased resting and squeeze pressures, impaired and mucosal electrosensitivity, and marked pelvic descent vs. controls. Postoperatively, significant improvement in sphincter pressures and mucosal electrosensitivity was seen in both groups. No significant change in anorectal angle was demonstrated in the postanal repair group, whereas it was made significantly more obtuse in the anterior sphincteroplasty group. It is likely that the improved continence resulting from either of these two procedures is secondary to better anal sphincter muscle function and improved and sensation. It would appear that the anorectal angle is not crucial in maintaining continence. 
Ichthyosis, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, impaired neutrophil chemotaxis, growth retardation, and metaphyseal dysplasia (Shwachman syndrome). Report of a case with extensive skin lesions (clinical, histological, and ultrastructural findings). The Shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, growth retardation, and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia. Clinical, morphological, and ultrastructural studies, as well as hair analysis, were performed in a patient with Shwachman's syndrome and severe ichthyosis. Clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities. The hair was scanty and short on the scalp, in the eyelashes, and in the eyebrows. The nails were hyperkeratotic. Morphologic findings were slight, regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis. The granular layer was thickened. The papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration. The most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes. Hair analysis revealed no abnormalities; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal. 
Blunt trauma of the abdomen in children. Abdominal trauma in children is usually due to motor vehicle accidents or falls, but child abuse is also a common cause. Injuries to the small intestine are particularly worrisome because symptoms may not appear for hours, days, or even weeks. This can cause significant difficulty for the investigator trying to determine when an injury occurred, or who may have caused it. 
Multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea. An outbreak of a chronic diarrheal syndrome was detected between May and August 1987 in rural Henderson County, Illinois. Seventy-two individuals were affected. Epidemiological studies performed by the Center for Disease Control implicated the water of a local restaurant as the source of the outbreak. Five patients underwent a comprehensive evaluation. Their mean age was 51 years, and they had a mean of 12 watery stools daily (range, 6-40). Detailed microbiological evaluations failed to identify a pathological organism. Stool studies showed a mean stool weight of 392 g/24 h with a normal fat content. Results of all biochemical studies of serum were normal. Chemical analysis of stool water suggested a secretory diarrhea. Colonoscopy revealed patchy erythema, and light microscopic examination of colonic biopsy specimens revealed multifocal areas of acute inflammation in the superficial mucosa in 4 of 5 patients. Electron microscopy of the affected areas revealed no viral particles. After 2 years, all of our patients continued to experience chronic diarrhea. One patient agreed to a follow-up colonoscopy; histological abnormalities of the colonic mucosa persisted after 2 years. We speculate that an infectious process arising from a contaminated water system induced a chronic, secretory diarrhea characterized by multifocal colitis. This histological abnormality may serve as a marker of an infectious, chronic diarrhea. 
Adenovirus colitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Adenovirus was identified in colonic tissue by transmission electron microscopy or culture in 5 of 67 (7.4%) homosexual men seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (51 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) with diarrhea. Colonoscopy showed the mucosa to be normal in 3 cases and mildly inflamed in 2. Light microscopy showed foci of mucosal necrosis that contained chronic inflammatory cells and degenerating and necrotic epithelial cells with amphophilic nuclear inclusions. By transmission electron microscopy, hexagonal viral particles characteristic of adenovirus were identified within the inclusions. Only 1 patient was concomitantly infected by a second potential enteric pathogen. It was concluded that adenovirus, an uncommon enteric pathogen in immunocompetent adults, causes intestinal pathology and may be associated with diarrheal illness in persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Loss of duodenal folds allows diagnosis of unsuspected coeliac disease. We report three patients with coeliac disease who presented without the classic features of malabsorption and who underwent biopsy and were diagnosed only because of the endoscopic finding of the disappearance of Kerckring's folds in the descending duodenum. This sign constitutes a new and valid aid for the identification of patients with otherwise unsuspected coeliac disease. 
Evaluation of women with possible appendicitis using technetium-99m leukocyte scan. The authors evaluated the use of technetium-99m albumin colloid white blood cell (TAC-WBC) scan in women with possible appendicitis. One hundred and nine women underwent 110 TAC-WBC scans. One woman had a second scan on a separate admission and was considered two individual patients in the analysis. Twenty-six women had appendicitis, 10 of whom had a perforated appendix at surgery. The TAC-WBC scan was indeterminate (abnormal but nondiagnostic for appendicitis) in 52 women (47%), nine of whom had appendicitis. Fifty-eight scans were read as positive or negative for appendiceal pathology. There were 16 true positives, 5 false positives, 36 true negatives, and 1 false negative. The predictive value of a positive scan was 76%, and the predictive value of a negative scan was 97%. The TAC-WBC scan was positive in 62% of patients with appendicitis and negative in 43% of the patients without appendicitis resulting in an overall accuracy of 47% in the 109 women. The main value of TAC-WBC scan in women with possible appendicitis is its high negative predictive value and the main problem with the TAC-WBC scan is its high indeterminate rate. 
Achieving pH control in the critically ill patient: the role of continuous infusion of H2-receptor antagonists. Stress-related gastric mucosal damage is a common occurrence in intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this mucosal damage, many ICU patients routinely receive prophylactic therapy, usually with histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Gastric acid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern, with late afternoon and evening surges. H2RAs by continuous infusion may control this uneven pattern of secretion more effectively than H2RAs given by bolus injection. More studies are needed to identify the target ICU population for prophylactic treatment. 
The recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation. Applications of muscle flap closure. Perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment. Thirteen consecutive patients (aged 27 to 74 years; mean, 48 years) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage. Three risk factors were identified: preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy, resection for recurrent carcinoma, and inflammatory bowel disease. A total of 19 muscle flaps (11 gracilis, five gluteal thigh, two gluteus maximus, and one rectus abdominis) were used to close these wounds. During an average 3.5-year follow-up, four (31%) minor complications and one (8%) recurrence were noted to occur. Muscle flaps provide safe, effective, single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds. 
Anomalies of intestinal rotation in childhood: analysis of 447 cases. This report concerns 447 infants and children with anomalies of rotation and fixation. Patients were placed in four groups based on initial symptoms. Group A involved 18 patients with acute midgut volvulus. At laparotomy, midgut volvulus was noted and reduction of midgut volvulus and a Ladd procedure were performed in 10 cases and resection was required in 8. There were five deaths (28%). Group B included 54 children with chronic symptoms of intermittent volvulus or duodenal obstruction. Group C involved 44 cases of malrotation observed during exploration for other disorders. Patients in groups B and C underwent a Ladd procedure and appendectomy. There were five unrelated deaths. Group D included 331 neonates with malrotation caused by either diaphragmatic hernia (n = 111) or abdominal wall defects (n = 220). A Ladd procedure was performed on 48 patients with abdominal wall defects and 29 surviving children with diaphragmatic hernia. Only 2 of 172 (1.2%) patients with abdominal wall defects and 1 of 34 (2.9%) patients with diaphragmatic hernia not treated for malrotation had midgut volvulus. Midgut volvulus is more common in infants and is associated with a high mortality rate (28%). Patients with malrotation and chronic obstructive symptoms or those observed during other elective procedures should undergo a Ladd procedure because of the risk of midgut volvulus. The risk of midgut volvulus is low in patients with abdominal wall defects and, probably as a result of adhesions from previous neonatal operations. 
High-fat semielemental diet in the treatment of protracted diarrhea of infancy. The capacity for greater fat absorption relative to carbohydrate absorption in protracted diarrhea of infancy was studied in a developed and a developing country (Buffalo, NY, and Bangkok, Thailand). Fifty patients with protracted diarrhea in the first year of life (defined as liquid stools of more than 20 mL/kg per day with more than a 14-day duration) were randomly assigned to receive either a standard semielemental diet (Pregestimil) or a high-fat semielemental diet that contained 40% more fat. The increased fat was largely in the form of medium-chain triglycerides, with the new diet providing 60% of the fat as medium-chain triglycerides compared with 40% in the standard diet. Tolerance to both diets was good in both studies. Both groups showed adequate weight gain and an improvement in anthropometric and biochemical parameters. The patients receiving the high-fat diet showed no initial weight loss, however, and their weight gain was initiated earlier. Cumulative weight gain was also higher in the group receiving the high-fat semielemental diet. Fecal fat analyses were performed after 1 week of therapy. There was no difference observed in the coefficient of fat absorption between the groups receiving the two formulas, indicating that infants with protracted diarrhea may be able to tolerate a higher fat intake than is normally provided. As carbohydrate intolerance is known to be a complicating factor when using semielemental enteral feeds for infants with protracted diarrhea, a higher-fat semielemental diet may be the most appropriate way to provide adequate caloric intake. 
Bile sampling, processing and analysis in clinical studies. Obtaining a proper bile sample for investigative purposes is of utmost importance to obtain valid results. Bile can be collected by direct aspiration of the gallbladder, by duodenal intubation or by T-tube drainage. The optimal method of collection depends on the investigative question, as well as on the resources available to the investigator. The procedures for obtaining, processing and analyzing human bile (gallbladder and hepatic) are summarized, pointing out the disadvantages and pitfalls that may occur. 
Radiographic techniques and efficacy in evaluating esophageal dysphagia. The radiographic examination of the esophagus to determine structural and/or functional causes of dysphagia is best performed with multiple techniques. These include full-column studies to produce distended films with or without the use of a solid bolus, mucosal relief films to identify mucosal defects such as esophagitis or the presence of varices, double-contrast films, and motion recording (fluoroscopy). The efficacy of each technique depends on the quality of the study and the specific disorder to be detected. Esophageal lesions producing dysphagia are classified into extrinsic structural lesions, intrinsic structural lesions, and esophageal motility disorders. Radiographic studies are the preferred screening techniques for patients with dysphagia. Although not as sensitive for the evaluation of mucosal lesions, radiographic studies are superior to endoscopy for the detection of abnormal motility, esophageal rings, and strictures. 
Familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. We assessed the familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease in Copenhagen County, where there has been a long-term interest in the epidemiology of such disorders. In 1987 we interviewed 662 patients in whom inflammatory bowel disease had been diagnosed before 1979, asking whether their first- and second-degree relatives had this disorder. Ninety-six percent of the patients (504 with ulcerative colitis and 133 with Crohn's disease) provided adequate information. RESULTS. As compared with the general population, the first-degree relatives of the 637 patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease had a 10-fold increase in the risk of having the same disease as the patients, after standardization for age and sex. The risk of having the other of the two diseases was also increased, but less so, and the increase in the risk of having Crohn's disease was not significant in the relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis. The risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis appeared to be virtually independent of the generation to which the first-degree relative belonged and of the sex of the patient and the relative. The risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives tended to be higher if the disease had been diagnosed in the patient before the age of 50, but the risk seemed to be independent of the current age of the relatives. The prevalence of the same disease as that of the patient (either ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease) among second-degree relatives was increased; the prevalence of the other disease was not increased. CONCLUSIONS. The 10-fold increase in the familial risk of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease strongly suggests that these disorders have a genetic cause. 
Cystic mesothelioma of peritoneum: occurrence in a man. We report a case of cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum in a 54-year-old man in whom cystic masses were removed twice by surgery at an interval of 2 years. The patient died of cardiac arrest shortly after the second operation for a concurrent unresectable colonic cancer. The pathogenesis of the disease is uncertain, but we consider it neoplastic of low grade malignancy. 
Edrophonium provocative test in noncardiac chest pain. Evaluation of testing techniques. Edrophonium chloride is used frequently as a provocative agent in the assessment of noncardiac chest pain (NCCP). However, the optimum dose and most appropriate method of interpreting test results is controversial. We studied 150 consecutive NCCP patients and 50 age-matched controls who alternately received either 80 micrograms/kg or 10 mg intravenous bolus doses of edrophonium preceded by saline placebo injections. Distal esophageal pressures were measured before and after drug injection in response to ten 5-cc wet swallows. Following 10 mg of edrophonium, 33% of patients and 4% of controls reported chest pain, while 29% of patients and no controls receiving the 80 micrograms/kg dose complained of chest pain. Amplitude changes after either dose were not significantly different for all comparisons, but the duration of response did distinguish the two doses in patients with chest pain. A significantly greater (P = 0.01) increase in distal contraction duration occurred after 10 mg (74 +/- 12%; +/- SE) compared to 80 micrograms/kg dose (43 +/- 6%). However, individual responses to the two doses overlapped considerably. If a positive test is redefined to include both chest pain and manometric changes that are significantly different from controls, the positivity rate changes drastically; 33% to 9% in the 10-mg group and 30% to 3% in the 80-micrograms/kg group. Side effects were similar between doses, but there was a significant (P = 0.02) linear relationship between intensity of side effects and the edrophonium dose per kilogram of body weight. 
Umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia: a new association? In three fetuses, congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord. In two cases, hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer. Both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic. The third fetus was mildly hydropic, attributed to hemorrhage, and was stillborn. The mechanism of the association could not be determined. These cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia. 
Normal small bowel biopsy followed by coeliac disease. We report four patients (two children, one adolescent, and one adult) having normal small bowel mucosa shown on a biopsy specimen taken before the initial diagnosis of coeliac disease was made. The first biopsy was undertaken in two cases because of suspected malabsorption, in the third because of suspected dermatitis herpetiformis, and in the fourth as part of a coeliac disease family study. After a further 2.6 to 9 years on a diet containing gluten, small bowel villous atrophy with crypt hyperplasia compatible with coeliac disease was found on a second biopsy specimen. The HLA type of the patients was that typical for coeliac disease; all were DR3 positive. Within the families three other patients with coeliac disease have been diagnosed, two earlier and one at the time the first biopsy was undertaken. Four other HLA-DR3 positive haploidentical first degree relatives were found and had biopsies. All four had normal small bowel villous architecture, one had an increased intraepithelial cell count, and another was positive for reticulin and endomysium antibodies. Coeliac disease may exist latent in patients having normal mucosa when eating a normal diet containing gluten. 
Estimates of morbidity and mortality rates for diarrheal diseases in American children. Although the importance of diarrhea as a prime cause of morbidity and death in developing countries is well recognized, the disease burden in the United States has never been thoroughly examined. We have prepared national estimates of the annual number of cases of diarrhea in children less than 5 years of age and of the outcome, measured in terms of visits to a physician, hospitalizations, and deaths. The annual number of diarrheal episodes was estimated by reviewing longitudinal studies of childhood diarrhea conducted in the United States and extrapolating these data to the nation. Estimates of physician visits, hospitalizations, and deaths were prepared from a variety of national data sources. We estimate that 16.5 million children less than 5 years of age have between 21 and 37 million episodes of diarrhea annually. Of these, 2.1 to 3.7 million episodes lead to a physician visit, a total of 220,000 patients are hospitalized, and 325 to 425 children die. The major cost of diarrhea lies in the high numbers and cost of hospitalizations, because approximately 10.6% of hospitalizations in this age group are for diarrhea. Diarrheal deaths occur in relatively small numbers, are more common in the South and among black persons, are potentially avoidable, and could represent as much as 10% of the preventable postneonatal infant death in the United States. These estimates underscore the extensive burden of diarrheal illness in children in the United States and suggest that interventions to prevent disease or decrease its severity could be cost-effective. 
Pathogenesis of biliary sludge. The increasing application of ultrasonography in biliary tract disease had led to more frequent recognition of an old disorder--"biliary sludge." Sludge is detected on ultrasound as low-amplitude echoes without acoustic shadowing. It layers in the most dependent part of the gallbladder and shifts with positioning. Particulate matter in bile, such as cholesterol monohydrate crystals, has been shown to be echogenic. Agglomeration of these crystals in biles with high mucus content accounts for the layering and the characteristic appearance of the movement of sludge with alteration in patient position. Within the gallbladder, the stability of the vesicular form of cholesterol and protein-lipid interactions are important determinants of cholesterol precipitation. In mixed and pigment gallstones, the equilibrium between ionized and unionized calcium and the hydrolysis of conjugated bilirubin are also important factors. Although the risk factors contributing to the formation of gallbladder sludge have not been critically examined, it is now known that in some instances sludge can produce biliary pain and can be associated with acalculous cholecystitis, recurrent pancreatitis and, ultimately, the formation of gallstones. A better appreciation of the pathogenesis of sludge formation can help in the understanding of the genesis of gallstones and also perhaps in understanding other documented but poorly understood biliary and pancreatic disorders. 
Miscellaneous adverse effects of low-versus high-osmolality contrast media: a study revised The authors analyzed data from two recent articles in Radiology in which the quality and results of randomized control trials (RCTs) comparing the efficacy or safety of the low-osmolality contrast media (LOM) iopamidol, iohexol, and ioxaglate with that of the high-osmolarity contrast media (HOM) diatrizoate, iodamide, iopamide, iothalamate, and metrizoate were assessed. One conclusion in the source articles was that no differences were seen between the two groups of contrast media in frequency of nausea, vomiting, and urticaria. However, the LOM group included both nonionic LOM (NIM) and the ionic contrast medium ioxaglate. The authors found that various complications associated with the use of contrast media were much less common with NIM than with HOM; statistically this lower frequency is highly significant. This difference was obscured in the previous studies by the pooling of RCTs in which the less toxic NIM were used and RCTs in which the more toxic ionic contrast medium ioxaglate was used. 
Phase I clinical and pharmacologic study of intraperitoneal cisplatin and fluorouracil in patients with advanced intraabdominal cancer. Fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin display marked therapeutic synergy in preclinical models and are effective in the treatment of a number of solid tumors when combined and administered intravenously (IV). Each drug has also been administered intraperitoneally (IP) and displays a favorable pharmacologic profile and acceptable clinical toxicity. We therefore undertook a phase I study to determine the feasibility and toxicity of combination IP chemotherapy with these agents. Thirty-one patients with histologically documented malignancy confined to the peritoneal space were treated with cisplatin 90 mg/m2 mixed with 5-FU in 2 L of lactated Ringer's solution and given IP for 4 hours every 28 days. Cohorts of at least three patients received starting 5-FU concentrations ranging from 5 mmol/L (1,300 mg in 2 L) to 20 mmol/L. The dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenia with a median granulocyte nadir of 156 cells per microliter occurring at a 5-FU dose of 20 mmol/L. Intrapatient escalation of the 5-FU dose was permitted and 15 cycles of chemotherapy were delivered at 5-FU concentrations greater than 20 mmol/L, the highest concentration being 30.7 mmol/L (8 g of 5-FU in 2L). Other toxicities included mild to moderate nausea during all cycles of therapy, vomiting in 54% of cycles, and diarrhea in 15% of cycles. Abdominal pain, renal dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy, and oral mucositis occurred infrequently and were not related to the 5-FU dose. Peritoneal fluid and plasma 5-FU concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in selected patients. Mean peak plasma 5-FU concentrations ranged from 6.19 mumol/L to greater than 60 mumol/L, and peritoneal fluid to plasma 5-FU area under the curve (AUC) ratios ranged from 85 to 1,150. Nine of 15 patients with nonbulky disease had resolution of malignant ascites or at least a 50% reduction of peritoneal studding by tumor at repeat laparotomy. We conclude that combination IP chemotherapy with cisplatin and 5-FU is technically feasible and has acceptable clinical toxicity and a favorable pharmacologic profile. The recommended starting 5-FU dose for phase II trials is 3,900 mg mixed with 90 mg/m2 of cisplatin in 2 L of isotonic fluid. 
A topographical relationship between Helicobacter pylori and gastritis: quantitative assessment of Helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa. A topographical relationship between the number of Helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa and the histological severity of gastritis was studied in 902 pairs of biopsy specimens taken from 314 patients. A pair of biopsies were taken from the antrum, the lesser curvature of the middle body, and the greater curvature of the upper body of the stomach. The quantitative assessment of H. pylori was made based on smear, culture, and tissue section. The histological severity of gastritis was assessed as to the degrees of mononuclear cell and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. A positive correlation was confirmed between the number of H. pylori and the severity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration. The degrees of inflammatory cells infiltration in the specimens with H. pylori colonization were significantly lower in the upper body than in the antrum. 
Gallbladder carcinoma producing human chorionic gonadotropin. A primary carcinoma of the gallbladder producing human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) was encountered in an 83-yr-old Japanese woman, with elevation of HCG/beta-HCG in urine and serum. Remarkable elevation of serum estradiol was an associated finding, with increased HCG. At autopsy, we found that the primary carcinoma of the gallbladder extensively involved the liver. Histologically, the tumor revealed adenosquamous cell carcinoma in the primary site, and moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in metastatic foci. Immunohistochemical staining for beta-HCG showed a positive reaction in adenocarcinoma components. This is an extremely rare case of an HCG-producing gallbladder carcinoma, which leads us to speculate that HCG-positive tumor cells may occur due to dedifferentiation. 
Adenocarcinoma of the colon occurring with intussusception in an adolescent. Hydrostatic reduction of intussusception is definitive therapy in most infants with this abnormality. In the older child, adolescent, and adult, a polyp or tumor is often present. Operative intervention should be considered earlier in the clinical course both to relieve the intussusception and to define the nature of the lead point. 
Late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a Greenfield filter requiring operative intervention. Retroperitoneal hematomas associated with Greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant. We report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a Greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability. At operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated. The implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed. The potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized. 
Germfree animals and technics in surgical research. Germfree animals have been reared to a size, weight, and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems. Germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations, indicating that life, reproduction, and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination. The value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems, shock, cancer, immunology, burns, wound healing, and in direct patient application. Patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection, for operative procedures, for treatment of extensive burns, and for management of immune-suppressed individuals. We conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications. 
Clinical features of misdiagnosed appendicitis in children. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis with those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly. DESIGN: Retrospective review of hospital, emergency department, and clinic records. SETTING: University medical center with annual ED census of 40,000 patients. PARTICIPANTS: Children less than 13 years old admitted between May 1, 1979, and April 30, 1989, with a discharge diagnosis of appendicitis. MEASUREMENTS: Records were reviewed for historical, physical examination, laboratory, and pathologic features for all patients on their initial presentation to a physician and on final presentation during which the correct diagnosis was made. Using chi 2 analysis and Student's test, clinical features of misdiagnosed patients and patients diagnosed correctly were compared. RESULTS: One hundred eighty-one cases were identified with 50 initially misdiagnosed. On initial presentation, misdiagnosed patients were younger and more likely to have vomiting before pain onset, constipation, diarrhea, dysuria, and signs and symptoms of upper respiratory infections. Misdiagnosed cases were less likely to have right lower quadrant tenderness and documentation of bowel sounds, peritoneal signs, and rectal examinations. On final presentation, misdiagnosed patients were more likely to have pain duration of more than two days, temperature of more than 38.3 C, and to appear lethargic and irritable (P less than .05 for all measurements). CONCLUSION: Clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis differ from those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly. 
Small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract. Four cases of anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas or biliary tract were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. All four cases were intermediate cell type and contained a minimum amount of microscopic foci of differentiated glandular adenocarcinoma. Argyrophilic tumor cells were not seen in any of the four tumors. Immunohistochemically, no tumor was positive for hormonal products, but all tumors were positive for epithelial markers. These findings suggest that the anaplastic carcinoma are not derived from argyrophilic cells, but rather from adenocarcinomas which have the potential for anaplastic metaplasia. The long-term survival of one patient emphasized the importance of chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract. 
Palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis: clinical results. The palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice. Because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications, an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed. Thirty patients were treated by this method. After choledochotomy, the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of Oddi, thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis. Twenty-nine patients (13 with gallbladder cancer, 11 with cholangiocarcinomas, 5 with metastases) presented with neoplastic compression, and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases. The operative mortality was 3.3% (one pulmonary complication). Resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients, and pruritus always resolved. The mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer. Indices of satisfaction (Bismuth's method) were 71% (gallbladder cancer), 93.5% (hilar cholangiocarcinoma), and 92% (metastatic compressions). This new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated, has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity, and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients. 
Association of Helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy. PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at Massachusetts General Hospital were studied over a period of 18 months, as well as 24 patients undergoing ERCP for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease. Two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis. Sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay. All specimens were processed in a blind fashion. Chi-square test with Yates' correction was used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: H. pylori was found in 31 of 46 (67%) study patients and in six of 24 (25%) control patients (by microbiologic or histologic techniques) (p less than 0.01). H. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60% of patients without ulcers. No association between H. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed. H. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum, although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis. Compared with histology, serologic assays for IgG and IgA antibodies to H. pylori had sensitivities of 100% and 94%, and specificities of 86% and 76%, respectively. Reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94% while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80%. CONCLUSIONS: H. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ERCP. Multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection. Serologies of IgG and IgA were sensitive and specific for H. pylori, suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection. The frequent association of H. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism. 
Role of free radicals and platelet-activating factor in the genesis of intestinal motor disturbances induced by Escherichia coli endotoxins in rats. The effects of IV administration of Escherichia coli endotoxin on intestinal myoelectric activity was investigated in conscious fasted rats chronically implanted with nichrome electrodes in the duodenojejunum. These effects were compared with those of platelet-activating factor and were evaluated in animals pretreated with a specific platelet-activating factor antagonist, BN 52021, indomethacin, a selective prostaglandin E2 antagonist, SC 19220, and several free radical scavengers. Intravenous administration of endotoxin (E. coli S.O111:B4) at a dose of 50 micrograms/kg suppressed the migrating myoelectric complexes, which were replaced by continuous rhythmic clusters of rapidly propagated spike bursts for 114.7 +/- 19.9 minutes. Intraperitoneal platelet-activating factor (25 micrograms/kg) also inhibited the migrating myoelectric complex pattern for 146.1 +/- 24.1 minutes. Previous IV administration of BN 52021 (50 mg/kg-1) abolished the motor alterations induced by platelet-activating factor and significantly reduced to 43.1 +/- 12.2 minutes those induced by endotoxin (P less than 0.01). Indomethacin (10 mg/kg IP), injected before endotoxin or platelet-activating factor, also significantly reduced the duration of migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 45.6 +/- 7.8 and 47.7 +/- 8.3 minutes, respectively (P less than 0.01). SC 19220 significantly reduced the effects of platelet-activating factor from 151.8 +/- 26.4 to 67.4 +/- 14.7 min (P less than 0.01). Superoxide dismutase (15,000 U/kg IV) injected before either endotoxin or platelet-activating factor shortened the migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 45.7 +/- 9.9 and 72.9 +/- 10.4 minutes, respectively (P less than 0.01). Allopurinol and dimethylsulfoxide administered orally at 50 mg/kg 1 hour before endotoxin reduced the migrating myoelectric complex inhibition to 42.5 +/- 6.5 and 38.2 +/- 6.4 minutes, respectively (P less than 0.01). They also reduced platelet-activating factor-induced intestinal myoelectric alterations to 68.5 +/- 10.6 and 31.7 +/- 6.1 minutes, respectively (P less than 0.01). It is concluded that endogenous release of platelet-activating factor is partly responsible for the intestinal motor alterations induced by endotoxin, these effects being also mediated through the release of prostaglandins and free radicals. However, prostaglandins, as well as free radicals, appear to be partly involved in the platelet-activating factor-induced action of E. coli endotoxin on intestinal motility. 
p53 expression in colorectal tumors. The expression of the nuclear phosphoprotein p53 was studied immunohistochemically in a series of 150 benign and malignant colorectal tumors. Using monoclonal antibody PAb1801, tumors divided unequivocally into two groups on the basis of immunohistochemistry. Forty of the carcinomas (46.5%) showed positive staining but only 4 of the adenomas (8.7%) were positive (P less than 0.001). The few positive adenomas always showed moderate or severe dysplasia. Metaplastic polyps (n = 9) and small familial adenomatous polyposis-related adenomas (n = 9) were uniformly negative. Carcinomas with p53 expression did not differ from those without in terms of site, differentiation or the prognostic indicators of Dukes' stage, DNA ploidy, or tumor histology. The improved morphologic resolution available in periodate lysine paraformaldehyde dichromate (PLPD)-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue permitted several conclusions to be made: p53 is confined to neoplastic nuclei; staining in positive tumors is heterogeneous and often more marked at the infiltrative margins; and staining intensity is dramatically reduced in mitotic cells. It is concluded that expression of immunohistochemically detectable p53 (probably representing mutated forms of the protein) occurs in some adenomas around the time of transition to carcinoma. Therefore there is an association with the appearance of infiltrative behavior but not with degree of tumor progression (including metastasis) at the time of resection. 
The value of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in the treatment of complex perineal fistula. Complex perineal fistula and persistent perineal sinus are difficult to treat. We describe our experience with wide excision of the diseased perineum using a combined abdominoperineal approach. Ten patients were reconstructed by a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap (n = 7), rectus abdominis muscle flap (n = 2), and omental graft (n = 1). Primary healing was achieved in all cases. A median follow-up of 18 months (range 6-54 months) has shown no recurrence of perineal disease or associated abdominal incisional hernia. There were no perioperative deaths. We propose that the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap is indicated if large amounts of perineal skin has to be sacrificed. When less skin is removed a repair with greater omentum or rectus muscle alone is adequate. The abdominoperineal approach together with filling the residual pelvic cavity with well-vascularized tissue allows definitive treatment to be carried out in one stage. 
The site of recurrent duodenal ulcer. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer in relation to the site of the index ulcer. One hundred and thirty-five patients who had recurrent duodenal ulcer after documented healing of an index ulcer were studied. The recurrent ulcer was more likely to occur in the anterior bulb if the index ulcer was anterior (35 of 58 = 60%) than if the index ulcer was not anterior (29 of 77 = 38%, p less than 0.01). However, the likelihood of a recurrent ulcer on the posterior wall of the bulb was not significantly different whether the index ulcer was posterior (11 of 36 = 31%) or not (22 of 99 = 22%, p less than 0.24). Three of 20 patients (15%) who initially presented with bleeding bled again with their recurrent ulcers, compared with eight of 115 patients (7%) who first presented with dyspepsia only (p = 0.39). Thirteen patients were assessed independently by two endoscopists to determine ulcer site. Their assessments concurred for 12 (92%). 
A monoclonal antibody against the CD18 leukocyte adhesion molecule prevents indomethacin-induced gastric damage in the rabbit. The role of leukocyte adherence in the mechanism of gastropathy induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was investigated using a rabbit model. Gastric damage was induced by intragastric instillation of indomethacin [5 mg/mL] for a period of 30 minutes. Histologically, this treatment resulted in extensive vascular congestion and leukocyte margination within the mucosa. Pretreatment with a monoclonal antibody [IB-4] directed against the common beta subunit of the CD11/CD18 adhesion glycoprotein complex significantly (P less than 0.05) reduced both the vasocongestion and the prevalence of leukocyte margination. Macroscopically, indomethacin treatment resulted in the formation of numerous hemorrhagic lesions in the corpus region of the stomach. Pretreatment with IB-4 reduced the extent of gastric hemorrhagic damage by approximately 85% (P less than 0.001). Damage in the group pretreated with IB-4 did not differ significantly from that in rabbits that did not receive indomethacin. In separate experiments, the dose of IB-4 used was shown to completely suppress the recruitment of granulocytes in response to two different agonists. These results support the hypothesis that leukocyte adherence to the vascular endothelium is an important event in the pathogenesis of ulceration induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Leukocytes might contribute to ulceration by occluding microvessels, thereby reducing mucosal blood flow, and by releasing various mediators, proteases, and free radicals that can produce tissue necrosis. 
Recovery from disturbed colonic transit time after alcohol withdrawal. The effects of alcohol withdrawal on total and segmental transit time were evaluated in 20 chronic alcoholic subjects. After withdrawal, colorectal transit time significantly increased from 24.9 +/- 3.6 to 33.3 +/- 4.5 hours mean +/- SE (P less than 0.01). This was the result of an exclusive increase in rectosigmoid transit time from 2.8 +/- 0.7 to 9.8 +/- 2.1 hours (P less than 0.001). No variations were found in right or left colon transit time. Distal colonic motility is thus a crucial factor in the genesis of diarrhea in chronic alcoholic subjects. 
Excipients in valproic acid syrup may cause diarrhea: a case report. A 5-year-old child receiving valproic acid syrup for seizure control developed diarrhea probably from the excipient ingredients. Each 5 mL of valproic acid syrup contains sucrose 3 g, glycerin 0.75 g, and sorbitol 0.75 g, providing daily amounts of 36, 9, and 9 g of sucrose, glycerin, and sorbitol, respectively. The diarrhea resolved when the child was switched to another valproic acid product. Clinicians should be aware of potential problems that may occur from excipient ingredients in pharmaceutical products when evaluating adverse effects of medications. 
A prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis. Pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis. However, it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis, how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected, and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means. In 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 (20%), as documented by dynamic pancreatography, and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28. All patients were prospectively treated by medical means. Patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture. Infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients (71%) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage, yielding a mortality rate of 15%. All 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis, including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency, were successfully treated without surgery. Pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20% of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection. However, pancreatic necrosis by itself, even when accompanied by organ failure, is not an absolute indication for surgery. A trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order. 
Giardia lamblia infestation reveals underlying Whipple's disease in a patient with longstanding constipation. Whipple's disease is an uncommon disorder, generally associated with gastrointestinal symptoms; of these, diarrhea is a common feature. We report a case of Whipple's disease associated with chronic constipation which was not diagnosed until after Giardia lamblia infestation had caused diarrhea. To the best of our knowledge this association has not previously been reported. The clinical, laboratory, endoscopic, and manometric aspects are described and discussed. 
Chylous ascites should suggest constrictive pericarditis even in a patient with cirrhosis. Chylous ascites, a milky, high triglyceride fluid is usually found in patients with lymphatic obstruction from malignancy. We describe a patient with cirrhosis who developed constrictive pericarditis and chylous ascites. Long-standing portal hypertension compounded by elevated central venous pressure provided several pathophysiologic contributions to the formation of the chylous ascites. Chylous ascites even in a cirrhotic requires prompt assessment for conditions leading to elevated central venous pressure. 
Unique features of Helicobacter pylori disease in children. In a six-year period, 41 children had endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer disease or primary H. pylori antral gastritis without duodenal ulcer. Of 37 children with H. pylori gastritis, group 1 comprised 23 patients with duodenal ulcer disease and group 2 had 14 patients without ulcers (primary H. pylori gastritis). Group 3 comprised four children with duodenal ulcer disease and H. pylori-negative antral biopsies. During the study period, all primary chronic ulcer disease was duodenal; no primary chronic gastric ulcer was present. Two distinct types of duodenal ulcer disease were identified; the majority (85%) was always associated with significant active H. pylori antral gastritis (group 1). The minority (15%) had virtually absent gastritis and no H. pylori (group 3). Native Indian children were represented in group 1 quite out of proportion to the referral population and had the most severe disease. While it is established that a higher prevalence of asymptomatic H. pylori infection exists in non-Caucasians, this appears to be the first demonstration of a higher prevalence of symptomatic ulcer disease in non-Caucasian children or adults. Caucasian children tended to have primary H. pylori gastritis (group 2) or duodenal ulcer without H. pylori (group 3). Antral nodularity was found to be an important specific endoscopic sign, unique to those children with H. pylori disease. It has not been described in adult H. pylori disease. Non-Caucasian children, especially Native Indians, in British Columbia have more prevalent and more severe H. pylori disease than Caucasians. Endoscopy with gastric antral biopsies is necessary to distinguish different types of duodenal ulcer disease and to diagnose primary H. pylori gastritis. 
Seronegative juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and mast cell-associated gastritis. We describe 4 children with seronegative inflammatory arthritis who had persistent, severe nausea and abdominal pain over several months, in spite of vigorous medical therapy, including antacids and histamine H2 receptor antagonists. Endoscopy and biopsy of gastric and duodenal mucosa showed antral gastritis and an increased number of mast cells in 3 of the 4 patients. In the fourth patient, urinary histamine levels were elevated. These findings suggest an association between inflammatory arthritis and localized mast cell disease in some individuals. Further studies are needed to determine whether this association represents an independent syndrome or whether mast cell-related disease is secondary to long-term treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in children with mild arthritis. 
A case of lisinopril-induced lithium toxicity We describe a patient who developed lithium toxicity when lisinopril was substituted for clonidine. Possible mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced lithium toxicity are discussed. Aggressive serum lithium concentration monitoring and a reduction in the dose of lithium is advised when using ACE inhibitors because of disturbances and shifts in fluid and electrolyte balance. 
Gastric infarction. We have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries. We believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental. The outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal. 
Recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring. A case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described. These episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies, and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy. Both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities. Two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections. This case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants, leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months, respectively. The illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness. Studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation. The biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed, in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy. 
Perianal appearances associated with constipation. The perianal appearances were studied prospectively of 136 constipated children (mean age 3.9 years, 67 boys, 69 girls). Anal dilatation, fissures, tags, warts, perianal oedema, redness, blueness, and veins were recorded. It was noted whether dilatation occurred immediately or at 30 and 60 seconds with the buttocks minimally separated, and on subsequent firm lateral traction of the buttocks. The degree of faecal loading was assessed in all children. Anal dilatation was found in 24 (18%) and first appeared on lateral traction in eight (6%). In three quarters of the children with dilatation faecal loading or perianal signs were present. Fissures were found in 35 (26%) children and tags in seven (5%). Perianal redness was more likely to be associated with fissures, and blueness with dilatation. We conclude that there are no pathognomonic perianal signs in childhood constipation and that the technique of anal examination should be standardised. 
Effect of portasystemic shunts on subsequent transplantation of the liver. Portasystemic (PS) shunts have been regarded as a relative contraindication to hepatic transplantation (HT) because of the potential for increased technical difficulties during the transplant operation. We compared operative blood loss, morbidity and mortality in 27 patients with PS shunts and 147 patients with no shunts (NS) who underwent HT. The PS shunt group included 12 portocaval (PC), eight mesocaval, four central splenorenal and four distal splenorenal shunts. The PS shunt and NS groups were similar with respect to age, preoperative medical status and ABO blood group matching between donors and recipients. There were no significant differences in the mean (plus or minus S.D.) intraoperative blood transfusion (9.1 +/- 7.6 versus 9.2 +/- 11.0 units), mean (plus or minus S.D.) duration of anesthesia (8.1 +/- 1.4 versus 7.8 +/- 1.5 hours) and operative mortality (7 versus 11 per cent) between the PS shunt and NS groups, respectively. Complications of the biliary tract were significantly higher in the PS shunt group (22.0 versus 5.4 per cent, p less than 0.01) but they did not increase the mortality rate. We conclude that a prior PS shunt should not influence the decision to accept patients for HT. PS shunts remain a reasonable surgical option for patients with cirrhosis and variceal hemorrhage (refractory to sclerotherapy) who, by virtue of good hepatic function, do not merit immediate HT. 
Prognostic significance of proteinuria one year after onset of diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome. We examined the prognostic value of changes in the amount of proteinuria, measured as protein/creatinine ratios in early-morning urine samples, in 40 children who had had diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome. One year after diagnosis, 87% of those who seemed to have fully recovered had normal urinary protein/creatinine ratios, compared with none of those with poor outcomes (p less than 0.001). None of those with poor outcomes achieved normal protein/creatinine ratios during follow-up to a maximum of 5 1/2 years, but 93% of those who made a full clinical recovery no longer had proteinuria. Measurement of the protein/creatinine ratio in an early-morning sample of urine is a simple, cost-effective, and noninvasive means of monitoring the progress of patients with diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome, provided that a technique sensitive at low protein concentrations is employed. 
Late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia. Bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia, occurring in 93% of patients before the age of 1 year, but thought to be rare after 2 years of age. Among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation, four presented with late cholangitis (7 to 13.5 years old), consisting of fever, jaundice, and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis. Liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis, growth of microorganism, or both. Cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics. Cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis. All the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis. These results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis. 
Refractory parastomal ulcers: a multidisciplinary approach. Chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual. Previous reports have implicated infections, fistulas, recurrent inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), pyoderma gangrenosum, and trauma. Over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery. Eight patients had had an ileostomy for IBD while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer. Five patients with IBD were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations. They required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing. The other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses (contact dermatitis, eczema, or bullous pemphigoid) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis. These patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks. We conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without IBD or IBD patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy. 
Esophageal perforation during pneumatic dilatation for achalasia: a possible association with malnutrition. Pneumatic balloon dilatation of the lower esophageal sphincter is commonly utilized as primary therapy for achalasia. Perforation related to pneumatic dilatation is uncommon (2-6%) but may result in severe morbidity. Factors associated with risk of perforation are not well defined. We noted perforation in three patients undergoing forceful balloon dilatation. All these patients had clinical evidence of significant malnutrition (recent marked weight loss and severe hypoalbuminemia). Malnutrition may be a causal factor for perforation in patients with achalasia undergoing dilatation. 
Gastroduodenal mucosa in uraemia: endoscopic and histological correlation and prevalence of helicobacter-like organisms. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of endoscopic and histological gastroduodenitis as well as helicobacter-like organisms in patients with end stage renal failure undergoing maintenance dialysis treatment. A total of 322 out of 422 patients in our dialysis programme underwent endoscopy and gastroduodenal biopsy specimens were taken from 260. Endoscopic gastroduodenitis occurred in 158 (49%). Histological gastritis occurred in the gastric body or antrum in 134 patients (52%) and duodenitis in 52 (21%). There was no correlation between endoscopic and histological gastritis in contrast to a significant correlation for duodenitis. Helicobacter-like organisms occurred in the body or antrum in 81 (31%). Their presence was associated with gastritis--in particular acute and acute on chronic gastritis rather than chronic gastritis. Patients with gastritis were significantly older than those without (p less than 0.001) and had lower basal and peak acid outputs. 
Intestinal vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in portal hypertensive rats. The intestinal vascular responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was evaluated in rats with chronic portal hypertension. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were made portal hypertensive by stenosis of the portal vein. Ten to twelve days after the induction of chronic portal hypertension, the responsiveness of the small intestinal circulation to cumulative doses of vasopressin was evaluated using an isolated pump-perfused small intestinal preparation. The ED50 for maximal vasoconstriction was increased twofold in portal hypertensive rats compared with control rats. To determine if the impaired responsiveness to arginine vasopressin was related to the hyperglucagonemia of chronic portal hypertension, plasma glucagon levels were elevated in normal rats to levels previously measured in portal hypertensive rats (i.e. approximately 450 pg/mL), and the dose response studies were repeated. Glucagon significantly attenuated the responsiveness of the intestinal vasculature to vasopressin. Equipotent doses of nitroprusside also attenuated intestinal vascular responsiveness to vasopressin. The results indicate that there is a reduced vascular sensitivity to vasopressin in the intestine of portal hypertensive animals and suggest that elevations in circulating vasodilators in portal hypertensive conditions may partially explain this altered vascular responsiveness. 
Pelvic pain: lessons from anatomy and physiology. Pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department. For physiologic reasons, pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ, and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize. On the other hand, differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis. The clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain, and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation, ischemia, or colic. A review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain. 
Treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy. Results of a prospective randomized trial. To determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time of incision and drainage, a prospective, randomized study in 70 patients with anorectal abscess was conducted. Thirty-six patients underwent incision, drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy (group I), whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and drainage alone (group II). After a median follow-up of 42.5 months, the combined recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group I and 40.6 percent in group II (P less than 0.0003, log-rank test). Recurrent abscesses or persistent fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy. Comparing anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment, we found increased anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group I and in 21.4 percent of the patients in group II (P less than 0.106, Fisher-exact test). The combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems after simple incision and drainage. This finding, as well as the increased anal function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy (either primary or secondary) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage procedure if necessary. 
Clinical evaluation of an algorithm for the interpretation of hyperamylasemia. Total amylase concentration in serum continues to be widely determined in the diagnosis of acute pancreatic disease. Accumulated experience has made clear, however, that this determination has distinct limitations. Consequently, the knowledge of the origin of hyperamylasemia may have an important influence on treatment, hospitalization, and extent of clinical investigations. We undertook a logical and systematic approach to the interpretation of hyperamylasemia through the use of an algorithm that can be applied in clinical situations without the need for the integration of radiologic procedures or clinical data. The proposed algorithm was tested for effectiveness in 97 consecutive hospitalized patients with hyperamylasemia (amylase level greater than twice the upper reference limit) for a 2-year period. The majority (52.5%) of these patients had acute pancreatitis. The algorithm assigned the correct diagnostic categories in 95.8% of cases, with a disagreement between patient diagnosis and algorithm-generated diagnosis in only four cases. These four patients (two with acute biliary disease, one with bacterial peritonitis, and one with chronic renal failure) had pancreatic lipase values greater than five times the upper reference limit, so that the algorithm classified their condition as acute pancreatitis. The clinical trial indicated that the proposed decision tree, which requires only knowledge of biochemical data that are readily available, is useful in the evaluation of elevated amylase activity and facilitates arrival at a definitive diagnosis. 
Proximal esophageal pH-metry in patients with 'reflux laryngitis'. Fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms (dysphonia, cough, globus sensation, frequent throat clearing, or sore throat) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls. Ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis. Dual-site ambulatory pH recordings were obtained with the pH electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter. Patients in the three groups (disease controls: group 1; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings: group 2; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings: group 3) were comparable in terms of age, smoking habit, the presence of esophagitis, and distal esophageal acid exposure. Proximal esophageal acid exposure was, however, significantly increased in groups 2 and 3, and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients. We conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure (especially nocturnally) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients. 
The ileosigmoid knot. The ileosigmoid knot (ISK) is a rare cause of intestinal obstruction. Unfamiliarity with the condition could have disastrous consequence at surgery. Over the past 20 years, we have encountered seven cases. Analyzing the data gathered from these, and on reviewing the literature, we found it possible to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis in two patients. Four patients were women, two of whom developed the obstruction in the postpartum period. One of the males was found to have an inflamed Meckel's diverticulum included in the knotting. The symptoms and the clinical findings were nonspecific. The characteristic x-ray findings of a double closed loop obstruction, was seen in only three patients. Resection of gangrenous bowel with anastomoses was feasible in four. Unlike in other series, primary anastomosis of the large gut was undertaken. There were two deaths early in the series. Guidelines to the management have been suggested. 
Circulating antibodies against human colonic extract enriched with a 40 kDa protein in patients with ulcerative colitis. We have previously described a 40 kDa colonic protein(s) which is specifically recognised by tissue-bound immunoglobulin G obtained from the colon of patients with ulcerative colitis. We now report the presence of circulating antibodies against this antigen using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with a highly enriched preparation of the 40 kDa protein from normal colon extracts. Serum was collected from 79 patients with ulcerative colitis, 36 with Crohn's disease, 16 with specific diarrhoeal syndromes, and from 19 normal subjects. Twenty nine of 79 patients with ulcerative colitis, 21 of 36 with Crohn's disease, and all patients with diarrhoea were symptomatic during the collection of sera. The difference in optical density values between patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis and each of the other groups, including patients with ulcerative colitis in remission, was highly significant (p less than 0.01). Seventy nine per cent of patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical density values above the means for all other groups. Fifty five per cent of sera from patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical densities beyond two SDs of the values for all other groups and only two of 71 sera from non-ulcerative colitis patients (one Crohn's disease and one normal subject) had values in this range. These results show the presence of anti-colon antibodies against the 40 kDa protein(s) in the sera of many patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis. 
Hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction. Although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition, hypotension, administered medications, sepsis, or other conditions, the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection, directly related to AIDS. Infection with Mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection. In contrast, hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise. Cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis. Cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis. About 10-20% of patients with AIDS have chronic hepatitis B infection. These patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis. The clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection. Hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms. Hepatic involvement by Kaposi's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure. Patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, and systemic symptoms. As a pragmatic approach, patients with liver dysfunction and HIV-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver. Patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction. Patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy. Patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy. When performed for these indications, liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50% of patients with AIDS and in about 25% of patients who are HIV seropositive but who are not known to have AIDS. The clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections. 
Autoimmune enteropathy and colitis: is there a generalised autoimmune gut disorder? Children with protracted diarrhoea, circulating enterocyte autoantibodies, and an enteropathy showing features of inappropriate HLA molecule expression on the jejunal crypt epithelium, often present with persistent blood and mucus in their stools. Eight children with autoimmune enteropathy were investigated for the presence of associated colonic disease. Six children with protracted diarrhoea, no circulating autoantibodies, and an enteropathy (in five of them) undergoing colonoscopy were used as control subjects. In all eight patients, but not in the control subjects, there was macroscopic and microscopic evidence of an accompanying colitis of variable severity, thus indicating that a more generalised intestinal disorder was present, which might affect the whole intestine. Aberrant expression of DR molecules on the colonic surface and crypt epithelium was also detected. Autoimmunity may play a role in the colitis. 
Appendectomy in primary and secondary staging operations for ovarian malignancy. Appendectomy was performed at primary or secondary staging operations in 100 patients with ovarian malignancies. Of 80 patients who underwent appendectomy at the time of their primary surgery, 25 (31.2%) had appendiceal metastases. Among 47 patients who were believed to have disease limited to the pelvis at the time of surgery--stage I (N = 34), II (N = 7), IIIA (N = 5), and those designated stage IIIC solely on the basis of microscopic para-aortic nodal metastasis (N = 1)--the appendix was involved with disease in only two patients (4.3%). However, among 33 patients with advanced disease--stage IIIB (N = 6), IIIC except those designated IIIC solely on the basis of microscopic paraaortic nodal metastasis (N = 19), and IV (N = 8)--the appendix was involved with disease in 23 patients (69.7%) (P less than .001). Poorly differentiated tumors and serous histologic cell types more frequently metastasized to the appendix (64, 15, 6, and 8% for grades 3, 2, and 1 and borderline histology, respectively; P less than .001; and 48, 13, and 8% for serous, endometrioid, and mucinous; P less than .001). Of 20 patients who underwent appendectomy at their secondary staging procedure, two had metastases. Metastatic disease in the appendix was microscopic in nine of 27 patients. Because the frequency of appendiceal metastasis is similar to that of other metastatic sites in stages I and II ovarian cancer, it should be removed at primary staging procedures. Appendectomy should also be performed in patients with advanced ovarian malignancies if it contributes to cytoreduction or at the time of secondary staging procedures. 
Resolution of cirrhotic glomerulonephritis following successful liver transplantation. A 38-year-old man with liver failure due to Laennec's cirrhosis developed nephrotic range proteinuria and hematuria. Renal biopsy showed membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis with 2+ staining for IgA and complement consistent with cirrhotic glomerulonephritis. After orthotopic liver transplantation, proteinuria and hematuria rapidly resolved. This case indicates that glomerulonephritis associated with cirrhosis may be successfully treated with hepatic transplantation. Whether the improvement in glomerular abnormalities resulted from immunosuppression therapy or from restoration of normal hepatic function is unknown. 
Markers of chronic alcohol ingestion in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: an aid to diagnosis. We report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects. In addition, even in those alcoholic subjects with alcoholic liver disease in whom biopsy has been performed, it is impossible to differentiate these two disease states on the basis of morphological examination alone. In this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake, desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial AST in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. All nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens. Alcoholic subjects were consuming in excess of 80 gm/day ethanol, often with clinical evidence of overt alcoholism. Control subjects included both healthy controls and patient controls with liver diseases unrelated to alcohol. The ratio of desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was elevated only in patients who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol, whereas the ratio of mitochondrial AST to total AST (mitochondrial AST/total AST) was not significantly different between alcoholic subjects and patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The sensitivity and specificity for the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was 81% and 98%, respectively, whereas the sensitivity for the mitochondrial AST/total AST ratio was 92%; the specificity was only 50%, indicating that there were a large number of false-positives. All the conventional markers were less sensitive and less specific than the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin. 
Neonatal small bowel atresia, stenosis and segmental dilatation. In 8 years, 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia, stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team. There was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction. Associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 (52 per cent) patients. Resection of the atresia(s) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions. Patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair (six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively). The overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent, rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications, but more than a quarter (27 per cent) of survivors have long-term disabilities. 
Gallstone pancreatitis. Choosing and timing treatment. Patients with gallstone pancreatitis are often seen initially by primary care physicians. Prompt diagnosis and timely intervention are crucial in reducing morbidity and mortality. Initial management should include supportive medical care and surgical consultation. The timing of surgery is then dictated by serum enzyme levels and liver function test results as well as by the patient's condition. The role of endoscopic intervention is currently evolving. Whether surgery or endoscopic sphincterotomy is preferable as primary therapy for gallstone pancreatitis remains unresolved. However, sphincterotomy with stone extraction is a viable option in selected cases, especially in patients who have severe gallstone pancreatitis. 
Oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis of the rat. This study aimed to assess the role of oxygen free radicals in acute pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis was induced in rats by infusion of the CCK-analogue cerulein (5 micrograms/kg per hour) for 30 minutes, 3.5 hours, and 12 hours. After the infusion, serum enzymes and conjugated tissue dienes and malondialdehyde were measured and tissue samples were subjected to electron and light microscopy. Electron microscopy after 30 minutes showed moderate intracellular alterations. After 3.5 hours of cerulein infusion interstitial oedema and intravascular margination of granulocytes in the pancreatic gland were seen. After 12 hours histological evaluation showed pronounced zymogen degranulation, extensive tissue necrosis, and migration of granulocytes into the tissue. Amylase and lipase activities increased 15 and 35-fold respectively during this time. After 30 minutes of cerulein infusion conjugated dienes and malondialdehyde increased, they reached their peak after 3.5 hours and decreased to normal values after 12 hours. Treatment with superoxide dismutase (100,000 U/kg/hour) and catalase (400,000 U/kg/hour) either before or after the start of the cerulein infusion prevented lipid peroxidation and reduced zymogen degranulation and tissue necrosis. Tissue oedema and inflammatory response, however, were not affected in any of the treated rats. Oxygen free radicals are instrumental in the development of acute pancreatitis. Even after its onset, scavenger treatment reduced the tissue damage normally observed. 
Anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis. Anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis. In six patients with constipation, three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea. One patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom. Three patients had no anorectal symptoms. Anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures, although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found. Pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal. In four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve. Two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation. It is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders. Although anal sphincter function is reduced, fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group. The reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated, thus securing fecal continence. 
An epidemic outbreak of cryptosporidiosis: a prospective community study from Guinea Bissau. In the first year of a prospective community study of childhood diarrhea conducted in a semiurban area in the capital of Guinea Bissau, Cryptosporidium sp. was found in 73 (6.0%) of 1216 episodes of diarrhea. The parasite was the second most prevalent intestinal parasite, and the only one significantly associated with diarrhea (OR = 2.79, P = 0.0006). The seasonal distribution was striking, with a peak prevalence in the beginning of the rainy season (May 17.6%) when an epidemic outbreak of diarrhea started. The prevalence was highest in children younger than 18 months, an age at which prevalences of other intestinal parasites were low. This reverse age pattern may possibly be explained by the small infective dose needed to create severe infections, by air-borne transmission and by the development of protective immunity. 
Hepatitis B vaccination and interleukin 2 receptor expression in chronic renal failure. Only 50 to 60% of dialysis patients develop anti-HBs antibodies following hepatitis B vaccination. The nonresponder state correlates with impaired monocyte function, decreased interleukin-2 (IL-2) production of T cells, and an upregulation of the IL-2 receptor system. In the present study we examined anti-HBs production after hepatitis B vaccination and the in vitro expression of IL-2 receptors in nondialyzed patients with various degrees of chronic renal failure. Forty-four patients with impaired renal function were immunized with 2 micrograms recombinant hepatitis B vaccine and boostered after one and six months. Prior to the first injection IL-2 receptor expression of activated T cells was studied by an in vitro proliferation assay. Sixty-four healthy subjects served as controls. After completion of the third vaccination 55.0% of the patients acquired antibody titers greater than 10 U/liter. The seroconversion rate did not differ between patients with lower (less than 3.5 mg/dl) and higher (greater than 3.5 mg/dl) creatinine levels. In nonresponders IL-2 receptor expression (stimulation index, SI = 10.09 +/- 1.80) was elevated compared to healthy controls (SI = 4.62 +/- 0.35, P less than 0.002) or patients who responded with a high antibody titer (greater than 50 U/liter, SI = 3.12 +/- 0.43, P less than 0.001). Patients who produced low antibody titers (less than 50 U/liter) also presented with enhanced IL-2 receptor expression. These data show that an impaired antibody production following hepatitis B vaccination and an enhanced IL-2 receptor expression of T cells may already be present in early stages of chronic renal failure. 
Abdominal wall pain: an alternative diagnosis. The cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms. Some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious, e.g. hernias, but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes. This review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which, although common, may be easily overlooked. 
Clinical experience with biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Biliary lithotripsy is a new and important development in the nonsurgical management of gallbladder, cystic duct, and bile duct stones. Most patients do not require general or epidural anesthesia with newer second-generation machines. Patient selection and the use of adjuvant therapy to aid fragment clearance are important issues that are discussed. Results from different centers are compared but few long-term results are yet available, i.e., longer than 18 months. 
Pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy: an overview. Pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (PPPD) was reintroduced 12 years ago. Since that time, over 400 patients have undergone PPPD with approximately 41 per cent having chronic pancreatitis and 54 per cent having pancreatic and other periampullary malignancies. Reported 5-year survivals in this latter group have been comparable to those achieved by the classic Whipple procedure. The postoperative mortality rate in 339 reported patients has been 3.8 per cent. Postoperative morbidity, including delayed gastric emptying, has been similar to that of the classic Whipple operation. However, PPPD has been associated with fewer late problems with dumping, diarrhoea, delayed gastric emptying (8.6 per cent), and marginal ulceration (3.6 per cent). Moreover, most patients undergoing PPPD have been able to return to their preoperative and preillness weight. The additional advantage of decreased operative time makes PPPD an attractive alternative to the classic pancreatoduodenectomy. 
Norwalk virus genome cloning and characterization. Major epidemic outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis result from infections with Norwalk or Norwalk-like viruses. Virus purified from stool specimens of volunteers experimentally infected with Norwalk virus was used to construct recombinant complementary DNA (cDNA) and derive clones representing most of the viral genome. The specificity of the clones was shown by their hybridization with post- (but not pre-) infection stool samples from volunteers infected with Norwalk virus and with purified Norwalk virus. A correlation was observed between the appearance of hybridization signals in stool samples and clinical symptoms of acute gastroenteritis in volunteers. Hybridization assays between overlapping clones, restriction enzyme analyses, and partial nucleotide sequence information of the clones indicated that Norwalk virus contains a single-stranded RNA genome of positive sense, with a polyadenylated tail at the 3' end and a size of at least 7.5 kilobases. A consensus amino acid sequence motif typical of viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases was identified in one of the Norwalk virus clones. The availability of Norwalk-specific cDNA and the new sequence information of the viral genome should permit the development of sensitive diagnostic assays and studies of the molecular biology of the virus. 
Mini-perforation of the colon--not all postpolypectomy perforations require laparotomy. In a 10-year experience with 4,784 consecutive colonoscopic polypectomies, the need for operative intervention in just two of seven perforations indicates that patients with specially defined, limited perforations can usually be treated nonoperatively. This specific complication, which has been termed "mini-perforation," is generally detected within 6-24 hours of polypectomy, and is characterized by local pain and tenderness, without signs of diffuse or spreading peritoneal irritation. Free intra-abdominal or retroperitoneal air on x-ray documents the actual perforation. Complete resolution of symptoms within 24-48 hours confirms the diagnosis of "mini-perforation." Success depends on good bowel preparation for colonoscopy, and early recognition of perforation, with institution of bowel rest and intravenous antibiotics. The "mini-perforation" spontaneously closes, probably by omental adherence. Frequent serial clinical examinations are mandatory so that frank perforation with advancing peritonitis will be promptly recognized and treated surgically. An understanding of the three levels of cautery injury to the colon wall--"serosal burn," "mini-perforation," and "frank perforation" are essential in managing the complications of colonoscopic polypectomy. 
Bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon, endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia, in an 8-yr-old boy. An 8-yr-old Japanese boy was hospitalized, complaining of active hematochezia. He was shown to have a cherry-red, blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy, but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities. A family history was noncontributory. Under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon, he underwent an elliptical resection of the part, based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings. However, histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia: the thin-walled, markedly ectatic, nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae, around which the normal ones were shown to coexist. He has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr. This lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy. With more than 500,000 cholecystectomies performed per year, great interest has developed in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The procedure offers the patient reduced hospital stay, faster return to work, less pain, and improved cosmetic results. In September 1988, we developed a technique of performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy that we have now performed in more than 800 cases with good results. The technique allows the surgeon to fully evaluate the common duct via operative cholangiography and has allowed us to use a laparoscopic approach in all patients who were candidates for cholecystectomy. The technique offers a minimally invasive alternative to open cholecystectomy. 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in infantile cholestasis. The difficulty of distinguishing surgically correctable causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia in infants from other causes means that some infants may undergo laparotomy and intraoperative cholangiography unnecessarily, and others may be referred for surgery too late. In an attempt to improve the diagnostic accuracy in infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia when standard methods produced equivocal results, we have been using prototype paediatric duodenoscopes (PJF 7.5 and XPJF 8.0; Olympus) to perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). From 159 infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, 11 were referred for ERCP, which was performed in nine. In four in whom bile ducts were definitely visualised laparotomy was avoided. Operative cholangiography confirmed patent bile ducts in one in whom visualisation had been uncertain. Three of four in whom bile ducts were not seen had extrahepatic biliary atresia. Visible bile drainage in the fourth excluded atresia. No major complications ensued but there was radiological evidence of gall bladder perforation in one (common hepatic duct block) and overinflation with air was a problem until finer cannulae (Wilson-Cook) were introduced. In appropriately selected patients with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia, ERCP with paediatric duodenoscopes in experienced hands may provide useful diagnostic information. 
Iron and the liver. Iron is essential for life, but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal. The liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload, especially when (as in primary hemochromatosis) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes. Iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including: (1) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin, (2) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin, (3) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight, non-protein bound forms of iron, and (4) uptake of heme from heme-albumin, heme-hemopexin, or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes. Normally, pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes. Iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin, an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin. Iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mRNA and represses transcription of DNA for transferrin and transferrin receptors. The major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are: (1) fibrosis and cirrhosis, (2) porphyria cutanea tarda, and (3) hepatocellular carcinoma. Although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown, iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability. Vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation. 
The role of prostanoids in the production of acute acalculous cholecystitis by platelet-activating factor. Gallbladder tissue from patients with acute acalculous cholecystitis contains increased amounts of prostanoids when compared to normal gallbladder tissue. Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent stimulus of eicosanoid formation. It has been implicated as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes and systemic responses to shock. In this study the role of PAF in acute acalculous cholecystitis was evaluated. Anesthetized cats underwent gallbladder perfusion with a physiologic buffer solution containing [14C]polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable tracer to quantitate mucosal water absorption. Platelet-activating factor was infused into the hepatic artery for 2 hours. Control experiments were performed when vehicle alone was infused. Experiments also were performed when indomethacin was administered intravenously and when indomethacin and PAF were administered. Gallbladder mucosal absorption/secretion and perfusate and tissue prostaglandin E (PGE) and 6 keto prostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto PGF1 alpha) levels were evaluated. Gallbladder inflammation was evaluated by beta-glucuronidase and myeloperoxidase tissue concentrations and by a histologic scoring system. Platelet-activating factor eliminated gallbladder absorption and produced net fluid secretion associated with dose-related increases in perfusate PGE concentrations and gallbladder tissue PGE and 6 keto PGF1 alpha levels when compared to control values. Platelet-activating factor produced significant inflammation in the gallbladder with increases in the histologic score of inflammation and tissue lysosomal enzyme activities. Indomethacin significantly decreased the fluid secretion, prostanoid levels, and inflammation produced by PAF. The results suggest that PAF may induce acute gallbladder inflammation associated with systemic stress through a prostanoid-mediated mechanism. 
Perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement. Perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy. The condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse. The correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group A from the penile and perianal skin. 
Pharmacokinetics and protein binding of cefpiramide in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. The pharmacokinetics of cefpiramide, a new cephalosporin, were investigated after a single 1 gm intravenous injection in 11 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and compared with those of 11 healthy subjects. In patients with cirrhosis the plasma elimination half-life was three times longer than that in normal subjects. The total plasma clearance was decreased significantly (p less than 0.001): 12.3 +/- 6.5 ml/min in patients and 25.6 +/- 4.6 ml/min in healthy volunteers, respectively. The urinary excretion of unchanged drug (percent of intravenous dose) for patients (69.8% +/- 29.9%) was statistically higher (p less than 0.01) than that for subjects (16.2% +/- 3.9%). The renal elimination became increasingly important with hepatic impairment. Protein binding of cefpiramide was reduced significantly in the group with cirrhosis. The average unbound fraction was 10.4% +/- 9.5% in patients with cirrhosis and 1.9% +/- 0.3% in normal subjects (p less than 0.01). Because the rate of elimination from plasma in patients is slower, the dosage regimen of cefpiramide would probably be modified in cirrhosis. 
Effect of race upon organ donation and recipient survival in liver transplantation. The effect of the race of the donor on organ donation and on the outcome of clinical liver transplantation has not been addressed previously. The aims of this study were to determine: (1) the number of organs donated by each of the major racial groups of the United States, (2) the outcome of transplantation of these organs across racial groups, and (3) the pattern of liver disease that required transplantation in each of these racial groups. A significantly higher proportion of organs were donated by white non-Hispanic Americans than either black or Hispanic Americans. There was no significant difference in survival when an organ was transplanted between black and white Americans and vice versa. Postnecrotic cirrhosis from a variety of causes was the most common indicator affecting black and white recipients, while primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis were uncommon in the black population. While the number of organs donated by blacks was low, it was, however, proportional to the number of black recipients in this study. Reasons for the low rate of donation by the black and white Hispanic population are discussed. It is concluded that race is not a criteria to be used in selection of donors for liver transplantation. Educational programs addressing issues of organ donation and transplantation directed towards the black and Hispanic populations are recommended. 
Short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment. Thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups: Group I (18 patients) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone, in addition to a 15-day, tapering dose of prednisone (15, 10, 5 mg). Group II (19) patients received the same diuretics without steroids, and served as controls. At the end of a 2-wk course of therapy, the mean variations were as follows: body weight in patients in Group I ("cases") decreased by 9.8 kg, compared with 4.3 kg in controls; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases, compared with 3.6 cm in controls; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases, compared with 364.6 ml in controls; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 mEq/day in cases, compared with 4.1 mEq/day in controls. These differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant (p less than 0.01). On the other hand, there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea (3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls), decrease in serum creatinine (0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls), increase in serum albumin (0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls), increase in serum sodium (3.2 mEq/L in cases and 2.7 mEq/L in controls), and increase in serum potassium (0.2 mEq/L in cases and 0.4 mEq/L in controls). We conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective, safe, and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites. It can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion. 
A five-year U.S. Army experience with 36,250 abdominal hernia repairs. Thirty-six thousand two hundred fifty abdominal hernia repairs were performed in U.S. Army medical treatment facilities during a five-year period. This study presents data about the type of hernia, incidence of complications by obstruction or strangulation, age, sex, and mortality. Hernias occurring with intestinal obstruction or gangrene (strangulation) are referred to as complicated hernias. Inguinal hernias in children less than two years of age, femoral hernias, and unusual (such as internal or obturator) hernias were found to have an increased incidence of complications. Surgical repair of ventral, umbilical, and femoral hernias was done with a low surgical risk and the presence of complications did not significantly increase this risk. An increased risk of mortality is associated with the repair of complicated unusual hernias and complicated inguinal hernias in patients more than 60 years of age. 
Hepatocyte transplantation into the lung for treatment of acute hepatic failure in the rat. The lung was investigated as a matrix for transplanted hepatocytes in the rat model. Surgically induced fulminant hepatic failure was successfully treated by injection of 5 to 7 x 10(7) isolated hepatocytes into the pulmonary parenchyma in 86% of the animals. No animal, however, survived injection of hepatocytes into the jugular vein. It was found that liver failure is a prerequisite for the intrapulmonary survival of hepatocytes. After regeneration of the native liver, the majority of hepatocytes are cleared away within 6 months. 
Surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children. Islet cell dysmaturation syndrome (ICDS) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia, pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis. Eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for ICDS from 1965 to 1990 at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy. Seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants. Six patients had nesidioblastosis, four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells. Four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation (90 to 95 per cent resection). Four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively. Three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection. None have required reoperation or postoperative medications. All infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications. Five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment, with three having severe retardation; all showed some improvement postoperatively, but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination. Early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the ICDS. 
Acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia. An elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria. In this report, we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis: elevated amylase, lipase, amylase-creatinine clearance ratio, and with abdominal pain. Only after extensive evaluation, was the patient found to have porphyria. On two separate occasions, with hematin therapy, her serum amylase decreased, as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins. This suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria. Moreover, this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria. 
Biphasic modulation of acetaminophen bioactivation and hepatotoxicity by pretreatment with the interferon inducer polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. Interferons and interferon induction can inhibit cytochromes P-450 and reduce the bioactivation and hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen. However, since P-450 inhibition often is followed by P-450 induction, which would enhance acetaminophen hepatotoxicity, the possibility of a biphasic modulation of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity by interferons was investigated. Outbred male CD-1 mice of various ages, and young inbred male C57BL/6 mice were given the interferon inducer, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly I-C), 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally, followed 1 to 48 days later by a single dose of acetaminophen, 300 to 450 mg/kg intraperitoneally. Hepatotoxicity was assessed by the peak plasma concentration of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) occurring between 0 and 48 hr after acetaminophen treatment. Poly I-C inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen given within 8 days, with maximal inhibition between 1 and 4 days. Conversely, a maximal 7-fold enhancement of ALT concentration was observed in CD-1 mice when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 32 days after Poly I-C (P less than 0.05). In the C57BL/6 strain, Poly I-C inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen when given within 16 days, whereas a maximal 20-fold enhancement of ALT concentration was observed when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 24 days after Poly I-C (P less than 0.05). The mechanism of toxicologic enhancement was examined in male C57BL/6 mice using the same treatment regimen. Biochemical assessment of hepatotoxicity was confirmed by detailed histologic evaluation. Plasma concentrations of acetaminophen and metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Acetaminophen bioactivation was quantified by production of the glutathione-derived cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates of acetaminophen. Poly I-C pretreatment produced a 5-fold increase in acetaminophen-induced ALT release (P less than 0.05), which correlated with histologic evidence of centrilobular necrosis. Poly I-C pretreatment produced respective 3-fold and 1.3-fold increases in the production of cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates (P less than 0.05), which correlated with peak ALT concentrations (cysteine, r = 0.92, P less than 0.001; mercapturic acid, r = 0.75, P = 0.006). Thus, the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen can be inhibited when given within days after interferon induction, and conversely enhanced when given after several weeks. The toxicologic enhancement appears to be due to increased P-450-catalyzed bioactivation of acetaminophen. 
Cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from nonneoplastic liver. The authors reviewed a series of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens of the liver to identify useful cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) from nonneoplastic liver. Ten cytologic features were examined in this study: high cellularity, acinar pattern, trabecular pattern, hyperchromasia, pleomorphism, irregularly granular chromatin, uniformly prominent nucleoli, multiple nucleoli, increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei. These features were examined in a series of 82 FNAB specimens from 52 patients with HCC and 30 patients with nonneoplastic lesions. With the use of a step-wise logistic regression analysis, three features were identified as predictive of HCC: increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio (P = 0.001), trabecular pattern (P = 0.002), and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei (P = 0.03). When these three criteria were used, the sensitivity of diagnosing HCC by FNAB was 100%, and the specificity was 87%. 
In vitro model of intestinal crypt abscess. A novel neutrophil-derived secretagogue activity. In order to model crypt abscesses, a histological finding which correlates with disease activity in intestinal inflammation, human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) were layered onto monolayers of the human intestinal epithelial cell line T84, a crypt-like epithelium which is capable of Cl- secretion. Such PMN-epithelial interaction had no substantial effect on monolayer integrity or function. However, when PMN were stimulated by conditions including those present naturally in the human colonic lumen, monolayers responded with a bumetanide-sensitive short circuit current (Isc) indicative of Cl- secretion, the basis of secretory diarrhea. This Isc response was induced by a neutrophil-derived secretagogue (NDS), which was only active when applied to the luminal surface of monolayers and did not require PMN-epithelial contact. NDS activity is resistant to boiling, acid, and trypsin and passes a 500 nominal mol wt cutoff filter. NDS activity is not secondary to the respiratory burst products O2- or H2O2 and does not appear to be a myeloperoxidase product. We speculate NDS elicited Cl- secretion may contribute to the secretory diarrhea seen in patients with intestinal inflammation and crypt abscesses. 
Radiographic evaluation of suspected small bowel obstruction. Plain abdominal radiographs and enteroclysis studies were reviewed blindly in 117 consecutive patients undergoing enteroclysis for suspected small bowel obstruction. Plain radiographs were unreliably predictive of the presence of obstruction as determined by enteroclysis and surgery. Among patients with normal or abnormal nonspecific plain radiographs, varying degrees of small bowel obstruction were demonstrated by enteroclysis in 22%. Conversely, of patients with obstruction on plain radiographs, 42% had either normal enteroclysis studies or only minor adhesions. Enteroclysis correctly predicted the presence of obstruction in 100%, the absence of obstruction in 88%, the level (proximal vs distal) of obstruction in 89%, and the etiology of obstruction in 86% of operated patients. Enteroclysis is advocated as the definitive study in patients with clinical uncertainty about the diagnosis of small bowel obstruction. 
Intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to amyloidosis responsive to cisapride. A case of chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to systemic amyloidosis in a patient with multiple myeloma is described. Gastrointestinal symptoms and indices of nutrition improved markedly after commencing treatment with cisapride, which may have been responsible for relatively prolonged survival compared with similar reported cases. 
CT diagnosis of acquired small bowel volvulus. Small-bowel volvulus is an uncommon but important cause of small-bowel obstruction and often results in ischemia or infarction. Clinical examination and plain film radiography may be nondiagnostic, leading to delay in surgical intervention with subsequent increase in morbidity and mortality. We present two patients in whom the diagnosis of strangulating small-bowel volvulus was made by computed tomography (CT), allowing rapid surgical correction of this potentially life-threatening condition. 
A pitfall in azygos vein cannulation in cirrhotic patients: mistaken cannulation of the mammary vein. Azygos venous flow can be measured by a thermodilution catheter in patients with cirrhosis. This is a useful technique since azygos flow is thought to reflect the superior portosystemic collateral flow in these patients. The authors report 3 cases in which mistaken internal mammary vein cannulation mimicked azygos vein cannulation in the supine fluoroscopic view. A lateral fluoroscopic view confirmed internal mammary cannulation. They suggest that if the azygos arch is unpronounced or flow measurements are unexpectedly low in patients with portal hypertension due to cirrhosis, a lateral view be performed to rule out internal mammary vein cannulation. 
Perirectal abscess in Crohn's disease. Drainage and outcome. The role of surgical intervention in the treatment of patients with anorectal Crohn's disease is controversial. To clarify the success of aggressive drainage and the subsequent clinical course of patients with Crohn's disease and perirectal abscesses, the authors reviewed the records of 38 patients who presented with this condition during an eight-year period. Twenty-two male and 16 female patients (median age, 32 years; range, 17 to 61 years) with clinically or pathologically confirmed Crohn's disease of the bowel underwent operation for perirectal abscesses. Thirty-two percent of patients had no previous history of anorectal Crohn's disease. Thirty simple abscesses and 8 complex horseshoe abscesses were treated. At operation, 53 percent of patients underwent incision and drainage whereas 26 percent received loop indwelling drains and 21 percent had mushroom catheters placed. After resolution of the index abscess, recurrent abscesses occurred in 45 percent of the patients who underwent catheter drainage and 56 percent of the patients who underwent incision and drainage. More importantly, 44 percent of the incision and drainage group and only 31 percent of the catheter drainage group required subsequent proctectomy to control perineal sepsis. The healing time of the perineal wound was longer than six months in 83 percent of patients requiring rectal excision. We concluded that long-term catheter drainage may offer substantial benefit in the overall outcome of the treatment of patients with Crohn's disease and perirectal abscess. 
Hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation. A newly identified condition. A newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described. In the affected family, at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life. Three members of the family have been studied in detail. Each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night. Constipation was an associated symptom, in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation. Clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance. The maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity. Anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter. Two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain. The hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes, consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-Schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis. In vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, carbachol, dimethylpiperazinium, and electrical-field stimulation. Immunohistochemical studies for substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neuropeptide Y, and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue. A specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized. 
Cimetidine suppresses chemically induced experimental hepatic porphyria. The ability of cimetidine to reduce the activity of hepatic aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALA-S) was examined in allylisopropyl acetamide (AIA) treated porphyric adult rats. A dose of 20 mg cimetidine/100 gm body weight resulted in a 50% decrease in the AIA-induced hepatic ALA-S activity compared to rats treated with AIA alone. Heme oxygenase activity was decreased 25% compared to rats treated with AIA alone. The effects of AIA and cimetidine on cytochrome P-450 were not additive, suggesting competition for a common site of interaction. The results suggest that cimetidine may prove to be useful in treating porphyria in humans. 
Gluten challenge in patients with celiac disease: evaluation of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance. Our aim in this study was to monitor changes of the intestinal structure by alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance (alpha 1-ATCL) in order to offer an alternative to the gluten challenge biopsy. In addition, we evaluated the possibility of reducing the time of gluten challenge. Twelve patients had a presumptive diagnosis of celiac disease based on clinical and histological grounds. They were studied when the jejunal histology was normal after gluten-free diet and an alpha 1-ATCL was normal. The gluten was introduced by returning to a normal diet. The challenge lasted 4 wk. We measured alpha 1-ATCL at the end of the 1st and 4th wk, and a new jejunal biopsy was obtained at the end of the 4th wk. By wk 1, alpha 1-ATCL was abnormal in 11 patients but normal in one. By wk 4, alpha 1-ATCL was abnormal in 10 patients and still normal in one. The post-challenge biopsies showed atrophy in 11 and was normal only in the patient with normal alpha 1-ATCL at wk 1 and 4. One patient with abnormal alpha 1-ATCL had to stop the challenge at the first week. The patient with normal clearance at wk 1 and 4 and normal biopsy at wk 4 had abnormal results at 6 months. These data support our hypothesis that alpha 1-ATCL can be used as evidence of gluten toxicity after gluten challenge, and that this test can be abnormal as early as 1 wk after gluten is reintroduced. 
Ascending cholangitis: surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage. A retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out. There were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years. All patients had abdominal pain, 87% had chills and fever, 65% had clinical jaundice, 23% were in shock, and 54% had positive blood cultures. Because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help, 33 patients underwent surgery, 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy (EP), and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct (PTD). Morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections, one respiratory failure, and one renal failure. Morbidity in the EP-PTD group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively. Two patients (6%) died in the surgery group, one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest. In the EP-PTD group nine patients (32%) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure. These patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat EP-PTD was carried out. Cholangitis persisted, and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death. Thus when initial EP or PTD is unsuccessful, surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis. 
Ranitidine in the treatment of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug associated gastric and duodenal ulcers. In a multicentre study the effect of ranitidine on healing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) associated peptic ulcers was compared in a group of patients who had stopped NSAID treatment with another group who continued with NSAID treatment. A total of 190 patients with confirmed ulcers were randomised to continue or stop NSAID treatment. All patients in addition received ranitidine 150 mg twice daily. Patients were endoscopically monitored at four, eight, and 12 weeks. Gastric ulcers at eight weeks had healed in 63% of those taking NSAIDs compared with 95% of those who had stopped NSAID treatment. For duodenal ulcer the healing rates at eight weeks were 84% in the group continuing NSAIDs compared with 100% in those who stopped NSAIDs. The differences in healing rates were statistically significant for both gastric ulcer (p = 0.001) and for duodenal ulcer (p = 0.006). At 12 weeks, 79% of gastric ulcers and 92% of duodenal ulcers were healed in the group continuing with NSAIDs. All patients with gastric and duodenal ulcers who stopped taking NSAIDs were healed at 12 weeks. The study shows that ranitidine 150 mg twice daily effectively heals NSAID associated peptic ulcers. Healing is more successful when NSAID treatment stops but even if these drugs are continued, substantial healing rates are achievable. 
GI symptoms, function, and psychophysiological arousal in dysmenorrheic women. In a previous study, gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms and stool characteristics were found to be influenced by menstrual cycle phase. The current study was designed to replicate initial work regarding GI symptoms and stool characteristics and to explore the relationships between GI symptoms, stool characteristics, ovarian hormone levels, and indicators of psychophysiological arousal. Fifty women (dysmenorrheic, N = 22; nondysmenorrheic, N = 28) maintained a daily dairy for recording stool characteristics, GI symptoms, and daily anxiety level. First morning void urine specimens for catecholamine assays and serum samples for ovarian hormone and cortisol determinations were obtained at menses, follicular, and luteal phases. Results showed menstrual cycle-related differences in stool characteristics and report of GI symptoms, with the greatest changes occurring at menses in the total sample. Dysmenorrheic women reported higher levels of all GI symptoms at menses as compared to nondysmenorrheic women. In addition, cycle-related differences in serum cortisol, urine catecholamines, and report of anxiety were also noted, particularly in dysmenorrheic women. However, looser stools and GI symptoms at menses were not correlated with absolute levels of ovarian hormones or indicators of psychophysiological arousal. 
Piezoelectric lithotripsy: stone disintegration and follow-up results in patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones. One hundred symptomatic patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones were treated with a new piezoelectric lithotripter and oral chemolitholytic agents. Stone disintegration was achieved in 99 of these patients (99%) with a mean (+/- SD) maximum fragment size of 5.1 +/- 4.1 mm. Significant differences were found when the mean (+/- SD) fragment sizes of single stones less than or equal to 20 mm (4.2 +/- 2.5 mm) were compared with those of single stones greater than 20 mm (5.8 +/- 3.4 mm; P less than 0.05) and multiple stones (6.2 +/- 3.8 mm; P less than 0.05), respectively. None of the patients required anesthesia, analgesics, or sedatives before or during the treatment. The stone-free rates for all patients followed up for up to 4-12 months (mean +/- SD, 10.7 +/- 2.9 months) were 18% (1 month), 25% (2 months), 38% (4 months), 52% (8 months), and 67% (12 months). Partly significant differences were obtained in stone-free rates for single stones (less than or equal to 20 mm) compared with larger stones (greater than 20 mm) and multiple stones (P less than 0.05), respectively. Serious adverse reactions (i.e., cholestasis and pancreatitis) were observed in only 3 patients (3%). These conditions were induced by fragment impaction in the common bile duct. In 2 of these patients, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with endoscopic sphincterotomy was required. It is concluded that piezoelectrically generated shock waves are suitable for the effective and safe disintegration of gallbladder stones in humans. The anesthesia-free and analgesia-free shock-wave application opens up the possibility to perform biliary lithotripsy as an outpatient procedure. The stone-free rate achieved in combination with oral bile acids is most promising for single stones (less than or equal to 20 mm). 
Interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy. It has been estimated that 20 million people in the United States have gallstone disease. The choice of the optimal management strategy for a patient with symptomatic gallstones in the 1990s will take into account the clinical status of the patient, the characteristics of the gallstones, and the patient's preference. Only patients whose doctors understand the advantages and disadvantages of the newer methods can make properly informed choices. When interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy are being contemplated, one approach is to first consider the patient's clinical presentation (acute or nonacute) and then their risk of death after cholecystectomy (low or high). Figure 5 shows an algorithmic approach to the management of gallbladder stones based on this concept. This algorithm also can be used as a framework for discussion of treatment options with any individual patient. 
Prevalence of Helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis. Further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for H. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis. Helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis; moreover, there is evidence to suggest that H. pylori may cause this form of gastritis. However, there is little or no information on the prevalence of H. pylori in specific forms of gastritis. Our hypothesis was that if H. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis, organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis. Prevalence rates of H. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and Crohn's gastritis, Menetrier's disease, and chronic nonspecific gastritis. The prevalence of H. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71%, whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis. This finding further supports the accumulating evidence that H. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis. 
Assay of hepatitis B virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction and its relationship to pre-S- and S-encoded viral surface antigens. The polymerase chain reaction was evaluated as a diagnostic tool in 72 chronic hepatitis B virus carriers. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detectable in the serum of HBsAg-positive virus carriers using aliquots as small as 100 al. The detection limit for cloned hepatitis B virus DNA was 100 ag. Primer pairs for different regions of the HBV genome resulted in different sensitivity. Detection of the amplified hepatitis B virus DNA by Southern blotting and subsequent scintillation counting or densitometry allowed a semiquantitative assay. Using several primer pairs in parallel for optimal detection, all HBeAg-positive HBsAg carriers, 80% of HBe antibody-positive symptomatic HBsAg carriers and 57% of asymptomatic HBe antibody-positive HBsAg carriers were found to have hepatitis B virus DNA in the serum. During antiviral therapy hepatitis B virus DNA disappeared by the polymerase chain reaction assay in patients who became HBeAg negative, but polymerase chain reaction detected a relapse earlier than did the conventional dot blot. Pre-S antigens were assayed in serum and liver samples from most chronic carriers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and/or immunoblot. Although most viremic carriers were strongly positive for pre-S1 and pre-S2 antigens, some hepatitis B virus DNA-positive HBsAg carriers did not have detectable pre-S antigens, and vice versa. Our data show that assay of hepatitis B virus DNA in the serum by polymerase chain reaction is by far more proficient than by dot blot and that it cannot be replaced by serological assays of HBeAg or pre-S antigen. 
Pathogenesis and therapy of peptic ulcer disease. The epithelial cells of the stomach and duodenum are normally protected from the damaging effects of acid and pepsin by a balancing mechanism of mucosal resistance. If an imbalance occurs, peptic ulcer may result. Traditional teaching has emphasized the importance of acid (and pepsin) as the cause of this imbalance; however, it is clear that acid and pepsin are not the only important factors in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer. More recent investigative efforts have been directed at what constitutes mucosal resistance and how it can be disrupted to produce, in the presence of gastric acid, a peptic ulcer. Depletion of endogenous prostaglandins and Helicobacter pylori gastritis have emerged as prominent theories. As evidence exists both to support and refute these theories in humans, any definitive conclusions cannot be made at this time. The acute management of peptic ulcer disease is directed at relieving pain, accelerating ulcer healing, and preventing complications. Peptic ulcers can be healed with antisecretory agents (i.e., H2-receptor antagonists, omeprazole), antacids, prostaglandins, and sucralfate. Because they are effective, safe, and convenient, the H2-receptor antagonists are the most widely used agents for the management of peptic ulcer disease. Because the H2-receptor antagonist agents are equally effective in their indicated uses and are equally safe based on scientifically valid data, selection should be based primarily on cost. Omeprazole is the newest antisecretory agent: a single morning dose of 20 mg suppresses acid secretion for 24 h. The agent offers little advantage over H2-receptor antagonists for the majority of patients with peptic ulcer. 
Crypt cell proliferation and HLA-DR expression in pelvic ileal pouches. To investigate the nature of the morphological changes that occur in ileal pouches, 26 biopsy specimens from patients with functioning ileo-anal pouches (eight with pouchitis) were studied. Normal ileum (n = 10) was used as a control. Mucosal morphometry (using linear measurements), crypt cell proliferation (CCP) (using the monoclonal antibody Ki67), and epithelial HLA-DR expression (monoclonal antibody CR3/43) were assessed. CCP (expressed as the percentage of Ki67 positive nuclei for each crypt) was significantly higher in pouches with pouchitis, compared with those without, and in pouches without pouchitis compared with normal ileum. CCP values in some pouches without pouchitis approached values found in those with pouchitis. CCP was related inversely to villous height and an index of villous atrophy (VH/TMT), and directly to crypt depth. In the presence of pouchitis there was intense epithelial HLA-DR expression that extended into the crypts. In some pouches with high CCP values, but without clinically important inflammation, surface epithelial HLA-DR expression was weak and patchy. It is concluded that villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia in ileal pouches are associated with high CCP values. These may be increased even in the absence of active inflammation, and this increase may occur as a response to the new luminal environment. 
Gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy: suggested guidelines for treatment Twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention: 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed (five also undergoing choledochotomy) and one patient had a cholecystostomy. Of these 23 patients, five were lithotripsy failures, five developed acute pancreatitis, one had acute cholecystitis, and one had cholangitis. One patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer. Ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain, probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct. We suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy, i.e. five patients with pancreatitis, one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic. Conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients. If, however, the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy, then resort to surgery may be necessary. We propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever. Twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed Dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding (13.1%) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern Taiwan. Within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, there were 198 patients with Dengue fever confirmed. Viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type I Dengue was the cause. There was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them. The 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically. Most of the Dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings. Thirteen patients (50%) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms, whereas the other 13 did not. Dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements. Supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment, except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer. No mortality was observed in this study. 
Candidacidal activity of Crohn's disease neutrophils. The ability of normal and Crohn's disease neutrophils to kill Candida albicans has been studied using neutrophils isolated from peripheral blood and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 5 x 10(6) cells per ml. C albicans was grown to a stationary phase in broth culture and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 10(7) organisms/ml. Neutrophils and Candida were then incubated together at 37 degrees C in a shaking water bath in the presence of fresh serum. At 30 and 60 minutes samples were withdrawn, neutrophils lysed, and Candida survival assessed by colony counting. Results were compared with control suspensions of Candida incubated with serum alone. After 30 and 60 minutes in the presence of autologous serum normal neutrophils had killed significantly more Candida than Crohn's disease neutrophils (mean (SD) 61.0 (16.7)% v 40.5 (16.2)% at 30 minutes, p less than 0.0001; 83.2 (7)% v 70.8) 16)% at 60 minutes, p less than 0.005). The results did not alter significantly when normal neutrophils were incubated with Candida in the presence of Crohn's disease serum instead of normal serum. When Crohn's disease neutrophils were incubated with Candida in the presence of normal serum instead of autologous serum there was some improvement in candidacidal ability at 30 minutes (48.9 (20.6)% v 40.5 (16.2)%, p less than 0.03) but not at 60 minutes. Phagocytosis, measured using a radiometric assay, was normal. Neutrophils from patients with Crohn's disease have an impaired ability to kill this granuloma provoking organism. It is not due to serum inhibitors or defective phagocytosis. 
Extrahepatic biliary obstruction by lymphoma. Extrinsic compression of the common bile duct by enlarged lymph nodes is an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice. We describe two patients with such a manifestation of lymphoma and the use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in distinguishing this rare complication from other causes of jaundice in lymphoma. Patients may have rapid resolution of both symptoms and biochemical abnormalities by nonoperative biliary bypass combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. Lymphomatous obstruction should be considered a cause of potentially treatable jaundice in patients with known lymphoma; endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be valuable as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool. 
Can clinicians accurately assess esophageal dilation without fluoroscopy? This study questioned whether clinicians could determine the success of esophageal dilation accurately without the aid of fluoroscopy. Twenty patients were enrolled with the diagnosis of distal esophageal stenosis, including benign peptic stricture (17), Schatski's ring (2), and squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus (1). Dilation attempts using only Maloney dilators were monitored fluoroscopically by the principle investigator, the physician and patient being unaware of the findings. Physicians then predicted whether or not their dilations were successful, and they examined various features to determine their usefulness in predicting successful dilation. They were able to predict successful dilation accurately in 97% of the cases studied; however, their predictions of unsuccessful dilation were correct only 60% of the time. Features helpful in predicting passage included easy passage of the dilator (98%) and the patient feeling the dilator in the stomach (95%). Excessive resistance suggesting unsuccessful passage was an unreliable feature and was often due to the dilator curling in the stomach. When Maloney dilators are used to dilate simple distal strictures, if the physician predicts successful passage, he is reliably accurate without the use of fluoroscopy; however, if unsuccessful passage is suspected, fluoroscopy must be used for confirmation. 
Achalasia of the cardia: long-term results of oesophagomyotomy and posterior partial fundoplication. Forty-eight patients with achalasia of the cardia were treated by Heller's myotomy with a posterior fundoplication of approximately 270 degrees, suturing the gastric fundus to the edges of the myotomy. The mean(s.d.) postoperative follow-up period was 5.4(2.8) years. The clinical results were good to excellent in 44 cases (92 per cent) and fair in four cases (8 per cent) (two with residual dysphagia and two with gastrooesophageal reflux). Barium studies showed a decrease in oesophageal diameter and disappearance of distal narrowing but normal oesophageal emptying did not occur. Postoperative manometric studies (29 patients) revealed a significant decrease in lower oesophageal sphincter pressure and a significant increase in the length of the infradiaphragmatic segment. In the oesophageal body a recovery of peristaltic waves in the proximal third was seen in ten of the patients (34 per cent). Twenty-four-hour pH monitoring showed pathological reflux in only three of 25 patients studied, and one of these was asymptomatic. This technique is effective, improving oesophageal symptoms and controlling long-term reflux. 
The prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection in the Peoples Republic of China. Meta-analysis on data from 16 (two volunteer and 14 endoscopic) studies ahs been performed to investigate the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection in the stomachs of individuals within the Peoples Republic of China. In this survey covering 2216 cases (89 volunteers and 2127 endoscopy patients), the incidence of H. pylori infection in 15- to 22-yr-old healthy volunteers, and in 13- to 88-yr-old symptomatic patients undergoing gastroscopy was 49.4% and 64.5%, respectively. The frequency of H. pylori infection in chronic gastritis (63.6%), gastric ulcer (71.9%), and duodenal ulcer disease (73.1%) differed significantly from that in histologically normal individuals (8.2%), confirming the relationship of H. pylori infection with those disease states. We found no significant association between H. pylori infection and symptoms. 
Nocturnal intragastric acidity during and after a period of dosing with either ranitidine or omeprazole. The magnitude and duration of changes in nocturnal intragastric acidity caused by 25 days of dosing with the antisecretory drugs ranitidine and omeprazole were investigated in a double-blind study of 22 healthy subjects. Nocturnal intragastric acidity was studied before (twice), during (on day 25), and after (every 3 days for 21 days) dosing with either 300 mg ranitidine at night or 40 mg omeprazole every morning. Three and six days after withdrawal of dosing with ranitidine, median integrated nocturnal intragastric acidity was increased significantly (17% and 14%, P = 0.01 and P = 0.05, respectively) compared with before dosing. Three days after withdrawal of dosing with omeprazole, median integrated nocturnal intragastric acidity was decreased significantly (-23%, P = 0.003). Compared with before dosing, no significant differences were seen in the ranitidine group between days 9 and 21 or the omeprazole group between days 6 and 21 after cessation of dosing. Fasting plasma gastrin concentration was measured on the morning of each study; compared with before treatment, the only significant elevations occurred on the last day of dosing with omeprazole (before, 4 pmol/L; during, 7 pmol/L). It is concluded that rebound intragastric hyperacidity after dosing with 300 mg ranitidine at night or sustained hypoacidity after dosing with 40 mg omeprazole every morning reflect transient disturbances of gastric function that are unlikely to be of clinical importance. 
Biliary and pancreatic metastases of breast carcinoma: is surgical palliation indicated? Obstructive jaundice developed in a patient concomitantly with the diagnosis of breast carcinoma. Abdominal exploration disclosed a metastatic tumor in the head of the pancreas, the distal bile duct, and the gallbladder. A cholecystectomy and choledochojejunostomy were performed and later, because of intestinal obstruction, the patient underwent gastrojejunostomy. Pathological examination demonstrated metastatic lobular carcinoma of breast with strongly positive staining for estradiol. Additional hormonal therapy has been given to the patient since the operation. The patient is alive 16 months after the diagnosis of her disease. This case suggests that a vigorous diagnostic approach should be adopted in every jaundiced patient with metastatic breast cancer in order to exclude causes of jaundice other than diffuse metastatic involvement of the liver. Patients with extrahepatic biliary metastasis should be treated by aggressive surgical treatment, combined with systemic therapy which can offer them significant palliation and better survival. 
Colonic lipomas: outcome of endoscopic removal. Colonic lipomas are benign adipose tumors which are usually submucosal. With the increase in the number of endoscopic procedures being performed, these tumors are often detected incidentally at colonoscopy. Although the risks of removing these tumors have been recognized, numerous reports have documented safe removal by snare electrocautery. We have reviewed the clinical outcome and the endoscopic and histopathologic features of seven lipomas that were endoscopically removed over a 5-year period. Four patients recovered uneventfully, while three patients (42.8%) developed colonic perforation after the polypectomy. In the latter group, the lipomas were significantly larger than they were in the patients who did not develop colonic perforation (1.9 +/- 0.4 and 4.2 +/- 0.7 cm, respectively; p = 0.048). Furthermore, the polypectomy specimens from those patients who developed perforation all contained significant muscularis propria. Lipomatous polyps that are identified at endoscopy to be greater than or equal to 2 cm in diameter and to have a limited pedicle are at the greatest risk for endoscopic perforation. 
Angiodysplasia: characterization, diagnosis, and advances in treatment. Gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2% of all adult hospital admissions each year. Angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding. In 80% of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia, the bleeding will stop spontaneously, but will often recur. Although angiography may detect bleeding in 86% of actively bleeding patients, the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 mL/min. The treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel, but this procedure is associated with a 10% rebleeding rate and 7% to 8% mortality. Superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding, but effects are short-lived. Superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel, but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction. Laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84% of patients, with a 6% complication rate. This method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages, especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient. Except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated, Nd:YAG laser photocoagulation is the safest, least invasive, and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia. 
A new technique of surgical treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer without laparotomy by videocoelioscopy. We performed truncal posterior right vagotomy with lesser curve anterior gastric myotomy by videocoelioscopy on 10 patients (5 men and 5 women, ranging in age from 19 and 54 years, with a mean age of 32 years). All had a long history of chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 3.8 years. The mean length of the operation was 60 minutes (range: 55 to 110 minutes). There was no morbidity, and all patients were discharged after 5 days. The acid secretion tests under basal conditions and under insulin stimulation preoperatively and 1 month postoperatively showed a mean decrease in the basal output of 79.3% and a mean decrease of 83.04% in the maximal output. The fibroscopic control at the second postoperative month showed a complete healing of the ulcer in nine patients and a residual ulcer scar in one. No patients had any abdominal complaints. Right truncal vagotomy and anterior lesser curve seromyotomy by videocoelioscopy is an efficient and elegant method of treating chronic duodenal ulcer, but it needs thorough experimental practice. 
Helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output in peptic ulcer disease. Helicobacter pylori is associated with peptic ulcer, and a causal relationship has been postulated. We investigated the association between Helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output. Two hundred forty-one patients were studied: 173 with duodenal ulcer, 51 with gastric ulcer (41 corpus, 10 prepyloric), and 17 with combined gastric and duodenal ulcer. In 194 patients (80%), Helicobacter pylori could be demonstrated histologically from gastric antral biopsies. The presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori was not influenced by age, sex, or use of tobacco or analgesics. Patients with duodenal ulcer or combined gastric and duodenal ulcer had similar gastric acid outputs irrespective of the presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori. However, gastric ulcer patients with Helicobacter had higher basal and maximal acid outputs when compared to patients without Helicobacter (mean basal output: 4.1 mmol/hr vs 2.4, P less than 0.05; mean maximal output 19.5 mmol/hr vs. 14.4, P less than 0.05). Although Helicobacter pylori is associated with both gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer, its significance may be different in the two diseases. 
Attenuation of alcohol-induced hepatic fibrosis by polyunsaturated lecithin. Characteristic features of alcoholic liver injury include fibrosis and striking membrane alterations, with associated phospholipid changes. To offset some of these abnormalities, a 10-yr study was conducted in baboons: 12 animals (eight females, four males) were fed a liquid diet supplemented with polyunsaturated lecithin (4.1 mg/kcal) for up to 8 yr, with either ethanol (50% of total energy) or isocaloric carbohydrate. They were compared with another group of 18 baboons fed an equivalent amount of the same diet (with or without ethanol), but devoid of lecithin. In the two groups, comparable increases in lipids developed in the ethanol-fed animals, but striking differences in the degree of fibrosis were seen. Whereas at least septal fibrosis (with cirrhosis in two) and transformation of their lipocytes into transitional cells developed in seven of the nine baboons fed the regular diet with ethanol, septal fibrosis did not develop in any animals fed lecithin (p less than 0.005). They did not progress beyond the stage of perivenular fibrosis (sometimes associated with pericellular and perisinusoidal fibrosis) and had a significantly lesser activation of lipocytes to transitional cells. Furthermore, when three of these animals were taken off lecithin, but continued on the same amount of the ethanol-containing diet, they rapidly (within 18 to 21 mo) progressed to cirrhosis, accompanied by an increased transformation of their lipocytes to transitional cells. These results indicate that some component of lecithin exerts a protective action against the fibrogenic effects of ethanol. Because we had previously found that choline, in amounts present in lecithin, has no comparable action, the polyunsaturated phospholipids themselves might be responsible for the protective effect. 
Long-term remission of chronic hepatitis B after alpha-interferon therapy. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether remissions of chronic hepatitis B induced by alpha-interferon therapy are of long duration. DESIGN: Cohort study. SETTING: Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health, a tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: Sixty-four patients with chronic hepatitis B were treated with alpha-interferon between 1984 and 1986. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients were followed with frequent examinations and determinations of serum liver biochemical tests and hepatitis B virus (HBV) markers including hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), and HBV DNA using blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Among 64 patients with chronic hepatitis B who were treated with alpha-interferon, 23 (36%) responded to treatment with loss of HBeAg and improvement in serum aminotransferases. All 23 have been followed for 3 to 7 years (mean, 4.3 years). During follow-up, 3 of 23 patients relapsed, with reappearance of HBeAg and abnormal serum aminotransferases, all within 1 year of therapy. The remaining 20 patients continued to have no detectable HBeAg or HBV DNA (using blot hybridization) in serum and to be asymptomatic for liver disease, although 3 had minimal elevations in serum aminotransferases. Thirteen patients (65%) became negative for HBsAg between 0.2 and 6 years (mean, 3 years) after loss of HBeAg. Although no patient had HBV DNA that was detectable by blot hybridization, the 7 patients who remained HBsAg positive all had HBV DNA in serum detected by polymerase chain reaction, but only 2 of 13 HBsAg-negative patients had viral genome using this method. Testing sequential samples indicated that HBV DNA detected by polymerase chain reaction usually disappeared at or around the time that test results for HBsAg became negative. CONCLUSIONS: Remissions in chronic hepatitis B induced by alpha-interferon are of long duration and are followed, in most patients, by the loss of HBsAg and all evidence of residual virus replication. 
Irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy. Relation to gynecologic features and outcome. We identified irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in 47.7% of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain, 39.5% of 172 women having elective hysterectomy, and 32.0% of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group (P = NS). Constipation and pain subtype IBS were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls (P less than 0.05). In laparoscopy patients, dyspareunia was more common in those with IBS than in those without it (P less than 0.05). In the hysterectomy group, more IBS patients had chronic pelvic pain (P less than 0.005), and abnormal menses (P less than 0.01). Chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in IBS patients (P less than 0.05), and IBS was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy (P less than 0.01). One year after laparoscopy, IBS patients gave lower overall status ratings (P less than 0.01) and lower pain improvement ratings (P less than 0.05) than non-IBS patients. In women who had a hysterectomy for pain, there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of IBS than in non-IBS patients (P less than 0.05). IBS is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy. 
Resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation. A 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ARDS. Subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ARDS. 
Bronchobiliary fistula detected by cholescintigraphy. We present a case of a bronchobiliary fistula initially detected by hepatobiliary scintigraphy. The patient developed bilioptysis 18 mo after undergoing a right hepatic lobectomy and resection of the common bile duct for cholangiocarcinoma. The procedure was complicated by the development of a subphrenic abscess that required percutaneous biliary drainage. 
Conjugates of ursodeoxycholate protect against cholestasis and hepatocellular necrosis caused by more hydrophobic bile salts. In vivo studies in the rat. The protective effect of ursodeoxycholate conjugates against bile salt hepatotoxicity was studied in chronic bile fistula rats. Taurochenodeoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate, infused intraduodenally at 24 or 16 mumols/100 g rat per hour, respectively, caused cholestasis and severe hepatocellular necrosis within 8 hours. In contrast, tauroursodeoxycholate or taurocholate at 48 mumols/100 g rat per hour were choleretic. Tauroursodeoxycholate was not hepatotoxic, whereas taurocholate produced moderate hepatocellular necrosis. Simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate to rats receiving taurochenoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate preserved bile flow and ameliorated hepatic injury in a dose-dependent manner. Tauroursodeoxycholate protected equally by intravenous and intraduodenal routes. Intravenous glycoursodeoxycholate also was protective. The hydrophobicity index of infused bile salts correlated well with their toxicity. Concurrent administration of ursodeoxycholate conjugates did not reduce biliary recovery of intraduodenally infused [24-14C]-taurocholate. Biliary alkaline phosphatase secretion was stimulated by infusion of taurocholate, taurodeoxycholate, or taurochenodeoxycholate; simultaneous infusion of ursodeoxycholate conjugates failed to prevent this increase. We conclude that ursodeoxycholate counteracts hepatoxicity of more hydrophobic bile salts via a direct effect at the level of the liver. 
Enteroclysis and small bowel series: comparison of radiation dose and examination time. Respective radiation doses and total examination and fluoroscopy times were compared for 50 patients; 25 underwent enteroclysis and 25 underwent small bowel series with (n = 17) and without (n = 8) an examination of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract. For enteroclysis, the mean skin entry radiation dose (12.3 rad [123 mGy]) and mean fluoroscopy time (18.4 minutes) were almost 1 1/2 times greater than those for the small bowel series with examination of the upper GI tract (8.4 rad [84 mGy]; 11.4 minutes) and almost three times greater than those for the small bowel series without upper GI examination (4.6 rad [46 mGy]; 6.3 minutes). However, the mean total examination completion time for enteroclysis (31.2 minutes) was almost half that of the small bowel series without upper GI examination (57.5 minutes) and almost four times shorter than that of the small bowel series with upper GI examination (114 minutes). The higher radiation dose of enteroclysis should be considered along with the short examination time, the age and clinical condition of the patient, and the reported higher accuracy when deciding on the appropriate radiographic examination of the small bowel. 
Infectious diarrhea. Managing a misery that is still worldwide. Infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. Bacteria, viruses, and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents. Treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration. Antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only. With the exception of Cryptosporidium, for which no effective agent is yet available, all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole. 
Artificial urinary sphincters around intestinal segments--are they safe? Artificial urinary sphincters (AUS) were implanted around intestinal segments to achieve urinary continence in 8 patients and faecal continence in 1. In 6 patients the cuff was placed around the lower end of the cystoplasty following bladder neck (5) or urethral (1) erosion. Four are completely dry, 1 on self-intermittent catheterisation (SIC). One has mild stress incontinence. In 1 patient the cuff eroded at 8 months. Two patients had cuffs implanted parastomally to create continent diversion. One is satisfactory on SIC and the other had her AUS explanted because of life-threatening metabolic acidosis. The rectal cuff was explanted because of faecal impaction above the cuff. As an absolute last resort, placing an AUS round a cystoplasty appears little more hazardous than round bladder neck. The use of the AUS for continent diversion has not been pursued because of reliable techniques of non-prosthetic continent diversion. The current model of the AUS is unsuitable for the treatment of faecal incontinence. 
The emergence of hepatitis B as a sexually transmitted disease. In the United States, approximately 300,000 cases of hepatitis B virus infection occur annually, and heterosexual activity is one of the most commonly reported risk factors for acquiring disease. Until the number of infections transmitted through heterosexual contact can be reduced through hepatitis B vaccination, there is little chance of controlling this infection. 
Evidence for gastric mucosal cell invasion by C. pylori: an ultrastructural study. It is now generally accepted that Campylobacter pylori is closely associated with peptic ulcer disease and chronic type B gastritis. Whether C. pylori is the direct etiologic cause of either or both of these illnesses remains unclear. Possible pathophysiologic effects of C. pylori are still a matter of debate and conjecture. Utilizing a small group of patients with gastric ulcers and chronic gastritis, we examined the ultrastructural relationship between C. pylori and gastric cells. Forty-eight percent of our gastric ulcer patients and 57% of our chronic gastritis patients had C. pylori in their lower corpus mucosa. Examination with the transmission electron microscope indicated a very close proximation by C. pylori to the surface epithelial cells strongly suggesting adherence. We also describe for the first time the invasion of gastric cells by C. pylori. Although an uncommon occurrence, we had repeated observations of C. pylori invading surface epithelial cells, parietal cells, and chief cells. Most of the intracellular C. pylori were intact but other forms appearing to be degenerating organisms were also seen. We suggest that cell invasion may be one mechanism by which C. pylori causes pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. These observations may also explain why C. pylori chronically infects gastric cells and frequently recurs after treatment. 
A study of HTLV-I and its associated risk factors in Trinidad and Tobago. Seroprevalence of human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-I) among a sample of persons selected from a government register of businesses in Trinidad was 3.2% in 1,025 persons of African descent compared to 0.2% among 487 persons of Asian descent and 0% among 46 persons of European-descent. In Tobago, from a coastal village, among persons of African ancestry ascertained as part of a cardiovascular survey, the rate was 11.4%, which was significantly higher when corrected for age and race than the rate in Trinidad. The seroprevalence rate of antibodies to hepatitis A and B was also significantly elevated in Tobago compared to Trinidad. HTLV-I seroprevalence rates were higher in females than males while hepatitis A and B rates were not significantly different in the two sexes. For males, age was a significant determinant of HTLV-I seropositivity, while for females, age, markers of poor sanitation, and hepatitis B were each independently linked to HTLV-I seropositivity. The frequent occurrence of multiple infectious exposures in persons of lower socioeconomic circumstances in this tropical environment may result in immune activation that heightens susceptibility to HTLV-I infection. 
Psychological characteristics of children with Shwachman syndrome. Twelve children and young adults with Shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability, motor skills, and behaviour. There were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with Shwachman syndrome and the other two groups. Four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range. The differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant, though those with Shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores. There was no evidence that those with Shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects. We suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with Shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth. 
Plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea. Determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors. This 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated VIP levels in patients. In healthy volunteers ( n = 144), VIP concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/mL (mean +/- SE, 28 +/- 12), whereas in chronic renal failure, 4 of 34 patients or 12% [serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dL (397-795 mumols/L)] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/mL. No patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis (n = 12) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide. Among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea (n = 362; 62%) or possible neuroendocrine tumor (n = 214; 36%), 23 patients (3.9%) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/mL. In this group, 5 patients had functioning (VIP, 160-5975 pg/mL) and 5 had nonfunctioning (VIP, 80-120 pg/mL) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas: all 10 patients had hepatic metastases. Other known cases of elevated levels of VIP, ranging from 80 to 340 pg/mL, included other neurogenic tumors (n = 3), small- bowel resection (n = 2), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 2), chronic renal failure (n = 1), and prolonged fasting (n = 1). Patients with diarrhea in which VIP-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/mL. In patients with chronic diarrhea, determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide, but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course. 
Evaluation of postprandial hyperemia in superior mesenteric artery and portal vein in healthy and cirrhotic humans: an operator-blind echo-Doppler study. In an operator-blind design, we used an echo-Doppler duplex system to examine superior mesenteric artery and portal vein hemodynamics on two consecutive mornings in 12 fasting cirrhotic patients and 12 matched controls, randomized to a standardized 355 kcal mixed-liquid meal vs. water. Cross-sectional area and mean velocity were recorded from the portal vein and superior mesenteric artery at 30 min intervals, from 0 min to 150 min after ingestion. Flows were calculated. Pulsatility index, an index related to vascular resistance, was obtained for the mesenteric artery. Baseline flows did not differ between cirrhotic patients and control patients, but pulsatility index was reduced in the cirrhotic subjects. Maximal postprandial hyperemia was attained at 30 min. Cirrhotic patients showed a blunted hyperemic response to food. In normal controls, portal vein area increased significantly after the meal from 30 min to 150 min, whereas in cirrhotic patients a significant difference occurred only at 30 min. Pulsatility index in both groups was significantly reduced after eating, and this reduction persisted up to 150 min. No changes after ingestion of water were observed. Echo-Doppler was very sensitive in detecting postprandial splanchnic hemodynamic changes and differences between cirrhotic patients and normal subjects. Mesenteric artery pulsatility index was more sensitive than flow in detecting baseline hemodynamic differences. In cirrhotic patients, portal postprandial hyperemia was mainly related to the increase in mean velocity. 
Final outcome of ursodeoxycholic acid treatment in 126 patients with radiolucent gallstones. One hundred and twenty-six patients with radiolucent gallstones in 'functioning' gallbladders were treated with 8-10 mg ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) kg/day and followed to a treatment conclusion. Complete or partial gallstone dissolution was achieved in 74 (59 per cent). However, only 22 achieved complete gallstone dissolution, as judged by two normal oral cholecystograms; ultrasonograms were performed in 16 of these patients, and all were normal. UDCA was stopped in 76 patients: because of cystic duct obstruction (n = 12), severe biliary pain (n = 13), non-response (n = 25) or partial stone dissolution with arrested progress (n = 26). Life-table analysis showed that complete gallstone dissolution rates at four years were 25-30 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms) and 17-19 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms plus one ultrasonogram). All patients with complete gallstone dissolution had shown partial stone dissolution at 6-12 months; of those with partial stone dissolution at six months, only 25 per cent went on to complete gallstone dissolution, and then always within two years. Efficacy correlated inversely with stone size but not with age, sex, obesity or on-treatment saturation indices. Acquired surface gallstone calcification developed in 13 patients (life-table analysis 22 +/- 7 per cent at four years); none of these patients achieved complete gallstone dissolution and only five achieved partial stone dissolution. Thus, despite relatively high partial gallstone dissolution rates, the ultimate efficacy of UDCA in achieving complete gallstone dissolution is low. 
Follow-up of infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for newborn respiratory failure. Follow-up studies were conducted to assess the medical and developmental outcome of 92 infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation at the University of Michigan. Of 118 near-term (greater than 34 weeks' gestation) infants who received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, 103 (87%) were surviving and available for follow-up at between 1 and 7 years of age. Ninety-two of these children were seen on at least one occasion. Each visit included a history and physical examination, an evaluation by a physical therapist, and developmental testing by a pediatric psychologist. Medical outcome during year 1 found 31% of the children rehospitalized, primarily with respiratory illness. Outpatient-treated lower respiratory tract illness was seen in an additional 31% of the children. New or nonstatic neurologic problems were noted in 6% of the children. Abnormal growth during year 1 occurred in 26% of the children. At last clinic visit 16% of the children exhibited moderate-to-severe neurologic abnormalities, and 8% had moderate-to-severe cognitive delay. Sensorineural hearing loss occurred in 4% of children. Nine percent of the children were receiving speech and language therapy; screening tests showed that an additional 6% had speech and language delay. Overall, at last visit 16 (20%) of the children exhibited some type of handicap. A review of the literature on follow-up studies of non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation-treated infants with persistent pulmonary artery hypertension produced an impairment rate of 18.5%. Outcome post-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation appears similar to that seen in less ill cohorts of infants treated with more "conventional" therapy. Long-term follow-up of all such infants remains essential. 
Maternal outcome after open fetal surgery. A review of the first 17 human cases. A few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth, but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother. To assess maternal risk of mortality, morbidity, and reproductive potential after fetal surgery, we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery. Fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies: severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia. There were no deaths or serious maternal injuries. In the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy, uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications, requiring early confinement in most cases. There has been no detectable effect on future fertility, as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies. We conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother's life or her future reproductive potential. However, morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem, and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery. 
Effect of the leukotriene B4 receptor antagonist SC-41930 on colonic inflammation in rat, guinea pig and rabbit. Inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Leukotriene B4 is thought to be a prominent proinflammatory mediator in these diseases, in that leukotriene B4 levels are increased in the colonic mucosa of inflammatory bowel disease patients and there is increased polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration of these tissues. We evaluated the efficacy of 7-[3-(4-acetyl-3-methoxy-2-propylphenoxy)-3,4-dihydro-8-propyl -2H-1-benzopyran-2-carboxylic acid (SC-41930), a potent, orally active leukotriene B4 receptor antagonist, in a model of inflammatory bowel disease. Colonic mucosal inflammation was induced in rats, guinea pig and rabbits by rectal instillation of a dilute solution of acetic acid. Twenty-four hours later, mucosal levels of myeloperoxidase (a marker enzyme for neutrophil infiltration) and extravasation of i.v. administered Evans blue dye (a marker of vascular disruption and increased permeability) were measured. Tissues were also evaluated histologically. The animals received either SC-41930 or vehicle, intrarectally, 30 min after or 1 hr before and 1 hr after the acetic acid. When given 30 min after acetic acid instillation SC-41930 prevented the rise in myeloperoxidase and dye extravasation observed in the acetic acid inflammed tissue. The SC-41930-treated tissues were less edematous and had fewer neutrophils within the subepithelial space. Median effective dose (ED50) values for vascular protection were approximately 20 mg/kg for both rat and guinea pig. ED50 values for inhibition of granulocyte accumulation were 20 mg/kg for rat, 24 mg/kg for guinea pig and 30 mg/kg for rabbit. These data indicate that SC-41930 is effective locally to prevent acute colonic inflammation. 
Segmented turboFLASH: method for breath-hold MR imaging of the liver with flexible contrast. A method called segmented turboFLASH imaging allows high-resolution, multisection, short-inversion-time (TI) inversion-recovery (STIR), T1- or T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval. The method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions. Sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboFLASH, single-shot turboFLASH, T1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time, and T2-weighted spin-echo (SE) techniques. Signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboFLASH method, with TIs of 10 and 300 msec, respectively; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach. Signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best T2-weighted SE and T1-weighted gradient-echo techniques. It is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboFLASH imaging. The method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis. 
Sjogren's syndrome and primary biliary cirrhosis: presence of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial 2-OXO acid dehydrogenases. Sjogren's syndrome is well known for the presence of antibodies directed at specific nuclear antigens. However, the presence of antibodies reacting with a variety of other self antigens, including antimitochondrial antibodies, has often been reported although their significance is unknown. Moreover, patients with Sjogren's syndrome have been occasionally reported to be concordant with primary biliary cirrhosis. To address this issue we studied in a group of 96 patients with Sjogren's syndrome the presence of autoantibodies to the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferases of both pyruvate dehydrogenase and branch chain ketoacid dehydrogenase and to alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase; these latter enzymes are the mitochondrial target antigens of primary biliary cirrhosis. We report that 7 of the 96 patients reacted with the mitochondrial antigens that are prominent in primary biliary cirrhosis. Moreover, in those patients showing reactivity with mitochondrial antigens, the autoantibodies were directed at the same immunodominant epitopes that have been previously characterized in primary biliary cirrhosis. One of the 7 positive patients was known to have primary biliary cirrhosis. We hypothesize that the remaining 6 patients are at clinical risk for the development of primary biliary cirrhosis and/or that abnormalities would be found on liver biopsy. 
Effects of vasopressin on portal pressure during hemorrhage from esophageal varices. Vasopressin is often used to treat variceal hemorrhage. However, its efficacy is uncertain, and its portal hemodynamic effects in this setting are unknown. Eleven patients with alcoholic liver disease and bleeding varices were given vasopressin (0.2 U/min for the first hour, then 0.4 U/min for 24 hours). Portal pressure was monitored using an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter. Seventeen patients with variceal bleeding who remained stable over 26 hours of initial treatment with crystalloid and blood products served as a comparison group. Vasopressin infusion (0.2 U/min) produced a significant decrease in wedged hepatic venous pressure, hepatic venous pressure gradient (wedged minus free hepatic venous pressure), and heart rate. Increases in the rate of infusion did not produce further decreases in the parameters measured, but the changes were sustained over the course of the infusion. Hemodynamics remained stable in the control group. Portal pressure did not increase when vasopressin was abruptly discontinued in the 3 patients in whom postinfusion measurements were made. Vasopressin retains its portal hypotensive effects in the setting of variceal hemorrhage. Tachyphylaxis does not develop over 26 hours, and a "rebound" increase in portal pressure probably does not occur when the infusion is discontinued. 
Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Four different stains and culture for H. pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum. Sixteen (40%) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex (ARC) were diagnosed to be infected with H. pylori versus 14 (39%) of 36 age-matched control patients. Eight of 15 AIDS/ARC patients without AIDS-related esophagogastroduodenal findings (53%) were infected with H. pylori versus 8/25 (32%) with endoscopic findings typical of AIDS. No invasion of the lamina propria by H. pylori was noted in any patient. Active chronic gastritis was present in 60% of AIDS/ARC patients and 61% of controls. Fifty-eight and 59%, respectively, of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with H. pylori. All the H. pylori infections, except one, were found in patients with chronic gastritis. In AIDS/ARC patients, H. pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy. They may play a pathogenic role, especially when endoscopic AIDS-related findings are lacking. Cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with H. pylori. 
Reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese. A university experience. Patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications. To evaluate outcome following revisional procedures, we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at UCLA between April 1986 and May 1989. Twenty-five women (78%) and 7 men (22%) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations (2.4 per patient) for complications of prior obesity surgery. Indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements (12 patients) and weight-related problems (11 patients). In contrast, indications for the patients' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction (41%), intra-abdominal sepsis (12%), and gastrointestinal bleeding (6%). Following initial revision, 23 patients (71.8%) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died (12.5%). While initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems, final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent, life-threatening complications. Revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered, and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits. 
Hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury. Hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity, and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date. We report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers. Two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts, one was a laceration of the round ligament, another was a laceration of an ovary, and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma. This diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus. 
Endoscopic findings in Yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis. The endoscopic findings in the colon and terminal ileum in eight cases of Yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis infection were studied. The diagnosis was based on the isolation of Y. enterocolitica in the feces and/or elevated serum antibody titers to the organism. Total colonoscopy was performed between 7 and 38 days (mean, 24 days) after the onset of symptoms. In all patients, the terminal ileum was affected, followed by frequent involvement of the ileocecal valve and the cecum, and less frequently, the ascending colon. In the terminal ileum, round or oval elevations with or without ulcers were detected. Small ulcers were detected on the ileocecal valve and in the cecum. These findings were observed even 4 to 5 weeks after the onset of symptoms, suggesting a relatively long course for this disease. 
Rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructed defecation. The symptoms of obstructed defecation have been attributed to rectal intussusception, and thus rectopexy has been advocated in the surgical management. In this study, patients with obstructed defecation underwent manometry and proctography before and after rectopexy. Seventeen patients (16 females and one male, mean age 51.6 years) were studied. Eleven underwent anterior and posterior fixation of the rectum and six had posterior fixation only. Preoperatively five patients demonstrated rectoanal intussusceptions. Fifteen had significant pelvic descent. No significant change in maximum resting pressure, maximum voluntary contraction, pelvic descent, or anorectal angle was seen postoperatively. In the initial follow-up, many patients had significant amelioration of symptoms. However, on longer follow-up (mean 30.8 months) only two had long-term improvement. The remainder had a poor clinical result in spite of complete resolution of rectal intussusception. Many reported a worsening of symptoms as reflected by an increase in tenesmus and stool frequency. In the two cases with a satisfactory result, both could empty the rectum completely and demonstrated rectoanal intussusception on preoperative evacuation proctography. In those with poor results, four had complete emptying and three had rectoanal intussusception. In conclusion rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructive defecation in most patients. 
Absorption of carbon 13-labeled rice in milk by infants during acute gastroenteritis. To determine whether rice cereal could be used to complement a cow milk-based diet in the nutritional management of infants with acute diarrhea, we assessed its digestion and absorption in eight affected male infants, 69 to 131 days of age. They received cow milk formula with 5.4% lactose (diluted 1:1 with water and precooked rice cereal) 5 to 22 hours after admission and rehydration. The first feeding consisted of milk diluted with carbon 13-enriched rice cereal. A 48-hour fecal collection and balance study was performed. Rice cereal was reasonably well absorbed (84.0% to 95.8%) by seven of the eight infants. The study was repeated in seven of the infants after they had recovered. Our results indicated that rice cereal is well absorbed by young infants with acute diarrhea and that it is an adequate nutrient supplement for this patient population. 
Plasma thrombomodulin in health and diseases. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblot analysis of plasma thrombomodulin concentrate revealed that four degraded forms of thrombomodulin with different molecular weights are present in plasma. Plasma concentrations of thrombomodulin in patients with various diseases were measured by two methods of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies. One method measures intact thrombomodulin and degraded forms of thrombomodulin; the other does not detect the two smaller degraded forms of thrombomodulin present in plasma. The results indicated that thrombomodulin was increased in the circulating blood of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome, pulmonary thromboembolism, adult respiratory distress syndrome, chronic renal failure, or acute hepatic failure. The different values obtained by the two methods indicate that the increase of plasma thrombomodulin found in these patients was mainly due to an increase of the smaller fragments of degraded forms, suggesting that the release of thrombomodulin from endothelial cells was accelerated in various disease states by proteolytic activity generated on the surface of the endothelium and may be removed from the circulation mostly by the kidneys and liver. 
Serum ferritin and stomach cancer risk among a Japanese population. Using stored serum samples collected during from 1970 to 1972 and/or 1977 to 1979 from a fixed population in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, serum ferritin, transferrin, and ceruloplasmin levels were determined immunologically for persons in whom stomach (233 cases) or lung cancer (84 cases) subsequently developed as well as for their controls. An elevated stomach cancer risk was associated with low antecedent serum ferritin levels, with more than a threefold excess among those in the lowest compared with the highest ferritin quintile. The risk did not vary with the time between blood collection and stomach cancer onset, remaining high among those with low ferritin levels 5 or more years before cancer diagnosis. Achlorhydria, diagnosed in a sample of the population about 10 years before the 1970-to-1972 blood collection and up to 25 years before cancer, was an independent marker of stomach cancer risk. In combination, low serum ferritin and achlorhydria were associated with a tenfold increase in the subsequent risk. No effect of transferrin or ceruloplasmin, independent of ferritin, was observed in the gastric cancer risk, and the risk of lung cancer was not related to these three serum proteins. These prospective findings indicate that biologic markers of an increased risk of stomach cancer can be detected long before cancer onset. 
Pneumatosis intestinalis and pneumoperitoneum complicating mixed connective tissue disease. A case of a young woman with a 3-year history of mixed connective tissue disease who developed secondary pneumatosis intestinalis and pneumoperitoneum and died shortly after of rapidly progressive disease is reported. The pathogenesis, treatment and prognosis of this unusual complication in mixed connective tissue disease are discussed. 
Nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in AIDS patients. OBJECTIVE--To describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after June 1989. SETTING--A department of infectious diseases in Copenhagen, seeing about half the patients with AIDS in Denmark. SUBJECTS--73 HIV antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak (20 June-14 August), of whom 18 (17 with AIDS, one with AIDS related complex), developed cryptosporidiosis. Two further HIV negative subjects (one departmental secretary, one visiting relative) developed cryptosporidiosis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cryptosporidia in stool samples, clinical symptoms, CD4 cell count, HIV antigen concentration, chemotherapeutic treatment. RESULTS--The source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward, contaminated by an incontinent, psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks. The mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is, twice that in HIV-negative patients. Of the 18 patients with AIDS who developed cryptosporidiosis, five recovered, two were symptomless carriers, three died of unrelated causes, and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea. Among the 57 exposed HIV antibody positive inpatients (excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere), significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not (91%, 10/11 v 48%, 21/44, p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS--The clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula. Increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with AIDS. 
From Leningrad to the day-care center. The ubiquitous Giardia lamblia. Giardiasis is recognized as a worldwide public health problem. Seroprevalence data from both the developing and developed world show high rates of carriage in populations at risk for fecal-oral transmission, such as children in day-care centers. Outbreak investigation has expanded our understanding of reservoirs for Giardia lamblia and of the routes of transmission. Various host factors have been associated with infection. The pathogenesis of giardial infections is being elucidated, in particular the role of lectin activation in producing disease. Three standard chemotherapeutic agents are available in the United States. The institution of community-wide prevention measures is equally important. Current areas of investigation including antigenic composition and enzymatic variants should result in effective forms of immunotherapy, while more effective forms of chemoprophylaxis could assist in eradicating the pathogen from institutional settings. 
The auditory P300 event-related potential: an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease. Recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy. This study assesses the value of the auditory P300 event-related potential--a slow component of the auditory evoked response--as a tool in this field. Twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic (grade 1/2) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically. Electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted. An auditory P300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm. The latency and amplitude of this wave were measured. The latency of the P300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups (p less than 0.05). Amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients, but this was not statistically significant. This study suggests that the latency of the P300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy. The delays in the P300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities. 
Vaccines and milk immunoglobulin concentrates for prevention of infectious diarrhea. Considerable progress has been made in the last decade in developing vaccines against the most important enteric infections. Two new, widely licensed vaccines (oral Ty21a and parenteral Vi) are available against typhoid fever, and new attenuated Salmonella typhi strains are ready for testing. An engineered live orally administered cholera vaccine, CVD 103-HgR, is undergoing clinical trials for safety, immunogenicity, and transmissibility in children in areas where cholera is endemic. Multiple candidate vaccines against rotavirus, Shigella, and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli are in clinical trials. Newly acquired knowledge about pathogenesis and mucosal and cellular immunology, coupled with application of biotechnology, has already resulted in many candidates for vaccines, and more are expected to appear within the next few years. 
Diarrhea in ciguatera fish poisoning: preliminary evaluation of pathophysiological mechanisms. Ciguatera fish poisoning is a clinical syndrome consisting of a combination of gastrointestinal and neurological symptoms occurring after eating toxin-containing tropical reef fish; it is a major cause of morbidity in Hawaii, the South Pacific, Australia, and the Caribbean. In an effort to define pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the diarrheal component of the illness, we examined the effect of crude and fractionated toxin preparations on isolated rabbit ileal tissue in a Ussing chamber model. Both the crude toxin preparation (prepared from toxic Ctenochaetus strigosus) and 10% and 50% methanol-chloroform toxin fraction (prepared from a pool of toxic fish samples) gave a striking increase in transepithelial electrical potential difference and short-circuit current. Enterotoxic activity seemed to be mediated by calcium. When examined by light microscopy, the intestinal mucosa was not damaged by the toxin preparations used. Our data demonstrate that toxins involved in ciguatera fish poisoning directly stimulate intestinal fluid secretion without accompanying tissue damage and suggest that calcium is the "second messenger" mediating the process. 
Gender differences in Manning criteria in the irritable bowel syndrome. The objective of this study was to determine if gender differences exist when using the Manning criteria for diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome. In an outpatient setting, 61 women and 36 men with entry complaints of abdominal pain, altered bowel habits, or both underwent full evaluation by board-certified/eligible gastroenterologists who also systematically rated the presence or absence of the six Manning criteria. Irritable bowel syndrome was defined as the absence of an organic disease explanation for the entry complaints. This determination was made by two other board-certified gastroenterologists after patients had been in the study for 9 months. These raters were independent of the study and rated the transcripts of patients' clinic visits, all other available clinical data from this and other clinics, all laboratory data obtained during the 9-month study period, and the results of a 9-month telephone follow-up to patients and their physicians. Sixty-five percent of the study population had no organic disease explanation for the entry symptoms, thereby representing irritable bowel syndrome for this study. A similar proportion and type of organic disease and irritable bowel syndrome were experienced by men and women. For the total sample of 97 subjects, the correlation of the Manning criteria with irritable bowel syndrome was 0.22 (P less than 0.01). In the 61 women, correlation between the Manning criteria and irritable bowel syndrome was significant (r = 0.47; P less than 0.01). In the 36 men, however, the correlation was in the opposite direction, although it was not significant (r = -0.16). It was concluded that significant gender differences exist when using the Manning criteria for the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome and that the Manning criteria were not of diagnostic value in men. 
The long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma. A retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients. Forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel, bladder, thyroid, menstrual, reproductive, sexual, and growth function. Statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls. The authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function. No thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy. Most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement. Three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy. No patients have conceived. The authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group, but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function. One premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder. 
Protein-losing enteropathy in systemic lupus erythematosus associated with intestinal lymphangiectasia. This case report concerns a young woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with a protein-losing enteropathy. Intestinal biopsy revealed lymphangiectasia. Mesenteric lymph nodes showed paracortical lymphoid depletion and multiple small sinusoids. Elevated cholesterol levels and normal lymphocyte counts characterized the peripheral blood samples. Lymph nodes, though enlarged, showed no evidence of obstructive pathology. No secondary cause of lymphangiectasia could be identified. The patient exhibited antinuclear antibodies and antibodies to dsDNA at the onset, and then, 5 yr later, the classic features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The lymphocytopenia and hypolipidemia that characterizes lymphangiectasia is not a feature of the SLE cases reported to date. Furthermore, the mechanism for the dilated lymphatics and villous edema is more likely immunological than mechanical disruption of lymphatics. 
Choledochotomy for calculous disease in the elderly. To determine the risk of operations on the biliary tract in the elderly, we retrospectively examined 56 patients 80 years of age or older undergoing choledochotomy for calculous disease and compared their outcomes with those of a contemporary group of 257 patients undergoing similar surgery. Thirty of 56 elderly patients (54%) required urgent surgery for acute cholangitis, acute cholecystitis, or obstructive jaundice (serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dL), compared with 97 of 257 younger patients (38%) (p = 0.029). Mortality in elderly patients was significantly higher (5 of 56) than in younger (6 of 257) patients (p = 0.015). In three of the five patients who died, urgent surgery was performed for obstructive jaundice, reflecting the higher mortality experienced by jaundiced patients in the entire series (9.4%). Biliary cultures grew organisms in 25 of 27 elderly patients (93%). This is in contrast to findings of bactibilia in 62 of 118 patients (53%) under the age of 80 (p = 0.001). Similarly, preoperative blood cultures were positive more often in elderly (63%) than in younger patients (26%) (p = 0.007). Mean postoperative hospital recovery was longer in the elderly group (16.2 +/- 8.5 days) than in the younger group (12.2 +/- 9.3 days) (p = 0.002). In conclusion, elderly patients, particularly those with obstructive jaundice, are at higher risk for complicated biliary tract disease necessitating choledochotomy. They appear to be more susceptible to bactibilia and bacteremia, and require longer hospital recovery than younger patients. 
Ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: case report and review of the literature. A 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (AMM). Ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes, erythroid cells, and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear. Peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia, and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis. Ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia. Subsequently, portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization. Complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock. A review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in AMM, especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders, are presented. 
A rational attitude toward serum alanine aminotransferase measurement by blood banks, based on a longitudinal study of a cohort of repeat blood donors. A cohort of 879 blood donors was followed over a 3-year period. Of the 3858 units of blood collected, 112 (2.9%), obtained from 64 donors, had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity over 45 IU per L; of these, 39 had a single ALT elevation. The incidence of ALT increase was 2.01 per 100 units, or 5.1 per 100 donors, per year. The pattern of elevated ALT was followed in 72 donors, 54 of whom were from the 64 cited above. At the second blood donation (BD2), about 5 months later, 62.5 percent had a normal ALT value, and most (91%) retained those values at blood donation 3 (BD3). However, 19 (70.3%) of the 27 whose ALT levels had not returned to normal at BD2 had an increased value at BD3. These results led to the formulation of the following algorithm to improve the management of blood donors; at the first donation, the ALT assay is done after the blood collection, but, at the next donation, the ALT level is measured before donation if the preceding ALT activity had been abnormal. If ALT is elevated, blood is not collected. Three consecutive ALT elevations are a criterion for permanent exclusion of the donor. 
Spontaneous rupture of the spleen in initial presentation of Hodgkin's disease. A 46-year-old man presented with a four-week history of fevers, occasional chills, and a two-week history of sweats and poor appetite. He also complained of progressive weakness and lethargy. After initial evaluation, while awaiting further consultation, the patient developed rapidly progressing abdominal pain and light-headedness. He was moved immediately into the emergency treatment area. He was noted to have an acute abdomen and was taken to surgery. An enlarged Hodgkin's-infiltrated spleen with an actively bleeding hematoma was removed. The patient denied any history of trauma. 
Use of plasmid profiles in the investigation of a patient with Helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease. Plasmids may effect bacterial virulence and antibiotic resistance, and serve as epidemiologic markers. In this study, plasmid DNA profiles of serial isolates of Helicobacter pylori showed persistence of an identical strain of this organism in a patient with duodenal ulcer disease. Three control strains of H. pylori isolated from other patients contained plasmids different from each other and from that of the original patient; two of these strains had two plasmids each. These data have important implications for further study of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of H. pylori-related diseases. 
Alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein (lectin-binding pattern) in gastric mucosa in stress. A light and electron microscopic study. Gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions. Effects of the H2-receptor antagonist sofalcone (2'carboxymethoxy-4,4'-bis 3-methyl-2) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated. Biotinylated lectins in combination with ABC (avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies. Gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy. Especially, binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin (PNA) were characteristic after induction of stress, truncal vagotomy, and administration of each drug. Staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that. In electron microscopic studies, PNA strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell. These results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells. Therefore, increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells. 
Pneumococcal peritonitis complicating CAPD--was the indwelling intrauterine device to blame? A 45-year-old woman on CAPD developed pneumococcal peritonitis. This is the second such case of Streptococcus pneumoniae peritonitis complicating CAPD. The role of an indwelling intrauterine device (IUD) in producing ascending infection into the peritoneum is discussed, especially in women with evidence of retrograde menstruation. A review of the literature concerning pneumococcal peritonitis associated with IUD is given. Possible contraception to women on CAPD is briefly mentioned. 
Effect of marked peripheral leukocytosis on the leukocyte count in ascites. Patients with high peripheral leukocyte counts are sometimes found to have high leukocyte counts in ascitic fluid in the presence of negative cultures. To determine if peripheral leukocytosis (greater than or equal to 20 x 10(9)/L) by itself can result in high leukocyte or neutrophil counts in ascites, 29 patients were studied. A total of 31 paracenteses were performed in these patients as soon as the high peripheral leukocyte count was determined. Culture of ascitic fluid was performed using blood-culture bottles. The mean peripheral leukocyte count was 29.3 +/- 9.3 x 10(9)/L, with a mean neutrophil count of 19.9 +/- 6.5 x 10(9)/L. The mean ascitic fluid neutrophil count was 0.064 +/- 0.054 x 10(9)/L (range, 0.007 to 0.197 x 10(9)/L). No significant correlation was found between peripheral neutrophil (or leukocyte) count and neutrophil (or leukocyte) count in ascitic fluid. Marked peripheral leukocytosis (or neutrophilia) does not seem to have an effect on the leukocyte or neutrophil count in ascitic fluid. 
CD8+ T cell homing to the pancreas in the nonobese diabetic mouse is CD4+ T cell-dependent. The adoptive transfer of type I diabetes in nonobese diabetic mice requires the contribution of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. To further elucidate the cellular pathway(s) of beta-cell destruction and the responsibility of each subset, high doses of committed T cells from diabetic mice purified to single subsets, were injected into syngeneic nonobese diabetic neonates. The recipients of single or mixed subsets were followed for clinical manifestations of diabetes and examined at 30 days of age for in situ lesions. None of the animals injected with either CD4+ or CD8+ T cells became overtly diabetic during the 30 days of observation whereas 8 of 23 mice inoculated with a mixture of the two subsets developed glycosuria and hyperglycemia. However, insulitis was found in 6 of the 13 mice injected with CD4+ T cells whereas only 1 of the 9 mice injected with CD8+ T cells showed marginal infiltration of the pancreas. The lesions initiated by CD4+ T cells alone were considerably less severe than those induced by the mixture of both subsets, corroborating the fact that overt disease did not occur in the former group. Together, these results suggest a distinct function for each diabetogenic T cell subset. CD4+ T cells, which have the capacity to home to the pancreas, promote in turn the influx of CD8+ effector T cells that do not by themselves accumulate in this organ. These results illustrate a novel form of T-T cell interactions leading to organ specific autoimmune lesions. 
Gastrointestinal intraluminal pH in normal subjects and those with colorectal adenoma or carcinoma. Recent evidence suggests that the production of colorectal carcinogens is facilitated when the pH of the colonic contents is alkaline. It follows that the colonic intraluminal pH of patients with colorectal neoplasms should be higher than in normal subjects. Gastrointestinal pH has been measured in 30 patients with colorectal cancer and 37 patients with benign colorectal adenomas (using a pH sensitive radiotelemetry capsule). These values have been compared with those recorded in 66 normal subjects. No differences in gastrointestinal pH were found and the results did not support the hypothesis that colonic pH plays a role in the aetiology of colorectal neoplasia. 
Diagnostic fine-needle puncture of the gallbladder with US guidance From February 1988 to January 1990, 118 fine-needle diagnostic punctures of the gallbladder (DPG) were performed under continuous ultrasound (US) guidance on symptomatic patients with gallstones. The first attempt at gallbladder puncture and aspiration was successful in every patient with use of a 22-gauge needle and continuous US visualization of the needle tip. The aspirated volume varied between 3 and 88 mL (average +/- standard deviation, 25.0 mL +/- 15.3). Biliary analysis revealed an elevation of the cholesterol saturation index in patients with cholesterol gallstones (attenuation at computed tomographic examination of 50 HU or less) relative to that in patients with pigment stones (attenuation more than 50 HU) (1.3 +/- 0.2 vs 1.0 +/- 0.1, P less than .05). The nucleation time was prolonged in patients with pigment stones (19.3 days +/- 3.5 vs 1.8 days +/- 0.8 for patients with cholesterol stones, P less than .001). All patients remained hospitalized for 24 hours after DPG and were reexamined on an outpatient basis at 1 and 3 months thereafter. No complications were detected during either short-term observation or long-term follow-up. The authors conclude that DPG is a safe and valuable technique in the diagnostic work-up of gallstone patients to establish their suitability for nonoperative treatment. 
Modified Kraske approach for disease of the mid-rectum. A modification of Dr. Paul Kraske's approach for removal of mid-rectal lesions has been used in 11 patients from 1977 to 1988 by the senior authors. Patients ranged in age from 56 to 89 yr, with an average of 67 yr. There were seven male and four female patients. Indications for surgery were as follows: villous adenoma (seven), carcinoid (one), recurrent dysplasia in a previous endoscopic polypectomy site (one), positive distal margin for neoplasm following low anterior sigmoid resection (one), and adenocarcinoma in one elderly poor-risk patient. All lesions were in the middle rectum (7-11 cm from the anal verge, average 9 cm). The postoperative stay ranged from 6 to 12 days with a mean of 8 days. The average follow-up for the 11 patients is 3 1/2 yr (1 month to 7 yr), with only one patient having a local recurrent lesion. There was no morbidity or mortality. We conclude that this modification of the Kraske approach offers a good alternative for excision of mid-rectal lesions in terms of technical ease, efficacy, safety, and patient tolerance. The modified Kraske approach is indicated in certain situations and should be a part of the surgeon's armamentarium. 
Elevated plasma aluminum levels in normal infants receiving antacids containing aluminum. Aluminum toxicity is a documented cause of encephalopathy, anemia, and osteomalacia. Excretion is primarily renal; therefore, patients with renal insufficiency are at risk for aluminum accumulation and toxicity. This has been demonstrated in uremic children treated with aluminum-containing antacids. The purpose of this study was to determine whether plasma aluminum levels were elevated in infants with normal renal function during prolonged aluminum-containing antacid use. Ten study infants (mean age = 5.8 months), who had been receiving antacids for at least 1 week, were compared with 16 control infants (mean age = 9.8 months) not receiving antacids. The study patients consumed 123 +/- 16 mg/kg per day (mean +/- SEM) of elemental aluminum for an average of 4.7 weeks. Their plasma aluminum level (37.2 +/- 7.13 micrograms/L) was significantly greater than that of the control group (4.13 +/- 0.66 micrograms/L) (P less than .005). It is concluded that plasma aluminum levels may become elevated in infants with normal renal function who are consuming high doses of aluminum-containing antacids. The safety of antacids containing aluminum should not be assumed and they should be used judiciously in infants, with careful monitoring of the aluminum dose and plasma level. 
Melanosis of the esophagus. An endoscopic, histochemical, and ultrastructural study. Endoscopic, histological, and ultrastructural features of 21 cases of esophageal melanosis are described. These cases were detected during 1000 consecutive routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopies. Staining characteristics and ultrastructure of the pigment contained in the endoscopically visible lesions were found to be similar to those of true melanin. 
Preventive therapy of first gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis: results of a controlled trial comparing propranolol, endoscopic sclerotherapy and placebo. Propranolol and endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices are the two approaches currently used in prophylaxis of the first gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the cirrhotic patient. One hundred twenty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and no histories of bleeding were included in the trial regardless of the gravity of the cirrhosis or the size of the esophageal varices. Patients with hepatocarcinomas or other cancers, clearly impossible follow-up, previous treatment for portal hypertension or contraindication to beta-blockers were excluded. After randomization, 43 patients received propranolol twice daily at a dose reducing the heart rate by 25%; 42 patients were treated with intravariceal and extravariceal injections of Polidocanol; 41 control patients received vitamin K orally as placebo. The patients were seen at 3-mo intervals for 2 yr. On entry to the trial the three groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters, including size of esophageal varices (grade I = 51, grade II = 54, grade III = 17), Child-Pugh classification (A = 29, B = 61, C = 32) and the origin of cirrhosis (alcoholic in 79% of cases). Twenty-four patients bled (two bled in the propranolol group, nine bled in the endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices group and 13 bled in the placebo group). Actuarial estimates (Kaplan-Meier) of the time of onset of first bleeding showed that the differences were significant between propranolol and placebo (p less than 0.004) and between propranolol and sclerotherapy (p less than 0.03) but not between sclerotherapy and placebo. 
Serum gastrin and blood glucose levels during halothane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia and strabismus surgery in children. The purpose of this study was to determine whether serum gastrin levels are increased by reflexogenic stimuli applied to the extrinsic muscles of the eye. Serum gastrin and blood glucose concentrations were measured in ten normal children aged between 5 and 12 yr during general anaesthesia with halothane and nitrous oxide and during strabismus surgery. Fasting basal concentrations of gastrin (33.6 +/- 14.8 pg.ml-1) and of glucose (4.43 +/- 0.72 mmol.L-1) were in the normal range of values for children. Intravenous atropine (0.01 mg.kg-1), general anaesthesia with halothane in nitrous oxide and oxygen by mask for three minutes, tracheal intubation, extraocular muscle stimulation and surgical stress did not cause any variation in the mean serum gastrin concentration. On the contrary, tracheal intubation and surgical stress increased blood glucose concentrations (P less than 0.05). There was no difference in the serum gastrin levels after extraocular muscle stimulation between children with positive or negative oculocardiac reflexes (44.5 +/- 16.7 pg.ml-1 vs 38 +/- 14.7 pg.ml-1, respectively). The incidence of vomiting predischarge was 60 per cent. Serum gastrin levels did not differ between children who vomited and children who did not (44.3 +/- 18.5 pg.ml-1 vs 47.1 +/- 16.9 pg.ml-1, respectively). Vomiting after strabismus surgery cannot be attributed to high gastrin serum levels. Consequently, it is unlikely that vomiting after strabismus surgery is linked to an "oculogastric reflex" with the vagus nerve as the efferent pathway. 
Congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult. A rare case of adult congenital H-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed. Subsequently, at operation, large cell, undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented. The diagnosis, surgical intervention, and 4-year follow-up are presented. 
Disorders of esophageal motility. Patients with esophageal motility disorders usually have dysphagia and many also have chest pain similar to angina. The diagnosis is suggested by the clinical presentation, and supporting evidence is often provided by contrast roentgenography. Esophageal manometry is usually necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Conservative therapy using pharmacologic agents is often useful as an initial trial, although many patients who continue to be symptomatic ultimately require surgical intervention. 
Extracorporeal cholecystolithotripsy without oral chemolitholysis. One hundred thirty-six patients completed extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy (EBL) for symptomatic cholecystolithiasis. Sonographic evidence of complete clearance of all stone fragments was the only criterion for treatment success, which occurred in 32 of the 71 patients (45%) followed up for 24 weeks and in 36 of the 59 patients (61%) followed up for 52 weeks. The authors' protocol varied from protocols of other researchers primarily in that no adjuvant chemolitholysis was used. However, the number of treatment sessions and total number of shock waves (a maximum of 4,000 shock waves per treatment session, 12,000 shock waves in a patient demonstrating no significant fragmentation, and 20,000 shock waves in a patient whose stones responded well to fragmentation) was higher than those in other reports. The results of treatment and complication rates in this study are comparable with those at centers using both shock-wave lithotripsy and chemotherapy. The authors conclude that EBL is developing into an important alternative to surgery, which was obviated in all patients with complete clearance of fragments from the gallbladder. 
Atracurium decay and the formation of laudanosine in humans. Several groups of investigators have reported that the plasma concentrations of laudanosine, a metabolite of atracurium, are high immediately after administration of atracurium and thereafter decline. Such a time profile of a metabolite in plasma is very unusual. The authors describe a model of atracurium decay and laudanosine disposition that satisfactorily explains these data. The model reveals the following: 1) each atracurium molecule is degraded into two of laudanosine; 2) the generation of laudanosine occurs through two processes--a rapid one, involving approximately 31% of the atracurium dose and proceeding with a half-life of 0.25 min, and a slower one, involving the residual 69% and proceeding with a half-life of 51 min; 3) atracurium degradation by Hofmann elimination proceeds in the central and the noncentral compartments; 4) laudanosine formed from atracurium gains access to its central compartment and disappears from plasma in a biexponential pattern; 5) in cirrhotic patients, only 18% of the atracurium dose is degraded rapidly and laudanosine is disposed of more slowly. The authors propose that the rapid degradation of atracurium in plasma proceeds through a nucleophilic substitution reaction, with plasma nucleophiles substituting for the laudanosine moiety in atracurium. Because both laudanosine moieties in atracurium are required to establish and sustain plasma concentrations of laudanosine, excretion of atracurium or its degradation through pathways not generating laudanosine must be small. 
Immunohistochemical demonstration of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa. Specimens of normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa from 52 patients were analysed by immunohistochemistry using a monospecific polyclonal antiserum against human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI). In normal colonic mucosa PSTI was found in the goblet cells in the basal parts of the crypts. In adenomas of tubular, villous, and tubulo-villous types PSTI was also found in the upper parts of the polyps, usually occurring in the regeneration zone. There was a more intense staining reaction in polyps with increased atypia. Carcinomas of different types and of various grades of differentiation and of in situ type did not contain PSTI. These findings indicate that PSTI could be a marker for adenomatous rather than carcinomatous epithelium in the colon. Furthermore, the absence of the inhibitor in malignant cells might facilitate tissue invasion by malignant cells because of deficient protease inhibition. 
A simple score for the identification of patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon in the family doctor consulting room. The Local IBS Study Group. In order to develop a scoring system for selecting patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon, who would need a colonoscopy or a barium enema, we conducted a study with 14 GPs in the local health care district of Modena. Over one year, 254 consecutive patients who consulted their GP for chronic abdominal pain were asked to answer a guided questionnaire. A checklist of simple parameters suggestive of the presence of organic diseases of the colon was also registered by the GP. For the final diagnosis, the patients underwent either a colonoscopy or a barium enema. Data collected were analysed by means of a stepwise logistic regression analysis to obtain a weighted score for the diagnosis of either irritable bowel syndrome (score less than 0) or organic disease (score greater than 0). Out of the 25 parameters explored, six were significantly more common among patients with organic disease and weighted as positive score (namely ESR greater than 17 mm, first hour, history of blood in the stool, leukocytosis greater than 10,000 cm3, age greater than 45 years, slight fever and presence of neoplastic colonic diseases in first-degree relatives). On the contrary, five parameters were more frequent among patients with irritable bowel syndrome and weighted as negative score (namely visible distension of the abdomen, feeling of distension, presence of irritable bowel syndrome in first degree relatives, flatulence and irregularities of bowel movement). Our scoring system correctly classified 83.5% of the cases, and it was very sensitive (82.4%) for the diagnosis of organic disease. 
Modulation of mediator release from human intestinal mast cells by sulfasalazine and 5-aminosalicylic acid. Intestinal mast cells are thought to contribute to the mucosal inflammation in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease through release of inflammatory mediators. Since sulfasalazine and its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid are effective therapeutic agents in inflammatory bowel disease and have been shown to inhibit generation of inflammatory products in other cells, we examined the effect of these agents in vitro on human intestinal mast cell mediator release. Sulfasalazine (5 x 10(-4)-10(-3) M) was found to significantly enhance goat anti-human IgE-induced histamine release from intestinal mast cells, which is the same response as seen in human blood basophils, whereas its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid was an effective inhibitor of stimulated histamine release in both mast cells and basophils. 5-Aminosalicylic acid also inhibited production of prostaglandin D2 by the stimulated intestinal mast cells. Sulfasalazine alone, without immunologic stimulation, did not induce histamine release from mast cells or basophils, but the enhancement of ongoing mast cell activation by sulfasalazine may explain some cases of adverse reactions to the drug. The inhibition of mast cell histamine release and prostaglandin generation by 5-aminosalicylic acid demonstrates a potential therapeutic modality of this agent. 
Somatostatin prevents acute pancreatitis after pancreatic duct sphincter hydrostatic balloon dilation in patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. The purpose of this study was to determine whether prophylactic somatostatin infusion can prevent pancreatitis after hydrostatic balloon dilation of the pancreatic duct sphincter segment in 16 patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. This study demonstrated that prophylactic administration of somatostatin before, during, and after the procedure diminished the incidence and severity of acute pancreatitis. We recommend consideration of such prophylaxis in patients undergoing this procedure. 
Isolated ventral pancreatitis in a patient with pancreas divisum. A previously healthy 22-yr-old woman was found to have chronic pancreatitis restricted to the ventral pancreas in association with pancreas divisum. When conservative treatment failed, sphincteroplasty of both papillae was performed with good results. This well-documented case represents a clear exception to the commonly held concept that obstruction of the dorsal duct is the essential pathogenic factor in the development of pancreatitis associated with pancreas divisum. The importance of visualizing both the dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts to direct therapy for patients with idiopathic pancreatitis is discussed. Theories of the pathogenesis of concomitant pancreatitis and pancreas divisum are reviewed. 
Motility changes in primary achalasia following pneumatic dilatation. The changes in esophageal motility after pneumatic dilatation were evaluated prospectively in 51 patients with achalasia. The patients were evaluated for a median of 14 months. Pneumatic dilatation led to a clinical improvement in 41 patients. On manometric evaluation, a significant decrease in lower esophageal sphincter pressure was observed (28.4 +/- 14.9 mmHg vs. 13.5 +/- 7.2 mmHg; p = 0.001); the resting pressure of the esophageal body dropped from 4.8 +/- 4.2 mmHg above gastric baseline to 0.1 +/- 3.9 mmHg below gastric baseline. After therapy, peristaltic activity was present in 10/51 (20%) patients; in 1 case, complete relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter was recorded. Treatment-induced motility changes could not be predicted by clinical history or the lower esophageal sphincter pressure before or after therapy. However, the resting pressure of the esophageal body before and after therapy was significantly lower in these patients in whom peristalsis recurred after therapy than in patients with an unchanged motility pattern. The reappearance of peristaltic activity after pneumatic dilatation was unrelated to lower esophageal sphincter pressure. In conclusion, motility disturbances of the esophageal body in patients with achalasia do not simply reflect the functional obstruction of the lower esophageal sphincter. These findings support the hypothesis that achalasia is not a distinct motility disturbance but should be regarded as part of a broad spectrum of different interrelated esophageal motility disorders. 
Alanine aminotransferase in clinical practice. A review. Alanine aminotransferase is an enzyme produced mainly in the liver. When serum activity is measured, it provides a marker of hepatic disease. This review explores the biochemistry and laboratory analysis of alanine aminotransferase in terms of its significance in human health and disease. Cut-off levels that define abnormality are rather arbitrary and this decreases the specificity of the test in apparently healthy patients. A small, but important, group of patients with alanine aminotransferase abnormality have underlying liver disease that may be treatable. Most can be diagnosed based on history, physical examination, and biochemical-serological profiles. Liver biopsy can complement the diagnostic process in selected circumstances. Literature pertaining to this is critically reviewed. 
Geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the United States. One approach to learn about possible environmental risks in inflammatory bowel disease relates to studying its geographic pattern of occurrence. The geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the United States was analyzed using the accumulated 17.5 million hospital discharges of all U.S. Medicare beneficiaries during two consecutive years. To validate the geographic pattern shown by the Medicare data, hospitalization was compared with mortality from inflammatory bowel disease among different states. Mortality and hospitalization statistics both suggested that the occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease was determined by environmental factors that had a marked geographic variation within the United States. Both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis appeared to be more frequent in northern parts of the United States than in southern and in urban more than rural parts. These trends were observed for men and women and for blacks and whites alike. Similar geographic patterns of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis suggested the influence of one or more identical risk factors for both diseases. 
Comparison of omeprazole and cimetidine in reflux oesophagitis: symptomatic, endoscopic, and histological evaluations. Symptomatic patients with endoscopically verified reflux oesophagitis were randomised to a double blind trial in which they received either omeprazole (20 mg once daily) or cimetidine (400 mg four times daily) for four, and if necessary, eight weeks. In an 'intention to treat' analysis, oesophagitis was found to have healed after four weeks in 77 of 137 (56%) in the omeprazole group and in 34 of 133 (26%) in the cimetidine group (p less than 0.001). By eight weeks these values were 71% and 35% respectively; p less than 0.001. Histological assessments were available for 73% of the patients. At entry, 63% (66 of 104) in the omeprazole group and 60% (56 of 94) in the cimetidine group (ns) had abnormal histology. After the study, the proportions of patients who initially had had abnormal histology but who then progressed to normal were 67% (44 of 66: omeprazole) and 48% (27 of 56: cimetidine) respectively (p less than 0.001). All patients had reflux symptoms at entry. After four weeks, 46% in the omeprazole group and 22% (p less than 0.001) in the cimetidine group were asymptomatic. Diary cards completed for the first two weeks showed that patients treated with omeprazole experienced fewer reflux symptoms by day and night and used fewer antacids. Omeprazole, 20 mg once a day for four to eight weeks, healed a greater proportion of patients with reflux oesophagitis than cimetidine, 1.6 g per day, assessed endoscopically and histologically, and relieved more patients' symptoms. 
Surgical aspects of sclerosing cholangitis. Results in 178 patients. Of 178 patients with sclerosing cholangitis treated since 1950, 88 patients had associated inflammatory bowel disease, 72 had no such history, and 18 had iatrogenic injury or stone disease. A total of 233 biliary operations were performed, with a 75% rate of temporary improvement after initial operation. Subsequent operations resulted in a lower success rate and a higher mortality rate. Radiologic findings included predominant extrahepatic, intrahepatic, and diffuse disease in 29%, 28%, and 43% of patients, respectively; no survival differences were noted. Seventy-five of one hundred three deaths (73%) were related to liver failure, bleeding, or sepsis. Of 14 patients undergoing portosystemic shunt, 13 died of surgical complications or related disease. Orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in 16 patients and resulted in eight deaths, mainly in patients who had previously undergone extensive surgical treatment. No survival differences were seen between the patients with inflammatory bowel disease, those without the condition, or those who had colectomy. Surgical treatment in patients with sclerosing cholangitis should be minimized. Orthotopic liver transplantation should be offered as the treatment of choice for patients with portal hypertension, refractory cholangitis, advanced cirrhosis, or progressive liver failure. 
Endoscopic management of retained cystic duct stones. The finding of residual common bile duct stones after cholecystectomy is a relatively frequently encountered problem for which effective nonoperative therapy exists. Retained stones in a cystic duct remnant are very rare. We present a case of multiple retained stones in a long variant cystic duct remnant following cholecystectomy and common duct exploration, which was successfully managed with endoscopic sphincterotomy and balloon extraction. 
Visceral protothecosis mimicking sclerosing cholangitis in an immunocompetent host: successful antifungal therapy. A healthy 39-year-old man who had clinical findings consistent with sclerosing cholangitis was found to have systemic protothecosis at surgery. Severe granulomatous inflammation and palpable nodules were found in the gallbladder, on the surface of the liver, and in the duodenum. Prototheca wickerhamii was detected in biopsied specimens and stool; the titer of indirect fluorescent antibody to this organism was 1:2,000. The patient recovered after a short course of treatment with amphotericin B and 3 months of oral therapy with ketoconazole. He had no other concurrent illness and had no abnormality in his immune system. This is the second reported human case of systemic protothecosis. An elevated IgG level, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, eosinophilia, and abnormal levels of enzymes in the liver were found in both cases. Protothecosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatic and biliary inflammatory diseases of uncertain etiology. 
The effect of ambulation on recovery from postoperative ileus. To determine whether ambulation hastens recovery from ileus following laparotomy, 34 patients were studied, 10 of whom followed an ambulatory regimen beginning on postoperative day 1 (group A). The other 24 patients (group C) did not become ambulatory until postoperative day 4. All patients underwent placement of seromuscular bipolar recording electrodes on the Roux limb, if present, stomach, jejunum, and colon at laparotomy. Group A was recorded before and after ambulation so comparisons could be made to determine if ambulation had an acute effect on myoelectric activity. Group A preambulation and group C recordings were compared to judge whether there was an over-all effect of ambulation on myoelectric recovery. No effect on slow wave frequency or percentage of slow waves with associated spike potentials was noted acutely or overall in the stomach, colon, or jejunum in continuity with the duodenal pacemaker. Transient increases in phase II spike activity in patients having a Roux limb and their jejunum distal to the enteroenterostomy were noted on postoperative days 1 to 2, but these differences resolved by postoperative days 3 or 4. The data suggest that ambulation as a means to help resolve postoperative ileus and its accompanying cramps and bloating may be more perceived than real. 
Serological evidence of infection with Helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis. Specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism, Helicobacter pylori (HP) were detectable in 43% of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test (CFT) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), a frequency comparable with that of a normal, age-matched population. Presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and to the severity of NSAID-related dyspeptic symptoms, the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance. This contrasts with short term, prospective NSAID toxicity data, which show little relationship between ulceration and HP carriage. This result suggests, however, that HP may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic PUD associated with more chronic NSAID usage, and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients. 
Typhlitis due to Balantidium coli in captive lowland gorillas. Typhlitis caused by Balantidium coli and requiring surgical resection occurred in three captive lowland gorillas over a 30-month period. Not one of the other gorillas in the colony or their keepers was ill. B. coli is distributed widely geographically and widely among mammals. Asymptomatic commensalism predominates, but invasion of the colonic mucosa can produce diarrhea and dysentery and set the stage for local or systemic spread. 
Prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses. Three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history, but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses. The importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed. 
Hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas in a patient with hepatitis A. Hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas were found in a 30-year-old patient with serologically confirmed hepatitis A. Other causes associated with the presence of fibrin-ring granulomas in the liver, such as Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, cytomegalovirus infection, visceral leishmaniasis, and consumption of allopurinol, were ruled out. It is suggested that hepatitis A must be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas. 
Hypophosphatemia and renal tubular dysfunction in alcoholics. Are they related to liver function impairment? The study was designed to evaluate (a) the role of reduced renal phosphate reabsorptive capacity assessed as the ratio of maximum capacity for renal phosphate reabsorption (TmPO4) to glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics, (b) possible mechanisms leading to reduced TmPO4/GFR, and (c) the effect of liver function impairment on TmPO4/GFR. The TmPO4/GFR, its major extrarenal determinants, ratios of urinary excretion gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and of alpha-glucosidase to GFR (uGGT/GFR and uAGL/GFR), indices of structural damage of renal tubular cells, and fractional clearance of lysozyme, an index of proximal renal function, were evaluated in 31 alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease, 24 alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease, 14 patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease, and 25 control subjects. Hypophosphatemia was found in 35% of alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease, 29% of alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease, and no patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease. A reduced TmPO4/GFR was the major determinant of hypophosphatemia in both groups of alcoholics. No difference in extrarenal determinants of TmPO4/GFR was found between alcoholics with and without hypophosphatemia. Alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease had increased uGGT/GFR and normal uAGL/GFR regardless of serum phosphate level. Fractional clearance of lysozyme, instead, was increased only in hypophosphatemic alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease. The TmPO4/GFR correlated inversely with the fractional clearance of lysozyme in both groups of alcoholics (P less than 0.01). The TmPO4/GFR and urinary enzymes were normal in patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease. It was concluded that a reduced TmPO4/GFR is involved in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics. A proximal tubular dysfunction seems to be responsible for the reduced TmPO4/GFR. Liver function impairment is not required for the expression of this tubular dysfunction. 
Outcome of hepatitis B virus infection in homosexual men and its relation to prior human immunodeficiency virus infection. To investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection on subsequent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, HIV antibody was sought in homosexual men who developed HBV infection during a hepatitis B vaccine trial. Among 134 unvaccinated HIV-1-negative men, 7% became HBV carriers, 64% had viremia, and 42% had clinical illness. Among vaccinated HIV-1-negative men, HBV infection severity decreased with number of vaccine doses administered. When adjusted for prior hepatitis B vaccination status, persons with HIV-1 infection preceding HBV infection had a significantly higher risk of developing HBV carriage, viremia, prolonged ALT elevation, and clinical illness. Among HIV-1-infected men, the risk of HBV carriage was increased in unvaccinated persons (21%) and those who failed to respond to vaccination (31%) and further increased in those who received vaccine doses at the time they developed new HBV infection (56%-80%), suggesting inactivated hepatitis B vaccine may temporarily impair the immune response to HBV infection in HIV-1-infected persons. HIV-1 infection was also associated with reduced alanine aminotransferase elevations during the first 36 months of follow-up of men who became HBV carriers. 
Utility of upper endoscopy in the evaluation of noncardiac chest pain. The diagnostic yield of esophagogastroduodenoscopy, esophageal manometry, and Bernstein testing was assessed in 100 consecutive patients being evaluated for non-cardiac chest pain. Manometric studies revealed the nutcracker esophagus in 21 patients; non-specific esophageal motility disorders in 19 patients; a hypertensive lower esophageal sphincter in 4 patients; diffuse esophageal spasm in 2 patients; and normal motility in 54 patients. Endoscopy was normal in 38 patients; but revealed grades II to IV esophagitis in 24 patients; gastritis and/or duodenitis in 18 patients; a sliding hiatal hernia without evidence of esophagitis in 14 patients; and gastric or duodenal ulcers in 6 patients. Twenty-five individuals were found to have normal manometric studies in combination with a negative Bernstein test. Among these 25 patients, however, 7 patients had esophagitis (grade II or higher); 6 patients had gastritis and/or duodenitis; five patients had a sliding hiatal hernia without esophagitis; 1 patient had peptic ulcer disease; and only 6 patients had a normal endoscopic exam. Our results indicate that endoscopy can identify a significant number of patients with acid-peptic disease who present with non-cardiac chest pain, that would not have been otherwise diagnosed by esophageal manometry or Bernstein testing alone or in combination. 
Clinical management of gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. We report the late results of treatment of 13 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices. Of seven good-risk patients classified as Child's class A or B, gastrectomy together with selective shunt operation was performed in two, total gastrectomy with splenectomy in three, and distal partial gastrectomy with paraesophageal devascularization without splenectomy in one. The remaining patient with early gastric cancer underwent distal partial gastrectomy following repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) for treatment of the esophageal varices. Although the majority of patients who underwent surgical repair of varices (i.e., shunt, splenectomy, or devascularization) died, total gastrectomy with splenectomy was the only procedure that led to control of the esophageal varices. Since partial gastrectomy combined with EIS limits the morbidity and mortality of an extensive resection and at the same time controls esophageal variceal bleeding, it is probably the procedure of choice for patients with a carcinoma in the lower two-thirds of the stomach. Concerning non-surgical cases, two patients were effectively treated using laser endoscopy and EIS, without the occurrence of variceal bleeding. The remaining four patients, given chemotherapy or irradiation for treatment of gastric carcinoma, died within 4 months with variceal bleeding or liver failure. For the poor-risk patients with evidence of severe liver dysfunction, laser treatment and EIS would be the treatment of choice. 
Gastrointestinal tuberculosis. Report of four cases. Gastrointestinal tuberculosis is a rare disease in the United States. Correct identification is often delayed because it is not considered early on in the differential diagnosis. Four patients with gastrointestinal tuberculosis and the symptoms, diagnosis, complications, and treatment of the disease are discussed. Gastrointestinal tuberculosis should be considered in Asian immigrant patients who present with symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease. 
Serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure. Results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure, and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis. To determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure, we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min. Serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. The highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 IU/L (normal, less than 128 IU/L). Serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min, and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min. These results indicate that elevations of serum amylase (i.e., amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 IU/L) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min, and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis. 
The role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. Mixed disulfides of methanethiol represent a relative estimate for an exposure to methanethiol. The concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides, methionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and ammonia were measured in patients with different stages of hepatic encephalopathy, in patients with chronic kidney failure and in healthy subjects. In patients with hepatic encephalopathy, the mean serum concentrations of all these compounds were elevated. However, the elevations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were small and partly caused by decreased renal function. In addition, the levels of methanethiol-mixed disulfides did not differ significantly between the different grades of hepatic encephalopathy. The concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were substantially lower than those previously observed in healthy subjects after an oral methionine load or in a patient with a deficiency in methionine adenosyltransferase, the latter without causing encephalopathy. We concluded that the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy is probably minor, if not insignificant. In the patients with hepatic encephalopathy, a significant correlation was found between the concentrations of methionine and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and between 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and methanethiol-mixed disulfides, supporting the theory that methanethiol is formed by way of the methionine transamination pathway. Evidence is provided that, besides the methionine transsulfuration pathway, the transamination pathway is also impaired in patients with hepatic encephalopathy. 
Apical secretion of lysosomal enzymes in rabbit pancreas occurs via a secretagogue regulated pathway and is increased after pancreatic duct obstruction. Lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsin B are apically secreted from rabbit pancreatic acinar cells via a regulated as opposed to a constitutive pathway. Intravenous infusion of the cholecystokinin analogue caerulein results in highly correlated apical secretion of digestive and lysosomal enzymes, suggesting that they are discharged from the same presecretory compartment (zymogen granules). Lysosomal enzymes appear to enter that compartment as a result of missorting. After 7 h of duct obstruction is relieved, caerulein-stimulated apical secretion of cathepsin B and amylase is increased, but the ratio of cathepsin B to amylase secretion is not different than that following caerulein stimulation of animals never obstructed. These findings indicate that duct obstruction causes an increased amount of both lysosomal and digestive enzymes to accumulate within the secretagogue releasable compartment but that duct obstruction does not increase the degree of lysosomal enzyme missorting into that compartment. Pancreatic duct obstruction causes lysosomal hydrolases to become colocalized with digestive enzymes in organelles that, in size and distribution, resemble zymogen granules but that are not subject to secretion in response to secretagogue stimulation. These organelles may be of importance in the development of pancreatitis. 
Six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease. This essay tells the stories of six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) to emphasize how important denial and control become when a physician is a patient. Guilt at the supposed psychosomatic "origin" of IBD suggests that we as physicians should never blame our patients for getting sick. 
Estrogen receptors in the external anal sphincter. Inasmuch as anal competence in women is reduced after the age of 50 years, it may be dependent on effects of estrogens. In this study, samples of the external anal sphincter were analyzed for the presence of estrogen receptors and were found to be present at a median concentration of 5.0 fmol per milligram of protein (range, 1.9 to 13) in women (n = 7), and 1.1 fmol per milligram of protein (range, 0 to 3.2) in men (n = 7). These findings are of interest with regard to the treatment of idiopathic anal incontinence. 
Increased uptake of bromodeoxyuridine by hepatocytes from early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis. The relationship between DNA synthesis activities of hepatocytes in biopsied specimens and liver volume was studied in various stages of primary biliary cirrhosis using an in vitro bromodeoxyuridine (a thymidine analogue)-anti-bromodeoxyuridine reaction and computed tomography. The mean bromodeoxyuridine (+/- SE) labeling index for 10 patients in an early histological stage (stage I, 4, and stage II, 6, 3.4% +/- 0.4%) of primary biliary cirrhosis was 17 times that for 6 control subjects (0.2% +/- 0.1%, P less than 0.001), and was significantly higher than that for 19 female patients with chronic aggressive hepatitis (0.9% +/- 0.2%, P less than 0.001), 14 compensated cirrhotic patients of viral origin (all female, 1.1% +/- 0.3%, P less than 0.01), and 5 patients with stage III primary biliary cirrhosis (0.5% +/- 0.1%, P less than 0.001). The mean (+/- SE) liver volume in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis (1225 +/- 40 cm3) was about 1.5 times that in control subjects (835 +/- 42 cm3, P less than 0.001). These results suggest that liver volume has already become large in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis perhaps because of markedly increased DNA synthesis in hepatocytes. 
Mechanisms of gallstone formation in women. Effects of exogenous estrogen (Premarin) and dietary cholesterol on hepatic lipid metabolism. Our aim was to define mechanisms whereby conjugated estrogens (Premarin, exogenous estrogen; Ayerst Laboratories, New York) increase the risk of developing cholesterol gallstones and to determine the role, if any, of dietary cholesterol. We studied gallbladder motor function, biliary lipid composition and secretion, cholesterol absorption, cholesterol synthesis and esterification by peripheral blood mononuclear cells, the clearance of chylomicron remnants, and bile acid kinetics in 29 anovulatory women. 13 were studied on both a low (443 +/- 119 mumol/d) and high (2,021 +/- 262 mumol/d) cholesterol diet. Premarin increased the lithogenic index of bile (P less than 0.05), increased biliary cholesterol secretion (P less than 0.005), lowered chenodeoxycholate (CDCA) pool (P less than 0.001) and synthesis (P less than 0.05), altered biliary bile acid composition [( CA + DCA]/CDCA increases, P less than 0.005), stimulated cholesterol esterification (P less than 0.03), and enhanced the clearance of chylomicron remnants (P = 0.07). Increases in dietary cholesterol stimulated the biliary secretion of cholesterol (P = 0.07), bile acid (P less than 0.05), phospholipid (P = 0.07), and as a result, did not alter lithogenic index. The reduction in CDCA pool and synthesis by Premarin was reversed by increasing dietary cholesterol. Off Premarin, only 24% of the increase in cholesterol entering the body in the diet was recovered as biliary cholesterol or newly synthesized bile acid. On Premarin, 68% of this increase in cholesterol was recovered as these biliary lipids. We conclude that Premarin increases biliary cholesterol by enhancing hepatic lipoprotein uptake and inhibiting bile acid synthesis. These actions of Premarin divert dietary cholesterol into bile. 
Endoscopic appearance and significance of functional lymphangiectasia of the duodenal mucosa. Intestinal lymphangiectasia is found in a wide variety of pathologic conditions. Functional lymphangiectasia has not been well characterized. We report 20 patients followed for 9 to 55 months (mean 30 months) after incidental detection at endoscopy of lymphangiectasia. Our study indicates that functional lymphangiectasia is not pathologic and does not warrant repeat endoscopy in the absence of other clinical indications. 
Persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with AIDS: successful treatment with isotretinoin. Rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men, particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. We report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with AIDS who developed a persistent rectal ulcer. A biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia, and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ DNA hybridization. This genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men, including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. The rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin, a retinoid. 
A nongastrin malignant ampullary tumor causing gastric acid and pepsin hypersecretion. A case report. We report a case of multiple duodenal ulcers with gastric hypersecretion due to a nongastrin secretagogue produced by a malignant tumor of the pancreas in a 78-year-old man. The case resembled a Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) with high acid output (basal acid output 27, sham meal-stimulated 37, maximum acid output 47 mEq/h), but with fasting gastrin 43 pg/ml, nonresponsive to secretin. As in ZES, pepsin output was comparatively low, and secretion was inhibitable by atropine (50% inhibited by 1 microM). The tumor removed at surgery contained less than 1 ng gastrin per gram, but was many times more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating acid from a lumen-perfused rat stomach. The tumor also contained cholecystokinin (CCK-8 and CCK-33), motilin, insulin, and somatostatin, which were also present in adjacent normal pancreas; in addition, the tumor contained pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic cancer-associated antigen. This case represents a rare syndrome due to an as yet undefined peptide secreted by a (frequently malignant) pancreatic endocrine tumor and masquerading as ZES. This is the first report of studies of pepsin secretion and of the effect of atropine, suggesting that the physiologic effects of the secretagogue resemble that of gastrin. 
Cytomegalovirus colitis in AIDS: presentation in 44 patients and a review of the literature. As part of a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of ganciclovir in cytomegalovirus (CMV) colitis, the clinical characteristics of 44 patients enrolled at one center were analyzed in detail. All were homosexual men who had CMV on colonic biopsy. CMV colitis was the index diagnosis for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in 11 (25%) of the 44 patients. All had diarrhea, but it was intermittent in 13 patients (30%). Bleeding was uncommon, but 35 patients (80%) were febrile (median temperature of 38.9 degrees C). Weight loss was reported by 39 patients (89%), among whom the median loss was 6.8 kg. Endoscopy revealed normal colonic mucosa but CMV on biopsy in 11 patients (25%). Colonoscopic biopsies positive for CMV were found only in the cecum in 7 (39%) of 18 patients. Most patients (54%) had received zidovudine before the diagnosis of CMV colitis. The median time to the development of CMV colitis after the diagnosis of AIDS was 16 months in those patients who had received zidovudine and 3 months in those who had not (p less than 0.02). We conclude that CMV colitis can present early in AIDS and often with such nonspecific signs as fever, intermittent diarrhea, weight loss, and hematochezia. Importantly, it can appear normal on colonoscopy and occurs frequently only in the right colon, necessitating full colonoscopy and multiple biopsies for accurate diagnosis. 
Portacaval shunt versus endoscopic sclerotherapy in the elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. Eighty-two consecutive Child-Campbell class A and B cirrhotic patients were included in a prospective controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of portacaval anastomosis vs. endoscopic sclerotherapy as elective treatment of variceal hemorrhage. Forty-one patients were randomized to portacaval anastomosis and 41 to sclerotherapy. After excluding dropouts, 34 patients were treated with portacaval anastomosis and 35 with sclerotherapy. The incidence of variceal rebleeding during follow-up (mean +/- SD, 20.6 +/- 14.2 months) was significantly higher in the sclerotherapy than in the portacaval groups, either considering the overall treated group or only patients completing sclerotherapy (40% and 25% vs. 2.9%; P = 0.0002 and P = 0.01, respectively). The 2-year probability of suffering from at least one episode of hepatic encephalopathy was significantly higher in patients submitted to portacaval anastomosis than in those treated with endoscopic sclerotherapy (40% vs. 12%; P = 0.04). However, disabling encephalopathy only appeared in 3 of 34 patients who underwent surgery (8.8%). Early and long-term mortality did not differ between the therapeutic groups; 2-year survival rates were 83% for portacaval anastomosis and 79% for sclerotherapy. It is concluded that portacaval anastomosis is more effective than endoscopic sclerotherapy in preventing variceal rebleeding in spite of the greater incidence of hepatic encephalopathy. The role of portacaval anastomosis in the elective treatment of variceal rebleeding should be reassessed. 
Effect of endotoxin and a burn injury on lung and liver lipid peroxidation and catalase activity. Both endotoxin and a burn alone produce oxidant-induced tissue lipid peroxidation. The endotoxin response is due in large part to hydrogen peroxide. The combination of endotoxin after a burn results in an increased liver, but not lung, oxidant injury. Our purpose was to determine whether the burn oxidant injury inactivated endogenous liver tissue catalase, thereby amplifying a subsequent H2O2 insult. Twenty-six adult sheep were studied. Twelve sheep had a 15% TBS burn. Tissue catalase activity, measured in lung and liver 3 days postburn, was significantly decreased from a control of 3.58 +/- 1.8 and 193 +/- 63, respectively, to 1.72 +/- 0.63 and 148 +/- 33 k(sec-1)/0.5 gram tissue. The addition of endotoxin 3 days postburn resulted in an increase in liver malondialdehyde, MDA, a measure of lipid peroxidation, from a control of 110 +/- 80 to 450 +/- 54 nmol/gram tissue. This value was significantly greater than the 210 +/- 80 nmol/gram tissue seen after endotoxin alone. Lung tissue MDA with burn and endotoxin was 65 +/- 8 compared to 42 +/- 7 for control and 80 +/- 6 nmol/gram for endotoxin alone. We conclude that a decrease in liver catalase activity occurs after a burn. The decrease corresponds to an accentuated oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation after an added endotoxin insult where H2O2 is known to be an etiologic agent. The catalase activity also decreases in postburn lung, but accentuated lung damage was not seen, indicating a variable tissue response from the burn-induced decrease in antioxidant activity. 
Islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices. Report of a case and review of the literature. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas. Islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare. They present in a variety of ways. Those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes. Nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement. We present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation. We emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery. 
Corticosteroid treatment reduces mast cell numbers in inflammatory bowel disease. Mast cell degranulation in the gut causes mucus secretion, mucosal edema, and increased gut permeability and may be responsible for some of the symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease. We have used a novel monoclonal antibody (AAI) against tryptase expressed exclusively in the granules of mast cells to enumerate mast cells in rectal biopsies in order to study the effect of inflammatory bowel disease and drug treatment upon rectal mast cell numbers. Rectal mast cell numbers are significantly reduced in inflammatory bowel disease patients taking corticosteroids (mean 4.95 cells/mm2) when compared with control patients (10.1, P less than 0.001) and inflammatory bowel disease patients not taking corticosteroids (9.7, P less than 0.001 Wilcoxon rank sum test). The reduction in mast cell counts was independent of the degree of inflammation or architectural distortion. There was a negative correlation between the dose of corticosteroids and mast cell count (r = 0.53, P less than 0.05 Spearman rank correlation), and the mast cell count was reduced within a few days of treatment and remained low throughout steroid therapy. Mucosal mast cell depletion may be an important mechanism of action of corticosteroids in inflammatory bowel disease. 
The starved colon--diminished mucosal nutrition, diminished absorption, and colitis. Nutrition of colonic epithelial cells is mainly from short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) produced by bacterial fermentation in the colonic lumen. n-Butyrate contributes more carbon of oxidation to epithelial cells than glucose or glutamine from the vasculature. Incomplete starvation of colonic epithelial cells through lack of luminal SCFAs leads, in the short term, to mucosal hypoplasia with either diminished absorption or diarrhea. A chronic lack of SCFAs or complete organ starvation in conjunction with other factors leads to nutritional colitis, either "diversion colitis" or "starvation colitis." Whether predominantly diarrhea or colitis develops in mucosal malnutrition appears to depend upon the severity and duration of starvation. Ulcerative colitis may be classified as a nutritional colitis in that colonic epithelial cells are unable to utilize SCFAs reflecting epithelial starvation despite abundant SCFAs. 
Sexually transmitted causes of gastrointestinal symptoms in homosexual men. The possible etiologic agents that may cause gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men are multiple, and their diagnosis is complex. This article presents a logical approach to the work-up and diagnosis of gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men and to discuss their treatment and disease intervention. 
Systemic and renal production of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in decompensated liver disease and hepatorenal syndrome. To assess the role of altered renal and systemic production of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin in the hepatorenal syndrome, urinary excretion of their major renal and extrarenal metabolites was measured in patients with compensated and decompensated liver disease, chronic renal failure, and hepatorenal syndrome. Urinary excretion rates of all prostanoids (renal and extrarenal) were increased in subjects with liver disease compared with normal controls. Moreover, they were considerably higher in subjects with severe hepatic decompensation but good renal function compared with those with hepatorenal syndrome. In contrast, the excretion rate of all metabolites was reduced in patients with chronic renal failure. The excretion rate of all metabolites was markedly elevated during the early stages of hepatorenal syndrome and decreased in parallel with creatinine clearance. When corrected for creatinine clearance, there was a strong correlation between prostanoid excretion and serum bilirubin in subjects with liver disease; there was no difference, however, in the excretion of renal and extrarenal prostanoids between hepatorenal syndrome and severe hepatic decompensation. It is concluded that hepatic decompensation is associated with a progressive increase in prostanoid excretion but that changes in production of prostacyclin or thromboxane A2 are unlikely to be major factors in the pathogenesis of the hepatorenal syndrome. 
Cereal-based oral rehydration therapy. II. Strategic issues for its implementation in national diarrheal disease control programs. Field studies in Bangladesh demonstrated that after proper training, village mothers were able to prepare and use rice-based, salt-enriched oral rehydration solutions containing safe concentrations of sodium, and were capable of achieving significantly fewer treatment failures and a reduction in the duration of diarrhea than with glucose-based oral rehydration solutions (ORS). An additional longitudinal study showed that improved growth and weight gain occurred with the consistent use of ORS; the effect was greater when rice-based ORS were used. In addition, the following possible limitations and benefits of cereal-based oral rehydration therapy, which are relevant to the strategies for its implementation in national diarrheal disease control programs, are discussed: safety, osmolarity, hypernatremia, spoiling, effectiveness, rehydration ability, reduction in diarrhea volume and duration, nutritional effects, effect on food intake, acceptance and usage by care givers, training of health workers, self-reliance of families, effect on other child survival activities, costs, potential problems in changing to cereal-based ORS, and the role of industrial production in packaged cereal-based ORS. 
Acute cholangitis. Cholangitis is an infection of the biliary ductal system that results from the combination of bactibilia and biliary obstruction. Choledocholithiasis has been the leading cause of cholangitis. However, in recent years, especially at tertiary referral centers, nonoperative biliary manipulations, often in patients with unresectable malignancies, have become the most common cause of cholangitis. As a result, the complete triad of fever and chills, jaundice, and abdominal pain, as originally described by Charcot, is now seen less frequently. Most patients still have leukocytosis and abnormal liver function tests, but many patients with indwelling tubes may develop cholangitis without significant jaundice. E. coli, Klebsiella species, and the enterococci remain the most frequently isolated organisms, and anaerobes including Bacteroides fragilis are recovered in 15% to 30% of patients. However, Enterobacter and Pseudomonas species, as well as yeasts, are now being isolated more frequently from patients with indwelling tubes, who often have been treated previously with antibiotics. Computed cholangiography usually is necessary to determine the cause and site of biliary obstruction. In the majority of patients with cholangitis, cholangiography can be delayed until the patient has been afebrile for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours. Initial therapy includes bowel rest, intravenous fluids, and antibiotics. Many antibiotic regimens are now available to cover the gram-negative aerobes, the enterococcus, and the anaerobes that are likely to be causing the biliary infection. The combination of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside has been the gold standard. However, recent studies suggest that the newer broad-spectrum penicillins provide adequate therapy for these patients. Only a small percentage (5%-10%) of patients with toxic cholangitis require emergency biliary decompression. The choice of percutaneous or endoscopic drainage should be made on the basis of the presumed site and cause of obstruction as well as local expertise. The nature of the biliary obstruction may be the most important determinant of outcome. At present, patients with end-stage malignant obstruction account for most of the deaths, whereas approximately 95% of patients survive an episode of cholangitis. 
Management of the acute abdomen complicating oral anticoagulation therapy. Acute abdominal pain in the patient receiving oral anticoagulants poses a difficult diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. We describe two cases of peritonitis requiring laparotomy in anticoagulated patients, and review 49 similar case reports from the world literature. These patients were usually explored for signs of bowel obstruction. At operation, the intestine often appeared infarcted, but pathologic examination commonly revealed intramural hematomata. In contrast, we present microscopic evidence of hemorrhagic cecal infarction complicating oral anticoagulation therapy in one patient. Intramural intestinal hemorrhage is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain in the anticoagulated patient who undergoes laparotomy. In addition to intramural hemorrhage, 14 per cent of patients had coexistent volvulus, appendicitis, intestinal wall disruption or intestinal infarction. We conclude that anticoagulated patients with suspected intramural intestinal hemorrhage may have severe intraabdominal pathology requiring operation. Therefore, operation is mandatory for patients who fail to improve after a short course of expectant management. 
Mortality and causes of death in Crohn's disease. Review of 50 years' experience in Leiden University Hospital. Six hundred and seventy one patients (52.5% women) with Crohn's disease seen at Leiden University Hospital between 1934 and 1984 were identified. Follow up was 98.2% complete. Sixty four (9.7%) of the 659 patients died. The cause of death was related to Crohn's disease in 34 patients, probably related to the disease in four, and unrelated, from incidental causes, in 25. The cause of death could not be identified in one patient. There was a significant decrease of deaths related to the disease after 1973. Causes of death such as amyloidosis and malnutrition have disappeared and postoperative deaths have decreased. The standardised mortality ratio showed an excess mortality of 2.23 for all patients. It was higher for women (3.30) than for men (1.76). A comparison of two recent 10 year periods showed a significant decrease in standardised mortality ratio in men but not in women. Patients whose disease started before the age of 20 years had an excess mortality compared with older patients. This study supports the view that the prognosis of Crohn's disease has improved in general but high quality medical and surgical management is important particularly for younger patients. 
Towards a true prevalence of peptic ulcer: the Sorreisa gastrointestinal disorder study. This study, designed to overcome methodological problems inherent in earlier prevalence studies of peptic ulcer, was carried out in a municipality in northern Norway. It included the total population of 2027, aged 20-69 years, and comprised a questionnaire and search for previously diagnosed peptic ulcers in the local medical records for all subjects, and additional endoscopy of all subjects with dyspepsia and their matched healthy controls (n = 619). The overall prevalence was 10.5% in men and 9.5% in women, a sex ratio close to one and a higher duodenal:gastric ratio than previously reported from this region. A substantial 1% prevalence of asymptomatic ulcers was also observed. 
The human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is a target antigen for liver-infiltrating T cells in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis. Autoantibodies to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor have been found in nearly 50% of the sera of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and in 15% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. In this study we demonstrate that the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is also a target antigen for T cell-mediated immune responses. Peripheral blood lymphocytes of 37% (7 of 19) of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and 33% (2 of 6) of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis showed a proliferative response to highly purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor, whereas no proliferation was found with peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with chronic viral hepatitis (0 of 13) and healthy blood donors (0 of 4). Moreover, we isolated T-cell clones from liver biopsy samples of two patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and two patients with peripheral blood lymphocytes. Between 2.8% and 14.3% of these clones showed a specific proliferative response to purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor. The response was restricted to autologous antigen-presenting cells and could be blocked by monoclonal antibodies against human leukocyte antigen-DR molecules. The response of T cells to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor did not require the lectinlike activity of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. Thus the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor could be identified as a major target antigen of humoral and cellular immune reactions in autoimmune-mediated liver diseases. 
Elevated intracranial pressure and computed tomography of the brain in fulminant hepatocellular failure. Cerebral herniation is a leading cause of death in patients with fulminant hepatocellular failure. Classical signs of elevated intracranial pressure are often absent in these patients. A reliable noninvasive method by which the presence of cerebral edema could be determined is much needed. To assess the efficacy of computed tomography of the brain in this setting, we compared the radiographic findings to the intracranial pressure measured by an epidural monitor in patients with fulminant hepatic failure. Unfortunately, a considerable difference existed between the presence of cerebral edema diagnosed by computed tomography of the brain and elevation of the intracranial pressure. Our observations suggest that in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and advanced hepatic encephalopathy, computed tomography of the brain is of little value in detecting cerebral edema. Pressure monitoring is most important to establish the presence and guide the therapy of intracranial hypertension. 
Bronchial asthma and acid reflux into the distal and proximal oesophagus. The prevalence of pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux in children and adolescents with asthma was studied by 24 hour two level oesophageal pH monitoring in 42 subjects aged 9-20 years with moderate or severe bronchial asthma. The importance of oesophagobronchial nerve reflexes and of aspiration of gastric acid as triggers in asthma was assessed by studying whether episodes of reflux into the distal and into the proximal oesophagus were followed by asthma attacks. Twenty-one subjects (50%) had a pathological total reflux time in the distal oesophagus and six (16%) in the proximal oesophagus. Nine patients had pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux into the distal oesophagus together with symptoms of asthma during the day on which the recording took place. In three of them the episodes of asthma symptoms were significantly correlated with preceding episodes of reflux into the distal oesophagus, and in one subject to reflux into the proximal oesophagus. We conclude that pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux is common in children and adolescents with asthma, but it seems to provoke symptoms of asthma in only a few. Symptoms of asthma were more often elicited by exposure of the distal oesophagus to gastric acid, possibly by a vagal reflex, than by aspiration of gastric juice. 
Radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis. Prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled trial of oral sulfasalazine plus rectal steroids versus rectal sucralfate. In a prospective study, 37 consecutive patients with radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis were randomized to receive a four-week course of either 3.0 g oral sulfasalazine plus 20 mg twice daily rectal prednisolone enemas (group I, N = 18) or 2.0 g twice daily rectal sucralfate enemas plus oral placebo (group II, N = 19). The two groups were comparable with respect to demographic features, duration of symptoms, and clinical and endoscopic staging of the disease. Fifteen patients in group I and 17 in group II completed the trial. At four weeks, both groups showed significant clinical improvement (P less than 0.01 for group I and P less than 0.001 for group II) and endoscopic healing (P less than 0.01 for group I and P less than 0.001 for group II). When the two groups were compared, sucralfate enemas showed a significantly better response as assessed clinically (P less than 0.05), although endoscopically the response was not statistically different (P greater than 0.05). We conclude that both treatment regimens are effective in the management of radiation proctitis. Sucralfate enemas give a better clinical response, are tolerated better, and because of the lower cost should be the preferred mode of short-term treatment. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and increased risk for peptic ulcer disease in elderly persons. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. DESIGN: Nested case-control study. SETTING: Tennessee Medicaid program. PARTICIPANTS: Medicaid enrollees 65 years of age or older were included in the study. The 1415 case patients had been hospitalized for confirmed peptic ulcer disease at some point from 1984 through 1986. The 7063 control persons represented a stratified random sample of other Medicaid enrollees. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, compared with that among nonusers, was 4.1 (95% CI, 3.5 to 4.7). For current users, the risk increased with increasing dose, from a relative risk of 2.8 (CI, 1.8 to 4.3) for the lowest to a relative risk of 8.0 (CI, 4.4 to 14.8) for the highest dose category. The risk was greatest in the first month of use (relative risk, 7.2; CI, 4.9 to 10.5). If the association is fully causal, 29% of peptic ulcers in the study sample resulted from the use of these drugs, and the excess risk associated with such use was 17.4 hospitalizations for ulcer disease per 1000 person-years of exposure. CONCLUSIONS: These data support other findings indicating that a clinically significant risk for serious ulcer disease is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The data show that this risk increases with dose and recency of use and that use of these drugs may be responsible for a large proportion of peptic ulcer disease among elderly persons. 
Paf-acether synthesis by Helicobacter pylori. Clinical studies suggest that Helicobacter pylori may play a role in the pathogenesis of gastroduodenal ulcers in man but direct evidence of mucosal injury by this microorganism is still lacking. Paf-acether (paf) causes a number of disorders including ischaemic bowel necrosis and gastroduodenal ulceration. Since paf is produced by Escherichia coli, we investigated whether it could be synthesised by H pylori. Five H pylori isolates were collected from antral biopsy specimens from patients with gastritis and duodenal ulcer and cultured with selective antibiotics. Colonies obtained from both blood agar and brucella broth medium were used. Paf was determined by platelet aggregation assay after ethanolic extraction and subsequent purification by high performance liquid chromatography. Paf was detected in H pylori in blood agar plates (680 (390) pg paf/1 x 10(6) organisms) but not in bacteria cultured on brucella broth medium. Supplementation of the latter medium with lyso paf and acetyl-CoA, two paf precursors present in high amounts in the mammalian intestine, induced paf production in three of five isolates. The platelet aggregating material extracted from H pylori exhibited biological and physiochemical characteristics identical to those of paf released from eukaryotic cells. These findings suggest that H pylori may add to the local production of paf in inflamed gastric mucosa. 
Plasma thrombin-antithrombin III complexes in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma complicating liver cirrhosis. Detection of hypercoagulable state might be helpful in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) complicating liver cirrhosis (LC). Plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin III complex (TAT) were determined in 50 patients of LC with or without HCC. The levels were above 2 ng/ml in 80% of 25 HCC patients, but only in 12% of 25 non-HCC patients (P less than 0.01). The levels over 2 ng/ml occurred even in five of six HCC patients whose serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were below 20 ng/ml as well as in two of three patients with HCC less than 2 cm in diameter. Those levels in HCC patients were significantly decreased within 8 days after treatment with transcatheter arterial embolization or infusion of antitumor agents, without affecting plasma antithrombin III levels. These results suggest that plasma TAT levels may be useful in the diagnosis of HCC complicating LC. 
Prognostic factors in alcoholic liver disease. VA Cooperative Study Group. Two hundred eighty-one alcoholic patients were prospectively evaluated by clinical, biochemical, and histologic parameters during a 4-yr period to assess their prognosis. They were stratified into four categories of injury: 1) fatty liver (26 patients), 2) acute alcoholic hepatitis (106), 3) cirrhosis (39), and 4) cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis (111). The rate of survival and variables correlating with survival varied according to the group. At 48 months, 70% of the patients with fatty liver were alive, 58% in the alcoholic hepatitis group, 49% in cirrhosis, and 35% in alcoholic hepatitis superimposed upon cirrhosis. Within group one, deaths were due to causes unrelated to liver disease. In the alcoholic hepatitis group, factors significantly correlating with survival were ascites, alanine amino-transferase levels, grams of alcohol consumed, continuation of alcohol intake, and clinical severity of disease. Survival in patients of group three correlated significantly with prothrombin time and histologic severity score. Patients with combined cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis exhibited the worst prognosis, with the most significant predictors of survival being age, grams of alcohol consumed, the ratio of serum aminotransferases (AST:ALT) and the histologic and clinical severity of the disease. Although a different pattern of correlates was observed for each pathologic level of injury, knowledge of the various correlates aids in prognostic assessment. 
Pancreatic ascites: treatment by continuous somatostatin infusion. Two male patients with recurrent acute pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse were admitted with pancreatic ascites (high concentration of amylase, raised protein concentration, no specific cytologic features). Ultrasound (US) and computed tomography (CT) confirmed gross ascites and inflammation of the pancreas in both patients, and a pseudocyst in the head of the pancreas in one of them. Treatment with total parenteral nutrition (TPN) and a H2-blocking agent was instituted and continued for 4 and 2 wk, respectively. Due to lack of improvement, somatostatin infusion (250 micrograms/h) was started. During the next few days, there was a rapid improvement of the clinical status, and the production of ascites ceased. We conclude that somatostatin infusion should be tried before any invasive diagnostic or therapeutic intervention in patients with pancreatic ascites. 
Colonoscopy in critically ill patients. What conditions call for it? Indications for colonoscopy in the intensive care unit include acute lower intestinal bleeding, sigmoid volvulus, pseudo-obstruction of the colon, and suspicion of pseudomembranous colitis. Although the incidence of cardiorespiratory complications may be higher in these critically ill patients, the procedure can be done safely with proper attention to detail. Because of colonic dilatation, endoscopy can often be done without bowel preparation. 
Spontaneous pneumoperitoneum. A surgical dilemma. Pneumoperitoneum is usually the result of hollow viscus perforation with associated peritonitis. Nonsurgical spontaneous pneumoperitoneum incidental to intrathoracic, intra-abdominal, gynecologic, iatrogenic, and other miscellaneous causes not associated with perforated viscus have been documented in the literature. Seven cases of spontaneous pneumoperitoneum admitted over 3-year period to Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia are reported. Six patients with pneumoperitoneum underwent exploratory laparotomy when clinical examination suggested an acute abdomen; no intra-abdominal pathology was documented in any of these patients. A seventh patient, on ventilatory support, was managed conservatively after performing a diagnostic peritoneal lavage that was negative. There were no cases of radiographically misdiagnosed pneumoperitoneum. Pneumoperitoneum, preceded by a reasonable incidental cause in a patient with a adequate abdominal examination, may warrant continued observation thus avoiding an unnecessary laparotomy. 
Sphincter of Oddi manometry: decreased risk of clinical pancreatitis with use of a modified aspirating catheter. This study was undertaken to determine whether routine use of a modified triple-lumen five French sphincter of Oddi manometry catheter would reduce the frequency and severity of post-manometry pancreatitis and pancreatic enzyme elevation. Seventy-six patients were alternately assigned to undergo sphincter of Oddi manometry (SOM) with a standard perfusion (infused group) catheter or the newly developed aspiration (aspirated group) catheter. After SOM, there were significantly more patients in the infused group with both amylase and lipase values elevated at least two times the upper limits of normal at 2 (p less than 0.001), 6 (p = 0.01), and 18 hours (p = 0.03) after the procedure. As compared with the standard perfusion system, the aspiration catheter was associated with a decreased frequency of clinical pancreatitis (23.5% vs. 3%, p = 0.01) reduced hospital stay (5 +/- 1.83 days, mean +/- SE, versus 1 day; p = 0.03) and milder pancreatitis. The aspiration manometry catheter should be considered for standard use for SOM, particularly if the pancreatic duct sphincter is being evaluated. 
Deceptive bizarre stromal cells in polyps and ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. The clinical and pathologic features of 33 pseudomalignant lesions of the gastrointestinal tract with bizarre stromal cells are reported. Deceptive histologic changes were identified in ulcers of seven patients and in inflammatory polyps of 26. A misdiagnosis of malignant neoplasm was made in six of the 33 patients (three polyps and three ulcers). A history of gastrointestinal bleeding and/or inflammatory bowel disease was common. The bizarre stromal cells were usually distributed beneath the ulcerated mucosa or within granulation tissue. They stained strongly for vimentin in 20 of 23 cases. Some of the bizarre cells also stained for muscle specific actin (seven of 23 cases). The cells appear to be reactive fibroblasts or myofibroblasts. Follow-up information obtained on 24 of the 33 patients (including four of the six cases initially diagnosed as malignant) revealed 22 patients to be alive without evidence of a malignant neoplasm (average follow-up, 13 months). Two patients died of other causes. Correct recognition of these bizarre stromal cells in gastrointestinal ulcers and inflammatory polyps will prevent a potentially serious diagnostic pitfall. 
Primary sclerosing cholangitis. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a rare disease of unknown etiology. Sclerosis of the bile ducts may actually be the final result of multiple factors such as autoimmune, bacterial, congenital, drug, or viral injury. The most commonly associated diseases are ulcerative colitis and chronic pancreatitis. Except in the earliest stages of the disease, liver histologic findings are not specific. Most patients present with jaundice, pain, and pruritus, although an increasing number of asymptomatic patients with inflammatory bowel disease and abnormal liver function are being identified. Cholangiography is key to the diagnosis and is usually pathognomonic except in the unusual case where primary sclerosing cholangitis is confused with cholangiocarcinoma. Many forms of medical therapy have been tried, including antibiotics, azathioprine, cholestyramine, colchicine, cyclosporine, D-penicillamine, steroids, and ursodeoxycholic acid. To date, none of these medications has been proved to alter the course of this disease. Recent reports of ursodeoxycholic acid trials have been encouraging, but long-term results of ongoing randomized trials have yet to be published. In recent years, balloon dilatation of biliary strictures has been accomplished via endoscopic and percutaneous transhepatic approaches. However, in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis, these nonoperative manipulations must be done repeatedly, may entail multiple general anesthetics, and are difficult to perform. We believe that a direct surgical approach to the biliary tree with long-term transhepatic stenting is indicated in selected patients with severe hilar or extrahepatic stricturing, persistent jaundice or recurrent cholangitis, and no evidence of cirrhosis. Hepatic transplantation should be reserved for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis who have well-established cirrhosis and have not responded to other therapeutic measures. 
The vagus nerve, gastric secretions, and their relationship to peptic ulcer disease. Although peptic ulcer disease was known to the ancients, the process by which the disease was produced remained a mystery. As advances were made in medicine and science, so too were advances made in the understanding of digestion and gastrointestinal disease. The treatment of peptic ulcer disease improved as our understanding of the digestive process grew. The current surgical treatment for peptic ulcer disease follows the principals articulated by Lester R. Dragstedt, MD, PhD, which he based on his observations in the research laboratory. We present a historical perspective of the role of the vagus nerve in the control of gastric secretions and its relationship to peptic ulcer disease, placing particular emphasis on Dragstedt's contributions. 
Requirement of endogenous tumor necrosis factor/cachectin for recovery from experimental peritonitis. By intrasplenic immunization we raised a rat mAb (mAb V1q; IgG2a, kappa) with a potent neutralizing activity against natural mouse TNF (1 microgram/ml mAb V1q/100 U/ml TNF). mAb V1q was used to study the role of endogenous TNF in experimental peritonitis induced by sublethal cecal ligation and puncture. mAb V1q persisted for over 5 days in the serum of mice injected with 100 micrograms of the antibody and, therefore, proved useful for in vivo experiments. As little as 20 micrograms mAb V1q/mouse prevented lethal shock of the animals by 400 micrograms LPS/mouse. In sublethal cecal ligation and puncture i.p. injection of mAb V1q directly and up to 8 h after induction of experimental peritonitis lead to death of the animals within 1 to 3 days. The lethal effect of mAb V1q was compensated by injection of recombinant mouse TNF. Similar mAb V1q effects as in immunocompetent mice were shown in severe combined immune deficiency mice deficient of mature functional B and T cells. Taken together, these data suggest that during the early phase of peritonitis endogenous TNF may stimulate nonlymphoid cells such as granulocytes, macrophages, platelets, and fibroblasts to ingest bacteria and to localize inflammation, respectively. These beneficial effects of TNF may determine survival. Thus, our data may have implications for the therapeutic management of a beginning peritonitis. 
Isoenzyme profiles of four strains of Giardia lamblia and their infectivity to jirds. The infectivity to jirds (Meriones unguiculatus) and the cyst excretion pattern of a recently isolated strain of Giardia lamblia from Egypt, Strain CDC:1088:1 (EGY), were compared to those of three well-established strains. All five jirds inoculated orally with strain UNO:0487:1 (UNO) became infected and began excreting cysts 3-6 days post-infection (dpi); no cysts were detected between 8-12 dpi after which time cysts were produced through day 19. Four of the five jirds infected with Strain ATCC:30957 (WB) and three of the five jirds infected with strain CDC:0284:1 (VA) excreted cysts from 6-20 dpi and 6-22 dpi, respectively. One of five jirds inoculated with EGY excreted cysts on 8 dpi only. At necropsy, trophozoites were recovered from only three UNO-infected jirds but from all WB- and VA-infected jirds that excreted cysts. The one jird which excreted cysts of EGY was negative at necropsy, but EGY trophozoites were found in one non-patient jird. Isoelectric focusing indicated that these four strains of G. lamblia represented three zymodemes. WB and VA were assigned to one zymodeme, EGY to a second, and UNO, which shared common bands with both other zymodemes, to the third. Although the similarities and differences in infectivity and cyst excretion patterns appear to coincide with the zymodemes to which the strains can be assigned, further study is needed to examine the parasitologic behavior of these strains in relation to isoenzyme patterns. 
Biliary cholesterol transport and precipitation: introduction and overview of conference. Cholesterol is secreted into bile as cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles. The cholesterol and phospholipid are subsequently exposed to the bile salts contained in the bile, which leads to the process of micellation. Two situations may arise depending on whether there is enough bile salt in proportion to cholesterol to complete this "maturation" process. If the cholesterol saturation is low, at equilibrium the bile salts will have completely micellized the vesicles. On the other hand, if bile is saturated with cholesterol, the micellation process is incomplete and vesicles and micelles will be present at equilibrium. The residual vesicle in this latter situation may have a higher cholesterol/phospholipid ratio because of the greater propensity of phospholipid to be micellized. This situation may result in cholesterol nucleation. The mechanism of nucleation from vesicles and the possible role of nucleating and antinucleating proteins in this process have been discussed. 
Unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function A 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the US Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Virginia. These abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period, and an extensive workup, including viral serologic studies, rapid plasma reagin test, iron studies, ceruloplasmin, antimitochondrial, antinuclear, and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and liver biopsy, was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge. The patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis. The liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin. Syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities, even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis. 
Variants of intestinal metaplasia in the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. A follow up study. A follow up study with biopsy was initiated in 1982 to define the relations between variants of intestinal metaplasia and the evolution of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric ulcer. All patients (58 with chronic atrophic gastritis and 66 with gastric ulcer) had intestinal metaplasia at the start of the study. In the six year period to 1988 a total of 241 biopsies were performed on the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis and 243 on the patients with gastric ulcer. Initially, 81% of the patients with chronic atrophic gastritis presented with type I intestinal metaplasia and 14% with type III intestinal metaplasia. During follow up type I was predominant, often associated with grades 2 and 3 active disease (81%) and 45% of these patients reverted to a non-intestinal metaplasia status by the third year of follow up. In contrast, type III metaplasia was more common in the absence of appreciable inflammation (78% of biopsy specimens), being persistent in five of seven patients in the third year of follow up, and was found to be associated with dysplasia in three of these patients. Similarly, the initial biopsy specimen showed type I metaplasia in most patients with gastric ulcer (82%) and type III in only 4%. Type I metaplasia was also predominant in these patients (80%), particularly in active disease (68%), gradually regressing with healing. In contrast, type III was associated with delayed ulcer healing and reactivation (75%; six of eight patients). 
Susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis: human leukocyte antigens DR4 and A1-B8-DR3 are independent risk factors. After nearly 18 years of research, the association between human leukocyte antigens A1-B8-DR3 and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis still provokes debate. The principal reasons for this are disease heterogeneity and racial variation in the distribution of human leukocyte antigens between populations. The aim of the present study was to reexamine the relationship between these antigens and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in a well-characterized series of patients. Ninety-six outpatients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and an additional 14 referred for liver transplantation with end-stage autoimmune chronic active hepatitis were studied. Human leukocyte antigen frequencies were compared with those of 100 racially and geographically matched controls. The A1-B8-DR3 haplotype was present in 38% of patients compared with 11% of controls (chi 2 = 20.6, p less than 0.0005). When all the DR3-positive patients were eliminated, there was a striking secondary association with DR4; 35 (80%) of 44 remaining patients were DR4 positive compared with 31 (39%) of 79 DR3-negative controls (Fisher's exact probability test p = 0.000031, pc = 0.0013). In addition patients with A1-B8-DR3 are seen at a significantly younger age than those without (39.75 yr vs. 48.21 yr, p less than 0.025), relapse more frequently (52% of patients with A1-B8-DR3 relapsed on one or more occasions compared with 34% of patients without this haplotype) and are more frequently referred for liver transplantation. These data indicate for the first time that two genes within the major histocompatibility complex closely linked to the DR3 and DR4 genes independently confer susceptibility to autoimmune chronic active hepatitis. 
Cryptosporidium infection in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: not always a poor prognosis. Chronic diarrhea and malabsorption accompanied by simultaneous infection with the protozoa Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium occurred in a 22-year-old homosexual man with antibody to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Small bowel biopsy demonstrated total villous atrophy and marked mononuclear infiltration in the lamina propria simulating celiac disease. Treatment with metronidazole resulted in resolution of diarrhea, clearance of parasites, and marked improvement in small bowel histology. Although diarrhea and malabsorption in immunocompromised patients with cryptosporidiosis are regarded as ominous, our patient remained disease free for the next 3 years. Thus, infection with Cryptosporidium in patients with HIV does not always lead to intractable diarrhea or death. 
Antibodies in anti-HBe-positive patient sera bind to an HBe protein expressed on the cell surface of human hepatoma cells: implications for virus clearance. The relevance of the recently described membrane-bound form of the HBe protein for the antiviral immune response was examined. The data show that antibodies in anti-HBe, but not in anti-HBc-positive human sera efficiently bind to the membrane expressed HBe. No evidence was obtained that the HBc can reach the cell surface in a form that can be detected with human antibodies. The findings suggest that the decline of virus titer that is usually observed after seroconversion from HBe to anti-HBe might be the result of an antibody-mediated elimination of infected cells. 
Limitations in the evaluation of therapy in inflammatory bowel disease: suggestions for future research. The current treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), though improved over earlier therapies, remains variable rather than consistent and supportive rather than curative. The similar management of ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), which are thought to be differing though related disorders, suggests that therapy is nonspecific. The variation in therapeutic practices results from the fact that the etiologies of the diseases are obscure, from limited knowledge of the biological and pharmacological actions of drugs commonly prescribed (sulfasalazine, 5-ASA compounds, steroids, 6-MP and azathioprine), from an inadequate understanding of genetic differences influencing drug metabolism, from insufficient awareness of the factors influencing drug efficiency (concurrent use of antimotility drugs, cigarette smoking, food combinations), from the variability of the patient groups studied (extent and severity of disease), and from incomplete documentation of the clinical status of patients at the time of therapeutic trial. Future advances in treatment will depend on gaining new information about the nature of IBD and of drug pharmacology and bioavailability, derived from collaborative studies by clinicians, clinical investigators, and basic scientists. Important areas for IBD research include the biology of intestinal epithelium, the nature of the IBD inflammatory reaction and of gut mucosal immune regulation (via the application of new biotechnologies) and more representative experimental animal models. Decisive multicenter therapeutic studies require agreement on definitions of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, accurate characterization of patient groups, acceptable objective criteria of IBD severity and activity, and reliable indicators of therapeutic response. 
Incidence of gallstones in a Danish population. Five-year incidence of gallstone disease was assessed by ultrasonography in an age- and sex-stratified random population of Danish origin aged 30, 40, 50, and 60 years. The response rate was 82.8% (2987/3608). Nonrespondents did not differ from respondents regarding variables concerning gallstone disease. The 5-year incidence of gallstone disease in men aged 30, 40, 50, and 60 years was 0.3%, 2.9%, 2.5%, and 3.3%. Corresponding figures in women were 1.4%, 3.6%, 3.1%, and 3.7%. The incidence of gallstones was significantly higher in subjects aged 45 years or more compared with those aged 35 years. The sex difference in gallstone incidence decreased with increasing age. A significantly higher incidence of gallstone disease was found among subjects with former polyps in the gallbladder. Spontaneous disappearance of gallstones was seen in 4.5%. 
Putative mechanisms of cytoprotective effect of certain antacids and sucralfate. An investigation of cytoprotective activity of certain antacids and inert particles was carried out by treating ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in rats in order to clarify possible mechanisms by which aluminum-containing antacids act. Al(OH)3 inhibited gastric mucosal damage in a dose-related and time-dependent manner. Neither aluminum ions themselves nor the particle size of the Al(OH)3 complex were responsible for the observed cytoprotection, since neither AlCl3, chemically inert Al2O3*C, nor sea sand showed protective effects. Hyperosmolality in the gastric lumen was not a deciding factor in inducing cytoprotection. Silicic acid and titanium dioxide, with superficial charge similar to Al(OH)3 proved to be effective in inhibiting gastric hemorrhagic lesions and releasing PGE2, suggesting that the surface charge of Al(OH)3 may be important in its cytoprotective properties. The same may also be valid for sucralfate. Since antacid-induced cytoprotection was only partly reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin, it is likely that additional mechanisms and mediators other than prostaglandins, such as nonprotein sulfhydryls, also are involved in gastric cytoprotection arising from aluminum-containing antacids. 
Outpatient laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy has been performed clinically in the United States since 1988. After refinement of the technique, the procedure was offered on an outpatient basis. Eighty-three patients underwent laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy during the study period. Thirty-seven (45%) had the procedure as an outpatient. Younger patients were more suited for the outpatient procedure and those without previous surgery were more likely to have the procedure done as an outpatient. Weight, operating time, and gallbladder pathology were similar, although patients with acute inflammation of the gallbladder were more likely to require hospitalization. The primary reason for patient admission was patient preference. 
Chylous ascites due to sarcoidosis. A 33-yr-old black female with systemic sarcoidosis developed chylous ascites. A CT scan showed extensive mesenteric lymphadenopathy. At laparotomy, the mesenteric and para-aortic lymph nodes were enlarged and diffusely matted. Histologically, normal lymph node morphology was virtually replaced with noncaseating granulomas. Corticosteroids and dietary manipulations were unsuccessful in managing the ascites, and repeated large-volume paracentesis was necessary to provide symptomatic treatment. This is the first reported case of chylous ascites caused by sarcoidosis. 
Obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps. Obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies, including colon cancer. A case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in New York City to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps, a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer. Among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps (174 men and 127 women) and 506 control subjects (223 men and 283 women), an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women (odds ratio 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.0; for highest versus lowest quartile, linear trend P = .02). A nonsignificant trend was observed for men. The increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer. 
Volvulus of the colon. The charts of all patients with colonic volvulus at the University of Louisville Hospitals between 1983 and 1988 were reviewed. A total of 45 patients were identified, and there were 17 with cecal volvulus and 29 with sigmoid volvulus (1 had both). Two-thirds of the patients were either demented, bedridden, or used constipating drugs. Initial nonoperative decompression was achieved in 26 of 29 patients with sigmoid volvulus but in only three of nine patients in which it was attempted with cecal volvulus. Two of these recurred, and 16 of the 17 cecal volvulus patients underwent operation. One-third of the sigmoid volvulus patients had at least one recurrent episode on the index admission. Fourteen of the 29 had an operation, and half of these patients died following surgery. Fifteen sigmoid volvulus patients chosen to be treated with successive nonoperative treatment had no mortality. Mortality was higher following emergent (4 of 5) than elective (2 of 9) operation for sigmoid volvulus, and one of three died after operation for a successfully decompressed first episode. Mortality for nonoperative reduction of an early recurrence was zero of four patients, while operative mortality for recurrence was two of seven (all had successful preoperative deflation). There was no mortality or recurrence in four patients with cecal volvulus treated by cecopexy alone, but all three patients died in whom tube cecostomy was performed. Two of nine patients died following right hemicolectomy. These data suggest that if an elective operation is to be performed for sigmoid volvulus, it should be done following one or more recurrences and that nonoperative decompression can be safely performed on successive occasions. 
Host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat. Animals, chronically treated with alcohol, were inoculated with mycobacteria (bacillus Calmette-Guerin, 10.2 x 10(6) organisms) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis. Before infection, chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin, 71.7% of baseline (P = 0.009). Mycobacterial (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417% of baseline in controls and 299% in alcoholics (P less than 0.001). The hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas (mean +/- SEM, 81.2 +/- 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 +/- 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls; P less than 0.001). These changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver (54.5 +/- 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 +/- 1.83 in controls; P = 0.0006). This model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver. 
Rectal examination in patients with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen OBJECTIVE--To determine whether rectal examination provides any diagnostic information in patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. DESIGN--Casualty officer or surgical registrar recorded symptoms and signs on admission on detailed forms. Final diagnosis was noted on discharge from hospital. SETTING--District general hospital. PATIENTS--1204 Consecutive patients admitted to hospital with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen as their major complaint; 1028 had a rectal examination on admission. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Odds ratio for each symptom and sign related to final diagnosis. Results of multiple logistic regression analysis for acute appendicitis. RESULTS--Right sided rectal tenderness, present in 309 of those examined, was more common in patients with acute appendicitis (odds ratio 1.34, p less than 0.05). This odds ratio was considerably less than that for other clinical signs--namely, tenderness in the right lower quadrant (odds ratio 5.09), rebound tenderness (3.34), guarding (3.07), and muscular rigidity in the abdomen (5.03). In the logistic regression analysis of patients with acute appendicitis, when allowance was made for the presence or absence of rebound tenderness, rectal tenderness on the right lost its significance. Six patients had masses palpable rectally, of which three were palpable on abdominal examination; the other three patients had acute appendicitis. No other unexpected diagnoses were established, and no useful additional diagnostic information was obtained by routine rectal examination. CONCLUSION--If patients presenting with pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen are tested for rebound tenderness then rectal examination does not give any further diagnostic information. 
Immune complexes in the choroid plexus in liver cirrhosis. A histopathologic and immunofluorescence study of the choroid plexus was performed in 12 cases of liver cirrhosis (cirrhosis group) and in 20 patients who died of diseases with no evidence of liver or brain involvement, and in which renal disease and alcoholism were also excluded (control group). IgA, IgG, IgM, C3, and C1q were investigated by direct immunofluorescence technique. Positive immunofluorescence in the choroid plexus was found in 83.33% of the cirrhosis group. IgA and IgG were the immunoglobulins more frequently found. C3 was also commonly found. Histologic examination of the choroid plexus showed changes in 66.67% of the cirrhosis group characterized, mainly, by subepithelial deposition of a homogeneous, acidophilic, and periodic acid-Schiff-positive substance, with thickening of the epithelial basement membrane. In the control group, the immunofluorescence in the choroid plexus was negative in all cases and only two cases (10%) presented histopathologic changes of the choroid plexus with a pattern similar to that of the cirrhosis group. 
Pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis Pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients; 18 (60%) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 (33%) had multiple pulmonary symptoms. In 14 patients (47%), abnormalities were found on examination of the chest. In 16 chest roentgenograms (53%), there was at least 1 abnormality: right-sided pleural effusion (9 patients) and elevated right hemidiaphragm (8 patients) were the most common. All patients were treated with metronidazole (Flagyl) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease. Pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess. The clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis. Pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess. 
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for biliary stones. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is a noninvasive technique for treatment of patients with gallbladder and bile duct stones. Selected patients with gallbladder stones can be treated on an outpatient basis without general anesthesia and may return to full activity within 1 or 2 days. Stone-free rates of 40% to 60% at 6 months have been achieved in most reported series with minimal morbidity. Bile duct stone lithotripsy has achieved stone clearance in 80% of patients in whom conventional methods were unsuccessful and therefore constitutes a valuable second-line treatment for these patients. 
Nausea, vomiting, and retching. Although nausea, vomiting, and retching have plagued mankind since antiquity, limited attention has been given to the three symptoms as separate entities. Although knowledge of symptom occurrence is essential to practice, nurses must focus on patients' response or distress to the occurrence of symptoms. The differentiation of symptom occurrence and symptom distress of nausea, vomiting, and retching is critical to the management and self-care demands of patients and the enhancement of their quality of life. Basic research on patterns of these individual symptoms and their components promises to provide a more progressive and fruitful approach to the patient response to these symptoms. 
Complete jejunoileal necrosis due to torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. We have reported a case of small-bowel volvulus in which complete jejunoileal necrosis resulted from torsion of the superior mesenteric artery. This case was unusual not only because of the extent of necrosis but also because primary small-bowel volvulus is rare in adults. Despite nearly total small-bowel resection, the patient continues to do well 6 months postoperatively. 
Neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia associated with cytomegalovirus infection in twins. Prenatally acquired cytomegalovirus infection in twins was temporally associated with a discordant development of neonatal hepatitis and extrahepatic biliary atresia. This case presents evidence suggesting an association between perinatal cytomegalovirus infection and selected extrahepatic biliary atresia and neonatal hepatitis. Congenital cytomegalovirus infections and cytomegalovirus hepatitis are also discussed. 
Risk of cancer death in first-degree relatives of patients with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome (Lynch type II): a study of 130 kindreds in the United Kingdom. To estimate the relative risks of cancer in first-degree relatives of index patients, 130 pedigrees of dominantly inherited Lynch type II cancer family syndrome have been analysed. The risk of death from all causes was significantly increased in women over 45 years of age and the overall liability to cancer in women was greater than for men. A sevenfold increase in risk of colon cancer was found in both sexes. In female relatives the risk of breast cancer was increased fivefold and lifetime risk of breast cancer was 1 in 3.7. A screening programme based on estimated risks could be offered to first-degree relatives of index patients with Lynch type II cancer family syndrome. 
Neonatal diarrhea at a maternity hospital in Rangoon Between 1981 and 1986, 1,540 infants born at the Central Women's Hospital in Rangoon were transferred to the Sick Baby Unit because of diarrhea (15.4 per 1,000 live births). Rates among cesarean infants were five times as high as those of infants born vaginally (51.0 and 10.3 per 1000 live births, respectively). One hundred eighty-four of the infants with diarrhea died (case fatality rate = 12 percent). We conclude that neonatal diarrhea is endemic in this large maternity hospital in Burma, and that control efforts should be targeted especially to cesarean and low birthweight infants. 
Endoscopic cholangiopancreatography in hepatic clonorchiasis--a follow-up study. Cholangiographic changes of the biliary system in 16 patients with proven hepatic clonorchiasis, diagnosed by positive stool or bile ova isolates, were studied. All patients presented with epigastric pain. Other symptoms included jaundice in 31% (5 of 16) and fever in 12.5% (2 of 16). Praziquantel given at 25 mg/kg for three doses in 1 day were administered. Three consecutive stool tests were performed 3 months after treatment and were negative in 87.5% (14 of 16). ERCP studies were repeated at a mean interval of 31.6 months (range, 8 to 69 months). Measurements of the bile ducts on retrograde cholangiograms before and after treatment were compared using the paired Student's t test. Filling defects and blunting of the terminal bile ducts seen on the initial cholangiogram, interpreted as the presence of adult worms, disappeared after treatment. However, there was no significant change between pre- and post-treatment measurement of bile duct caliber. Bile duct dilation, irregularities, and ductal proliferation persisted despite eradication of the parasite. 
Hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia: a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy. The pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes. It has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow, hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important. We have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the Polycythemia Vera Study Group. Cirrhosis was present in seven patients, one of whom had bleeding varices. Esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis (seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia). All of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi. Nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6% and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions. Thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites, seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis. Ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches. No correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension. We conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy. These portal vein lesions, and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension, are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders. 
Interventional gallbladder procedures. Interventional radiologic procedures in the gallbladder are influencing both the diagnosis and therapy of many gallbladder disorders. Current diagnostic and therapeutic percutaneous techniques offer important alternatives for their management. This article highlights the spectrum of interventional radiologic techniques available for gallbladder diseases. 
Relation of Helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa in chronic gastritis of the antrum. The spatial relations between bacteria and the affected tissues can indicate pathogenic mechanisms. This study was undertaken to define the spatial relation of Helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa. Antibodies against gastric mucus and ruthenium red were used to stabilise the glycoprotein structure of the mucus and glycocalyces in antral biopsy specimens from eight patients infected with H pylori. The location of organisms and ultrastructural features were assessed using systematic scanning and transmission electron microscopy: 92 (2)% (mean (SE] of H pylori were in the pit mucus, and 7 (3)% were in the surface mucus; 60 (12)% of H pylori were close to epithelial cells, with only 5 (2)% located near the epithelial intercellular junctions. Fine filamentous strands extended between organisms and nearby epithelial cells, with few organisms in membrane to membrane contact. H pylori were not observed between, beneath, or within cells of the gastric mucosa. The preferred location of H pylori in the gastric antrum is within the pit mucus close to the epithelial cell surface, with no evidence that they have a direct toxic effect on the mucosa. 
The effectiveness of double-gloving in otolaryngology. Thirty-four sets of consecutively used double gloves (68 pairs) used by otolaryngologists and their assistants in operations known to have a high risk of glove punctures were studied. The perforation rates for the outer and inner layers were 35.3 and 8.8% respectively, indicating that a second set of gloves substantially improves the likelihood of maintaining an intact barrier between medical staff and patient. 
Histologic similarity of murine colonic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) to human colonic GVHD and inflammatory bowel disease. In a study designed to determine which T-cell subsets are involved in the development of murine graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a prospective histologic analysis of gastrointestinal involvement was performed. In C57BL/6JXDBA/2F1 (B6D2F1) recipients of DBA/2 donor spleen and bone marrow cells, the colonic histologic findings were found to be similar in many respects to the histologic findings reported in human colonic GVHD and were much more severe and diffuse than were the abnormalities of the small intestine. Host irradiation before transplantation was found to play an additive or synergistic role in the development of GVHD. Furthermore the histologic features noted in DBA/2----B6D2F1 murine colonic GVHD suggest that bone marrow and spleen cell transplantation in this strain combination may be a useful model for studying the immunologic mechanisms involved in human inflammatory bowel disease. Thus severe colonic disease noted during the course of DBA/2----B6D2F1 murine GVHD was found to have significant histopathologic similarities to both human GVHD enteropathy and other inflammatory diseases of the human colon. 
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV: diagnosis and therapy of associated bowel perforation. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV is a heritable disease of type III collagen metabolism. This diagnosis is suspected in a patient with a combination of clinical manifestations and family history, but it is confirmed only by culture of the patient's skin fibroblasts and demonstration of a defect in type III collagen metabolism. The disease may rarely present with spontaneous colonic perforation, a complication traditionally treated by primary closure of the perforated segment and creation of an end colostomy. Attempts at bowel reanastomosis have often resulted in repeated colon perforations. We present the first patient with Ehlers-Danlos type IV syndrome to develop a colon perforation proximal to an end colostomy, and discuss the surgical strategy to prevent recurrences of this and other postoperative complications associated with the syndrome. 
Prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. A controlled comparison. Cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time. These symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy. We compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen. Twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms. Patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later. Among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events, level of nausea, degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another. While not superior to prochlorperazine, transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting. Further evaluation of this approach is needed. 
The acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients. The records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population. Twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems. Presenting complaints, physical findings, and laboratory results were useful in various ways. However appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77% of patients. Although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems, including urinary tract infection and calculi, they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized. 
Raised urinary secretory IgA in chronic diarrhoea. Secretory IgA outputs in urine have been measured in 24 malnourished Gambian children who had been admitted to hospital with chronic diarrhoea and in 43 children from a rural Gambian village. Village children of poor nutritional state (less than or equal to 74% weight for age compared with the National Center for Health Statistics reference curve) had secretory IgA outputs that were only one third of those of better nourished individuals. In contrast, the patients with chronic diarrhoea had secretory IgA outputs that were significantly raised compared with village children, regardless of nutritional state. These results demonstrate that secretory IgA production in the urinary tract can be stimulated by intestinal disease, suggesting that malnourished children are able to mount a response to mucosal infection and supporting the hypothesis of a common secretory immune system. 
Endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy. Extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood, but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life. There is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients, and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving. A case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented, and the approach to such patients is discussed. 
Ascites increases the resting energy expenditure in liver cirrhosis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ascites on the energy metabolism of patients with liver cirrhosis. The resting energy expenditure was determined in 10 patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites of moderate or large volume. The resting energy expenditure measurement was performed using indirect calorimetry and the resting energy expenditure predictive value was calculated with the Harris-Benedict equation, both before and after removal of ascitic fluid by paracentesis. Metabolic stress factors were absent in all cases. After an interval of 11.2 +/- 7.7 days between measurements, a weight loss of 16.6 +/- 10.3 kg was observed with paracentesis. The resting energy expenditure measured by indirect calorimetry showed a statistically significant decrease from 1682 +/- 291 to 1523 +/- 240 kcal/day (P less than 0.005) after removal of ascites. The repeatability of our indirect calorimetry method only allowed for the analysis of the results in 4 of 10 patients in whom ascites removal produced a consistent decrease in resting energy expenditure. There were no statistically significant differences between the measurements obtained by indirect calorimetry and those provided by the Harris-Benedict equation, but the latter had a moderate reliability in predicting the real resting energy expenditure of every patient. Our results suggest that, far from being an inert volume, ascites may be associated, at least in some patients, with an increased resting energy expenditure and therefore accelerate the appearance of protein energy malnutrition with corresponding complications. 
Spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. We have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult. Immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention, epigastric tenderness, shock, and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture. The treatment is simple, but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid. 
Gallbladder perforation and bile leakage: percutaneous treatment. Three patients with spontaneous gallbladder perforation and one with an iatrogenic bile leak causing bile peritonitis were treated successfully by means of percutaneous catheter drainage. Three patients had cholelithiasis as the cause of perforation; the fourth patient had previously undergone gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether lavage and developed bile peritonitis a few hours after removal of the catheter. In three patients, a percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter provided successful decompression; in the fourth patient, drainage was performed with a percutaneous sump catheter in the subhepatic space adjacent to the gallbladder. No specific complications occurred. Follow-up was performed at 1, 12, 22, and 59 months, respectively. To date, one of the four patients has undergone elective cholecystectomy (1 month after drainage). The remainder of the patients are asymptomatic. This preliminary experience suggests that the severe complication of gallbladder perforation and bile leakage may be treated, at least temporarily, by means of percutaneous drainage. 
Endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse. The recognized endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse are reviewed on an organ by organ basis. The organ systems for which the most information is available (liver, heart, brain) are presented first followed by those where the information base is less. 
Vaccination against hepatitis B and protection against chronic viral carriage in The Gambia. 358 children in the Gambian villages of Keneba and Manduar, where hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is endemic, were vaccinated with plasma-derived vaccine against HBV according to one of four regimens and followed for up to 4 years. Two regimens by which vaccine was injected intradermally into children between 0 and 4 years old led to peak geometric mean (95% CI) concentrations of antibody against HBV surface antigen of 270 (202-358) and 555 (418-748) mlU/ml. The third regimen--intramuscular vaccination of children aged between 0 and 4 years--gave geometric mean peak antibody concentrations of 926 (765-1122) mlU/ml. A fourth regimen was intramuscular vaccination of children between 1 and 9 months old, which gave geometric mean antibody concentrations of 5431 (3903-75,456) mlU/ml. Despite these widely divergent responses and a 89% decay in antibody over the first 2 years, vaccination against HBV was 97% effective in preventing chronic infection. Vaccination was less effective in preventing uncomplicated infection: 5.3% of 264 vaccinees in Keneba and 19.1% of 94 vaccinees in Manduar tested positive for antibody to HBV core antigen. These "breakthrough infections" did not differ in frequency between regimens, and were associated with low initial antibody responses and chronic maternal carriage of HBV. 
Hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent Helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis. We report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms, hyperplastic gastric polyps, and active chronic gastritis. Biopsies retrospectively stained with Giemsa revealed the persistent presence of Helicobacter pylori (HP) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr. After treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate, both became asymptomatic, one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the HP. These cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with HP and active gastritis. 
Helicobacter pylori infection: a simplified diagnostic approach. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic finding of nodular antritis and rapid urease test (RUT) in order to simplify the approach to the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Forty-four consecutive patients (mean age 7.9 yr, range 6-13 yr) referred because of recurrent abdominal pain as the main symptom, were prospectively investigated for the presence of H. pylori. H. pylori positivity or negativity was defined as the concordance of two of the following tests: RUT, microbiologic culture, and histologic examination on bioptic samples. RUT sensitivity was 100%, whereas specificity was 87.5%. The presence of nodular antritis had a sensitivity of 96.4% and specificity of 87.5% in H. pylori infection diagnosis. The predictivity value of combined RUT and nodular antritis, whether positive or negative, was 100%. Only in case of discordance do we suggest the utilization of other expensive tools for diagnosis of H. pylori infection. 
Endoscopic assessment of chloroquine phosphate-induced damage to esophageal, gastric, and duodenal mucosa. Eighteen patients with Plasmodium vivax malaria were prospectively evaluated to assess the time of onset and extent of upper gastrointestinal mucosal injury caused by oral administration of four tablets (600-mg base) of chloroquine. Endoscopy was performed in the group of three separate patients. Each patient underwent endoscopy, both before the drug was given, and at intervals of 1, 2, 4, 12, 24, and 36 h. Before the drug was given, endoscopy was normal in all of the patients. However, mucosal erosions developed in four of 18 patients who were endoscoped 24 and 36 h after chloroquine ingestion (gastric, four; duodenal, two; esophageal, one). The same doses of chloroquine failed to produce any mucosal lesions when given to these four patients while they were afebrile and when given to 11 healthy individuals who served as controls. Poor correlation was noted between subjective symptoms and endoscopic findings. In conclusion, neither malaria alone nor chloroquine alone causes mucosal lesions. However, chloroquine administered during malarial fever causes mucosal damage in susceptible individuals. 
Late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass. Esophageal obstruction by malignancy, chemical burns, or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon. Either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus, colon interposition is often the best available option. Massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier, respectively. 
Effects of treadmill exercise on fuel metabolism in hepatic cirrhosis. We studied whole body and regional fuel metabolism before, during, and after 90 min of treadmill exercise at 50% of maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) in four subjects with hepatic cirrhosis and in four normal volunteers. Rates of endogenous glucose production (EGP) were measured using D-[6-3H]glucose infusions and fuel oxidation using indirect calorimetry. In the basal state, cirrhotic subjects had similar rates of EGP compared with controls. Forearm release of alanine and lactate was significantly greater in cirrhotic subjects (P less than 0.05), suggesting increased basal rates of gluconeogenesis. During exercise, EGP increased 2- to 2.5-fold in control subjects (P less than 0.01) but did not increase in cirrhotic subjects. Despite lower glucose concentrations in cirrhotic subjects, progressive hypoglycemia did not occur during exercise, probably because cirrhotic subjects demonstrated increased plasma concentrations of fat-derived substrates and derived a greater percentage of total energy requirement from fat oxidation than did controls (P less than 0.05) and because forearm muscle glucose extraction was significantly lower in cirrhotic subjects compared with controls (0.5 vs. 3.6%, respectively; P less than 0.05). During recovery, control subjects demonstrated significant increases in EGP rates compared with both the basal and exercise periods, but cirrhotic subjects showed no increase. In conclusion, cirrhotic subjects failed to demonstrate the normal increase in EGP during and after exercise. Significant hypoglycemia during exercise did not occur, possibly because of the increased availability of fat-derived fuels, which may spare the requirement for circulating glucose as an oxidative fuel for exercising muscle tissues. 
Primary solid neoplasms of the greater omentum. Primary solid tumors of the greater omentum are rare, with only 42 reported cases. Malignant hemangiopericytomas constitute only three of these cases. The 40-year-old patient described in this report had abdominal pain, a palpable abdominal mass, early satiety, and weight loss. At laparotomy a large omental hemangiopericytoma was excised, and no other evidence of disease was grossly evident. Eighteen months after initial laparotomy, the patient had widespread progression of the tumor and, despite chemotherapy, died 2 months later. A review of reported cases shows that abdominal discomfort (56%) and mass (35%) are the most common clinical characteristics of a primary omental tumor. Weight loss, ascites, and peritoneal implants usually indicate malignancy. Rare long-term follow-up prevents definitive conclusions regarding therapy and prognosis. At present, surgical excision alone appears to be the treatment of choice, with no demonstrable benefit from either chemotherapy or radiation. 
Human hepatic regenerative stimulator substance: partial purification and biological characterization of hepatic stimulator substance from human fetal liver cells. Current support or replacement therapies for fulminant acute hepatic failure are frequently very disappointing. In this study, human hepatic stimulator substance--a liver-specific growth factor--was partially purified from human fetal liver cells and characterized by its biological effects. Almost 70-fold protein content was purified with an approximately 80-fold increase in specific growth stimulator activity. Human hepatic stimulator substance proved to be heat-stable, protease-sensitive, organ-specific and species-nonspecific. Human hepatic stimulator substance produced a two- to threefold increase of 3H-thymidine incorporation into hepatic DNA when injected intraperitoneally into growing weanling mice (nonhepatectomized) or regenerating rats (34% hepatectomy). The effects of hHSS in reversing the lethality of D-galactosamine (1.6 gm/kg body weight)-induced hepatic necrosis in rats were further evaluated. A survival rate of 4% (n = 24), 41% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 33% (n = 12, p less than 0.05), 31% (n = 13, p less than 0.05) and 18% (n = 11, p greater than 0.05) was observed when the rats were injected with 4 ml of saline intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human intact fetal hepatocytes (2.4 x 10(8] intraperitoneally, 4 ml of human hepatic stimulator substance intraperitoneally, 2 ml of twofold concentrated human hepatic stimulator substance intravenously and 1 ml of fourfold human hepatic stimulator substance intramuscularly, respectively, 20 hr after poisoning. 
Prune belly syndrome in females: a triad of abdominal musculature deficiency and anomalies of the urinary and genital systems. We describe seven female patients with deficient abdominal wall musculature and urinary tract and genital anomalies that represent the female equivalent of the prune belly syndrome. Urethral atresia, uterine duplication, and anorectal anomalies occurred frequently. The perinatal mortality rate was high; of the four surviving patients, renal failure developed in two and renal transplantation was required. The analysis of these cases suggests that urethral obstruction is an important factor contributing to the development of the prune belly syndrome in females. 
Immunochemical studies of ferrochelatase protein: characterization of the normal and mutant protein in bovine and human protoporphyria. Protoporphyria is a hereditary disorder characterized by a marked decrease in the activity of ferrochelatase, the terminal enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. We have prepared specific polyvalent antibodies against bovine ferrochelatase in rabbits. The specificity of the antibody preparation against ferrochelatase was demonstrated by western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation of ferrochelatase activity. The antibody also cross-reacted weakly with ferrochelatase from human mitochondria. To quantify immunoreactive ferrochelatase in tissue samples, a kinetic-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (k-ELISA) was developed. Ferrochelatase activity and the level of immunoreactive protein were measured in hepatic mitochondria isolated from six normal and nine protoporphyric (homozygous) cattle. Ferrochelatase activity was less than 10% of normal in mitochondria from protoporphyric animals; the amount of immunoreactive material was equivalent to that from normal animals. Similar studies were performed with samples from three normal and two protoporphyric (heterozygous) humans. Ferrochelatase activity was decreased in protoporphyric samples (about 17% of normal, but there was no concomitant decrease in immunoreactive material. These data demonstrate that a normal amount of ferrochelatase protein is present and suggest that bovine and human protoporphyria result from point mutations in the gene encoding ferrochelatase. 
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to previous use of analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Catalan Countries Study on Upper Gastrointestinal Bleeding To assess the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with the use of individual non-narcotic analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), a multicentre study of 875 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and 2682 hospital controls was done. With control for confounding factors, the overall odds ratio estimate for aspirin taken at least once during the week before the first symptom was 7.2 (95% confidence interval 5.4-9.6). Non-aspirin NSAIDs associated with upper gastrointestinal bleeding were diclofenac (7.9 [4.3-14.6]), indomethacin (4.9 [2.0-12.2]), naproxen (6.5 [2.2-19.6]), and piroxicam (19.1 [8.2-44.3]). Paracetamol, propyphenazone, and dipyrone did not increase the risk. A previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding or peptic ulcer did not greatly affect odds ratio estimates, which differed according to sex and were higher for younger than for older patients. However, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was higher among the elderly. 
Early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections: clinical and serological study. OBJECTIVE--To find out whether a 10-14 days' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics. DESIGN--Prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics. Patients were seen at three and six weeks and three, six, nine, 12, and 18 months after their first visit. SETTING--Departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in Linkoping, Malmo, and Stockholm, Sweden. PATIENTS--40 Consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks. INTERVENTIONS--20 Patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics. All patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks' observation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using Ritchies' index; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity; serum IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody titres; HLA tissue type. RESULTS--No difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis, grade of inflammation, and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics. Furthermore, there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin, IgG, and IgA concentrations. All values had returned to normal within three months. No patient developed chronic arthritis, but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients. The HLA-B27 antigen was found in 23 (58%) of the patients, and its presence did not affect clinical outcome. The IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated. CONCLUSION--Short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection. 
Computed tomographic and ultrasonographic findings in women with acute fatty liver of pregnancy. Acute fatty liver of pregnancy is associated with complications that can influence antepartum management and necessitate delivery. To date, liver biopsy has been regarded as the "gold standard" for diagnosis. Radiologic evaluation of the liver has been suggested as a less invasive means of diagnosing this entity. Five patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy underwent ultrasonography; three underwent concomitant computed tomography (CT) of the liver. The liver appeared to be normal in all the patients undergoing CT evaluation and all undergoing ultrasonography except one. Normal liver examinations are not unusual findings in patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy. 
Hepatic histological findings after transplantation for chronic hepatitis B virus infection, including a unique pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. Long-term follow-up of 27 patients with hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver disease treated by transplantation showed that 23 had hepatitis B virus recurrence. In 13 patients late changes in the grafts were similar to those described in other series: minor abnormalities in five cases, chronic active hepatitis in five cases and non-hepatitis B virus-related graft dysfunction in three cases. Three patients had incomplete histological follow-up. Analysis of the histological changes and viral antigen expression in six cases revealed a distinct and novel pattern termed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. Development of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis was associated with rapidly progressive graft dysfunction. It is postulated that this pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis develops because of a high cytoplasmic expression of viral antigens, including HBsAg. The remaining case had some features of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis. The main histological features of this unique syndrome include thin, perisinusoidal bands of fibrosis extending from portal tracts to surround plates of ductular-type epithelium; prominent cholestasis; ground-glass transformation; and ballooning of hepatocytes with cell loss and mild mixed inflammatory reaction. 
Acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula: report of 16 consecutive cases. Sixteen cases of acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula were treated in a 20-year period. A delay in diagnosis was usual, and most patients were first seen with a pulmonary infection already developed. Contrast esophageal x-ray studies established the diagnosis in all patients. There were seven esophagotracheal and nine esophagobronchial fistulas. A fistula between the esophageal diverticulum and a bronchus considered to be of inflammatory origin developed in 7 patients. A fistula as the consequence of trauma developed in 9 patients, and these fistulas were situated at a higher level of the respiratory tree. All patients underwent surgical treatment; in 12 it was definitive, and in 4 temporary gastrostomy was performed to improve nutrition before definite repair. The definitive repair consisted of eventual diverticulectomy, division of the fistula, and suture of both esophageal and respiratory defects. Two patients required esophageal resection and later reconstruction with colon interposition. One patient died, creating an operative mortality of 8.3% in the definitive-repair group. The remaining 11 patients had a gratifying long-term result. There were two deaths in the gastrostomy group due to an extremely poor condition of patients and debilitating pulmonary infection. Early diagnosis of this rare condition is necessary if severe pulmonary complications are to be avoided. Early direct repair gives excellent results. 
Supportive evidence for the validity of the epidemiologic necropsy for gallstones OBJECTIVE: The epidemiologic necropsy measures the occurrence of unsuspected disease through the examination of necropsy records of patients who died for other reasons. The estimates of unsuspected disease derived from the epidemiologic necropsy should approximate what actually occurs in the living population. DESIGN/SETTING: To test this hypothesis, all necropsy records of adult patients at the University of Kansas Medical Center from 1950 to 1984 were examined for the presence of gallstones. Patients with previous cholecystectomy or whose gallstones were diagnosed during life were excluded. The data were stratified by age and race and compared with those of a screening survey from Canada, a surgical series from New York, two screening surveys from Italy, and one from Denmark. The crude necropsy detection rates and the rates from the screening surveys were standardized to the 1970 federal census for Kansas City. RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: The standardized occurrence rates were similar and suggest that the epidemiologic necropsy accurately assesses the occurrence of asymptomatic gallstones in the living population, thus strengthening its validity as a research tool. 
Emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum: a prospective study. The reliability of ultrasonographic detection (US) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients. Independent of the examiner, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were, respectively, 86.7%, 100%, and 97.2%. Laparotomy was indicated in 76.9% of US hemoperitoneum-positive cases. No negative laparotomies were performed in this study group. If hemoperitoneum is revealed in US and vital signs are unstable, we think laparotomy is indicated. We believe that US in an emergency center is a quick, safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. US might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage. 
Relative frequencies of portosystemic pathways and renal shunt formation through the "posterior" gastric vein: portographic study in 460 patients. Percutaneous transhepatic portography was carried out in 460 patients with portal hypertension to study various collateral routes. Besides the left gastric vein, which was the most frequent collateral route and feeder of esophageal varices, a distinct vein located between the left gastric vein and the short gastric vein constituted a major collateral route in 191 patients (42%). In terms of frequency, this vein was more significant than the short gastric (34%) and the paraumbilical vein (24%) as a collateral route. We propose that this previously anonymous vein be called the "posterior gastric" vein because it runs posterior to the stomach. This vein also formed a renal shunt, a common cause of encephalopathy, in 43 (23%) of the 191 patients; the relative frequency of renal shunt formation by this vein was significantly greater than that by the left gastric vein (12%) and the short gastric vein (18%). 
Duodenogastric reflux and gastric histology after cholecystectomy with or without sphincteroplasty. Sixteen patients who had undergone cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty, 14 cholecystectomized patients and ten control patients were studied to evaluate whether differences existed in duodenogastric reflux and whether these were related to morphological damage of the gastric mucosa. Duodenogastric bile reflux during fasting was evaluated by measuring the concentration of total bile acids (by an enzymatic method) and single bile acids in the gastric juice by high performance liquid chromatography. The damage was evaluated histologically by systematic endoscopic biopsy of the antrum and body of the stomach. There was a statistically significant difference in fasting bile reflux between the three groups (Kruskal-Wallis test, P less than 0.001), and the group that underwent cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty had a significantly higher median value than the cholecystectomized group (P less than 0.05) and the control group (P less than 0.01). The distribution of chronic antral atrophic and superficial gastritis was different in the three groups (chi 2 test, P less than 0.005). Chronic atrophic gastritis was associated with cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty (P less than 0.01), while chronic superficial gastritis was more frequent in cholecystectomized patients. These results suggest that there may be more duodenogastric reflux after cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty than after cholecystectomy alone, and that there may be a correlation between the amount of duodenogastric reflux and the severity of mucosal damage. 
A controlled trial of beclomethasone versus betamethasone enemas in distal ulcerative colitis. Steroid enemas are widely used in distal inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). They are partly absorbed and suppress adrenocortical function. Beclomethasone dipropionate (BD) is a topically active steroid that undergoes rapid first-pass inactivation in the liver and is practically devoid of systemic side effects. We treated 32 consecutive patients with active distal ulcerative colitis (40 attacks) with 0.5 mg BD and/or 5 mg betamethasone phosphate (BP) enemas for 28 days. Clinical, laboratory, sigmoidoscopic, and histologic data were recorded before, during, and after the trial. The clinical efficacy of both treatments was similar. Betamethasone was slightly more effective in relation to the histologic improvement and disappearance of blood from the stools. Clinical signs of steroid overdosage were noted in patients on BP but not in patients on BD. Mean fasting plasma cortisol at the end of the trial was 2.9 micrograms/dl in the BP group and 15.3 micrograms/dl in the BD group. The adrenocorticotropin test was markedly suppressed in the BP group but not in the BD group. The absence of systemic steroid side effects makes BD enemas a useful addition in the therapy of IBD. Its oral administration should also be considered. 
Acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess: diagnostic dilemma. Rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom. This presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy, thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality. We report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess. 
Mechanical sutures in perforation of the thoracic esophagus as a safe procedure in patients seen late. Between 1976 and 1988, we treated 13 perforations of the thoracic esophagus, excluding ruptured carcinoma and intraoperative wounds, by mechanical sutures without exclusion. The delay between perforation and treatment ranged from eight to 168 hours, more than 24 hours in 11. The length of perforation was 0.5 to 15.0 centimeters. Suture was covered with a flap in ten instances; an antireflux procedure was associated with five instances. No digestive ostomies were performed. There was one death; a patient who was comatose upon arrival. The results of this small series suggest that myotomy exposing the mucosa and a flap are two essential elements of the technique; perforations of less than 6 centimeters, even when seen late, may be treated by primary surgical closure. 
Adult and pediatric peritonitis rates in a home dialysis program: comparison of continuous ambulatory and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis. We reviewed our 115-month experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD) in adult and pediatric patients to determine whether there is a difference in the incidence of peritonitis between patients performing CAPD or CCPD. Peritonitis rates were similar in patients performing CAPD or CCPD in both the adult and pediatric age groups. The overall CAPD peritonitis rate was significantly lower in adult patients when compared with pediatric patients. There was no difference in peritonitis rates for CCPD between adult and pediatric patients. When the data are divided into 3-year subgroups, the incidence of peritonitis is significantly lower in adult patients undergoing either CAPD or CCPD when compared with pediatric patients during the years 1986 to 1988. There is significant improvement over time in the incidence of peritonitis in both adult and pediatric patients performing CCPD; similarly, there is a trend toward improvement in patients performing CAPD. Staphylococcus species organisms remain the most common bacterial cause of peritonitis, except in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years or with nephrostomies, where gram-negative rod infections were more common. Peritonitis resulted in discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in a greater number of adult patients. These results suggest that the number of catheter manipulations is not important in determining the incidence of peritonitis. Pediatric patients are more likely than adult patients to develop peritonitis with either CAPD or CCPD. Adult patients are more likely than pediatric patients to discontinue peritoneal dialysis secondary to peritonitis. 
Spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma: a review of 172 Japanese cases. The spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 10% mortality of HCC patients in Japan. Because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries, it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a HCC. In an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment, we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a HCC reported in the Japanese literature. The chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain. Abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86% of the patients. Liver failure was the cause of death in 42% of the patients. Therefore, it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly. In addition, emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock. Although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12% of the cases, these had the highest survival rates. Consequently, this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a HCC. 
Rotavirus-specific antibody response in saliva of infants with rotavirus diarrhea. The reliability of saliva as an indicator of rotavirus infection was assessed among 15 infants (3-12 months) with rotaviral and 15 with nonrotaviral diarrhea. Paired salivary samples collected during acute and convalescent phases were tested for rotavirus-specific IgA and IgM by an ELISA. The sensitivity of IgA or IgM alone to predict infection was 53.3% and 46.6%, respectively; used in conjunction, the sensitivity rose to 80%. It seems that infants with rotaviral diarrhea mount mucosal antibody responses as reflected in their saliva; possibly salivary antibodies could be used to evaluate vaccine "take" in rotavirus vaccine trials. 
Methotrexate therapy for persistent ectopic pregnancy after conservative laparoscopic management. Persistent ectopic pregnancy is a recognized complication of conservative laparoscopic surgery. Three such cases were treated successfully with methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue. All three patients experienced mild lower abdominal pain for a maximum of 36 hours; no other adverse effects were noted. More experience with this therapy will be necessary before subsequent fertility rates can be determined. 
Alternate-day prednisone treatment and treatment maintenance in Crohn's disease. We have reviewed our data from 55 patients with Crohn's disease (CD) treated with alternate-day prednisone (average dose: 25 mg every other morning) between 1966 and 1989 for a mean duration of 6.6 yr. Daily divided corticosteroid doses were given to all patients with active disease that had not been responsive to supportive measures and, in almost all cases, not responsive to sulfasalazine alone. After initial remission was achieved, patients were switched to alternate-day doses. Treatment evaluations utilized global assessment and the CD activity index of Harvey and Bradshaw (CDAI-HB) shown to correlate closely with the National Cooperative Crohn's Disease Study (NCCDS) activity index (CDAI). CDAI-HB scores of 0-1 indicated no or minimal activity, whereas scores of 2-15 indicated progressive activity. With the CDAI-HB and global assessments, in agreement in all cases, 33 patients (60%) showed favorable responses with 95% confidence intervals (CI) of 46.8 to 73.2. Comparing the results with a literature-based 20% spontaneous long-term remission rate, the data are significant at p less than 0.01. Serious complications were gratifyingly low, with no observed instances of osteonecrosis. It is concluded that alternate-day prednisone treatment and treatment maintenance, with or without concomitant sulfasalazine, after conventional induction of remission with daily steroid doses, is a reasonable treatment option for patients with CD not responsive to sulfasalazine alone. 
Emergency surgical treatment for nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. Endoscopic and biochemical data were collected prospectively from 1,530 patients admitted with nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract between September 1985 and June 1989. Therapeutic endoscopy was done for 93 patients who underwent emergency surgical treatment for bleeding, subsequently required in 29 patients with seven postoperative fatalities. In contrast, 31 (15.7 per cent) of 198 patients (mortality rate of 9.6 per cent at 30 days) died in the hospital who had undergone emergency operation in whom therapeutic endoscopy had not been performed; data for this latter group is now presented. At admission, a greater likelihood of emergency operation was associated with a systolic blood pressure of 100 millimeters of mercury and endoscopic stigmatas of recent hemorrhage (ESRH) (p less than 0.001). Rebleeding rates for the presence of fresh blood, active spurting and oozing hemorrhage or visible vessel in an ulcer base were 26.5, 28.9 and 35.9 per cent, respectively. Endoscopic stigmatas were thus associated with an increased risk of bleeding (p less than 0.0001) and rebleeding led to a sixfold increase in the mortality rate. Congestive cardiac failure, chronic obstructive airway disease, chronic renal failure and a history of previous malignant disease were each associated with postoperative mortality rates of more than 50 per cent. An increased risk of mortality after emergency operation was related to age (p less than 0.0001), preoperative (p less than 0.002) and total (p less than 0.0001) blood transfusion requirement. Immediate operation after resuscitation and endoscopy was required in 87 patients; 11 deaths (hospital mortality rate of 12.7 per cent and 9.2 per cent at 30 days) occurred in this group compared with 20 fatalities (18.0 per cent) documented in 111 patients (9.9 per cent at 30 days) who underwent surgical treatment for rebleeding. We conclude that age, concomitant medical illness and preoperative and total transfusion requirements are each related to outcome after emergency operations. Such urgent intervention is best avoided if at all possible in patients with severe concomitant medical illness. 
Tuberculous peritonitis: a study comparing cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. Tuberculous peritonitis is a rare disease, which often goes unrecognized because of the subtle clinical clues and its insidous onset. We retrospectively analyzed the records of 37 cases of tuberculous peritonitis diagnosed over a 15-year period, and compared the clinical and diagnostic features of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients. In cirrhotic patients, tuberculous peritonitis can simulate ascites from liver disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. The diagnosis is difficult in these patients because the ascitic fluid may not be of the exudative type as a result of the low albumin level in serum, and lymphocytes do not predominate in all cases. Adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity in ascitic fluid was elevated (higher than 40 U/L) in all 11 patients (four patients with hepatic cirrhosis). The time required to achieve a correct diagnosis was significantly longer in cirrhotic than in noncirrhotic patients. The overall mortality was 13%, with deaths occurring exclusively among cirrhotic patients. We emphasize that tuberculous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients can present an atypical picture. A considerable element of suspicion is necessary. 
Refeeding of infants with acute diarrheal disease. The purpose of this study was to determine which infant formula among five would be the most efficacious for the refeeding of infants during an acute episode of diarrhea. Fifty male infants less than 12 months of age with severe diarrhea and at least 5% dehydration were admitted to a metabolic unit and studied in a prospective, single-blind protocol. Ten infants randomly received one of five types of formula: two-thirds diluted cow milk, cow milk formula (Nanon, Nestle, Inc., Sao Paulo, Brazil), Portagen, Pregestimil, or Prosobee (Mead Johnson & Co. Division, Evansville, Ind.). They continued to receive the same formula for 72 hours unless dehydration occurred. There were no associated infections, and they received no prior antibiotic treatment. Oral hydration together with intravenous fluid therapy was given to all patients during the initial treatment. During the first 72 hours of refeeding, patients fed Portagen excreted the least amount of stool and required reduced quantities of intravenous fluids or oral hydration. In contrast, patients fed diluted cow milk or any other formula had more severe diarrhea. Nine of the 10 patients fed Portagen completed the 72-hour treatment, whereas only 2 of 10 fed diluted cow milk tolerated it. Similarly, the cumulative proportions for high purging rate, dehydration, carbohydrate intolerance, and vomiting were more favorable for Portagen and least acceptable for diluted cow milk. No differences were found among the remaining three formulas tested. These data show that diluted cow milk is poorly tolerated by infants with severe diarrhea, whereas Portagen is more effective. 
Chilaiditi's syndrome. A diagnostic challenge. Chilaiditi's syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of abdominal and chest pain. Although interposition of the right colon is a relatively common radiologic finding, there is a distinct paucity of information in the medical literature. Chilaiditi's syndrome is usually asymptomatic, but when symptoms occur, conservative treatment is usually effective. Recognition is important because this syndrome can be mistaken for more serious abnormalities, which may lead to unnecessary surgical intervention. 
Current concepts of cholesterol transport and crystal formation in human bile. The presence of vesicles in human bile probably accounts almost entirely for the frequently observed, but hitherto unexplained, phenomenon of metastable cholesterol supersaturation. This, in turn, largely explains the prolonged stability of cholesterol solubilized in supersaturated human bile. Under certain overall compositional conditions for a supersaturated native bile, the vesicular phase in its contribution to total cholesterol transport also becomes supersaturated in cholesterol. Because of this, the vesicles also become unstable, leading to formation of cholesterol crystals. A simple but common example of one factor affecting composition in this way is concentration of total solutes, especially the biliary lipids. Conversely, dilution of bile (e.g., hepatic bile) markedly reduces the cholesterol saturation level in biliary vesicles. The result is that such vesicles become much more stable. Under these conditions, cholesterol crystal formation becomes unlikely and rarely, if ever, occurs. 
Peritoneal dialysis in the geriatric patient. Elderly patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis (CPD) from two large chronic peritoneal dialysis programs were compared with younger patients in regard to peritonitis rates, catheter problems, hospital days, transfers to other forms of therapy, and mortality. Peritonitis rates and organisms were similar in younger and older patients. Catheter replacements were less common in the elderly. Differences in hospital days were attributable to hospitalization for vascular disease. The elderly were more likely to have the first episode of peritonitis, to die and to change dialysis modalities at all times after the first year of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) treatment, although other than increased mortality, differences between the two groups were small. CPD appears to be an acceptable form of renal replacement therapy in the elderly. 
Ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis for preventing recurrence of surgically treated Crohn's disease. Long-term follow-up of six patients. To prevent coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection, an ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis was constructed in six patients with Crohn's disease. The patients were observed for more than 7 years and were compared with 21 Crohn patients in whom conventional end-to-end ileocolic anastomosis was performed during the same period. The outcome was more favorable in the group with nipple valve anastomosis, i.e., longer interval between surgery and symptomatic relapse, and tendency to less frequent recurrence and re-resection. An association was found between radiologically preserved nipple valve and remission, and two patients with intact valve at long-term follow-up remained symptom-free. The observations implied that protection of the terminal ileum from coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection for Crohn's disease may favorably influence the prognosis. 
Effect of epidermal growth factor in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole on the healing of chronic gastric ulcers in the rat. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been shown to enhance healing of experimental gastric ulcers when given subcutaneously or orally in the drinking water. This effect of EGF occurs without reducing gastric acid secretion. On the other hand, EGF reportedly is excreted rapidly from gastric lumen when administered by intragastric bolus. This suggests that further stimulation of ulcer healing may be expected if EGF is given with an acid-suppressive agent or with an agent allowing EGF to remain in rat gastric lumen at high concentrations. In the present study, EGF administered by gastric intubation at a dose of 10 micrograms/kg, which is three times smaller than reported in previous studies, was evaluated for its effect on acetic acid-induced rat gastric ulcers in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole. Sucralfate is well known selectively to bind proteins covering the ulcer base, and omeprazole is a potent acid-suppressive agent. Prior to the study of combined EGF and sucralfate, oral sucralfate was confirmed to allow endogenous gastric EGF and mouse EGF given exogenously to remain at high concentrations in gastric contents and tissues. EGF and sucralfate (2 g/kg/day) given alone failed to stimulate ulcer healing in submandibularectomized rats (SMR rat) whose endogenous gastric EGF was depleted. However, the combination of both drugs administered at the same doses significantly accelerated ulcer healing in the SMR rat. Omeprazole (200 mg/kg/day) significantly enhanced ulcer healing regardless of removal of the submandibular glands. The combination of EGF and omeprazole further stimulated ulcer healing in the SMR rat. 
Appendiceal carcinoma masquerading as primary bladder carcinoma. We report 2 cases of appendiceal adenocarcinoma invading the bladder. Both tumors masqueraded as primary bladder carcinomas. Cystoscopic biopsies obtained adenocarcinomatous tissue and the secondary nature of the bladder lesion became apparent at laparotomy in both cases. One patient was treated with surgical resection of the appendix, the adjacent cecal wall and the bladder wall, and postoperative irradiation. She was well 10 years later. The other patient was treated with right colectomy and segmental bladder resection. She died of diffuse peritoneal recurrence 6 years later. 
Use and misuse of oral therapy for diarrhea: comparison of US practices with American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations. To determine how closely US pediatricians follow the 1985 American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Nutrition's recommendations on oral therapy for acute diarrhea, a questionnaire was administered to four groups: New England private practitioners, pediatricians from 27 states attending a postgraduate course, representatives of departments of pediatrics at US schools of medicine, and housestaff at Boston Children's and Massachusetts General hospitals. The responses from departments of pediatrics and housestaff were not significantly different from those of community practitioners in most categories. The reported rate of use of glucose-electrolyte solutions recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics was not different from the use of nonphysiologic, high-osmolar, low-salt solutions such as sodas and juices. The usage rate for glucose-electrolyte solutions meeting the American Academy of Pediatrics-recommended carbohydrate-to-sodium ratio of less than 2:1 was less than 30%. Other findings included the general lack of agreement on the use of a single type of therapy and the common use of oral therapy only for mild or no dehydration. Although the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that feeding be reintroduced in the first 24 hours of a diarrheal episode, the majority of respondents withhold feeding until the second day or later. These findings indicate that educational programs on oral therapy during acute diarrhea are needed in the United States. 
Nonoperative management of bile duct stones. The treatment of choice for most retained bile duct stones is by nonoperative means. If a T-tube is in place, percutaneous techniques via the T-tract are indicated. Percutaneous access via puncture of a Roux-en-Y loop is also practical. In the absence of a T-tube, retrograde endoscopic techniques should be used. Both techniques are very effective and safe. Stones in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts also can be treated nonoperatively. Endoscopic sphincterotomy has a role in the treatment of selected patients with gallstone pancreatitis, acute cholangitis, and choledocholithiasis with in situ gallbladders. In difficult cases, endoscopic and percutaneous techniques are employed in combination. 
Chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms in Holocaust survivors. In Nazi-occupied Europe (1939-1945), Jews were submitted to extreme mental and physical hardships (the Holocaust). This study was designed to investigate the impact of the severe protracted suffering on the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptoms. Thus, we studied 623 consecutive patients of Eastern European origin who had been admitted for nongastrointestinal complaints. They filled out detailed questionnaires, and were divided into the following two groups: A) Holocaust survivors [237 subjects who had been for at least 6 months in either German concentration/extermination camps (95 subjects), ghetto and/or underground movements (65 subjects), labor camps not directly supervised by Germans (79 subjects)], and B) a control group (384 subjects from the same demographic background, who had not been exposed to Nazi persecutions). The symptoms investigated were the following: abdominal pain, irregular bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal distension, heartburn, flatulence, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, mucus in stool, tenesmus, and aerophagia. Patients were defined as having functional symptoms after these had been present for at least 5 yr and relevant organic disease had been excluded. The prevalence, duration of suffering, and frequency of appearance of most symptoms were significantly higher in the group of Holocaust survivors. This study supports the clinical observations that severe and protracted suffering contributes to the development of chronic functional gastrointestinal symptomatology. 
Association of hepatitis B surface antigen and core antibody with acquisition and manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. We examined the associations between seropositivity for hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the presence or development of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) and with HIV-1 induced T-helper lymphocyte deficiency or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Serologic data on HBV and HIV-1, cytometric enumeration of CD4+ lymphocytes, clinical events (AIDS by Centers for Disease Control criteria) and hepatitis B vaccination histories were available on 4,498 homosexual participants in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, Men were classified as to previous infection with HBV and prevalent or incident infection with HIV-1. Although there was an association between seropositivity for HBV infection and HIV-1 infection at enrollment (odds ratios anti-HBc 2.6; HBsAg 4.2), the relation between HBV seropositivity and subsequent seroconversion to HIV-1 was weaker (odds ratios 1.3 and 1.6). HIV-1 seroconversion was also associated with a history of certain other sexually transmitted diseases, but predisposing sexual practices did not account for the association between HBV and HIV-1 infection. Seropositivity for HBV infection at entry was not related to initially low or more rapid subsequent decline in T-helper lymphocyte counts and was not associated with an increased incidence of AIDS during 2.5 years of follow-up. History of vaccination against HBV did not appear to decrease susceptibility to HIV-1 infection or to subsequent progression of immunodeficiency. We conclude that prior HBV infection is unlikely to be specifically associated with acquisition of HIV-1 infection and is unrelated to more rapid progression of HIV-1-induced immunodeficiency. 
Chemical peritonitis secondary to intraperitoneal vancomycin. Although previously reported in the literature, the existence of chemical peritonitis due to vancomycin in patients on peritoneal dialysis remains controversial. We report four similar episodes of sterile peritonitis in three patients receiving intraperitoneal (IP) vancomycin. The prior report implicated a change in the brand of vancomycin preparation, from Vancocin to Vancoled, as a contributing factor. We noted the occurrence of such episodes following a switch from Vancocin to a generic preparation from Abbott Laboratories. High-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) profiles of the three preparations show Vancocin to have a lower level of impurities than the other two; the presence of certain contaminants in the other brands may be contributing to the clinical difference observed. We conclude that chemical peritonitis due to IP vancomycin administration does occur, and that increased awareness of this entity could allow other cases to be identified. 
Rectal mucosal dysplasia in Crohn's disease. Serial sections of 812 rectal biopsy specimens from 356 Crohn's disease patients were analysed for mucosal epithelial dysplasia. Dysplasia was found in 18 patients (5%), with four showing dysplasia on repeat biopsy specimen. In these 22 biopsy specimens the dysplasia was mild in 13, moderate in nine, and severe in none. Subsequently, three patients (17%) developed neoplasms including carcinoma in two and an adenomatous polyp in one. In colectomy specimens which showed dysplasia, significantly more dysplastic changes were found in seven patients who underwent colonic resection than in 10 others who underwent operation but had no prior dysplasia (p less than 0.001). Thirteen patients still have their rectum in situ and remain at risk of developing colonic cancer. Four carcinomas developed in patients with Crohn's disease who did not have dysplasia on rectal biopsy specimen. 
Isolated lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers. Two brothers of Arab origin, aged 15 and 10 years, with isolated congenital lipase and colipase deficiency are described. Both were normally developed with a history of passing greasy stools since early infancy. Both have remarkable steatorrhoea and low serum carotene and vitamin E concentrations. After exocrine pancreatic stimulation, lipase and colipase activities in the duodenal fluid were almost completely absent, while amylase trypsin, bile salt, and pH values were normal. No other aetiology for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was found. This is the first report of congenital combined lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers. 
Hepatic portal venous gas: an unusual presentation of Crohn's disease. Hepatic portal venous gas is associated with numerous conditions and traditionally has been regarded as an ominous prognostic sign. There are several reports of hepatic portal venous gas occurring in patients with inflammatory bowel disease after or during the performance of colonic diagnostic studies. We report an unusual case of Crohn's disease whose initial presentation included hepatic portal venous gas. The literature of hepatic portal venous gas associated with inflammatory bowel disease is reviewed. 
Esophageal 24-h pH monitoring: is prior manometry necessary for correct positioning of the electrode? In 24-h esophageal pH monitoring, the electrode is usually positioned 5 cm above the manometrically localized esophagogastric junction. In order to replace esophageal manometry for this purpose, we tested whether the esophagogastric junction can be identified correctly by fluoroscopy or the determination of the pH-step between stomach and esophagus, compared with esophageal manometry. The distance from the nares to the esophagogastric junction was determined three times with each of the three methods in 46 patients and 14 volunteers. Fluoroscopy assumed the esophagogastric junction 1.23 +/- 0.23 cm (mean +/- SE) lower than the peak pressure point determined at manometry, pH-step only 0.45 +/- 0.16 cm. With pH-step, only one subject had a difference of more than 3 cm to the manometrically defined esophagogastric junction, whether gastroesophageal reflux disease (as proven by pH monitoring) was present or not. We conclude that the esophagogastric junction can usually be identified with sufficient accuracy by the measurement of the pH-step between stomach and esophagus. Fluoroscopy is far less accurate than pH-step, and should not be used. 
Mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients: findings at cholangiography, CT, and US. The case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated. All patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation. Cholangiographic, ultrasound (US), and computed tomography (CT) images were available for review in eight, five, and four patients, respectively. Cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients. US and CT showed fairly well- to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients, respectively. The findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant. CT and US images may offer confirmatory evidence. 
Polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction: POLIP syndrome. We describe 5 individuals (from three separate families) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy, cranial neuropathies (external ophthalmoplegia, deafness), and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied. Autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system, possibly secondary to axonal atrophy, and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter (leukoencephalopathy). The cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact. The fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy. We suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical, radiological, and neuropathological features, and propose the acronym POLIP to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy, ophthalmoplegia, leukoencephalopathy, and intestinal pseudo-obstruction. 
Sulphasalazine and prednisone compared with sulphasalazine for treating active Crohn disease. A double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether sulphasalazine plus prednisone is more effective than sulphasalazine alone in treating active Crohn disease. DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. SETTING: Multicenter trial in one university hospital and nine general hospitals. PATIENTS: Patients with active Crohn disease and a Van Hees Activity Index of 140 or more. Of 71 patients who were randomly assigned, 60 completed treatment and were analyzed. INTERVENTIONS: For 16 weeks, 30 patients received sulphasalazine, 6 g/d (or 4 g/d if adverse effects occurred) and prednisone, 30 mg/d initially. Prednisone therapy was tapered in increments of 5 mg/2 wk to 10 mg/d after 8 weeks. Thirty other patients received sulphasalazine and a placebo. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the first 6 weeks of treatment, the Van Hees Activity Index decreased to a median of 70% (interquartile range, 57% to 81%) of the initial value in patients treated with sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 87% (interquartile range, 70% to 94%) in patients treated with sulphasalazine alone (P = 0.001). In the last 4 weeks of treatment, the corresponding figures were 63% (interquartile range, 40% to 75%) and 70% (interquartile range, 54% to 90%) (P = 0.10). The Crohn's Disease Activity Index decreased in the first 6 weeks to a median of 65% (interquartile range, 57% to 86%) in patients receiving sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 75% (interquartile range, 58% to 101%) in patients receiving sulphasalazine alone (P = 0.13). In the last 4 weeks of treatment, the corresponding figures were 65% (interquartile range, 42% to 90%) and 76% (interquartile range, 49% to 110%) (P = 0.19). CONCLUSIONS: The use of prednisone in addition to sulphasalazine in patients with active Crohn disease results in a significantly faster initial improvement, but not in a significantly better result after 16 weeks of treatment, when disease activity is measured by the Van Hees Activity Index. 
Primary biliary cirrhosis. Quantitation of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial enzymes and correlation with disease progression. Primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized by the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies. Recently, six of the autoantigens have been identified as components of the 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complexes located within mammalian mitochondria. Immunoblotting studies have shown that two of these components, namely E2 and protein X of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, are the major antigenic polypeptides recognized by autoantibodies. This study shows the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect and quantitate antibodies to these two purified antigens. Coded serum samples from 166 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, 140 patients with other liver and/or autoimmune disease, and 52 normal women were analyzed for reactivity using this immunoassay. These results indicate that this rapid, simple method has a 93% sensitivity and 96% specificity in the diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis. The titer of immunoglobulin G autoantibodies correlated not only with antimitochondrial antibody titer measured by indirect immunofluorescence (P less than 0.0001) but also with histological stage of disease (P less than 0.04) and prognostic biochemical variables such as higher serum bilirubin and lower serum albumin levels (P = 0.038 and 0.028, respectively). There was no significant correlation between titer of autoantibodies and serum globulin or immunoglobulin G levels, indicating that the positive correlation with disease progression was not secondary to hypergammaglobulinemia. 
On-table pancreatography: importance in planning operative strategy. We describe our experience with 124 on-table pancreatograms performed during 117 operative procedures on 112 patients in a wide variety of clinical settings. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was performed on 84 occasions with a 73 per cent success rate for visualization of the main pancreatic duct. On-table pancreatography (OTP) was performed by one of five different techniques: retrograde, prograde or ambigrade ductography, cystography and ascending loopography after pancreaticojejunostomy. OTP provided important information about the main pancreatic duct when endoscopic visualization was unsuccessful (n = 23), incomplete (n = 17) or not performed (n = 33); there was a failure rate of 4 per cent. In 35 patients either the additional information or discrepancies between ERCP and OTP findings resulted in a change of operative plan (19 extra procedures, 16 altered procedures). Complete ductography was especially helpful in the 63 patients with chronic pancreatitis. OTP is technically simple, free from complications and invaluable for planning operative strategy. 
Strongyloides stercoralis associated with a bleeding gastric ulcer. Infection with the helminthic parasite, Strongyloides stercoralis, is usually acquired by skin invasion (or occasionally via ingestion of larvae). After transformation to the adult form, the parasite preferentially localises in the small intestine, especially in the duodenal and jejunal part. A remarkable feature of Strongyloides is its property of endogenous reinfection. In the case of an immunocompromised host a massive infection, called hyperinfections Strongyloides, may occur. Numerous gastrointestinal complications of strongyloides infections, sometimes with a lethal outcome, have been reported. The intestinal manifestations are usually limited to the small bowel, and rarely involve the stomach. We report a patient with complicated strongyloides infection of the stomach. 
Sexual and physical abuse in women with functional or organic gastrointestinal disorders. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence of a history of sexual and physical abuse in women seen in a referral-based gastroenterology practice, to determine whether patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders report greater frequencies of abuse than do patients with organic gastrointestinal diseases, and to determine whether a history of abuse is associated with more symptom reporting and health care utilization. DESIGN: A consecutive sample of women seen in a university-based gastroenterology practice over a 2-month period was asked to complete a brief questionnaire. MEASUREMENTS: The self-administered questionnaire requested information about demographics, symptoms, health care utilization, and history of abuse. Physicians indicated the primary diagnosis for each patient and whether she had ever discussed having been sexually or physically abused. RESULTS: Of 206 patients, 89 (44%) reported a history of sexual or physical abuse in childhood or later in life; all but 1 of the physically abused patients had been sexually abused. Almost one third of the abused patients had never discussed their experiences with anyone; only 17% had informed their doctors. Patients with functional disorders were more likely than those with organic disease diagnoses to report a history of forced intercourse (odds ratio, 2.08; 95% CI, 1.03 to 4.21) and frequent physical abuse (odds ratio, 11.39; CI, 2.22 to 58.48), chronic or recurrent abdominal pain (odds ratio, 2.06; CI, 1.03 to 4.12), and more lifetime surgeries (2.7 compared with 2.0 surgeries; P less than 0.03). Abused patients were more likely than nonabused patients to report pelvic pain (odds ratio, 4.05; CI, 1.41 to 11.69), multiple somatic symptoms (7.1 compared with 5.8 symptoms; P less than 0.001), and more lifetime surgeries (2.8 compared with 2.0 surgeries; P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: We found that a history of sexual and physical abuse is a frequent, yet hidden, experience in women seen in referral-based gastroenterology practice and is particularly common in those with functional gastrointestinal disorders. A history of abuse, regardless of diagnosis, is associated with greater risk for symptom reporting and lifetime surgeries. 
Treatment of duodenitis with cimetidine: a clinical, endoscopic, and histologic study. We studied the effectiveness of cimetidine in the treatment of endoscopically diagnosed duodenitis. Sixty-nine patients with the solitary endoscopic finding of duodenitis (6% of 1,200 patients who underwent fiberoptic endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract in our unit over 3 years) were studied retrospectively: a good clinical response was apparent in 45 of 69 patients treated with cimetidine (65%), and a fair response in another four (6%). In a controlled, randomized prospective study, we evaluated the effectiveness of cimetidine in duodenitis. Statistically significant improvement for the clinical and endoscopic scores was found in 10 patients treated with cimetidine (p less than 0.01). Improvement in the histologic score did not reach statistical significance. No such improvement was demonstrated in seven placebo-treated patients. We believe that duodenitis is a "peptic syndrome," has a good response to cimetidine treatment, and behaves much like duodenal ulcer disease. 
Gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy. An oesophageal pH electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures. No refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed; the upper 95% confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 (4.8%). Two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia. Tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy, although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless, with the same logic, it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated. 
Treatment of hepatolithiasis: improvement of result by a systematic approach. In previous decades the result of treatment of hepatolithiasis has been unsatisfactory. The incidence of residual stones after surgery might reach 77%. In the past 6 years we adopted a systematic approach comprised of accurate delineation of disease in the liver and biliary tract by direct cholangiography, ultrasonography, and computed tomography; tailored surgical treatment according to the extent of involvement of the liver and biliary tract; access to the intrahepatic ducts through the left duct or round ligament approach when there was difficulty with common bile duct exposure; routine use of flexible choledochoscopy; and application of electrohydraulic lithotripsy for large and impacted stones. Complete stone clearance was achieved in 114 of 127 patients (89.8%). Of those patients who had incomplete stone clearance, only six cases (4.7%) were related to technical failure of postoperative choledochoscopy. The incidence of stone recurrence was 15.8%, the lowest rate so far reported. It was the same regardless of whether a biliary drainage procedure had been performed, but the treatment for recurrent stones was facilitated by previous hepaticocutaneous jejunostomy. Overall the surgical treatment required for stone recurrence was of a lesser magnitude than that in the past. 
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones: results and 6-month follow-up in 141 patients. A study of biliary shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones sponsored by Dornier Medical Systems, Munich, began in the United States in May 1988 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and the need for adjunctive therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). One hundred forty-one symptomatic patients with one to three gallstones 5-30 mm in diameter were randomized to treatment. One week before ESWL, patients were given either UDCA or placebo. This treatment was continued for 6 months. All patients underwent follow-up at predetermined intervals. According to the protocol, re-treatment for fragments larger than 5 mm in diameter could be performed only at 6 weeks; 26 (18%) of the 141 patients were retreated. At 6 months, the stone-free rates for single stones were as follows: patients with noncalcified stones receiving UDCA, 29%; patients with noncalcified stones receiving placebo, 24%; and patients with partially calcified stones receiving either UDCA or placebo, 6%. No significant difference was noted between the UDCA and placebo groups. At 6 months, the stone-free rates in patients with single, noncalcified stones 20 mm or less in diameter were 40% (UDCA) and 32% (placebo), which is superior to rates for those with solitary, noncalcified gallstones 21-30 mm in diameter and those with two or three stones. 
Reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion: poor correlation with blood GABA levels. Previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy. We report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy. Plasma GABA and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy. Although the clinical syndrome and the EEG improved markedly after the ileostomy, the plasma GABA levels remained markedly elevated. Preoperative and postoperative GABA levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml, respectively (nl = 100-180 pmol/ml). Our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy. However, our results conflict with the hypothesis that GABA itself is the key mediator of the syndrome. 
Endoscopic laser surgery. A single-center comprehensive experience. A retrospective review of endoscopic procedures using the Nd:YAG laser was carried out for patients treated between October 1985 and March 1989. During this 42-month period 165 procedures were performed on 100 patients. The study encompasses a unique period of time in this center, as it includes the initial application, and finally, the time when its use became routine. Indications for laser surgery included the treatment of tumors, bleeding, benign strictures, arterial occlusions, and hemorrhoids. Nd:YAG laser was found to be effective in the treatment of these lesions. The overall success rate was 81 per cent. Patients who are poor surgical candidates would especially benefit from this therapeutic alternative. 
Sexually transmitted parasitic diseases. Sexual activity is the primary method of transmission for several important parasitic diseases and has resulted in a significant prevalence of enteric parasitic infection among male homosexuals. The majority of parasitic sexually transmitted diseases involve protozoan pathogens; however, nematode and arthropod illnesses are also included in this group. Trichomoniasis, caused by Trichomonas vaginalis, is the most common parasitic STD. Infection with this organism typically results in the signs and symptoms of vaginitis. Trichomoniasis can be diagnosed in the office setting by performing a microscopic evaluation of infected vaginal secretions and can be successfully treated with metronidazole. Both pediculosis pubis, caused by the crab louse Pthirus pubis, and scabies, caused by the itch mite Sarcoptes scabiei, present with severe pruritus. A papular or vesicular rash and linear burrows seen in the finger webs and genital area are characteristic of scabies. Pediculosis pubis is diagnosed by observing adult lice or their nits in areas that bear coarse hair. The diagnosis of scabies is confirmed by scraping suspicious burrows and viewing the mite or its byproducts under the microscope. Lindane, 1% used in treating scabies, is also very effective for treating pediculosis pubis. Synthetic pyrethrins, also applied as a cream or lotion, are less toxic alternatives for the treatment of either condition. Oral-anal and oral-genital sexual practices predispose male homosexuals to infection with many enteric pathogens, including parasitic protozoans and helminths. The most common of these parasitic infections are amebiasis, caused by Entamoeba histolytica, and giardiasis caused by Giardia lamblia. Both entities may cause acute or chronic diarrhea, as well as other abdominal symptoms. Most gay men with amebiasis are asymptomatic, and invasive disease in this group is extremely rare. Both amebiasis and giardiasis can be diagnosed on the basis of microscopic examination of stool specimens, although duodenal aspiration is occasionally necessary to confirm a diagnosis of giardiasis. Multiple treatment regimens exist for amebiasis. Iodoquinol is a good choice for asymptomatic cyst carriers, whereas the combination of metronidazole plus iodoquinol is used for symptomatic patients. Quinacrine and metronidazole are both efficacious in the treatment of giardiasis. 
Significance of natural polymerized albumin and its receptor in hepatitis B infection of hepatocytes. Lack of information regarding the presence of native albumin polymer in serum and its structural similarity to the one produced by glutaraldehyde treatment casts doubt on the postulate that hepatitis B virus attachment to hepatocytes is mediated through polymerized albumin. We used a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with murine monoclonal antibodies raised against glutaraldehyde-polymerized albumin to detect native albumin polymer in human serum and its cross-reactivity with other albumin polymers. Presence of polymerized albumin receptor on the HepG2 cell was studied by radioreceptor assay. Purified hepatitis B virus and synthetic peptide analogous to part of pre-S2 sequence (120-145) were used to study polymerized albumin-dependent attachment of the virus to HepG2 cells. Antibodies raised against pre-S2 peptide were used to inhibit the pre-S2 and hepatitis B virus attachment to HepG2 cells. Glutaraldehyde-treated polymerized albumin was found to be immunologically cross-reactive with native albumin polymer. Its levels were found to be significantly raised in sera of patients with liver diseases. Polymerized albumin has specific saturable receptor on HepG2 cells with two classes of binding sites of different equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd1 = (16 +/- 9.6)pmol/L and Kd2 = (1,019 +/- 172)pmol/L. Albumin monomer was unable to compete for the polymerized albumin receptor sites on HepG2 cells. Anti-pre-S2 antibodies inhibit hepatitis B virus and pre-S2 binding to hepatocyte by 40% and 70%, respectively. Added extraneous polymerized albumin and the antibody against it did not interfere with virus attachment to HepG2 cells. 
Rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in the gerbil after the parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex. The parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex to gerbils caused hepatic hemosiderosis and fibrosis after 6 wk. Type I and III collagen synthesis in the liver developed from perisinusoidal stellate cells that are often referred to as myofibroblasts. Immunohistologically these cells were shown to have large intracellular deposits of ferritin. The hepatic fibrosis appeared to be associated with aggregates of these cells rather than the aggregates of Kupffer cells, which also occur in hemosiderosis in the liver. No appreciable necrosis of hepatocytes to trigger the fibrotic response was found, so that the fibrosis appeared to be related to the accumulation of ferritin in the perisinusoidal stellate cells. In contrast, rats and mice did not accumulate ferritin in their perisinusoidal cells or develop hepatic fibrosis in response to parenterally administered iron, although they accumulated similar or greater amounts of total iron in their livers. The rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in gerbils in response to parenterally administered iron will provide a model to investigate the mechanism of induction of collagen deposition in response to iron overload and a means of quickly evaluating therapeutic treatments for iron overload-induced fibrosis in vivo using iron-chelating drugs. 
Gastric antral vascular ectasia ("watermelon stomach"): radiologic findings. Radiologic findings in a patient with gastric antral vascular ectasia are described on computed tomographic scans, upper gastrointestinal series, and specimen radiographs. Findings include prominent, scalloped antral folds radiating to the pylorus and thickening of the gastric antrum. Pathognomonic red vascular folds, likened to stripes on a watermelon, can be seen endoscopically. 
Etiology and mechanisms of acute infectious diarrhea in infants in the United States. Infectious diarrhea, caused by a wide variety of viral, bacterial and parasitic pathogens, is a common reason for morbidity and hospitalization for children in the United States. Overall, rotavirus is the most common cause of acute diarrheal disease in infants. Salmonella, Shigella, and Campylobacter are the most frequently isolated bacterial pathogens, and Giardia and Cryptosporidium are the parasites that most commonly produce acute infectious diarrhea. The mechanisms by which these enteropathogens cause diarrhea are highly variable, and include crypt cell proliferation, cellular invasion, elaboration of enterotoxins or cytotoxins, and enteroadhesion. In infants the incidence of diarrheal disease is higher and the severity of the illness is greater than in older children and adults. An increased rate of exposure to enteropathogens, as a result of fecal-oral contamination, may explain some of the increased incidence of diarrhea in infants. However, age-specific differences in host defense mechanisms may also account for the increased susceptibility to and severity of certain enteric infections in infants. 
Glucose polymers as an alternative to glucose in oral rehydration solutions. Several issues involving glucose-based oral rehydration therapy may limit its acceptability and sustained use. Our studies suggest that defined short-chain glucose polymers (2 to 9 glucose units) are hydrolyzed and absorbed faster than isocaloric solutions of D-glucose in the small intestine of the rat. Glucose polymers, primarily from rice-based solutions, have been shown to be as effective as glucose-based solutions. They offer additional advantages in reducing the amount and duration of diarrhea with lesser volumes of solution, thereby reducing the costs of treatment. Rice-based solutions provide high caloric density and increase the absorption of sodium without an osmotic overload. The result is increased net absorption of glucose, sodium, and water. Glucose polymers from rice or other starches in oral rehydration solutions may be effective, inexpensive, easily used, and safe treatments for acute diarrhea. 
Efficacy of octreotide acetate in treatment of severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome. The present study evaluates the acute and chronic use of a long-acting somatostatin analog, octreotide acetate, in the treatment of patients with severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome. In the acute phase, 10 patients with severe dumping were studied over 2 consecutive days before and for 3 hours after the ingestion of a 'dumping breakfast' in a randomized double-blind fashion. On one day octreotide (100 micrograms) was given subcutaneously 30 minutes before the test meal and on the other day an equal volume of vehicle was injected. An additional group of six postgastrectomy patients without dumping were studied in a similar fashion and these acted as controls. During placebo treatment the test meal resulted in an immediate increase (p less than 0.01) in the pulse rate and in plasma levels of glucose, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide, neurotensin, and insulin. Similar changes were seen in the control group with respect to placebo; however glucagon and neurotensin (p less than 0.05) did not show the same magnitude of increase as seen with placebo. Treatment with octreotide acetate prevented the development of both vasomotor and gastrointestinal symptoms and completely ablated all of the above responses in plasma peptides. These changes were associated with complete ablation of diarrhea (p less than 0.001). Pretreatment with octreotide acetate completely suppressed the rise in plasma insulin response to the meal and this ablated the late hypoglycemia of dumping. Treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in delayed gastric emptying and transit time (578 +/- 244 minutes) versus 76 +/- 23 minutes with placebo and 125 +/- 36 minutes in controls (p less than 0.05). Chronic daily treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in minimal side effects. These patients demonstrated a stable fasting plasma glucose, normal liver function tests, and an average weight gain of 11% during a 12-month period. In addition most patients were able to resume employment. The long-acting somatostatin analog, octreotide acetate, is highly effective in preventing the development of symptoms of severe dumping syndrome, both vasomotor and gastrointestinal. 
Hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome--a complication of dactinomycin therapy for Wilms' tumor: a report from the United Kingdom Childrens Cancer Study Group. We have observed hepatopathy, associated with thrombocytopenia, in children receiving chemotherapy for Wilms' tumor. We have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome (HTS) in patients enrolled in the United Kingdom Childrens' Cancer Study Group (UKCCSG) Wilms' tumor trials (UKW1 and UKW2). At the time of this study, 501 patients had completed therapy. Treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy (hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests) and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 25 x 10(9)/L). No child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation. HTS was seen in five of 355 (1.4%) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone. In each instance, the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis. In two children, hepatopathy was severe with jaundice, ascites, transaminases greater than 1,000 IU/L, and prolongation of prothrombin time. On average, HTS lasted 12 days, and resolved with supportive treatment. After recovery, the children tolerated chemotherapy, mostly at reduced dosage, without recurrence. There was no evident long-term morbidity. Dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome. We conclude that the HTS is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for Wilms' tumor. Children developing "isolated" thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are "at risk" of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly. 
Expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules in the liver of patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Virus-specific T-cell responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cell injury secondary to hepatitis B virus infection. In this study, liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection were analyzed for expression of two major pathways of adhesion used by cytotoxic T cells to interact with target cells. The lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 was found preferentially expressed on hepatocytes of patients with active hepatitis B virus replication, whereas the expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes seemed more closely related with inflammatory activity. Adhesion molecules were also highly expressed on T lymphocytes found in areas of piecemeal and spotty necrosis, indicating the presence of antigen-specific "memory" T cells at the site of hepatocellular injury. This study suggests that the expression of the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 on hepatocytes may be important for viral elimination. The coordinate expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 may regulate inflammatory response and enhance viral antigen presentation to T cells. Conversely, the absence of hepatocyte adhesion molecules might be a favorable factor for viral persistence. 
Benign and malignant nodules in cirrhotic livers: distinction based on blood supply. The blood supplies of nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis were analyzed in vivo with various imaging modalities. The portal blood supply was evaluated with computed tomography (CT) during arterial portography (CTAP); the arterial blood supply was evaluated with hepatic angiography, CT angiography, CT following intraarterial injection of iodized oil, or ultrasound following intraarterial injection of carbon dioxide microbubbles. A total of 84 surgically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) (less than or equal to 3 cm) and 25 areas of adenomatous hyperplasia (AH) were included in the study. At CTAP, a portal blood supply was seen in 96% of cases of AH and only 6% of HCCs (chi 2, P less than .005). In contrast, an arterial supply greater than that of the surrounding liver was verified in 94% of the HCCs and only 4% of the cases of AH (chi 2, P less than .005). The blood supply of areas of AH with atypical hepatocytes and the blood supply of well-differentiated HCCs (Edmondson grade 1) tended to be intermediate between that of AH without atypia and that of HCC that was Edmondson and Steiner grade 2 or greater. Evaluation of the blood supply of the nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis is considered to be useful in the differential diagnosis and treatment of early-stage HCC. 
Inhibition of cell mediated cytotoxicity by sulphasalazine: effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on in vitro natural killer cell activity. Decreased cell mediated cytotoxicity occurs frequently in inflammatory bowel disease, particularly in patients with active disease. It is not clear, however, whether this decrease is caused by the disease or is a consequence of the medical treatment. In this study we evaluated the effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on the in vitro natural killer cell activity in five patients with inflammatory bowel disease in remission and in four healthy control subjects in a double blind randomised crossover trial preceded and separated by four weeks of treatment with placebo. The natural killer cell activity was significantly impaired in 67% (six of nine subjects) after four weeks' sulphasalazine treatment and tended to be related to subjects with a slow acetylator phenotype. In contrast, 5-aminosalicylic acid treatment caused only a marginal reaction in the natural killer cell activity in 22% (two of nine subjects). The inhibitory effects were found to be reversible since the decreased natural killer cell activity was completely restored after placebo treatment in all subjects. In conclusion, in vivo treatment with sulphasalazine inhibits the in vitro natural killer cell activity and this seems to be mediated by the sulphapyridine moiety. This phenomenon may contribute to the low natural killer cell activity found in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease. 
A combined electromyographic and cineradiologic investigation in patients with defecation disorders. Records from 20 patients on whom defecography and electromyography were performed simultaneously because of defecation disorders were analyzed. According to the electromyographic investigation, the patients could be divided into three main groups: 1) normal sphincter reaction; 2) paradoxical sphincter reaction; and 3) combined reaction. Group A was characterized by a marked reduction of muscular activity during emptying and a pronounced closing reflex after emptying. This was followed by return of normal tonic activity. Patients in group B had no relaxation of the sphincters during emptying but a pronounced increased activity in the external sphincter and the puborectalis muscle. They also had severe emptying difficulties at defecography. No closing reflex was seen. In group C the electrical activity in the sphincters increased during moderate straining and when emptying was complete a clear closing reflex was seen. In this study, a dynamic visualization of the defecation together with a registration of electromyographic activity in the striated anal sphincters was performed. It was shown that patients with paradoxical sphincter reaction were lacking a closing reflex after emptying was complete. This has not been reported previously and is important evidence for the paradoxical defecation pattern. It was also shown that the patients with rectoceles had paradoxical sphincter reaction. 
Serum pepsinogen I and gastrin concentrations in children positive for Helicobacter pylori. Serum pepsinogen I, serum gastrin concentration, and inflammatory scores were measured in a population of 71 children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for investigation of upper abdominal pain. Forty four were initially colonised with Helicobacter pylori. The indices were measured before treatment (in 71 children), one month (in 41 children), and six months (in 21 children) after stopping treatment. Before treatment there was a significant correlation between serum pepsinogen concentration, total inflammatory score, and H pylori state, but no correlation between serum gastrin concentrations and H pylori state. Similarly, the total inflammatory score and serum pepsinogen concentrations were significantly correlated. There was no such correlation in children negative for H pylori. After treatment the inflammatory score improved in those patients in whom H pylori had been eradicated. There was also a significant fall in serum pepsinogen I and serum gastrin concentration in those patients in whom H pylori had been eradicated. These results were similar to those found six months after treatment had been stopped. These findings suggest that the serum pepsinogen I concentration could be considered a useful marker for gastritis and can be used as an index of severity of gastritis in H pylori positive subjects. The measurement of serum gastrin concentrations does not give useful information. 
Swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes. Eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation. Ten had a tracheostomy tube. Mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days, mean age 65 yr, and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit. All patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy. All patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized. There was a mean of six defects/patient. The most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response (present in all patients) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material (n = 9). Follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients (all had improved) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8/patient. With one exception, no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity. We concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction. The deficits improve with time. The presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast. 
Preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality. Intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient. Transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common. The effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear. Previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to Bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a T lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure B. fragilis abscess formation. In a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model, preexposure to live Escherichia coli, B. fragilis, or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition. Further, immunization with E. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality. These data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live, transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction. 
The effects of synthetic human secretin on calcium carbonate solubility in human bile This study sought to determine the effects of synthetic human secretin on ionized calcium and carbonate concentrations in human hepatic bile. Five patients with a nasobiliary drain in the right hepatic duct were studied. Three basal samples of bile were collected, each over a 15-minute period. Synthetic human secretin was then infused IV at 0.05 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 for 45 minutes followed by 0.5 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 for 45 minutes. Bile was sampled over 15-minute periods. To document return to baseline conditions, two further samples of bile were obtained over 15-minute periods 2 hours after the infusion was terminated. Bile acid concentration was determined by an enzymatic method; pH and PCO2 were measured with an automated analyzer. Total calcium was determined by inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry and ionized calcium by an ion-specific electrode. Bicarbonate and carbonate concentrations were calculated using Henry's law and the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. The fraction of bile sampled by the catheter was determined by Indocyanin Green recovery at the end of the experiment. Secretin caused an increase in bile flow and bicarbonate output. Bicarbonate concentrations increased from 26 +/- 3 mmol/L to 41 +/- 3 mmol/L (P less than 0.05), and chloride concentrations decreased. Mean bile acid concentrations declined significantly from 14.6 +/- 2 mmol/L to 4.7 +/- 1 mmol/L (P less than 0.05). Ionized calcium concentrations decreased from 0.7 +/- 0.005 mmol/L to 0.5 +/- 0.02 mmol/L (P less than 0.05) while pH increased significantly from 7.44 +/- 0.06 to 7.6 +/- 0.04 (P less than 0.05). Carbonate concentrations increased significantly from 0.15 +/- 0.02 mmol/L to 0.26 +/- 0.03 mmol/L, and the ion product for calcium carbonate increased significantly from 0.099 +/- 0.002 (mmol/L)2 to 0.135 +/- 0.015 (mmol/L)2 (P less than 0.05). Synthetic human secretin augments the ion product of calcium and carbonate in human hepatic bile, increasing the tendency for calcium carbonate precipitation. 
Measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in Lima, Peru: pathogenic agents and impact on growth. Because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known, 0- to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea (cases, n = 77) or acute diarrhea only (controls, n = 77) were compared. Growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness. Campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases (31%) than controls (16%; P = .03). Rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28% of controls (P less than .001). Incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases (6.5 vs. 4.1; odds ratio, 1.6; confidence intervals, 1.09-2.34; P = .01), as was duration of episodes (3 vs. 2 days, P = .02). Both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up. These data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea. The bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection. 
Duodenal ulcer and refined carbohydrate intake: a case-control study assessing dietary fibre and refined sugar intake An association between duodenal ulceration and a low fibre intake and a high refined carbohydrate diet has been reported. We therefore compared the current diet, smoking habits, social class, and possible other risk factors of 78 patients with duodenal ulcer and a community control group matched for age and sex. Logistic regression for matched sets was used to calculate the relative risks for successive quintiles of dietary fibre and sugar intake before and after adjustment for total calorie intake and for the possible confounding effect of other known risk factors. Relative risks did not differ materially or consistently for total dietary fibre or for the cereal moiety whether adjusted or not for calorie intake. By contrast, relative risks tended to be reduced with high vegetable fibre intake and with low refined sugar intake. After controlling for smoking and social class, both of which were associated with ulcer disease, and for relative weight (Quetelet's index), the relation between ulcer disease and low refined sugar intake persisted, while that with high vegetable fibre intake was reduced. The results of this study indicate that a lack of cereal or total fibre intake plays no part in duodenal ulcer development but that a low refined sugar intake may be a protective factor. 
Efficacy of ephedrine in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Although reported in the aerospace literature and anecdotally by anesthesiologists, the putative antiemetic effect of ephedrine remains unquantitated. We therefore prospectively studied ephedrine as an antiemetic agent in the perioperative setting in 97 patients undergoing general anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopy. Patients were assigned in a double-blind randomized fashion to receive a standardized general anesthetic followed by an intramuscular dose of either ephedrine (0.5 mg/kg), droperidol (0.04 mg/kg), or saline before the conclusion of surgery. Nausea, retching, or vomiting, as well as the degree of sedation and discharge times, were assessed in the recovery room and for 24 h postoperatively. Ephedrine was found to have a significantly antiemetic effect (P less than 0.05) when compared with placebo and an antiemetic effect similar to that of droperidol. Sedation scores were also significantly less in the ephedrine group than in both placebo and droperidol groups. Finally, variations in mean arterial blood pressure among the three groups were not statistically significant. We conclude that ephedrine is an effective antiemetic agent with minimal sedative side effects in patients undergoing outpatient laparoscopy. 
Early and frequent detection of HBxAg and/or anti-HBx in hepatitis B virus infection. To clarify the significance of the X gene of hepatitis B virus, we have tested for anti-HBx in the serum and HBxAg in the liver at different stages of the natural history of hepatitis B virus infection. Sera were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and positive results confirmed by immunoblot. Purified recombinant MS2 Pol-HBx fusion protein was used as target for both assays. Among serial sera of patients with nonfulminant acute hepatitis, 24 of 64 patients (37.5%) were positive for anti-HBx. In fulminant cases, 15 of 36 patients (42%) had anti-HBx. In chronic hepatitis patients with high rates of hepatitis B virus replication, we found a significantly (p less than 0.01) higher prevalence of anti-HBx, 14 of 25 patients (56%), than in those with low replication, 14 of 66 patients (21%), or among asymptomatic HBsAg carrier blood donors (20 of 126 = 16%) without detectable hepatitis B virus replication (p less than 0.0001). The highest prevalence of anti-HBx was found in HBsAg carriers with cirrhosis (41 of 54 patients = 76%) and/or with hepatocellular carcinoma (18 of 33 patients = 54%). The findings suggest that anti-HBx appears as a common and early marker of hepatitis B virus infection, transient in self-limited hepatitis but persisting with progression to chronicity. In chronic hepatitis, the prevalence of anti-HBx correlated with the intensity and duration of hepatitis B virus replication but neither with the severity of the liver disease nor with malignant transformation per se. 
The epidemiology of inflammatory bowel disease: a large, population-based study in Sweden. Previous population-based incidence studies of inflammatory bowel disease are limited by small numbers, short duration, or inadequate case-finding. To address these problems, we identified all persons with confirmed ulcerative colitis (n = 2509) or Crohn's disease (n = 1469) in the Uppsala Health Care Region from 1965 to 1983. Age-specific incidence rates by sex were slightly greater for males with ulcerative colitis and females with Crohn's disease. Incidence rates for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease were higher in urban than rural areas. The annual incidence rate of ulcerative colitis increased from less than 7 per 100,000 to more than 12 per 100,000 during the study period, while the rate for Crohn's disease remained between 5 and 7 per 100,000. The increase in the incidence of ulcerative colitis was the result of a marked increase in the number of patients with ulcerative proctitis. Analyses by 5-year birth cohorts suggest that those born from 1945 through 1954 were at higher risk for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, and that this effect was accounted for by those born in the first half of the year. The seasonality in the cohort effect, combined with the urban preponderance of disease, suggests that environmental causes may be involved in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. 
Long-term follow-up of the ileoanal anastomosis in children and young adults. The purpose of this study was to carry out a long-term study of the ileoanal anastomosis (IAA) in children and young adults, comparing the straight IAA to the J pouch. One hundred twenty-one young people who had undergone IAA were studied, with 114 available for long-term follow-up. One hundred one were 18 years and under. Forty-nine patients had a straight IAA and 72 had a J-pouch reservoir. There were no deaths. After surgery, three children had intraabdominal sepsis and one had pelvic sepsis, but it did not lead to excision of the IAA. The mean stool frequency in all 114 patients was 5.0 +/- 2.5 per day and 1.2 +/- 1.1 at night. The mean number of stools for the straight IAA was 6 per day and 2.1 at night. The mean number of stools for the straight IAA with balloon dilations was 5.8 per day and 1.2 at night, and for the J pouch it was 4 per day and 1 at night. Patients with both the J pouch and straight IAA had good to excellent sensation, with patients with the J pouch always able to distinguish flatus from stool in 87% of patients and almost always in 13%. Daytime continence was very good in both groups. Moderate nighttime loss of stool occurred in 10 patients, 6 with a straight IAA and 4 with a J pouch. Ninety-five percent of the 114 patients were satisfied or very satisfied, with most children with a J pouch very satisfied. The J pouch remains the procedure of choice in young people. 
Percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients. We report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis, complicated by empyema formation. Most of these patients has severe underlying disease, rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention. In all patients, the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities. Six were considered inoperable. Three of these remain free of biliary symptoms, respectively 22, 10, and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy. Three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy. Three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy. In one patient, cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops, 1 wk after catheter removal. In our opinion, percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis. It can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates, or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients. 
Glucose disposal, beta-cell secretion, and hepatic insulin extraction in cirrhosis: a minimal model assessment. Factors controlling glucose metabolism after IV load were studied in nine patients with compensated cirrhosis and in six age-matched controls. The time courses of glucose, insulin, and C peptide were analyzed by means of the minimal model technique. In cirrhosis, insulin sensitivity was reduced by approximately 70% and glucose-dependent glucose uptake (glucose effectiveness) by 45%. Decreased glucose effectiveness explained 65% of the variance of glucose disappearance and correlated with the ratio of urinary creatinine to height, an independent measure of muscle mass (r = 0.839). beta-cell responsiveness to glucose, measured on C-peptide kinetics, was variable and increased on average by 170% and 107% (first-phase and second-phase, respectively). The total amount of insulin secreted by beta-cells in the course of the study was nearly doubled, whereas the basal insulin secretion rate was in the normal range. The time courses of hepatic extraction of insulin did not differ between groups, and basal extraction was on average 58% in controls and 56% in patients with cirrhosis. It was reduced to 30% in a single patient who had severe hepatocellular failure and large spontaneous portosystemic shunting. We conclude that the alterations in glucose metabolism of cirrhosis include a decreased insulin sensitivity, a reduced glucose effectiveness, and an increased pancreatic responsiveness to glucose, leading to hyperinsulinemia. The hepatic extraction of insulin is reduced only in the very advanced stages of the disease, possibly because of a large reserve capacity of the hepatic parenchyma. 
Cimetidine 800 mg twice daily for healing erosions and ulcers in gastroesophageal reflux disease. Although H2-receptor antagonists have been the mainstay of therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), none of these agents has been approved by the FDA as effective in healing lesions. Since proton pump inhibitors may be associated with long-term disadvantages, a healing regimen with cimetidine would be useful clinically. This multicenter, randomized, double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cimetidine 800 mg b.i.d. in healing lesions and in providing symptomatic relief in patients with ulcerative or erosive esophagitis. Patients with greater than or equal to 8 heartburn episodes during a 1-week screening period, reflux confirmed by esophageal pH monitoring, and esophageal ulcers or erosions confirmed by endoscopy were randomized to treatment with placebo or cimetidine for 12 weeks. Cimetidine provided significantly greater (p less than 0.01) improvement (74% vs. 51%) and complete healing (67% vs. 36%) of esophageal lesions than did placebo. In these patients with erosive or ulcerative esophagitis, the median time to achieve 24 h without heartburn was 13 days with cimetidine and 30 days with placebo (p = 0.01). The mean heartburn severity score in the cimetidine group decreased rapidly during the first week and was consistently lower than in the placebo group. Cimetidine, 800 mg twice daily, is effective in promoting healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions and in providing heartburn relief in patients with symptomatic erosive/ulcerative GERD. 
Coeliac disease and malignancy of the duodenum: diagnosis by endoscopy, successful treatment of the malignancy, and response to a gluten free diet. A patient presented with subtotal villous atrophy and a malignant duodenal tumour of uncertain histogenesis. He was successfully treated by resection and chemotherapy and the small bowel mucosa recovered on a gluten free diet. The tumour was diagnosed at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy when barium studies and abdominal computed tomography were normal, thus making this one of the earliest coeliac malignancies diagnosed. 
Stools containing altered blood-plasma urea: creatinine ratio as a simple test for the source of bleeding. The plasma urea:creatinine ratio (U:C ratio) is known to be elevated in cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Almost all patients with haematemesis have upper gastrointestinal (or generalized) bleeding so that in this study we characterized the diagnostic power of the U:C ratio in patients with stools containing altered blood without haematemesis in the hope that this simple laboratory test (used in conjunction, perhaps, with clinical data) might reduce the number of patients subjected to an unrewarding gastroscopy or colonoscopy. Of 76 cases seen in a provincial and a metropolitan hospital, 42 and 34 patients had upper and lower gastrointestinal bleeding, respectively. Fifty-four per cent of those with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and none of those with lower gastrointestinal bleeding had U:C ratios above 110 on admission. However, a discriminating level of 90 is considered to be more suitable, judged by the quadratic uncertainty score. At this level the odds for upper gastrointestinal bleeding were 15:1. 
Imaging the gallbladder: a historical perspective. After Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen's discovery of the X-ray in 1895, it was initially thought that gallstones could not be visualized. Surgeons relied solely on the clinical examination to detect biliary disease. Today, no evaluation of the gallbladder would be complete without the performance of an imaging study. Radiology has gone through several eras in the imaging of gallstones. The plain film era, 1895-1924, was characterized by techniques that improved soft-tissue detail, allowing better detection of radiopaque stones. The contrast media era, 1924-1960, was initiated by the invention of IV cholecystography. In 1925, oral cholecystography was developed. During the era of expanding technology, 1960-1979, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, scintigraphy, and sonography came into use. The therapeutic era began in the 1980s. 
Effect of indomethacin on gastric mucosal blood flow around acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. Repeated administration of indomethacin markedly delays spontaneous healing of experimental gastric ulcers induced in rats. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, the effect of indomethacin on the gastric mucosal blood flow around ulcers was examined. Gastric ulcers were induced 5 days after submucosal injection of an acetic acid solution into the stomachs of rats. Blood flow was determined by the hydrogen gas clearance method. The blood flow around ulcers was significantly higher than that in rats without ulcers up to 2 weeks after ulceration but had returned to within the normal range 3 or 4 weeks later. Indomethacin, administered SC at 1 mg/kg once or repeatedly for 1-4 weeks, had little or no effect on the blood flow in normal rats. However, such treatment significantly reduced the blood flow by 20%-30% of the corresponding control levels in rats with ulcers. Prostaglandin E2, administered SC at 3 mg/kg once, markedly prevented the reduction in the blood flow due to indomethacin. The administration of prostaglandin E2, with indomethacin for 4 weeks resulted in a significantly higher blood-flow level than the control and prevented the delay in ulcer healing. Omeprazole, administered SC at 30 mg/kg once or repeatedly with indomethacin for 4 weeks, had an insignificant effect on the blood flow around ulcers but prevented the delay in ulcer healing. In conclusion, the delayed ulcer healing caused by indomethacin might be partly related to the reduced blood flow around the ulcers. 
Is primary repair of gastroschisis and omphalocele always the best operation? Optimal surgical management of neonates with gastroschisis and omphalocele remains controversial. Suggested benefits of primary fascial closure include earlier return of gastrointestinal function, decreased hospital stay, less sepsis, less risk of postoperative intestinal obstruction and fistulae, and lower mortality. Between 1978 and 1989, 40 neonates with gastroschisis or omphalocele underwent repair. Primary fascial repair was performed in 30 children, 18 of whom had a gastroschisis and 12 of whom had an omphalocele. Ten children had staged repair with the use of a silastic silo; seven of these had a gastroschisis and three an omphalocele. Comparison between the groups was made regarding birth weight, days on the ventilator before and after surgery, days to first feeding, days in the hospital after surgery, postoperative complications, and survival. There was no significant difference in birth weight, days on the ventilator, days to first feeding, and postoperative days in the hospital. There were nine complications in nine patients (30%) with primary repair and four complications in two patients (20%) with staged repair. Two infants died after primary repair (6.7%), and one (10%) died after staged closure. It was concluded that silastic silo repair and primary fascial closure are both acceptable alternatives. Primary closure is attractive whenever possible to avoid additional operations. 
Long-term treatment of Crohn's disease with cyclosporine: the effect of a very low dose on maintenance of remission. Low-dose oral cyclosporine was used to maintain remission in patients with Crohn's disease. In seven patients, cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent; in 14 it was given for refractory active disease as an adjunct to conventional treatment, and then continued as maintenance treatment. Cyclosporine was given at an initial dose of 5 mg/kg reduced by 1 mg/kg at 2-month intervals until a maintenance dose of 2 mg/kg was reached. Of the seven patients in whom cyclosporine was used as a steroid-sparing agent, six had a relapse. Remission was achieved in seven of the refractory active group, but cyclosporine was withdrawn because of side effects in six of the patients in this group. Of the seven patients who had achieved remission, six subsequently had a relapse. Therefore, 12 of 14 patients (86%) in remission had a relapse despite cyclosporine maintenance. Ten of these (83%) had a relapse at a cyclosporine dose of 2 or 3 mg/kg. Cyclosporine levels at relapse (median, 74 ng/ml) were lower than the mean levels over the first 6 weeks of treatment (median, 130 ng/ml; p = 0.02). Our data do not support the use of cyclosporine to maintain remission in Crohn's disease. 
Effects of short-term pancreatic duct obstruction in rats. The short-term effects of rat pancreatic duct obstruction were evaluated and compared with those recently reported to follow obstruction of the rabbit pancreatic duct. In both species pancreatic edema and hyperamylasemia are noted, and the lysosomal hydrolase cathepsin B is redistributed from the lysosome-enriched to the zymogen granule-enriched subcellular fraction. Theoretically, this redistribution phenomenon might lead to digestive enzyme activation because cathepsin B is known to be capable of activating trypsinogen. The hyperamylasemia and pancreatic edema (but not the cathepsin B redistribution) that follow rat pancreatic duct obstruction were increased by infusion of a submaximally stimulating dose of the cholecystokinin analogue cerulein. Administration of the cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist L-364,718 reduced the hyperamylasemia but did not alter the pancreatic edema or cathepsin B redistribution. These observations indicate that cholecystokinin may modulate some but not all of the effects of duct obstruction. Secretin administration increased the degree of pancreatic edema and had no demonstrable protective effect. The rat duct-obstruction model described in this report may prove particularly useful in future studies designed to clarify the early events underlying the development of acute pancreatitis. 
The role of ERCP in children and adolescents. The diagnostic and therapeutic role of ERCP in 42 patients ranging from 1 to 19 years of age is discussed. ERCP provided useful additional information in 15 patients with biliary tract disease, 15 patients with pancreatic disease, and 9 patients with abdominal pain. The appropriate duct was cannulated in 95% of cases. Mild pancreatitis occurred in two patients after ERCP. Endoscopic papillotomy was successful in five patients. ERCP plays an important part in the investigation of unexplained biliary tract and pancreatic disease. It rarely demonstrates abnormal pathology in patients with otherwise unexplained abdominal pain. 
Microbiological studies of the enterocolitis of Hirschsprung's disease. The results of a prospective study of 20 cases of newly diagnosed Hirschsprung's disease (nine of whom developed enterocolitis) and 10 normal controls showed no variations in the bacterial flora (including Clostridium difficile) in the stools of the groups studied. Viral studies showed that rotavirus was present in the stools of seven of the nine cases of enterocolitis during the episode. We suggest that Hirschsprung's enterocolitis may have a complex infective aetiology and that rotavirus plays a part. 
Disturbed gastroduodenal motility in patients with active and healed duodenal ulceration. Disordered gastroduodenal motility may promote duodenal ulceration by allowing prolonged acid contact with the duodenal mucosa. Using a multilumen perfused catheter incorporating 3 pH microelectrodes, antral and duodenal pH and antropyloroduodenal pressure activity were recorded in 36 subjects (10 with healed duodenal ulceration, 11 with active duodenal ulceration, and 15 healthy volunteers) during fasting and after a radiolabeled solid test meal. Correct pH probe/catheter position was continuously verified by recording transmucosal potential difference across the pylorus. Patients with active and healed duodenal ulcer had similarly disordered gastroduodenal motility. The chief abnormalities consisted of an increase in postprandial duodenal retroperistalsis (healed duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1; control, 6 +/- 1; mean +/- SEM: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.004 and P = 0.03, respectively), a reduction in pressure waves sweeping aborally through the duodenum after the meal (healed duodenal ulceration, 22 +/- 4 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 23 +/- 3; control, 34 +/- 4: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.04 and P less than 0.05, respectively), and an increased incidence of atypical, complex forms of coordinated duodenal motor activity throughout the study (postprandial data; healed duodenal ulceration, 8 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 10 +/- 1; control, 4 +/- 1: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.02 and P less than 0.02, respectively). In addition, gastric emptying of the solid test meal was significantly delayed in healed, but not active, duodenal ulceration [half-emptying time, healed duodenal ulceration 185 minutes (117-235); active duodenal ulceration 102 minutes (80-200); control 107 minutes (78-130): healed duodenal ulceration vs. control, P less than 0.009]. Duodenal bulb pH was similar in controls and patients with active duodenal ulceration; however, bulb pH was less than 4 for a significantly greater period of time in healed duodenal ulceration compared with active ulcer patients, particularly after the meal. In conclusion, duodenal ulcer disease is associated with disturbed gastroduodenal motility, even when the ulcer is quiescent and when intraduodenal acidity is low. In healed duodenal ulceration, disturbed motility may promote ulcer relapse by impairing acid clearance from the bulb. However, in active ulceration other factors such as mucosal bicarbonate secretion may have a more influential role in determining intraduodenal pH. 
Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (plasma cell granuloma). Clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations. Twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) were studied; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only. The patients' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years. There were 9 males and 11 females. Involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four. Chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms; eight patients were asymptomatic. Seven patients underwent lobectomy, 12 local excision, and 1 biopsy alone. The lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm. Various proportions of plasma cells, histiocytes, and spindle cells were observed; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin, and were negative for epithelial markers. Plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains. One patient had two recurrences, and in one case a large pleural IMT was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung. All patients with follow-up (ten) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis (average, 3.7 years). 
Pancreaticopleural fistula. Report of 7 patients and review of the literature. Pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition. Its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs. Most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis. Pleural effusions are large, recurrent, and highly exudative in nature. Many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology. An elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis. However, the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase. Effusions in association with acute pancreatitis, esophageal perforation, and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude. Computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases. Although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy, we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy, including allowance of no oral intake, total parenteral nutrition, chest tube thoracostomy, and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs. The major complication in these patients is superinfection, which results in significant morbidity and mortality. Failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion(s) to clear, recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake, or superinfection. For those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy, surgery is indicated. 
The Los Angeles experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Surgeons should be competent in diagnostic laparoscopy before performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Well-structured and endorsed courses with experienced faculty are important. Within 12 months, 418 LCs were performed in our hospital. The number of open cholecystectomies decreased to one third of all cholecystectomies performed. Cholangiography was attempted routinely and the duct was successfully cannulated in 90%. Inquiries were made at 6 other hospitals within a 5-mile radius where a total of 220 LCs were performed. The following gray areas need to be addressed: patients with slightly increased liver function tests but no jaundice, and unsuspected stones discovered by cholangiography. New projects are in progress to explore the common bile duct via the cystic duct or directly through the common bile duct with insertion of a T tube. The authors recommend proper training as well as caution and sound judgment before commencing with LC. 
Kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine. We report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction, including rash, lymph node enlargement, fever, hepatitis, and eosinophilia, after sulphasalazine therapy. Five years later, he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine, the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine. We conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-ASA preparation. 
Differential regulation of liver P-450III cytochromes in choline-deficient rats: implications for the erythromycin breath test as a parameter of liver function. Progressive liver fibrosis in rats develops when they are fed a diet deficient in choline. This diet also results in a pronounced and selective decrease in the liver microsomal content of a phase I drug-metabolizing enzyme belonging to the cytochrome P-450III gene family. Because P-450III cytochromes characteristically catalyze the N-demethylation of erythromycin, we believed that the production of breath CO2 from erythromycin would be dramatically reduced in choline-deficient rats. However, when 12 choline-deficient rats were compared with 9 control rats, the reduction in CO2 production from erythromycin (mean decrease 71%) was essentially identical to that from aminopyrine (mean decrease 69%), a substrate believed to be metabolized normally by the hepatocyte in fibrotic liver disease. Furthermore, we found that the relative erythromycin and aminopyrine demethylase activities were comparable when measured in vitro in liver microsomes prepared from the choline-deficient rats. To determine the molecular basis for the erythromycin demethylase activity in the choline-deficient rats, the liver microsomes were subjected to immunoblot analysis using a variety of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies capable of distinguishing individual P-450III-related proteins. Our studies confirm that a major erythromycin demethylase belonging to the P-450III family, termed P-450p, was greatly reduced in the choline-deficient rat liver. However, the specific concentration of a second P-450p-related protein was essentially normal and that of a third P-450p-related protein was actually increased in the choline-deficient rat liver. 
Hepatitis B virus nucleocapsid/pre-S2 fusion proteins expressed in attenuated Salmonella for oral vaccination. Hybrid HBV nucleocapsid-pre-S(2) fusion proteins were stably expressed in several aromatic-dependent attenuated Salmonella typhimurium and Salmonella dublin strains. When these live recombinant bacteria were administered i.p. to BALB/c mice they induced high titer anti-hepatitis B virus core Ag (HBc) and detectable anti-pre-S2 serum antibodies. Upon oral feeding of the recombinant salmonellae to mice, the rate of seroconversion to anti-HBc was dependent on the salmonella strain used. With the best carrier strain high titer anti-HBc antibodies and lower titer anti-pre-S2 serum IgG antibodies were observed two weeks after a single oral immunization. The Ig class and IgG subclass distribution of anti-HBc antibodies after i.p. and oral immunization is consistent with the induction of functional T cell help. 
Dual association of HLA DR2 and DR3 with primary sclerosing cholangitis. Human leukocyte antigen typing was performed in 81 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis to investigate reported associations between human leukocyte antigen type and this disease. The results showed a significant increase in the frequency of the antigens B8 and DR3 compared with controls (53% vs. 23%, p less than 0.0005, and 56% vs. 21%, p less than 0.0005). This was caused by a significant rise in the frequency of the human leukocyte antigen A1 B8 DR3 haplotype (32 of 81 patients, 40% vs. 12 of 100 patients, 12%, p less than 0.0005). By contrast, a significant reduction was seen in the frequency of the antigens B44 and DR4 (12% vs. 31%, p less than 0.005, and 12% vs. 34%, p less than 0.001, pc less than 0.011) because of the complete absence of the B44 DR4 haplotype in the patient group (p = 0.027, Fisher's exact test). When all the DR3-positive individuals (including the DR2/DR3 heterozygotes) were eliminated, a significant secondary association with DR2 was noted, 25 (69%) of 36 remaining patients being DR2-positive compared with 27 (34%) of 79 DR3 negative controls (p less than 0.0005, pc less than 0.006). Only 9% of the patients were DR2-positive and DR3-positive. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that survival was not influenced by the presence of either haplotype nor by the individual antigens. Patients who were DR3-positive were first seen at a significantly younger age than those who were DR2-positive (mean ages = 33 yr and 44 yr, respectively, p less than 0.002, Student's t test). 
Development of multiple necrotizing enteritis induced by a tumor necrosis factor-like cytokine from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peritoneal macrophages in rats. We report the development of an animal model of multiple necrotizing enteritis (MNE) in rats. When rats were injected directly with a culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated rat peritoneal macrophages into the abdominal aorta, the overt pathologic lesions of MNE developed within 30 minutes after injection. The rats showed an elevated level of blood fibrinogen degradation product content even 30 minutes after injection. Furthermore the rats that were pretreated intravenously with heparin sulfate did not develop MNE, indicating the acute disturbances of blood microcirculation in the intestine. Multiple necrotizing enteritis was developed also by the injection with recombinant tumor necrosis factor (rTNF) but rarely was observed with even a high dose of recombinant interleukin-1 (rIL-1) or platelet-activating factor (PAF). The supernatant was cytotoxic in vitro to TNF-susceptible LM and many other cells but was less cytotoxic to the TNF-resistant LR line. Partial purification of the supernatant suggested that the supernatant contained a cytokine that has biochemical features of TNF. Furthermore polyclonal anti-TNF antibody could inhibit not only the cytotoxicity in vitro but also MNE development in vivo by this factor. These data strongly indicate that MNE possibly could be caused by a TNF-like cytokine produced by macrophages that are stimulated by the endotoxin. 
The peritoneal environment during infection. The effect of monomicrobial and polymicrobial bacteria on pO2 and pH. Intraperitoneal (IP) abscesses frequently are composed of aerobes and anaerobes, and, in experimental models, a particulate adjuvant. The environmental changes effected by these components, either singularly or in combination, have not been well defined. The IP pO2, pH, and recoverable bacteria from the peritoneum of rats were quantified over 6 hours during simple aerobic and anaerobic infections and during mixed peritonitis with and without a sterile feces-barium sulfate adjuvant (SFA). Fourteen groups were studied, receiving intraperitoneally, at time of oxygen probe placement, 1 mL normal saline (control), Escherichia coli (EC), Bacteroides fragilis (BF), SFA alone, or a mixture of EC and BF, EC and SFA, BF and SFA, or EC, BF, and SFA. Control animals exhibited a stable IP pO2 and pH during 6 hours. In monomicrobial EC peritonitis, inocula well below the LD50 produced an increased IP pO2 and reduced arterial-peritoneal gradient (APG), with a stable IP pH. By 6 hours lethal doses of EC produced a dramatic decline in IP pO2, with no change in arterial pO2 as well as acidic IP and arterial pHs. Simple BF peritonitis caused no or minor elevations in IP and arterial pO2 with no change in pH. During mixed infections a significant decline in the IP pO2 and pH at 6 hours in those groups infected with both SFA and EC of a moderate, normally sublethal inoculation was observed, while arterial pO2 was unchanged and arterial pH was decreased only slightly. Concomitantly there was a significant increased number of aerobic bacteria in those groups with SFA as adjuvant compared to similar inocula without SFA. This study demonstrates the complex interactions of bacteria, sterile particulate adjuvant (SFA), and the host peritoneum. It suggests that the combination of SFA and aerobic bacteria alter the peritoneal environment to one permitting anaerobic growth and promoting abscess formation. 
Incontinence and rectal prolapse: a prospective manometric study. A prospective, manometric study has been performed on 23 female patients with rectal prolapse and varying degrees of incontinence. Seven of the 14 incontinent patients regained continence after surgery, and a further two patients improved. Improvement in internal and external sphincter function follows correction of rectal prolapse. Preoperative resting anal pressure was significantly higher in continent patients than in incontinent patients (P less than 0.05), as was the maximum voluntary contraction pressure (P less than 0.027). Postoperatively there was a significant increase in the resting anal pressure (P less than 0.0001) and maximum voluntary contraction pressure (P less than 0.003) in the whole group. The preoperative resting anorectal angle was significantly more acute (P less than 0.028) in continent patients than in incontinent patients. There was no significant change in the resting anorectal angle following prolapse repair. Patients who remained incontinent had a significantly lower preoperative resting anal pressure (P less than 0.01) than patients who improved or regained continence. Similarly, maximum voluntary contraction pressure was lower preoperatively in these patients (P less than 0.02). Preoperative resting anal pressure below 10 mm Hg and maximum voluntary contraction pressure below 50 mm Hg are associated with persisting incontinence after surgery. 
Hypertrophic smooth muscle in the partially obstructed opossum esophagus. The model: histological and ultrastructural observations. Obstruction is a complication of many esophageal diseases, but the morphological changes occurring in the obstructed esophagus are poorly understood. We developed a model of esophageal obstruction in the American opossum, Didelphis virginiana. A nonconstricting band around the gastroesophageal junction led to esophageal distention and tortuosity in the weeks following its placement. Despite a marked increase of the esophageal circumference, the esophageal wall was not thinned, and the circular muscle layer had actually increased its thickness. This was due to an increase in the size of individual smooth muscle cells with proportional increases in the cell surface area and volume. The electron density of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells varied much more than that of normal esophageal smooth muscle cells. As cell size increased, the tissue became more compact and the size of the extracellular space decreased. Also, the extracellular space was filled by an amorphous electron-dense material. Additional changes in the structure of hypertrophic smooth muscle cells included prominent intermediate filaments in the vicinity of thick filaments. There was no difference in the structure of the hypertrophic smooth muscle at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks after placement of the band. The morphological features described here resemble those seen in human esophageal spasm and achalasia of humans and could affect esophageal smooth muscle function. 
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced colonic strictures: a case report. Adverse effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can occur throughout the whole gastrointestinal tract. Recently, several cases of "diaphragmlike" thin ileal strictures have been reported. These strictures seem to result from nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced inflammatory changes and apparently represent a newly recognized nosological entity. The case of a 61-year-old man who gradually developed similar inflammatory changes in the ascending colon during prolonged intake of a slow-release form of diclofenac is presented, and the literature on nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced intestinal strictures is briefly reviewed. 
Localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide in human esophageal Langerhans cells. Previously undescribed calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive intraepithelial cells were seen in specimens of esophageal mucosa obtained by biopsy or surgical resection from 14 individuals. These calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cells were sparsely seen in normal mucosa but increased markedly in esophagitis. They were inaccessible to routine histological stains, but osmication showed them as dendritic forms resembling Langerhans cells of the skin. Their cytological identity was determined with immunocytochemical tests for human antigenic markers such as Ia, HLA-DR, and OKT6 for Langerhans cells, Leu-M5 and Leu-M3 for intraepithelial macrophages, CD3 and TCR-1 for T-lymphocytes, Leu-14 for B-lymphocytes, S-100 for Merkel cells, and chromogranin for amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cells. Double localization showed that calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity colocalized with Ia, HLA-DR, and OKT6 but not with the other markers. These studies show that intraepithelial Langerhans cells in the esophageal mucosa contain calcitonin gene-related peptide, which may serve as an immunomodulator. 
Primary peritoneal sarcoidosis. A 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites. Despite thorough evaluation, the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules, and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas. After other causes were excluded, a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy. Involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and, to our knowledge, only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease. 
Repeat operation for failure of antireflux procedures. The majority of patients who receive modern antireflux operations obtain substantial long-term relief of their symptoms. About 10% to 15% will have persistent or recurrent problems, some severe enough to warrant reoperation for correction. With careful symptom review, barium study, endoscopy, and manometry, the mechanism of failure becomes evident, and remedial surgical treatment may proceed. The results at reoperation are not as good as those of the primary procedure, which emphasizes the need for proper diagnosis and choice of procedure and for reliable execution of technique at the initial treatment. 
Endoscopic variceal ligation in patients who have failed endoscopic sclerotherapy. Endoscopic variceal ligation has been developed as an alternative to endoscopic sclerotherapy. We report a series of 12 men with a history of bleeding esophageal varices who were treated with endoscopic variceal ligation after they had failed sclerotherapy. Hemostasis was achieved in all 10 patients who were bleeding at the time of initial endoscopy and again in those who subsequently re-bled. Over a follow-up period of up to 22 months, varices have been and remain eradicated in five patients; in four others, a reduction in grade was noted before death (two patients), liver transplant, or loss to follow-up (one patient each); two patients died before they could be re-evaluated, while in the remaining patient, no reduction in variceal grade was noted before loss to follow-up. No complication was recorded after 35 endoscopic treatment sessions involving a total of 245 rubber band ligations. Our results indicate that endoscopic variceal ligation may be used with success in patients who fail sclerotherapy. 
Endoscopic nasobiliary catheter drainage in biliary and pancreatic disease. Nasobiliary catheter drainage was first introduced a decade ago. It provides drainage of the biliary system and facilitates interventional procedures of the biliary and pancreatic system, both for therapy and research purposes. The present review addresses the designs of nasobiliary catheters, the technique of insertion, and indications for drainage, with special emphasis on the management of bile duct stones and associated complications. Its potential application in biliary research is discussed further. Certain caveats in the performance of nasobiliary drainage are also included. All of these emphasize the need for this technique to be included in therapeutic endoscopy training. 
A rare cause of colitis--Brucella melitensis. Report of a case. Documentation of gastrointestinal lesions in Brucella infections is sparse. A case of Brucella melitensis type 3 infection accompanied by erosive lesions of the colon, observed by endoscopy and histopathologic examination, is reported. Such gastrointestinal lesions have not been described since 1934. Before 1934 only postmortem observations are recorded. 
Truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty combined with valvular replacement in patients with ulcer disease. In 1988, 5 patients (3 men and 2 women) with ulcer disease (mean age 56 +/- 8 years) underwent valvular replacement for aortic (No. = 4) or mitral disease (No. = 1). All patients had had gastroduodenal ulcers. Preoperative gastroscopy demonstrated active ulcers (No. = 4) and a healed pyloric ulcer with pyloric stenosis (No. = 1). Despite the presence of ulcers, a non-biologic prosthesis was preferred in each patient because of their young age (No. = 3), chronic atrial fibrillation requiring anticoagulant therapy (No. = 1), and refusal of the eventuality of subsequent reoperation (No. = 1). In each patient, a truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty was performed simultaneously with the valvular procedures by the same incision. The postoperative courses were uneventful. With a mean follow-up of 15 +/- 3 months, no gastrointestinal bleeding was observed during anticoagulant therapy. With anticoagulant drugs, bleeding may occur with a frequency of 4% per patient treatment-year, half of which are gastrointestinal in origin. Nevertheless, in selected patients with gastroduodenal ulcers, performing a vagotomy-pyloroplasty simultaneously with valvular replacement allows implantation of a non-biologic prosthesis, with greater durability than bioprosthesis. 
Gall-bladder perforation after long-term dapsone therapy. A 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting. Investigations revealed a Heinz body haemolytic anaemia. Worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi. In previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy, life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described. 
Prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease in family members of Jewish Crohn's disease patients in Israel. A familial study of 189 Jewish Crohn's disease patients was conducted in order to evaluate the risk for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in relatives of the patients and to try to understand better the genetic component in the etiology of the disease among Jews. One hundred fifty-seven patients filled out questionnaires that were verified by personal interviews. In 10 families (6.6%), a first-degree relative of the propositus was found to have IBD, seven Crohn's disease and three ulcerative colitis. Among first-degree relatives, siblings were more frequently affected: of 400, five had Crohn's disease and one ulcerative colitis. Among 304 parents, two had Crohn's disease and two ulcerative colitis, while none of the propositi's children had IBD. The prevalence of first-degree relatives with Crohn's disease was similar in the 98 and 45 families of Ashkenazi and non-Ashkenazi origin: 5.1% and 4.4%, respectively. The risk for siblings of the probands to be affected were also similar in the two groups: 1.5% and 1.8%; while parents of the probands were affected only in the group of Ashkenazi Jews. 
Esophageal motor disorder in alcoholics: result of alcoholism or withdrawal? Both acute and chronic ethanol consumption may cause esophageal dysmotility. In order to systematically evaluate the effect of ethanol on esophageal motility, we studied esophageal motility in 13 healthy subjects before and following acute intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol and in chronic alcoholics within 6 hr of their last drink (n = 6) and following 24 to 48 hr of abstinence when signs of withdrawal were present (n = 13). Withdrawing alcoholics were also restudied after intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol. Ethanol transiently decreased lower esophageal sphincter pressure (LESP) and inhibited LES relaxation in all control subjects; this inhibitory effect of ethanol on LESP in alcoholics was significantly less, indicating the development of tolerance. Ethanol moderately decreased esophageal contraction amplitude (ECA) in 10 of 13 controls and prolonged duration of contractions in all but had no effect on velocity of esophageal contractions. In contrast, ECA was significantly elevated in both groups of alcoholics, but this was significantly more marked in withdrawing alcoholics. Ethanol infusion returned ECA toward normal values in withdrawing alcoholics. Abnormal motility was noted in three intoxicated alcoholics and 10 (77%) withdrawing alcoholics. This included nutcracker esophagus in five and hypertensive LES in two. These data indicated that (1) esophageal motor dysfunction is common in alcoholics; (2) acute ethanol administration decreases LESP and esophageal contraction amplitude, whereas chronic ethanol consumption and withdrawal from ethanol increases ECA. This suggests development of a compensatory mechanism in chronic alcoholics leading to high pressure esophageal contractions during withdrawal. 
Aerobic work capacity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome OBJECTIVE--To determine the aerobic work capacity of patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome and compare it with that of two control groups, and to assess the patients' perception of their level of activity before and during illness. DESIGN--A symptom limited exercise treadmill test with on line gas analysis and blood sampling was used. Subjects were assessed by one investigator, who was blind to the group which they were in. SETTING--Department of medicine, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast. SUBJECTS--13 Patients (10 women, three men) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome. Two control groups of similar age, sex, and body weight: 13 normal subjects (10 women, three men) and seven patients (five women, two men) with the irritable bowel syndrome. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Aerobic work capacity as assessed by several variables such as length of time on treadmill, heart rate, and biochemical measurements; Borg score; and visual analogue scores of perceived level of physical activity. RESULTS--The patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome had a reduced exercise capacity compared with that of the other subjects, spending a significantly shorter time on the treadmill. They had a significantly higher heart rate at submaximal levels of exertion and at stage III exertion had significantly higher blood lactate concentrations. Using a Borg score, they showed a significantly altered perception of their degree of physical exertion with a mean score of 8.2 compared with 6.6 and 5.3 for the normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome respectively. Using a visual analogue scale they indicated that they had a greater capacity for activity before illness than had the patients with the irritable bowel syndrome, but the scores were not significantly different between the two groups. Both groups of patients indicated reduced activity at the time of testing. Normal controls and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome aspired to a greater level of activity than their current level, but the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome aspired to a level similar to that which they had had before their illness. CONCLUSIONS--Patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome have reduced aerobic work capacity compared with normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome. They also have an altered perception of their degree of exertion and their premorbid level of physical activity. 
Relation between rectal sensation and anal function in normal subjects and patients with faecal incontinence. The relation between sensory perception of rapid balloon distension of the rectum and the motor responses of the rectum and external and internal anal sphincters in 27 normal subjects and 16 patients with faecal incontinence who had impaired rectal sensation but normal sphincter pressures was studied. In both patients and normal subjects, the onset and duration of rectal sensation correlated closely with the external anal sphincter electrical activity (r = 0.8, p less than 0.0001) and with rectal contraction (r = 0.51, p less than 0.001), but not with internal sphincter relaxation. All normal subjects perceived a rectal sensation within one second of rapid inflation of a rectal balloon with volumes of 20 ml or less air. Six patients did not perceive any rectal sensation until 60 ml had been introduced, while in the remaining nine patients the sensation was delayed by at least two seconds. Internal sphincter relaxation occurred before the sensation was perceived in three of 27 normal subjects and 11 of 16 patients (p less than 0.001), and could be associated with anal leakage, which stopped as soon as sensation was perceived. The lowest rectal volumes required to induce anal relaxation, to cause sustained relaxation, or to elicit sensations of a desire to defecate or pain were similar in patients and normal subjects. In conclusion, these results show the close association between rectal sensation and external anal sphincter contraction, and show that faecal incontinence may occur as a result of delayed or absent external anal sphincter contraction when the internal anal sphincter is relaxed. 
The pharmacist as a health consultant--ten years later. Pharmacists remain a readily accessible and trusted source of information about health. In order to assess the quality of counseling on health matters and the progress of the profession in this activity over the last decade, a study similar to one reported in 1978 was conducted. We visited 46 community pharmacies and requested advice from the pharmacists concerning the proper treatment of an infant with diarrhea. Interviewers volunteered no additional information, but questions asked by the pharmacist were answered according to a predetermined hypothetical case involving an 18-month-old infant with diarrhea and vomiting. Findings include the following: approximately one-third of the pharmacists recommended a product without caution and less than 20 percent inquired about fever, nausea, vomiting, diet, or the infant's condition. We believe pharmacists should approach health counseling with an increased awareness of the harmful potential in providing inappropriate medical information. 
Role of surgery in antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous enterocolitis. With the increased use of prophylactic and broad-spectrum antibiotics, pseudomembranous colitis has emerged as a significant clinical problem. Management with specific anti-Clostridium difficile therapy (vancomycin or metronidazole) has reduced mortality to less than 2%. Nevertheless, the disease may progress to a fulminant toxic colitis or colonic perforation. Additionally, another subset of patients will present with a dramatic clinical picture, suggesting acute peritonitis, eventuating in unnecessary laparotomy. This report reviews both the medical and surgical literature during the past 15 years of patients treated for pseudomembranous colitis. Analysis of this clinical data has provided us with the opportunity to both define the role of surgery in this disorder and illustrate the necessity for a combined medical and surgical cooperative approach in the early management of this iatrogenic disease. 
Congenital duodenal diaphragm: conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body. Congenital duodenal diaphragms (CDD) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood. We report a patient, who, although symptomatic since early childhood, had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm, producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction. The condition, including the reconstruction of the precipitating event, was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery. 
Possible transmission of serum hepatitis in liver surgery with the ultrasonic dissector. When the ultrasonic dissector is used during liver surgery, the possibility exists of the transmission of virus to the attending hospital personnel because of unavoidable splashing of the irrigating solution. It becomes apparent from this study that the titer of hepatitis B surface antigen in the aspirated irrigating solution is almost the same level as that in the serum. We therefore strongly recommend that eye shields should be used in hepatic surgery when the ultrasonic dissector is in use. 
Microprocessor-assisted solvent-transfer system for gallstone dissolution. In vitro and in vivo validation. To improve the efficacy, safety, and convenience of contact dissolution of gallbladder stones, a microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system was developed. The system's two pumps simultaneously infuse and aspirate solvent into and from the gallbladder at a high flow rate through a multilumen catheter. The microprocessor controls the pumps using a closed feedback loop control algorithm to regulate intragallbladder pressure to prevent solvent escape into the duodenum. Turbulent solvent flow at the catheter end in the gallbladder is designed to induce rapid stone dissolution and to suspend insoluble residue, thus promoting its aspiration. The system's response and gallbladder emptying capacity was 160-fold faster than the natural gallbladder emptying rate. The rate at which gallstones were dissolved by methyl tert-butyl ether using the system was compared with that achieved with a syringe pump. For 6 of 11 pairs of stones that totally dissolved, the mean dissolution time with the system was 10 +/- 6 minutes compared with 112 +/- 81 minutes for the syringe pump. In the 5 of 11 stone pairs which dissolved incompletely, insoluble residue was completely eliminated by the system in 21 +/- 9 minutes but not by the syringe pump even at 360 minutes. When the system was used in gallstone patients, solvent recovery was 99% +/- 1%, and the concentration of a nonabsorbable marker did not change, confirming the lack of appreciable absorption of methyl tert-butyl ether. These studies suggest that the microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system is a device capable of safe, complete, and fully automatic contact dissolution of cholesterol gallbladder stones using methyl tert-butyl ether or similar solvents. 
Intraperitoneal femoral venous catheter insertion with free blood return in presence of tense hemoperitoneum. The authors report a case of intraperitoneal insertion of a femoral venous catheter, with blood return, in a patient with hemoperitoneum. In such patients, skin puncture at or below the inguinal ligament is important. Aspiration of unusually dark blood and medial catheter location should raise the possibility of intraperitoneal catheter placement. 
Selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid C3 levels in cirrhosis. Selective intestinal decontamination for 7 days with norfloxacin was performed in 14 cirrhotic patients with ascites and low ascitic fluid total protein. Variations in serum and ascitic fluid of C3 and C4 and ascitic fluid total protein after therapy were compared with those of a control group of 14 untreated patients with similar characteristics. After oral norfloxacin administration, we saw a significant increase of C3 in serum (p less than 0.05) and ascitic fluid (p = 0.01). A significant increase was also observed in ascitic fluid total protein (p less than 0.05) but not in serum and ascitic fluid C4. There were no changes in serum C3, ascitic fluid C3, ascitic fluid C4 or in ascitic fluid total protein in group 2. These data demonstrate that selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid C3 levels and, therefore, might be useful in preventing spontaneous infections in cirrhotic patients at high risk of infection. 
Feasibility of digital teleradiology for imaging evaluation of patients with acute right upper quadrant abdominal pain. To assess the utility of a commercially available digital teleradiology system in evaluating patients with acute pain in the right upper quadrant, hard-copy images from 100 examinations (50 hepatobiliary scintigrams and 50 sonograms of the right upper quadrant) were digitized, transmitted via standard telephone lines, and viewed remotely on a video monitor. Video and hard-copy interpretations were then compared for degree of concordance. For the scintigraphic studies, hard-copy and video images were equal in demonstrating gallbladder and bile duct activity. Video images failed to depict the presence of bowel activity in one case. Gallstones were depicted equally well on hard-copy and video sonographic images. The video interpreters overestimated the presence of abnormal hepatic parenchyma and overlooked one case of right hydronephrosis. The video interpretations of the scintigrams and sonograms showed an overall error rate of 4%, comparable to the rate obtained when radiographs are interpreted remotely with digital teleradiology systems. 
Endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder: direct dissolution of gallstones. Percutaneous transhepatic catheterization of the gallbladder for dissolution of cholesterol stones by instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) is an invasive therapeutic procedure. The only non-invasive alternative available to now, endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the cystic duct, was difficult because of the cystic duct's tortuosity and spiral valves. We therefore developed a catheter system which, using conventional duodenoscopes during a routine endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC) procedure, permits reliable and safe catheterization of the gallbladder without the need for endoscopic sphincterotomy. In 18 of 22 patients (82%) we were able to place a cysto-nasal catheter, and in 14 patients MTBE dissolution therapy was then performed. Eight patients (57%) were completely free of stones after treatment; the other six (43%) had residual debris. In 4 of 22 patients (18%) cannulation attempts failed, in 3 patients due to cystic duct blockage by a calculus. Endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder (ERCG) represents a promising alternative to the invasive percutaneous transhepatic catheterization procedure. 
Hemodynamic changes in splenic blood flow during and after distal splenorenal shunt. The purpose of this study was to examine the hemodynamic changes of the spleen and the subsequent influence on the numbers of blood cells both during and 1 month after distal splenorenal shunt (DSRS) with splenopancreatic disconnection in 20 patients with portal hypertension. The intraoperative splenic blood flow, measured with an electromagnetic flowmeter, significantly increased after shunt insertion: the mean percentage increases within the splenic vein and artery were 60% (p less than 0.01) and 37% (p less than 0.05), respectively. The splenic venous blood flow, measured with a pulsed Doppler flowmeter, had not changed significantly 1 month postoperatively (676 +/- 501 to 540 +/- 306 ml/min). The WBC and platelet counts significantly (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively) increased 1 month postoperatively, whereas there was a small, but significant (p less than 0.05), decrease in RBC count. We concluded that splenic blood flow increases immediately after DSRS with splenopancreatic disconnection, but this increase may be only short term. The influence of the postoperative hemodynamic changes on blood cell count is uncertain. 
Noninvasive measurement of portal venous blood flow in patients with cirrhosis: effects of physiological and pharmacological stimuli. The present study aims to evaluate the usefulness of combined pulse Doppler-real-time ultrasonography as a noninvasive method for the measurement of portal blood flow in man. This measurement technique was performed on 12 healthy subjects and 20 patients with portal hypertension. Ten patients (group 1) were evaluated prior to and after ingestion of a standard meal (Ensure Plus) or placebo. In the remaining 10 patients (group 2), the effects of isosorbide dinitrate (5 mg/SL) administration or placebo were studied. In group 1, food intake caused a significant increase of portal blood flow (from 1038 +/- 539 to 1572 +/- 759 ml/min, P less than 0.02); this effect was due to a significant rise in mean blood velocity (from 18.5 +/- 3.7 to 23.9 +/- 3.9 cm/sec, P less than 0.02). In group 2, isosorbide dinitrate significantly reduced portal blood flow (from 985 +/- 491 to 625 +/- 355 ml/min, P less than 0.05); a significant decline of mean blood velocity (from 18.8 +/- 4.5 to 14.5 +/- 2.5 cm/sec, P less than 0.02) was observed. Placebo administration had no significant hemodynamic effects in either group. Our results suggest that Doppler measurements gave accurate noninvasive estimations of portal blood flow and that this technique may be used to monitor physiological and pharmological stimuli in patients with portal hypertension. 
Free radical inhibition and serial chemiluminescence in evolving experimental pancreatitis. Oxygen free radical activity and inhibition were examined in experimental pancreatitis. Twenty-five rats were randomized to five groups: controls received intravenous saline, to simulate pancreatitis one group received intravenous caerulein (5 micrograms kg-1 h-1), and three groups received sodium taurocholate via the pancreatic duct (0.2 ml, 5 per cent), either alone, following allopurinol or immediately before superoxide dismutase. Chemiluminescence (a phenomenon based on the emission of light during chemical reactions and which is dependent on oxygen free radical activity) was used as an index of oxygen free radical activity and was measured in tissue samples at 5-min intervals following induction of pancreatitis. The control mean(s.e.m.) serum amylase level 1 h after induction of pancreatitis was 635(13) units. It was significantly elevated in caerulein-induced pancreatitis, 1833(118) units (P less than 0.05) and exceeded 3000 units in all taurocholate-infused animals. Mean(s.e.m.) chemiluminescence ranged from 44 (8) mV 100 mg-1 at time zero to 404(113) mV 100 mg-1 at 1 h in controls. In caerulein-induced pancreatitis mean(s.e.m.) chemiluminescence peaked at 20 min (1399(239) mV 100 mg-1, P less than 0.02) and in taurocholate-induced pancreatitis at 15 min (2316(95) mV 100 mg-1, P less than 0.004). Superoxide dismutase significantly reduced chemiluminescence and hyperamylasaemia in taurocholate groups. Increasing oxygen free radical activity paralleled evolving pancreatitis. Superoxide dismutase may have a therapeutic role in pancreatitis. 
A comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in United States soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis. A double blind study of daily doxycycline (100 mg) vs. weekly mefloquine (250 mg) was performed on United States soldiers training in Thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections. During a 5 week period, 49% (58/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48% (64/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea. Infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39% (47/119) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46% (62/134) of soldiers taking mefloquine. Forty-four percent (59/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36% (43/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), while 9% (12/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4% of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with Campylobacter. Side effects from either medication were minimal. After 5 weeks in Thailand, the percent of non-ETEC strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65% (77/119) to 86% (95/111) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79% (84/106) to 93% (88/95) in soldiers on doxycycline. Doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to Thailand where ETEC and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines. 
Modulation of fluid absorption and the secretory response of rat jejunum to cholera toxin by dietary fat. To study the effects of dietary fat on jejunal water and ion absorption and on cholera toxin-induced secretion, 3 week old Sprague Dawley rats were fed isocaloric diets. Forty per cent of the total calories were given as fat, as butter (high saturated fat), olive oil (high monounsaturated fat), or corn oil (high polyunsaturated fat), with one group on low fat (10% of calories) standard laboratory diet as controls. During in vivo jejunal perfusion studies we found that (i) a polyunsaturated fat (corn oil) supplemented diet improves jejunal absorption of water and electrolytes and these changes are independent of the observed concentrations of luminal prostaglandins; (ii) high dietary fat appreciably reduced the secretory response to cholera toxin, probably without fundamentally changing the mechanism by which cholera toxin induces secretion. We conclude that dietary fat composition altered the permeability and transport characteristics of the small intestine. This observation might have relevance to some human diarrhoeal disorders. 
Lipid peroxidation and hepatic antioxidants in alcoholic liver disease. The generation of hepatic liver peroxidation by free radicals has been proposed as a mechanism for ethanol induced hepatotoxicity. To investigate this hypothesis, lipid extracts from hepatic needle biopsy specimens from alcoholic subjects were examined for evidence of lipid peroxidation by measuring total conjugated dienes by derivative spectroscopy and, after hydrolysis of hepatic lipid extract and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography, the molar ratio between a diene-conjugated linoleic acid isomer (18:2 (9,11)) and the parent linoleic acid isomer (18:2(9,12)). Changes were related to hepatic histology, iron deposition, glutathione and vitamin E values. Derivative spectroscopy minima suggestive of diene conjugation were identified at 233 and 242 nm and correlated weakly, suggesting these two minima may represent different classes of lipid dienes. There was a weak relation with inflammatory histological changes in the biopsy specimen but no correlation with hepatic iron grade, glutathione, or vitamin E lipid ratio. The proportion of 18:2(9,11) linoleic acid in hepatic lipids correlated significantly with inflammatory histological features and inversely with hepatic glutathione. Furthermore, hepatic glutathione was lower in biopsy specimens with greater iron staining. The ratio of vitamin E to lipid was not related to histological group, inflammation, or iron grade. These findings suggest that excess alcohol consumption leads to hepatic inflammation and lipid peroxidation. 
Microvillus inclusion disease. In vitro jejunal electrolyte transport. Microvillus inclusion disease is an inherited intestinal brush border membrane defect that causes severe fluid and electrolyte malabsorption. In an infant with microvillus inclusion disease (confirmed by electron microscopic evaluation of rectal, jejunal, and gallbladder mucosae), basal stool output was massive (greater than 125 mL . kg-1 . day-1) and was not altered by treatment with clonidine or octreotide. A proximal jejunostomy with mucous fistula was placed, allowing separation of proximal from distal tract outputs (60 mL . kg-1 . day-1 and 100 mL . kg-1 . day-1, respectively). A 10-cm jejunal segment was excised during surgery and mounted in Ussing chambers for determination of transepithelial Na+ and Cl fluxes. Compared with intestine of normal infants, this infant's epithelium showed transmural conductance and unidirectional ion fluxes that were only 30% of normal. With respect to both Na+ and Cl, the excised jejunum was in a net secretory state. Theophylline (5 mmol/L) increased net Cl secretion slightly. In response to mucosal D-glucose (30 mmol/L), jejunal mucosal-to-serosal Na+ flux doubled. In the infant, glucose-electrolyte solution administered intrajejunally did not significantly change stool output, suggesting that all of the solution (40 mL/kg) was absorbed. Subtotal enterocolectomy, in theory, could have decreased purging by 66% in this infant with microvillus inclusion disease, but diarrhea would still have been significant. 
Defects in the precore region of the HBV genome in patients with chronic hepatitis B after sustained seroconversion from HBeAg to anti-HBe induced spontaneously or with interferon therapy. Hepatitis B virus DNA clones were propagated from sera of six patients with chronic hepatitis B who seroconverted from HBeAg to antibody to HBeAg either spontaneously or after administration of alpha-interferon. Defects in the precore region blocking synthesis and secretion of HBeAg were detected in all 46 hepatitis B virus DNA clones from three patients who remained positive for antibody to HBeAg and in whom hepatitis resolved. Defective clones had point mutations from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, converting codon 28 from tryptophan (TGG) to a stop codon (TAG). In contrast, this defect was not found in any of 39 hepatitis B virus DNA clones from three patients who seroconverted to antibody to HBeAg but then redeveloped HBeAg with reactivation of hepatitis. Using these results, the G-to-A point mutation at nucleotide 83 in the precore region would predict sustained positivity for antibody to HBeAg and remission of hepatitis in patients who have seroconverted either spontaneously or with interferon therapy. 
Crohn's disease and retinal vascular disease. Patients with Crohn's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement. We treated two patients with Crohn's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system. One patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion. Both patients were in excellent health except for Crohn's disease, which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen. In one patient, the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of Crohn's disease, whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations. We suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease, especially in a young patient. 
Cholecystokinin enhanced hepatobiliary scanning with ejection fraction calculation as an indicator of disease of the gallbladder. Chronic acalculous cholecystitis represents 5 to 20 per cent of electively treated diseases of the gallbladder. A 70 per cent success rate in relieving these patients of chronic pain was reported when surgical treatment was recommended based on symptoms alone. The cholecystokinin ejection fraction, which is a quantitative measure of emptying of the gallbladder, was 95 per cent accurate in predicting which patients would be relieved of symptoms by surgical treatment. In this study, we report our consecutive experience during a 20 month period with 83 patients. 
Modified technique of Pringle's maneuver in resection of the liver. Crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes. Pringle's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well. Therefore, we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus. This vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver. 
Soluble interleukin-2 receptor in Crohn's disease: relation of serum concentrations to disease activity. Serum concentrations of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) were measured as a marker of immune activation in a group of 30 patients with Crohn's disease. sIL-2R concentrations were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay during periods of active and inactive disease and correlated with standard parameters of disease activity. Serum concentrations of sIL-2R were significantly raised in patients with active Crohn's disease compared with patients with inactive disease (p less than 0.001) and control subjects. There was a significant correlation between serum sIL-2R concentrations and disease activity as assessed by the Harvey-Bradshaw index (r = 0.42, p less than 0.01), platelet numbers (r = 0.49, p less than 0.01), and orosomucoid (r = 0.47, p less than 0.01), alpha 1 antitrypsin (r = 0.44, p less than 0.01), and C reactive protein concentrations (r = 0.48, p less than 0.001) but not with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Measurement of serum sIL-2R concentration is a simple and useful laboratory means of assessing disease activity. Raised concentrations in patients with active Crohn's disease is further evidence for in vivo immune activation occurring in this disease. 
Anorectal sensory and motor function in neurogenic fecal incontinence. Comparison between multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus. We measured anorectal sensory and motor function in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence, 11 continent patients with multiple sclerosis, 10 diabetics with fecal incontinence, and 12 healthy control subjects. The threshold volume at which patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence experienced rectal sensation was higher than that in healthy controls (42.7 +/- 6.2 mL vs. 13.3 +/- 2.8 mL; P less than 0.01) and was similar to that in incontinent diabetics (36.5 +/- 5.7 mL). Patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinent diabetics also showed increased thresholds of phasic external sphincter contraction compared with controls (P less than 0.05). Diabetics with incontinence had reduced resting and maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures compared with controls (P less than 0.05), whereas patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinence showed only decreased maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures (P less than 0.01 vs. controls and diabetics). Incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis also required smaller volumes of rectal distention to inhibit internal sphincter tone compared with diabetics and controls (P less than 0.01). Decreased maximal voluntary squeeze pressures were less severe in continent patients with multiple sclerosis than in incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis. We conclude that impaired function of the external anal sphincter and decreased volumes of rectal distention to inhibit the internal anal sphincter or both may contribute to fecal incontinence in multiple sclerosis. In addition, increased thresholds of conscious rectal sensation in some incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus may contribute to fecal incontinence by impairing the recognition of impending defecation. 
Oral manifestations of Crohn's disease. An analysis of 79 cases. We report four new cases of oral manifestation in Crohn's disease (CD) and evaluate 75 reported cases for morphology and site of oral and intestinal manifestations of CD, clinical manifestation, and treatment. Oral CD was the presenting symptom in 43 of 72 (60%) patients and relapsed in 34 of 60 (57%). Median age at presentation was 22 (range 6-57) years, and males were affected more often (1.85:1, male:female ratio). From a total of 228 oral lesions in 79 patients, lips (57 lesions), gingiva (40 lesions), vestibular sulci (31 lesions), and buccal mucosa (25 lesions) were the sites most frequently affected. Edema (62 lesions), ulcers (57 lesions), and polypoid papulous hyperplastic mucosa (45 lesions) were the most common type of lesions. The rate of granuloma detection was high in oral (67-77%) and intestinal lesions (45-71%). A total of 66 courses of drug therapy in 51 patients were analyzed. Complete remission of oral symptoms was achieved by systemic steroids and/or azathioprine in 13 of 26 (50%) patients, whereas strictly topical treatment with steroids resulted in complete remission of oral symptoms in 7 of 12 (58%). We conclude that oral CD exhibits a characteristic morphologic appearance, as often as not preceding intestinal symptoms in adolescents and young adults. Thus, patients with orofacial granulomatosis CD should be vigorously searched for by complete gastrointestinal endoscopic investigation. Oral CD may cause disabling pain and facial distortion, and results of treatment remain unrewarding. In the absence of data from controlled therapeutic trials, systemic steroids and/or azathioprine are recommended if topical treatment has failed to control symptoms. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a new endoscopic technique that has diffused throughout the surgical community with great rapidity. Although the DATTA panelists considered the procedure appropriate with respect to both its safety and effectiveness, recognition was made that there are no comparative trials of this technique vs open cholecystectomy and virtually no literature on complication rates. The Society of American Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Surgeons has developed minimal credentialing criteria for determining competence in laparoscopic surgery. This includes completion of an approved residency training in general surgery, training in laparoscopic technique either by a surgeon experienced in this procedure or by completion of an approved course in the technique requiring hands-on laboratory practice, and observation or proctoring of an actual surgical procedure. Many of the DATTA panelists (35 of 40 [87.5%]) reiterated the importance of requiring that the procedure be performed first with animals and that subsequent laparoscopic procedures on patients be done under the supervision of an expert in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Dental enamel defects in first-degree relatives of coeliac disease patients. To find out whether dental changes can be used to screen for coeliac disease among apparently healthy relatives of patients with the disorder, 56 healthy first-degree relatives of such patients were subjected to dental examination and small bowel biopsy. 25 had coeliac-type general permanent-tooth enamel lesions. All 7 who had histological evidence of coeliac disease also had enamel lesions. The finding that enamel defects may occur without small bowel changes must be borne in mind in screening. The coeliac-type enamel changes were strongly associated with HLA-DR3, and most of the DR3 alleles belonged to the extended haplotype A1; B8; DR3 group. 
Healed experimental gastric ulcers remain histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal. The present study was designed to assess histologic and ultrastructural features of gastric mucosa in the areas of grossly healed ulcers (acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers) in rats. The specific question we studied was whether the structure and cellular composition of the gastric mucosa in an area of grossly healed ulcer were fully restored. Eighty Sprague-Dawley rats underwent laparotomy; 100% acetic acid was applied to the lower gastric corpus serosa for 30 s and the abdomen was closed. The stomachs were reopened after 2 weeks or after 2, 3, or 4 months. Standardized gastric wall specimens from the area of grossly healed ulcers were obtained, processed, and evaluated by light microscopy and by transmission electron microscopy. The gastric mucosa of grossly healed ulcers demonstrated re-epithelialization at each study time but the mucosa beneath the surface epithelium displayed prominent histologic and ultrastructural abnormalities. Two different patterns of scar could be distinguished: (a) the mucosa in the area of healed ulcer was thinner (25-45% reduction vs. normal), with increased connective tissue and poor differentiation and/or degenerative changes in the glandular cells; or (b) the mucosa displayed ballooning dilatation of gastric glands, reduction in the microvascular network, and poor differentiation of glandular cells. We conclude that (i) the subepithelial mucosa of grossly healed gastric ulcer displays disorganized restoration of glandular and vascular structures and remains histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal; (ii) these abnormalities may interfere with oxygenation, nutrient supply, and with mucosal resistance and defense, and therefore could be the basis for ulcer recurrence. 
Peptic ulcer surgery during the H2-receptor antagonist era: a population-based epidemiological study of ulcer surgery in Helsinki from 1972 to 1987. To evaluate the effects of improvements in medical therapy on the incidence of, indications for and operative methods used in peptic ulcer surgery, all cases of primary peptic ulcer surgery among adults in the city of Helsinki in the years 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1987 were analysed. There was a total of 565 such cases in a population which consisted of 5.2 X 10(5) individuals in 1972 and 4.8 X 10(5) individuals in 1987. The introduction of H2-receptor antagonists in 1979 was associated with a fall in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer operations, from 15.5 to 6.7 per 10(5) individuals, and a fall in the annual incidence of elective gastric ulcer operations, from 9.4 to 3.1 per 10(5) individuals (P less than 0.05). The decrease was greatest among males with duodenal ulcer. In contrast, the annual incidence of emergency surgery for ulcer haemorrhage and perforation (all types of ulcers) remained relatively stable, varying from 7.2 to 10.2 per 10(5) inhabitants over the observation period (n.s.). The mean age of patients undergoing elective surgery remained essentially unchanged. The mean age of patients undergoing emergency surgery increased. The decrease in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer surgery occurred mainly in relation to proximal gastric vagotomy. There was a concomitant relative increase in the incidence of gastric resection. The types of operative procedures used in cases of pyloric, prepyloric and gastric ulcer remained unchanged over the years 1972 to 1987. 
Comparison of levels of several human microsomal cytochrome P-450 enzymes and epoxide hydrolase in normal and disease states using immunochemical analysis of surgical liver samples. A group of 100 human liver samples obtained from three different network sources was divided into groups of normal, cirrhotic, metastatic cancer and other disease groups. These samples were analyzed for amounts of cytochrome P-450 IA2, IIC, IIE1 and IIIA and epoxide hydrolase per unit of microsomal protein using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunochemical staining. For each enzyme the amount of protein detected varied by two orders of magnitude, even within the set of normal liver samples. With respect to the liver samples judged to be normal, the cirrhotic samples showed decreased levels of P-450 IA2 and IIE1 and epoxide hydrolase (P less than .05). The level of P-450 IIIA proteins also appeared lower but the high variance did not allow such a statistically valid conclusion. The liver samples obtained from metastatic cancer patients did not show decreased levels of any of the proteins examined, and levels of P-450 IIC proteins were enhanced in this group compared to the controls. In the samples obtained from patients with other liver diseases, the only major change was a decrease in the level of P-450 IA2. These findings are of use in explaining some of the known effects of hepatic disease on the in vitro and in vivo metabolism of certain drugs. 
Corticosteroid use and peptic ulcer disease: role of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. OBJECTIVE: To estimate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of oral corticosteroids. DESIGN: A nested case-control study. SETTING: Tennessee Medicaid program. PARTICIPANTS: The case patients (n = 1415) were hospitalized between 1984 and 1986 for gastric or duodenal ulcer or for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage of unknown cause. The controls (n = 7063) were randomly selected from Medicaid enrollees not meeting the study criteria for inclusion as case patients. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of oral corticosteroids was 2.0 (95% CI, 1.3 to 3.0). However, the risk was increased only in those who concurrently received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); these persons had an estimated relative risk associated with current corticosteroid use of 4.4 (CI, 2.0 to 9.7). In contrast, the estimated relative risk for those corticosteroid users not receiving NSAIDs was 1.1 (CI, 0.5 to 2.1). Persons concurrently receiving corticosteroids and NSAIDs had a risk for peptic ulcer disease that was 15 times greater than that of nonusers of either drug. CONCLUSION: Discrepant findings among earlier studies regarding steroids and the risk for peptic ulcer disease could in part be due to differences in the use of NSAIDs among study participants. The high risk for peptic ulcer disease associated with combined use of NSAIDs and corticosteroids indicates the need to prescribe this drug combination cautiously. 
Magnetic resonance angiography of abdominal vessels: early experience using the three-dimensional phase-contrast technique. Based on three-dimensional acquisition of three sequences sensitive to one flow-direction, abdominal magnetic resonance phase-contrast angiography (MRA) was performed in 13 volunteers and 20 patients. The subjects received no antiperistaltic medication and were allowed to breath normally during the three acquisition periods of 11 minutes. The frequency of demonstration of the normal aorta, superior mesenteric and right and left renal arteries was 100%/100%/91%/100%, and of the inferior vena cava, splenic, superior mesenteric and portal veins was 92%/67%/92%/100%, respectively, whereas other abdominal vessels were seen less constantly. In renal artery stenosis or occlusion, MRA detected eight out of nine pathological arteries, missed only a minimal stenosis and was never false positive. In all 10 cases of portal hypertension, MRA demonstrated the venous collaterals detected by conventional angiography and in six cases showed more collaterals, particularly paravertebral vessels. A Budd-Chiari syndrome was investigated as well. If the accuracy of MRA can be proved in larger studies, it may become an important diagnostic tool in evaluating abdominal vascular pathology, such as renal artery stenosis or portal hypertension. 
Human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy. A study of liver volume by computed tomography. Regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography (CT) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients. Liver volumes were measured by abdominal CT 3 days, 10 days, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 1.5 years after resection. Of the 17 patients, liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2% +/- 6.7% and 30.6% +/- 12.7% at 3 months and 6 months after resection, respectively. Noncirrhotic livers were 28.4% +/- 9.5% and 48.4% +/- 17.8% larger at 3 and 6 months. For cirrhotic livers, the increase was 8.5% +/- 3.6% and 12.9% +/- 4.5%. In five patients with right hepatectomy (65% resection), the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4% +/- 11.7%, 48.0% +/- 16.2% and 95.1% +/- 4.5% at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resection, respectively. In seven patients with right partial hepatectomy (30% to 35% resection), the percentages were 7.4% +/- 3.2%, 21.8% +/- 8.4%, and 63.9% +/- 18.3% and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy (15% resection), they were 15.6% +/- 8.2%, 27.8% +/- 12.2%, and 33.0% +/- 14.5% 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after resections, respectively. Noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers. Complete regeneration took about 1 year. The noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume. 
Fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer. In order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers, we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease (n = 30) before and after treatment with either antacids (n = 16) or H2-receptor antagonists (n = 14), by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques, e.g., scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers. Electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum (surface mucous cell). Their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins. Helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients (40%). The mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment. The ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia, by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium (p less than 0.001 vs. control group), and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies (p less than 0.001 vs. control group) of the epithelial cells. These results were independent of the type of treatment, and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment. 
The role of the mast cell in clinical gastrointestinal disease with special reference to systemic mastocytosis. The gastrointestinal tract is a rich source of mast cells with an enormous surface area that permits a high degree of interaction between the mast cell and intestinal luminal contents. The active metabolic products of the mast cell influence gastrointestinal secretion, absorption, and motility through paracrine effects of local mast cell degranulation and also cause systemic effects through the release of cellular products into the blood stream. Systemic mastocytosis influences physiologic function through the systemic effects of mast cell products released from focal (e.g., bone marrow) or wide spread increases in mast cell number. Local gastrointestinal proliferation of mast cells in response to recognized (e.g., gluten in celiac sprue) or obscure stimuli can alter gastrointestinal function and induce systemic symptoms. Celiac sprue, inflammatory bowel disease, and non-ulcer dyspepsia are three examples of gastrointestinal diseases in which mast cells can be implicated in the pathophysiology of the symptoms. 
Effect of increasing Helicobacter pylori ammonia production by urea infusion on plasma gastrin concentrations. It has been proposed that the hypergastrinaemia in subjects with Helicobacter pylori infection is caused by the action of the ammonia produced by the organism's urease activity on the antral G cells. To investigate this hypothesis we examined the effect on plasma gastrin of increasing the bacterium's ammonia production by infusing urea intragastrically to eight H pylori positive duodenal ulcer patients. After a 60 minute control intragastric infusion of dextrose solution at 2 ml/minute, a similar infusion containing urea (50 mmol/l) was continued for four hours. During the urea infusion, the median gastric juice urea concentration rose from 1.1 mmol/l (range 0.3-1.6) to 15.5 mmol/l (range 7.9-21.3) and this resulted in an increase in the ammonium concentration from 2.3 mmol/l (range 1.3-5.9) to 6.1 mmol/l (range 4.2-11.9) (p less than 0.01). This appreciable rise in ammonia production did not result in any change in the plasma gastrin concentration. The experiment was repeated one month after eradication of H pylori, at which time the median basal gastrin was 20 ng/l (range 15-25), significantly less than the value before eradication (30 ng/l range 15-60) (p less than 0.05). On this occasion, the gastric juice ammonium concentration was considerably reduced at 0.4 mmol/l (range 0.1-0.9) and the urea infusion did not raise the ammonium concentration or change the plasma gastrin concentration. In conclusion, augmenting H pylori ammonia production does not cause any early change in plasma gastrin. 
Gastroduodenal mucosal prostaglandin generation in patients with Helicobacter pylori before and after treatment with bismuth subsalicylate. To determine whether Helicobacter pylori has an effect on gastroduodenal mucosal prostaglandin generation, mucosal biopsies were obtained from the gastric body, antrum, and duodenal bulb of 30 patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for clinical indications. One biopsy from the gastric body and one from the antrum were tested for urease activity (urea broth) and one biopsy from each area including the duodenum was processed for histology. Two other biopsies form each area were incubated and the accumulation of prostaglandin E2 and 6-keto prostaglandin F1 alpha in the incubation medium was measured by radioimmunoassay. Twelve of the 17 H. pylori-positive patients and seven of the 13 H. pylori-negative patients agreed to take bismuth subsalicylate (Pepto-Bismol) two tablets four times a day for four weeks. One week after treatment, these patients again underwent endoscopy and the above studies. This study indicates that: (1) mucosal PGE2 generation may be increased in the duodenum, gastric body, and antrum in H. pylori-positive patients compared to H. pylori-negative patients, and (2) treatment with bismuth subsalicylate for four weeks results in reduction of mucosal PGE2 in the duodenum, gastric body, and antrum of H. pylori-positive patients and fails to eradicate H. pylori or reduce gastric inflammation. 
Impaired sulphation of phenol by the colonic mucosa in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis. Substantial amounts of phenols are produced in the human colon by bacterial fermentation of protein. In the colonic mucosa of animals, phenols are inactivated predominantly by conjugation with sulphate. The purpose of this study was to confirm sulphation of phenols by isolated colonocytes from man and to evaluate mucosal sulphation in inflammatory bowel disease using the phenol, paracetamol, in rectal dialysis bags. The incubation of paracetamol with colonocytes isolated from resected colon specimens (n = 7) yielded a mean (SE) value of 7.0 (0.9) mumols/g dry weight of paracetamol sulphate after 60 minutes but virtually undetectable values of paracetamol glucuronide. Paracetamol sulphate was detected in rectal dialysates from all control subjects, with a mean (SE) value of 4.2 (0.8) nmol/hour. Sulphation was significantly impaired (p less than 0.01) in 19 patients with active ulcerative colitis (0.6 (0.2) nmol/hour) and in 17 patients with ulcerative colitis in remission (1.1 (0.4) nmol/hour). Sulphation in eight patients with Crohn's colitis (4.3 (2.1) nmol/hour) was similar to that in control subjects. Impairment of the capacity of the mucosa to sulphate phenols in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis may pose a metabolic burden on colonic epithelial cells, which are continuously exposed to endogenous phenols from the colonic lumen. 
Alkaline reflux gastritis. Alkaline reflux gastritis and the symptoms associated with alkaline reflux gastritis have been reported in the medical literature since shortly after Billroth successfully performed his first gastrectomy in the 1880s. The disease process is produced by, or at least is associated with, the reflux of alkaline secretions into the gastric remnant. Although it occurs after any procedure that ablates the pylorus including pyloroplasty, it would appear to be most common after a Billroth II gastrojejunostomy. How the alkaline secretions cause the gastritis is still controversial. Clearly, the most effective therapy is to reroute the secretions from the biliary tract, pancreas, and duodenum so that they will not reflux into the gastric remnant. This is most effectively accomplished by a Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy with the afferent limb measuring at least 18 inches (40 cm). The surgeon and the patient should be aware that the construction of such a gastric outlet channel is associated with delayed gastric emptying. The etiology of this impaired emptying is also controversial. If the patient has symptoms of dumping (either early or late), these symptoms may also be abated using the Roux limb. At least 40% of patients will have gastric outlet obstruction. Supportive therapy is appropriate in the majority of these patients. 
Rapid intravenous rehydration in the pediatric emergency department Children suffering from mild to moderate (3 to 6%) dehydration likely caused by viral gastroenteritis are often hospitalized because they are unable to tolerate oral fluids. We studied 17 such children, aged one to six years, who were otherwise healthy. All had isonatremic dehydration and were treated with 30 ml/kg of 3.3% dextrose and 0.3% saline over a period of three hours in the emergency department before being discharged. No patient required admission to the hospital. Only one patient required another course of rapid intravenous rehydration and subsequently improved without hospitalization. Although all our patients experienced vomiting before treatment, 65% had no vomiting after treatment. Rapid intravenous rehydration is an effective treatment, for children with mild to moderate dehydration secondary to presumed viral gastroenteritis, that obviates the need for hospitalization. 
The influence of sclerotherapy on gastric mucosal blood flow distribution. Hemodynamic events and structural vascular changes of the gastric mucosa in cirrhotics have caught the attention of investigators in the recent past, but as yet it is not known whether therapeutic interruption of variceal blood flow at gastroesophageal level alters such portal hypertensive mucosal features. The newly developed endoscopic laser-Doppler technique was used to assess whether variceal eradication by means of endoscopic sclerotherapy influences the gastric mucosal congestion in portal hypertension patients. Gastric mucosal blood flow was determined at ten defined sites of the stomach, before the first session of sclerotherapy and after complete variceal eradication had been achieved in 15 patients. A statistically significant decrease (P less than 0.01 to 0.05) in microcirculation was found at the gastric antrum and corpus, an increase at the pylorus (P less than 0.05), but no change in the fundic area. An important question following these findings is: What are the consequences of such aggravation of gastric congestion on the integrity of the gastric mucosa?. 
Pelvic pain and infections. Infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems. In the evaluation of the acute pain, it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly. In recent years, laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections, as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers. The evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved. Laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain. All therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain. Such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient. 
Yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon. Report of a case. Yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity. Only five cases have previously been reported--none in the surgical literature. A unique presentation for Yersinia infection, abscess of the transverse colon, is described, and the literature of Y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed. 
Development of acute myelocytic leukemia in patients with Crohn's disease. In our hospital within one year two patients with Crohn's disease were seen who developed an acute myelocytic leukemia. A review of the literature reveals eight previously reported patients with both Crohn's disease and leukemia. Six of the reported 10 patients have had acute myelocytic leukemia and, interestingly, three of them, including our two patients, have shown monocytic differentiation (FAB type M4). It has been suggested that the relative risk of leukemia, especially acute myelocytic leukemia, is increased in patients suffering from ulcerative colitis. More data of patients with Crohn's disease and acute leukemia are needed to evaluate the possible association between these diseases. 
Pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis: diagnosis with CA 19-9 assessment, US, CT, and CT-guided fine-needle biopsy. The authors prospectively performed serum CA 19-9 assessment, ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT), and CT-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm. The final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients. CA 19-9 assessment, US, CT, and FNAB were considered nondiagnostic, respectively, in 0%, 25%, 19%, and 6% of cases. When a definite diagnosis was rendered, the positive predictive value was 90% for CA 19-9 assessment, 95% for US, 98% for CT, and 100% for FNAB; the negative predictive value was, respectively, 69%, 95%, 86%, and 100%. The accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81% for CA 19-9 assessment, 72% for US, 77% for CT, and 94% for FNAB. It is concluded that CT-guided pancreatic FNAB is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis. When the pancreas is well visualized at US, the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of CA 19-9 assessment and CT. 
Clinical features of adenovirus enteritis: a review of 127 cases. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus (Ad) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period. Serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases. There were 69 males and 58 females and 94% of patients were less than 4 years of age. The average body temperature was 38 degrees C rectal (range, 36.2-40.8 degrees C) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days. The average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days (range, 1 to 32 days). Although Ad 40 and Ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases (59 of 105 (56%], Ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases (17%). Of the 18 cases associated with Ad 31, 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea. Our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric Ad in infantile diarrhea (Ad 40, Ad 41) and suggests that Ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by Ad 40 and Ad 41. The occurrence of Ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that Ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital. 
Gastroesophageal reflux and sclerotherapy strictures. The development of esophageal stricture is common following endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (EVS). Gastroesophageal reflux may be at least partly responsible. Twelve randomly selected male patients underwent chronic EVS for the management of bleeding esophageal varices. Six patients developed strictures during or after EVS, six did not. There were no significant differences between stricture and nonstricture patients during 24 hour esophageal pH monitoring. Three of the six stricture patients and four of the six nonstricture patients had an abnormal amount of reflux. Gastroesophageal reflux occurs frequently in patients undergoing EVS, and it is not likely to play a major role in EVS stricture formation. 
Investigation of mode of action of biofeedback in treatment of fecal incontinence. A study was carried out in 25 incontinent patients to evaluate some of the factors thought to be responsible for the success of retraining for fecal incontinence. Subjects were initially allocated to one of two groups; one group was trained to perceive small rectal volumes (active retraining), the other group carried out the same maneuvers but were not given any information or instruction. Active sensory retraining reduced the sensory threshold from 32 +/- 8 to 7 +/- 2 ml (P less than 0.001), corrected any sensory delay that was present (P less than 0.004), and reduced the frequency of incontinence from 5 +/- 1 to 1 +/- 1 episodes per week (P less than 0.01). Sham retraining caused a modest reduction in the sensory threshold (from 29 +/- 9 to 20 +/- 8; P less than 0.05) but did not significantly reduce the frequency of incontinence. Subsequent strength and coordination training did not significantly improve continence, although at the end of the study, 50% of patients had no incontinent episodes at all and 76% of patients had reduced the frequency of incontinence episodes by more than 75%. This improvement in continence was not associated with any change in sphincter pressures or in the continence to rectally infused saline but was associated with significant improvements in rectal sensation. The functional improvement was sustained over a period of two years in 16 of the 22 patients available for follow-up. In conclusion, the results support the use of retraining in the management of fecal incontinence and suggest that retraining may work by enhancing rectal sensitivity and instilling confidence. 
Accumulation and pepsin solubility of collagens in the bowel of patients with Crohn's disease. The collagen content of resected strictured intestine, with and without fistulas, from patients with Crohn's disease has been compared with that in macroscopically normal intestine removed from the same patients and from others without inflammatory bowel disease. Collagen content per unit wet or dry weight of tissue was significantly increased in all grossly diseased tissue whether fistulated or not. Although there was a significant increase in collagen types I, III, and V in diseased tissue, the relative proportions of major collagen types extracted by limited pepsin digestion were similar for both Crohn's and non-Crohn's intestine (type I, 65 to 70 percent; type III, 25 to 30 percent; type IV, 2 to 3 percent; and type V, 2.5 to 3 percent). CNBr digestion of pepsin insoluble material showed a similar relative abundance of types I and III, indicating no major change in collagen type distribution between older (insoluble) and more newly synthesized collagen. There was no evidence of the presence of type I trimer collagen. Type VI collagen, although not quantitated, was observed in 70 percent of intestinal specimens. The proportion of total collagen solubilized by pepsin treatment was significantly greater in both grossly diseased and macroscopically normal Crohn's bowel compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease bowel. These findings suggest that there are disturbances of collagen metabolism in Crohn's intestine, which account for the stricturing process and which may predate gross pathologic changes. 
Death, after swallowing and aspiration of a high number of foreign bodies, in a schizophrenic woman. A 46-year-old woman who had had a long-term schizoid psychosis collapsed on the street. Upon admission to the hospital, she was determined to have an acute abdomen. The chest radiograph showed metallic foreign bodies in both main bronchi; foreign bodies in the stomach were not observed clinically. The woman died from repeated cardiac arrest shortly after hospital admission. At the autopsy a screw and a nail were found in both main bronchi. The abdominal cavity contained 2 L of greenish purulent fluid and a massive fibrinoid peritonitis was observed. Two perforations of the stomach, each 1 cm in diameter, were detected. The stomach was completely filled with a mass of metallic foreign bodies, greenish fluid, and a bezoar of a total weight of 1,400 g; 422 distinguishable and mostly metallic foreign bodies were counted. Death was attributed to cardiac arrest in delayed shock after massive purulent peritonitis caused by two gastric perforations combined with obstruction of the airways by aspirated foreign bodies. Cases of massive swallowing of foreign bodies are mainly restricted to mentally handicapped persons, especially schizophrenics, whereas acute impaction of the larynx by large food particles occurs nearly exclusively in heavily intoxicated adults. 
Systemic hemodynamic and cardiac function changes in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation. The objective of this study was to determine the changes in systemic hemodynamics (systemic vascular resistance [SVR], cardiac output [CO], systemic blood pressure [SBP]) and cardiac function (pulmonary artery pressure [PAP] and pulmonary wedge pressure [PWP]) during the 96 hours following orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) and correlate these with changes in hepatic and renal function and patient outcome. The study took place in a 12-bed medical respiratory intensive care unit in a large teaching hospital. Twenty-one patients had OLT performed over a 21.5-month period (January 1988 to October 15, 1989) for end stage liver disease (ESLD) from a variety of causes. A flow-directed right heart catheter and an indwelling arterial cannula were inserted for hemodynamic monitoring over a 96-hour postoperative period. Liver and renal function studies, total serum calcium, serum albumin, and fluid balance were determined daily. The SVR increased significantly to 12.8 +/- 0.6 U at 48 hours compared with immediate (less than 8 hours) postoperative levels (p less than 0.05) and remained elevated for 96 hours. The CO fell progressively and was significantly lower than baseline values from 64 to 96 hours. There was significant inverse correlation between the increase in SVR and the fall in CO (r = .85, p less than 0.01). The SBP was stable except for a small, but significant fall at 16 and 24 hours postoperatively. The PWP increased significantly from a baseline value of 12.5 +/- 0.9 mm Hg to 15 +/- 0.9 mm Hg at 32 hours and remained elevated through 96 hours (p less than 0.05). The serum bilirubin level fell progressively postoperatively and the prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time (PTT) shortened significantly. Bile flow increased progressively from 107 +/- 120 ml/24 hours at the end of the first 24 hours to 188 +/- 125 ml/24 hours by 96 hours postoperatively. Five patients died from nine to 43 days postoperatively. These patients' hemodynamic parameters were not significantly different from the patients who survived. Successful OLT is associated with a rapid increase in SVR and a fall in CO without changes in SBP. These findings tend to parallel the improvement found in results of liver function tests. However, there is no correlation between the improvement in the hemodynamic state and long-term survival. 
Gastrointestinal function and structure in HIV-positive patients. We examined 19 patients (17 men) with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy. The erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin B12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients. The serum ferritin level was elevated in 12. The xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study. None of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen. Light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach (in seven patients), the esophagus (in five), the duodenum (in two) and the rectum (in two). However, biopsy specimens were positive for Candida albicans in the esophagus (four patients), cytomegalovirus in the esophagus (one) and the rectum (two), Helicobacter pylori in the antrum (two), Treponema infection in the rectum (two) and Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine (one). Only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens. All of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts. We conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in HIV-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms. Defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of HIV enteropathy. 
The surgical management of children with ulcerative colitis. The old vs. the new. The authors' experience with children who have chronic ulcerative colitis was reviewed to compare their current surgical approach (ileoanal anastomosis) with earlier methods of management. Between 1960 and 1984, 137 children with chronic ulcerative colitis underwent surgery (mean duration of follow-up, 7.1 years). In 91 patients, the procedures were a total proctocolectomy with ileostomy or Kock pouch (66) or a lesser colectomy with either an ileostomy (16) or an ileorectal anastomosis (9) (group I). Forty-six patients underwent an ileoanal anastomosis procedure (group II). Children in group I were more likely to have significant preoperative loss of weight, a debilitated condition, and malnutrition. Urgent or emergency surgical intervention was required in 25 percent of patients in group I but in only 4 percent of patients in group II. Trends included 1) a younger age at operation in group II, 2) a higher mortality in group I (7.7 percent) than group II (0 percent), and 3) a higher perioperative mortality with emergency operations (23 percent) than elective procedures (1.6 percent). In group I, 98 percent of patients had an abdominal ostomy, but no patients in group II had an abdominal ostomy. The children with an ileoanal anastomosis had an average of 4.8 stools during waking hours and 1.3 stools each night. On the basis of this experience, the authors recommend use of the ileoanal anastomosis procedure in the surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis in children. 
Colobronchial fistula: a rare complication of Crohn's colitis. A 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion. She was known to have inflammatory bowel disease, but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-ASA. She received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment, but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings. Sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded, among other organisms, Clostridium inocuum, Enterobacter, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, and Staphylococcus aureus. On one microscopic examination of sputum, the presence of feculent material was suspected. A subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system. Segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed. Histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with Crohn's disease. After a long period of postoperative recovery, the patient returned to good general health and well-being. To our knowledge, a colobronchial fistula caused by Crohn's colitis has not been previously reported. 
A new method for mapping hepatic subsegment: counterstaining identification technique. Hepatic subsegmentectomy requires identification of the borders of tumor-bearing subsegment, usually achieved by injecting dye into the portal veins feeding the domain. We describe an alternative technique for performing systematic subsegmentectomy in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, in whom hepatic arterial and portal venous embolizations were already performed as a preoperative adjuvant. Under ultrasonic guidance, each of the neighboring portal units is sequentially stained, thus defining the avascular subsegment to be resected as the nonstaining area. This allows the subsegment to be totally resected. This counterstaining identification technique can be used for all subsegments undergoing complete embolization and for other situations in which the usual staining method is impossible because of the presence of arterioportal shunting or portal tumor thrombus. 
Milk protein enteropathy after acute infectious gastroenteritis: experimental and clinical observations. Animal models of allergic gastroenteropathy have defined both morphologic and physiologic changes that accompany the immune-mediated reaction to a dietary protein. In such models a broadening of the allergic response to other dietary proteins present in the gastrointestinal tract may occur during the localized anaphylactic reaction. The characteristic histologic intestinal findings of food protein-induced enteropathy may develop in selected infants with protracted diarrhea after infectious enteritis. Mechanisms underlying the induction of this response remain to be explained, but they may in part be similar to the broadening of the hypersensitivity response seen in experimental models of allergic enteropathy. 
Prospective study of a prosthetic H-graft portacaval shunt. This study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm Gore-Tex interposition H-graft portacaval shunt. Thirty-six high-risk patients at the University of South Florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period. Portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting. These pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites; in addition, the incidence of encephalopathy was low. The 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67% of the patients, but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion. Graft thrombosis occurred in four (11%) patients. All grafts were successfully revised, three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist. Operative mortality was low (11%), and morbidity was unusual. The small-diameter H-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices. 
Successful control of bleeding from gastric antral vascular ectasia (watermelon stomach) by laser photocoagulation. We report a case of gastric antral vascular ectasia in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom chronic blood loss was a major problem. She required repeated blood transfusions that were complicated by reactions and still had persistent anaemia. She was treated with laser phototherapy in the form of quadrantic photocoagulation with a neodynium yttrium-aluminium-garnet laser. This greatly improved the endoscopic appearance of the gastric lesions and effectively controlled blood loss. She required no further transfusions. Bleeding recurred after 11 months which was controlled by further laser photocoagulation. 
Should alcoholics compete equally for liver transplantation? The circumstances of liver transplantation are unique among organ transplantation because of the dire, absolute scarcity of donor livers and the predominance of one disease--alcohol-related end-stage liver disease--as the principal cause of liver failure. We propose that patients who develop end-stage liver disease through no fault of their own should have higher priority for receiving a liver transplant than those whose end-stage liver disease results from failure to obtain treatment for alcoholism. We base our proposal on considerations of fairness and on whether public support for liver transplantation can be maintained if, as a result of a first-come, first-served approach, patients with alcohol-related end-stage liver disease receive more than half the available donor livers. We conclude that since not all can live, priorities must be established for the use of scarce health care resources. 
Pharmacology of pravadoline: a new analgesic agent. Pravadoline is a new chemical entity with analgesic activity in humans. This report describes the pharmacology of pravadoline and compares the activity of pravadoline with that of two major classes of analgesics, the opioids and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Like the NSAIDs, pravadoline inhibited the synthesis of prostaglandins (PGs) in mouse brain both in vitro (IC50, 4.9 microM) and ex vivo (ED50, 20 mg/kg p.o.) and displayed antinociceptive activity in rodents subjected to a variety of chemical, thermal and mechanical nociceptive stimuli. Administration of pravadoline prevented the writhing response induced by i.p. administration of acetylcholine (ED50, 41 mg/kg p.o.) or PGE2 (ED50, 24 mg/kg p.o.) and prolonged the response latency induced by tail immersion in hot water at a temperature of 55 degrees C (minimum effective dose, 100 mg/kg s.c.). In the rat, treatment with pravadoline prevented acetic acid-induced writhing (ED50, 15 mg/kg p.o.), brewer's yeast-induced hyperalgesia (Randall-Selitto test) (minimum effective dose, 1 mg/kg p.o.), the nociceptive response induced by paw flexion in the adjuvant-arthritic rat (ED50, 41 mg/kg p.o.) and bradykinin-induced head and forepaw flexion (ED50, 78 mg/kg, p.o.). The antinociceptive activity of pravadoline cannot be explained by an opioid mechanism, because pravadoline-induced antinociception was not antagonized by naloxone (1 mg/kg s.c.) and pravadoline did not bind to opioid receptors at concentrations up to 10 microM. However, like the opioid analgesics, pravadoline diminished the electrically induced twitch response of mouse vas deferens preparations, but, in contrast to opioids, this action of pravadoline was not attenuated by naloxone. The possibility is discussed that this effect of pravadoline upon isolated tissues may contribute to its antinociceptive activity. In contrast to NSAIDs, pravadoline was more potent ex vivo as an inhibitor of the formation of PGs in brain vs. stomach. In addition, pravadoline failed to produce gastrointestinal lesions when administered p.o. to rats or mice, and did not possess significant anti-inflammatory activity at antinociceptive doses. Also unlike NSAIDs, pravadoline inhibited rat gastrointestinal transit when administered at doses similar to those which were antinociceptive. The overall pharmacologic profile of pravadoline suggests that the compound may be capable of managing more diverse or more severe pain than is achieved by anti-inflammatory analgesics, without producing side effects commonly associated with either the opioid or the nonopioid analgesics. 
Intrathoracic Nissen fundoplication: long-term clinical and pH-monitoring evaluation. From 1976 until April 1989, 31 intrathoracic total fundoplications were performed for reflux esophagitis and irreducible hiatus hernia. In the first 16 patients (group 1) the operation was complicated with acute perforation of the wrap in 4 cases, bronchogastric fistula in 1, and herniation of the wrap higher in the chest in 1. Technical modifications were applied to 15 more recent patients (group 2). These are enlargement of the hiatus, looseness of the wrap and its appropriate anchorage, avoidance of forceps when handling the stomach, care with the vagi, and efficient gastric decompression in the postoperative period. The postoperative course was always uneventful in group 2. Twenty-six patients, who still have their initial wrap, were considered for clinical evaluation: 11 from group 1 (mean follow-up, 81.5 months) and 15 from group 2 (mean follow-up, 32.8 months). All are free from any symptom of reflux; gas-bloat syndrome is infrequent and dysphagia is relieved. Twenty-four-hour pH monitoring, performed in 14 patients (3 from group 1 and 11 from group 2) (mean follow-up, 42 months), was normal in 13; a pathological upright reflux (time pH less than 4, 8.4%) was demonstrated in one symptom-free woman in whom endoscopy was unremarkable. Mechanisms of complications experienced in group 1 are analyzed in the light of the technical evolution of the procedure, and the place of the intrathoracic total fundoplication in the management of short esophagus is defined, considering the other available surgical techniques. 
Gastroesophageal reflux in infants. Clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants. Symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age. Thickened formula and position changes are often recommended. Medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases. 
The Indian experience with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. A study of 58 consecutive Indian infants operated for congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis revealed an accentuated male predominance in the incidence of the disease and far less preoperative hemetemesis as compared to that in their Western counterparts. 'Pyloric tumor' was palpable in 89% of cases. Only 34.5% of these infants were first born. Postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8% of patients and wound sepsis was not encountered. Air contrast radiography confirmed the diagnosis in clinically doubtful cases. 
Integration of hepatitis B vaccination into rural African primary health care programmes. OBJECTIVE--To determine the efficacy of hepatitis B vaccine when added to the routine expanded programme on immunisation under field conditions in rural Africa. DESIGN--Infants were immunised according to two schedules--an early schedule at birth, 3 months, and 6 months and a later schedule to correspond with routine vaccination in the expanded programme on immunisation at 3 months, 4 1/2 months, and 6 months. SETTING--Venda, northern Transvaal, South Africa, a self governing region of 7460 square kilometers varying from rural villages to small towns. SUBJECTS--The 1989 birth cohort of Venda. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Coverage for hepatitis B vaccine at first, second, and third doses; serological assessment of vaccine efficacy by prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen in infants who had completed the three dose course of immunisation; antibodies to hepatitis B core antigen to determine if natural infection occurred. RESULTS--Vaccine coverage for hepatitis B dropped sharply from 99% to 53% to 39% for the first, second, and third dose respectively. In contrast, vaccine coverage was maintained at 97-99% for the three doses of poliomyelitis vaccine. Serological evaluation of vaccine efficacy showed that only 3.5% of recipients of all three doses failed to develop antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen. Only 6.6% of vaccine recipients were vaccinated according to either the early or later schedules whereas 93.4% received their doses of vaccine at intervals beyond the limits of either of the planned schedules. There was, however, no significant difference in seroconversion to the surface antigen between the "unscheduled" or scheduled groups of those who were vaccinated according to the early or late schedules. The pattern of prevalence of antibodies to hepatitis B core antigen, which showed a sharp fall in children aged over 7 months, suggested that the antibodies were acquired passively rather than by active infection. CONCLUSIONS--Supplementation of the present expanded programme on immunisation with hepatitis B vaccine in rural Africa is fraught with difficulties. However, the vaccine was effective within a fairly wide spacing of dosage. Adding hepatitis B vaccine to diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis as a tetravalent vaccine is proposed as a means of effectively integrating it into the expanded programme on immunisation in Third World settings. 
The clinical importance of drug interactions with antiulcer therapy. The overall safety of a given drug is determined by its toxicity, side effects, and drug-drug interactions. Thus, a clarification of the mechanisms, importance, and clinical implications of any drug-drug interaction with antiulcer therapy is critical to the use of antiulcer medications. Drug-drug interactions may occur as a result of changes in absorption, metabolism, distribution, or excretion. Fortunately, drug distribution or protein binding is unchanged by antiulcer therapy. Antiulcer drugs may affect absorption by several mechanisms. Ionized medications may bind to the divalent cations of antacids and sucralfate to result in poorly absorbed complexes. Reduced gastric acid may decrease the absorption of medications that are weak bases while enhancing the absorption of weak acids. Drug absorption may be impaired by delayed gastric emptying. Several H2-receptor antagonists, including cimetidine and to a lesser extent ranitidine, and the proton pump inhibitor, omeprazole, may reduce the hepatic degradation of drugs metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system. The degree to which such agents alter drug metabolism is determined by the patient's age, genetics, duration of therapy, degree of cytochrome P450 binding, and the regimen. Because the clinical importance of this interaction cannot always be predicted, caution is recommended whenever drugs metabolized by this system are used concurrently. Development of an understanding of the ways in which drug metabolism interactions occur may lead to more effective and safe use of these medications. 
Postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions. OBJECTIVE--To establish whether positive suggestions given to a patient under general anaesthesia reduce postoperative pain and analgesic requirements. DESIGN--Prospective double blind randomised study. SETTING--Operating theatre and gynaecology ward of a teaching hospital. PATIENTS--63 Woman undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were randomised to be played either a tape of positive suggestions or a blank tape during the operation through a personal stereo system. INTERVENTIONS--Three women were withdrawn from the study. Anaesthesia was standardised for all of the women. Postoperative analgesia was provided through a patient controlled analgesia system for the first 24 hours. Pain scores were recorded every six hours. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Morphine consumption over the first 24 hours after the operation; pain scores. RESULTS--Mean morphine requirements were 51.0 mg (95% confidence interval 42.1 to 60.0 mg in the women played positive suggestions; and 65.7 mg (55.6 to 75.7 mg) in those played a blank tape. The point estimate (95% confidence interval) for the difference of means was 14.6 mg (22.4%) (1.9 (2.9%) to 27.3 mg (41.6%] (p = 0.028). Pain scores were similar in the two groups. CONCLUSION--Positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period. 
Normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria. Seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria, even though the etiology is not identified in most cases. We have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria. Although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients, this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria. Normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants. 
Impairment of esophageal emptying with hiatal hernia. Concurrent videofluoroscopy and manometry were used to analyze esophageal emptying during barium swallows in 22 patients with axial hiatal hernias and in 14 volunteers. Subjects were divided into three groups: (a) volunteers with maximal phrenic ampullary length less than 2 cm (controls); (b) patients or volunteers with maximal ampullary/hiatal hernia length greater than or equal to 2 cm that reduced between swallows (reducing-hernia group); and (c) patients with hernias that did not reduce between swallows. Complete esophageal emptying without retrograde flow was achieved in 86% of test swallows in the controls, 66% in the reducing-hernia group, and 32% in the nonreducing-hernia group (P less than 0.05). Impaired emptying in the reducing-hernia group was attributable to "late retrograde flow," whereby barium squirted retrograde from the hernia during emptying. Impaired emptying in the nonreducing-hernia group was attributable to "early retrograde flow" that occurred immediately after LES relaxation. The nonreducing-hernia group also had longer acid clearance times than the controls (P less than 0.05). We conclude that gastroesophageal junction competence is severely impaired in patients with nonreducing hiatal hernias, suggesting a mechanism whereby this subgroup of hiatal hernia is involved in the pathogenesis of reflux disease. 
Scleroderma esophagus. Scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by thickening and fibrosis of the skin and visceral involvement that may include the heart, lungs, kidneys, and gastrointestinal tract. At least 40-50% of patients with scleroderma experience esophageal symptoms such as heartburn and dysphagia, while up to 90% of patients have esophageal dysfunction on objective testing at some point in their disease. The disease results in smooth muscle dysfunction that causes esophageal aperistalsis and reduced lower esophageal sphincter pressures. Gastroesophageal reflux with poor acid clearance results with an increased incidence of complications such as peptic stricture and Barrett's esophagus. Aggressive medical therapy is necessary to prevent these and other complications of gastroesophageal reflux. 
Gallstone clearance: a randomized study of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and chemical dissolution Following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy it is not known whether gallstone fragments are cleared from the gallbladder without the use of oral dissolution therapy. To assess the efficacy of lithotripsy and dissolution therapy, alone or in combination, 35 patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups: lithotripsy alone, dissolution therapy alone or combined lithotripsy and dissolution therapy. All patients had symptomatic gallstones, functioning gallbladders and comparable stone profiles. Lithotripsy was administered using a piezoelectric lithotripter. Dissolution therapy consisted of combined bile acid and terpene. Clearance was assessed at 6 months using ultrasound and oral cholecystography. Patients with less than 50 per cent stone clearance at the end of 6 months were considered failures. The number of patients with total or partial clearance in the combined group (7/10) was significantly greater than those in the lithotripsy alone group (0/10, P less than 0.002). Gallstone clearance following lithotripsy appears to be dependent upon dissolution therapy. 
The freckle sign--an endoscopic feature of the cecum. Mucosal spots, or "freckles," surrounding the appendiceal orifice are an endoscopic feature of the cecum. These are clusters of 1 to 2 mm round or oval slightly raised spots, each with a pale center and an erythematous border. They correlate microscopically with subepithelial and submucosal lymphoid follicles. The freckling pattern, identified in about one third of colonoscopies, was seen best with the videoendoscope and was identified more commonly in patients with systemic illness. Recognition of mucosal freckling around the appendiceal orifice helps identify the cecum and may be useful in the evaluation of cecal and appendiceal pathology. 
Renal scintigraphy in the diagnosis and surgical management of a patient with caliceal colic: a case report. A patient with persistent renal colic and a caliceal stone is presented. Furosemide renography, commonly used to differentiate functional stasis from mechanical obstruction of an entire kidney or duplicated collecting system, can make this determination at the caliceal level. As in this case such determination can affect clinical management of the patient. 
Effects of aging on the swallowing mechanism. Normal swallow involves a number of closely coordinated neuromuscular events. Investigators have identified some small temporal changes in the swallow of older adults as compared with young adults. Further research is needed to define completely the primary effects of aging on deglutition. Many medical conditions that commonly affect the elderly can cause dysphagia. These are discussed in terms of their effects on swallow physiology. Diagnosis and treatment of dysphagia in the elderly should be pursued as aggressively as in the younger adult. 
Medical treatment of esophageal achalasia. Double-blind crossover study with oral nifedipine, verapamil, and placebo Calcium channel blockers have been previously shown to decrease lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure and improve symptoms in achalasia. We performed a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study to assess the effects of oral nifedipine and verapamil on LES pressure, amplitude of esophageal body contraction, and clinical symptomatology in eight patients with symptomatic achalasia diagnosed by endoscopy, barium swallow, and manometry. Patients were randomized to receive up to 20 mg nifedipine, 160 mg verapamil, or placebo and underwent esophageal manometry before (baseline) and after four weeks on each drug. Diary cards were kept to record and grade symptoms and drug plasma level determinations were correlated with manometric and clinical findings. Both nifedipine and verapamil caused a statistically significant decrease in mean LES pressure, but only nifedipine caused a significant decrease in the amplitude of contractions of the smooth muscle portion of the esophagus. No statistically significant differences in the overall clinical symptomatology were noted with any of the drugs, although some individual improvements in dysphagia and chest pain were noted. We conclude that, despite the reduction in LES pressure and contraction amplitude of the distal esophageal body, oral nifedipine and verapamil do not significantly alter the clinical symptomatology of patients with achalasia. 
Abnormal liver enzyme levels. Evaluation in asymptomatic patients. Chronic elevation of serum aminotransferase levels, even in the absence of symptoms, often reflects chronic hepatitis or other significant underlying liver disease. Patients with persistently abnormal alkaline phosphatase levels may have extrahepatic biliary tract disease or a chronic cholestatic disorder. Physicians can discover unsuspected liver disease without undue risk, expense, or inconvenience to the patient by means of the following: a carefully taken history and thorough physical examination, appropriate timing of follow-up blood tests, and timely referral for percutaneous liver biopsy or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. 
Factors influencing the development of metabolic bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis. The prevalence, type, and factors that may influence the development of bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis, have been investigated in 20 consecutive patients, who, in addition to liver function tests and mineral and vitamin D metabolism studies, were submitted to a transiliac bone biopsy after tetracycline double-labeling for quantitative histomorphometric examination. Intestinal calcium absorption was also assessed in 16 patients. Seven patients (35%) had reduced bone volume and were considered osteoporotic. Three also had bone mineralization impairment, but did not have criteria for osteomalacia. Bone formation was depressed in 15 patients, and bone resorption was low or normal in 19 cases. Eroded surfaces were reduced in all osteoporotic patients. Duration of primary biliary cirrhosis was significantly longer in patients with osteoporosis (6.3 +/- 0.6 yr) than in those without osteoporosis (2.6 +/- 0.6, p = 0.004). Moreover, osteoporosis was more prevalent in postmenopausal women, and in those who had intestinal calcium malabsorption, which was present in 80% of osteoporotic patients but in only 18% of nonosteoporotic patients (p = 0.03). Osteoporosis and mineralization bone impairment were unrelated to the severity of cholestasis. 25-Hydroxyvitamin D was significantly lower in those patients with intestinal calcium malabsorption. The results of this study indicate that osteodystrophy in primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized mainly by "low-turnover" osteoporosis, which is related to the duration of the liver disease, postmenopausal condition, and calcium malabsorption. 
Group B streptococcus: an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species. We describe two young children, aged 15 months and 5 years, respectively, who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group B beta-hemolytical streptococci. This course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia. In neonates, IgG2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition. This may also be true for young children treated with CAPD, since IgG2 deficiency has been established for children. 
Intracorporeal biliary lithotripsy. Most bile duct calculi can be removed with standard percutaneous or endoscopic techniques. Very large stones are the most common cause for failure. Intracorporeal lithotripsy, and EHL in particular, can be used safely in either the biliary tree or gallbladder to fragment these large stones and allow percutaneous removal or passage. Intracorporeal EHL requires direct vision to prevent damage to the bile duct mucosa. Intracorporeal laser lithotripsy may offer some safety advantages, but the laser requires much more expensive equipment than intracorporeal EHL. Additional studies are needed to determine the technique that is better in each circumstance. 
Crohn's disease in the city of Derby, 1951-85. An epidemiological survey of Crohn's disease in the city of Derby showed that the incidence of the condition increased from 0.7/10(5) per year between 1951 and 1955 to 6.67/10(5) per year between 1981 and 1985 but seemed to reach a plateau between 1976 and 1985. Large bowel Crohn's disease was more common in patients presenting aged 60-79 years than in those aged 20-39 years. The increase in incidence was not solely due to the detection of milder disease. There was no evidence that the Asian (Indian subcontinent) population of Derby was resistant to the development of Crohn's disease. 
Dissociation between systemic and mucosal humoral immune responses in coeliac disease. We examined humoral immunity in coeliac disease as expressed in serum (systemic immunity), and in saliva, jejunal aspirate, and whole gut lavage fluid (mucosal immunity). The aims were to define features of the secretory immune response (IgA and IgM concentrations and antibody values to gliadin and other food proteins measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)) in active disease and remission, and to establish whether secretions obtained by relatively non-invasive techniques (saliva and gut lavage fluid) can be used for indirect measurements of events in the jejunum. Serum, saliva, and jejunal aspirate from 26 adults with untreated coeliac disease, 22 treated patients, and 28 immunologically normal control subjects were studied, together with intestinal secretions obtained by gut lavage from 15 untreated and 19 treated patients with coeliac disease and 25 control subjects. Jejunal aspirate IgA and IgM and gut lavage fluid IgM concentrations were significantly raised in patients with untreated coeliac disease; the lavage fluid IgM concentration remained higher in patients with treated coeliac disease than in controls. Serum and salivary immunoglobulin concentrations were similar in the three groups. Patients with untreated coeliac disease had higher values of antibodies to gliadin compared with treated patients and control subjects in all body fluids tested; these were predominantly of IgA and IgG classes in serum, and of IgA and IgM classes in jejunal aspirate and gut lavage fluid. Values of salivary IgA antibodies to gliadin were significantly higher in untreated coeliacs, though antibody values were generally low, with a large overlap between coeliac disease patients and control subjects. 
Role of epidermal growth factor, prostaglandin, and sulfhydryls in stress-induced gastric lesions. Epidermal growth factor promotes the growth of and protects gastric mucosa against various ulcerogens, including stress, but little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of stress ulcerations. In this study, Wistar rats with intact and resected salivary glands were exposed to water-immersion and restraint stress. During 2-14 hours of water-immersion restraint stress, the formation of gastric ulcerations increased progressively and the duration of stress was accompanied by a decrease in DNA synthesis in the gastric mucosa. Following sialoadenectomy, a significant increase in the number of stress ulcerations and further reduction in DNA synthesis were observed. Exogenous epidermal growth factor and dimethyl prostaglandin E2 significantly reduced the ulcerations in the stressed rats with intact salivary glands, but this reduction was significantly less pronounced after sialoadenectomy. Water-immersion restraint stress also resulted in about 50% reduction in mucosal prostaglandin E2 generation, and the pretreatment with indomethacin, which suppressed prostaglandin E2 by about 90%, almost doubled the number of stress ulcerations and abolished the gastro-protective effect of exogenous epidermal growth factor (but not dimethyl prostaglandin E2) against the stress lesions. An inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by difluoromethyl ornithine also augmented stress-induced ulcerogenesis and abolished the protective action of epidermal growth factor while the administration of spermine almost completely prevented stress ulcerations in rats both without and with pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine. Water-immersion restraint stress also significantly reduced mucosal content of glutathione. Cysteamine increased tissue glutathione and reduced stress ulcerations but N-ethylmaleimide, an sulfhydryl blocker, decreased mucosal content of glutathione without affecting the stress ulcerations. This study indicates that the stress ulcers are accompanied by the reduction in mucosal synthesis of DNA, prostaglandin, and glutathione and that the presence of salivary glands attenuates the stress ulcerogenesis probably by releasing epidermal growth factor which acts, in part, by enhancing ornithine decarboxylase activity, mucosal growth, and prostaglandin and glutathione formation. 
Azathioprine in the treatment of children with inflammatory bowel disease. During a 6-year period, we treated 21 patients with azathioprine, 2 mg/kg/day, as an adjunct to their customary regimen. Nine patients had ulcerative colitis and 12 patients had Crohn disease; the patients' ages ranged from 3 to 17 years. The median duration of disease before the start of azathioprine therapy was 2 years, and median follow-up was 2 years. Sixteen patients seemed to respond to azathioprine therapy: six patients in each disease group had complete responses and four patients (one with ulcerative colitis and three with Crohn disease) had partial responses. Two patients with ulcerative colitis and three patients with Crohn disease did not respond. The median time until patients responded was less than 3 months for patients with ulcerative colitis and 4 months for those with Crohn disease. Reduction of corticosteroid dose was possible for all patients who responded to azathioprine therapy. Only minimal side effects were attributable to the drug. We conclude that azathioprine is an effective adjunctive agent for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in childhood, but because questions remain regarding its long-term safety, its use should be reserved for children with refractory disease or severe and unacceptable side effects of corticosteroids. 
Microsurgical epididymovasostomy by tubule intussusception: a new technique in rat model. This experimental study on 15 adult male rats with bilateral epididymovasostomies evaluates a new technique of tubule intussusception as an improved form of end-to-end anastomosis. This paper describes in detail the steps in this technique and offers physiological, anatomical, and histological follow-up after 3 months. With this technique there is a 97% patency rate and a 23.3% incidence of macroscopic spermatic granuloma. Complications are discussed in detail. 
Factors affecting the enterohepatic circulation of oral contraceptive steroids. Oral contraceptive steroids may undergo enterohepatic circulation, but it is relevant for only estrogens, because these compounds can be directly conjugated in the liver. Animal studies show convincing evidence of the importance of the enterohepatic circulation, but studies in humans are much less convincing. The importance of the route and the rate of metabolism of ethinyl estradiol are reviewed. Some antibiotics have been reported anecdotally to reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptive steroids, but controlled studies have not confirmed this observation. Although gut flora are altered by oral antibiotics, the blood levels of ethinyl estradiol are not reduced, and one antibiotic at least (cotrimoxazole) enhances the activity of ethinyl estradiol. 
Evidence for role of prostacyclin as a systemic hormone in portal hypertension. The possibility that prostacyclin could be a systemic hormone and could mediate the splanchnic hyperemia of chronic portal hypertension was evaluated in rabbits in a normotensive state and in rabbits with chronic partial ligation of the portal vein. In rabbits with portal hypertension (PHT), 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1 alpha, a prostacyclin degradation product) was elevated twofold in all vascular beds (systemic arterial, systemic venous, and portal venous) when compared with levels in control animals. In PHT rabbits, exogenous prostacyclin infusion after cyclooxygenase blockade through the systemic arterial, systemic venous, or portal venous route resulted in an equal elevation of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha in the reciprocal vascular beds and restored the original precyclooxygenase blockade hemodynamics. These hemodynamic changes were of equal magnitude irrespective of site of infusion in PHT. In controls there was no significant change in 6-keto-PGF1 alpha or hemodynamics with intraportal infusion. We conclude that prostacyclin achieves systemic levels by escaping hepatic degradation resulting from portosystemic shunting in the animal with chronic portal hypertension. 
Acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding in elderly persons [clinical conference] We have seen that UGI bleeding is a serious and apparently growing problem for seniors. Of special concern in the older patient are the frequency with which serious peptic disease presents silently, the limitation frequently imposed on adequate pain relief from NSAIDs, and the higher complication rates from most of the causes of UGI bleeding. Care of the elderly would be enhanced by research focused on defining those older patients most at risk of experiencing NSAID-induced peptic complications, improved methods for preventing or treating NSAID-induced ulceration that are well tolerated and cost-effective, and better regimens for preventing the recurrence of ulcers and UGI bleeding in these patients. In regard to the last, future investigation of the role of H. pylori, methods for successfully eliminating the organism, and the effect of eradication on patients' subsequent course may be particularly helpful. 
Sterol-dependence of gastric protective activity of unsaturated phospholipids. The major aim of this study was to investigate the gastric protective effect of unsaturated phospholipids and to determine the ability of neutral lipids to enhance this activity. We found that although a liposomal suspension of unsaturated phosphatidylcholine (PC) administered intragastrically failed to protect rats from acid-induced gastric ulcer formation, addition of cholesterol to unsaturated PC induced a dose-dependent protective response with the maximally effective dose, reducing lesion score greater than 70%. This effect also was seen with the plant sterol, beta-sitosterol (reducing lesion score by 81.6 +/- 36%) but was blocked if cholesterol was esterified to fatty acids of varying chain length. Addition of sterols to liposomes of saturated dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, in contrast, attenuated the gastric protective action of the saturated PC. It appears that the protective mechanism elicited by sterols and unsaturated PC is not mediated by alterations in gastric emptying rate or prostaglandin biosynthesis, although maintenance of surface hydrophobicity may be involved. These results suggest that the sterol may promote the packing of adjacent unsaturated phospholipid molecules of either the cell membrane or a putative extracellular hydrophobic lining of the gastric epithelium to provide the mucosa with protection against luminal acid. 
Cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor. Seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found. In two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed. In five patients, in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum, conservative operations (three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections) were performed, thus avoiding needless, more extensive surgery. 
Radiology of esophagitis: a pattern approach. This article presents a pattern approach for diagnosing esophagitis at double-contrast esophagography. In patients with nodular elevations of the mucosa, discrete plaques should suggest Candida esophagitis, whereas poorly defined nodules should suggest reflux esophagitis and a distinctive reticular pattern of the mucosa should suggest Barrett esophagus, particularly if adjacent to the distal aspect of a high stricture. In patients with ulceration, one or more shallow ulcers at or near the gastroesophageal junction should suggest reflux esophagitis, whereas discrete, superficial ulcers in the midesophagus should suggest herpes or drug-induced esophagitis, depending on the clinical setting. In contrast, one or more giant, relatively flat ulcers should suggest cytomegalovirus esophagitis, particularly in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Finally, thickened longitudinal folds may be caused by esophagitis, varices, or, rarely, "varicoid" carcinoma, but these conditions usually can be differentiated on radiologic grounds. By carefully analyzing the appearance and location of nodules, plaques, ulcers, or abnormal folds in the esophagus, one can usually suggest a cause of the disease. 
Intestinal cryptosporidiosis: pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu/+ and rnu/rnu (athymic) rats. In order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal, we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with Cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu (athymic) rats and their heterozygous (rnu/+) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10(6) Cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically. Normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection (fecal oocysts), physiologic consequences (diarrhea, impaired weight gain, brush-border enzyme activities), and immunologic response (both B- and T-lymphocyte-mediated). Homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections; shedding for up to 52 days occurred, and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats (p less than 0.05). In contrast, cryptosporidial challenge of rnu/+ rats resulted in self-resolving infections, occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge. The latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to Cryptosporidium: three months after challenge, five of five rnu/+ rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen. Further, sera from 6 rnu/+ rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding (A405 = 0.96), compared to that of seven uninfected rnu/+ controls (A405 = 0.09, P less than 0.02). Macromolecules of 150, 105, and 88 kD in the Cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected, recovered rnu/+ rats. Two brush-border enzymes (lactase and alkaline phosphatase) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding. We find the rnu/rnu (athymic, nude) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss, brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea. These studies further suggest that a T-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from Cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules. This model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection. 
Metabolic and health complications of obesity. Overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries. In spite of increased interest in fitness, obesity is on the increase in the United States. This is particularly so among children and adolescents. Although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases, the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood. Such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions. In this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or "defect" in a given system. In the absence of such underlying defects, overnutrition, or obesity, is well tolerated. One of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia, that is, elevations of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of VLDL. For patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of VLDL triglycerides, hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state. For those who have defective clearance of LDL, obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia. Both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of VLDL, due to obesity, combined with a genetic defect in clearance of VLDL or LDL. The mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of HDL cholesterol is uncertain, although it could enhance removal of HDL by an excess of adipose tissue. Another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones. The presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones. Two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones: a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile. Overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol, and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Quantification of hepatobiliary function as an integral part of imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease. A study was undertaken to check the feasibility of measuring the hepatic extraction fraction (HEF) and excretion T-1/2 values as an integral part of hepatobiliary imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease. In 18 controls subjects, the HEF was 100% and the T-1/2 excretion mean +/- s.e. value was 15.23 +/- 1.4 min. The mean appearance times of the common bile duct (CBD), gallbladder (GB), and small intestine were 15.8 +/- 1.52, 20.2 +/- 2.7, and 23.8 +/- 3.08 min, respectively. Rising serum bilirubin in patients decreased HEF and increased T-1/2 excretion value resulting in delayed appearance of CBD, GB, and small intestine. In control subjects and patients with bilirubin less than 5 mg%, T-1/2 excretion values at 30, 40, and 50 min were similar to those values calculated using the entire 60 min of data, suggesting that the hepatic phase study time could be reduced to 30-40 min and still use the normal reference values established for 60 min. In patients with bilirubin greater than 5 mg%, the data collection duration should be continued for 60 min. 
Pelvic floor descent in women: dynamic evaluation with fast MR imaging and cinematic display. The authors present a new method for assessing pelvic prolapse with dynamic fast magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Twenty-six women with signs and symptoms suggesting pelvic prolapse and 16 control subjects were studied with a series of fast (6-12-second) MR images. Sagittal and coronal images were obtained with graded increase in voluntary pelvic strain, allowing for dynamic display and quantification of the pelvic prolapse process. The distance from the pubococcygeal line was used as an internal reference for measurement of descent in the maximal strain position. With use of control results for normal limit values, prolapse involving the anterior pelvic compartment (cystocele), the middle compartment (vaginal prolapse, uterine prolapse, and enterocele), and the posterior compartment (rectocele) was easily demonstrated. Significant differences between control subjects and patients with prolapse were seen at maximal strain but not in the relaxed state. Quantification of the pelvic descent process with use of fast MR imaging may be of value in surgical planning and postsurgical follow-up. 
Sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma. Blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden, unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs. Rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma. Death may be delayed several days to weeks. The autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma. The case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented. The death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death. 
Pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge. In vitro studies of calcium-ceftriaxone binding and solubility. Ceftriaxone, a semisynthetic third-generation cephalosporin, has recently been associated with biliary sludge formation. Analysis of the biliary concretions induced by this agent shows a calcium salt of ceftriaxone. The present in vitro studies were undertaken to provide insight into the pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge formation by evaluating possible interactions that may exist between calcium, bile salts, and ceftriaxone. Ceftriaxone possessed high calcium-binding affinity. The formation constant for the calcium ceftriaxone salt at 37 degrees C was about 157.3 L/mol; stoichiometry of the salt was 1:1, i.e., calcium ceftriaxone. The calcium-binding property of ceftriaxone was observed to be additive to that of taurocholate in mixed taurocholate-ceftriaxone solutions. Although the solubility product constant for calcium ceftriaxone was only 1.62 x 10(-6) mol/L2, marked metastability was observed; neither visible nor microscopic precipitates developed until the [Ca2+] x [ceftriaxone] ion product exceeded the solubility product constant by a factor of 10.4. Metastability of the calcium ceftriaxone salt was also observed in human gallbladder bile in vitro. Estimates of human biliary calcium ceftriaxone solubility in vivo were than calculated from previously-reported values for biliary [Ca2+], [ceftriaxone], and from the solubility product constant as defined in this study. Calculated saturation indices for calcium-ceftriaxone in human bile generally increased (corresponding to a decrease in solubility) with increasing ceftriaxone dose. At doses less than or equal to 1 g, saturation index was well within the metastable range of this calcium-salt. However, at doses greater than or equal to 2 g, the saturation index surpassed the metastable limit. Under these conditions, precipitation of ceftriaxone could occur. It was concluded that the development of ceftriaxone-induced biliary sludge is a solubility problem that occurs in patients receiving high-dose treatment (greater than or equal to 2 g). This study proposes that the risk of developing ceftriaxone-associated biliary "pseudolithiasis" increases with increasing ceftriaxone dose and in patients with impaired gallbladder emptying. 
Advantages of a narrow-range, medium molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of two hydroxyethyl starch solutions of different molecular weight ranges for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis. DESIGN: Randomized prospective trial. SETTING: Laboratory investigation. SUBJECTS: Adolescent female pigs weighing approximately 30 kg. INTERVENTIONS: We compared diafiltered 6% pentastarch with 6% high molecular weight hetastarch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis. The number average molecular weight of pentastarch is higher than hetastarch, although the weight average molecular weight is lower, i.e., a narrow range of medium weight molecules. The infusion rate of each agent was adjusted to maintain baseline arterial Hct for less than or equal to 7 hr after instrumentation and induction of fecal peritonitis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: The volume of fluid required to maintain arterial Hct was compared along with comparisons of hemodynamic and histologic responses associated with the two agents. RESULTS: Significantly less pentastarch was required to prevent hemoconcentration than hetastarch (109 +/- 22.8 vs. 150 +/- 10.3 mL/kg; p less than .05) while hemodynamics, colloid osmotic pressure, and oxygen transport responses were similar. Capillary patency was greater (21.99 +/- 3.68 vs. 10.09 +/- 1.17%; p less than .05) and mean alveolar capillary barrier thickness was less (2.36 +/- 0.13 vs. 3.06 +/- 0.17 microns; p less than .05) with pentastarch than with hetastarch, as judged by electron microscopy. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that pentastarch is better retained in the circulation in capillary leak syndromes compared with hetastarch. 
Oral indomethacin for acute renal colic. A number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics, offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status. The authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin, 50 mg, to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone. Eleven patients group (I) received the drug in an unblinded, nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief, either at home or in the emergency department. In 14 additional patients group (II) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment. Pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale. In group I, pain decreased from 5.8 +/- 2.7 to 3.6 +/- 3.8 (P less than .02). Six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 25 +/- 11 minutes, and in 5 of these 6, pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. In group II, pain decreased from 7.6 +/- 1.5 to 4.6 +/- 4.0 (P less than .008). Eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50% or more, which occurred within 40 +/- 14 minutes, and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level. Among all 25 patients who received indomethacin, pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex. There was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders (P = .07). 
Pancreatic pseudocyst in the left hepatic lobe: a report of two cases. The ultrasound and computed tomographic imaging features in a rare pancreatic pseudocyst of the liver are described in two patients. The pseudocysts occurred in the left lobe in both cases, one after a traumatic injury and the other after alcoholic pancreatitis. The possible topographical sequences with which pancreatic secretions entered the left hepatic lobe to form a cyst are discussed. 
Extrauterine findings of ectopic pregnancy of transvaginal US: importance of echogenic fluid. Transvaginal ultrasound (US) studies of 232 consecutive patients with positive serum pregnancy tests who were considered to be at risk for ectopic pregnancy were prospectively evaluated to determine the significance of various extrauterine findings, including echogenic fluid in the cul-de-sac. All patients were found to have a surgically proved ectopic gestation (group 1, 68 patients [29.3%]), reliable evidence of intrauterine pregnancy at initial transvaginal US (group 2, 83 patients [35.8%]), or no evidence of pregnancy at initial transvaginal US, but subsequent proof of an intrauterine pregnancy (group 3, 81 patients [34.9%]). Adnexal findings were demonstrated in 45 (66%) group 1 patients, including a living extrauterine embryo in 10 (15%), an extrauterine gestational sac in 21 (31%), and an adnexal mass in 14 (21%). Intraperitoneal fluid was detected in 43 (63%) group 1 patients and in 81 (31%) group 3 patients. Echogenic fluid was the only abnormal finding at US in 10 (15%) group 1 patients and added confidence to the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy in many others. Echogenic fluid correlated with hemoperitoneum at the time of surgery. The presence of echogenic fluid indicates a high risk for ectopic pregnancy in women referred with this clinical indication. 
Gallstone pancreatitis. Gallstone pancreatitis is caused by transient obstruction of the ampulla of Vater by a migrating gallstone. Intraglandular activation of pancreatic enzymes occurs (by an unclear mechanism), and their entry into the circulation causes most of the local and systemic events of pancreatitis. The diagnosis is based on history and physical examination, an elevation of serum amylase above 1000 IU/L, and ultrasound and CT scans. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be used in less certain cases to confirm the presence of common bile duct stones. Because of the absence of an agent that can abort progression of the disease, therapy should consist of adequate resuscitation, nutritional support, and careful monitoring to detect early complications. In patients with mild pancreatitis, surgery usually can be performed within 48 or 72 hours of admission or as soon as symptoms and amylase levels return to normal. For patients with severe disease, endoscopic sphincterotomy is emerging as the therapeutic modality of choice. Elective treatment of the associated biliary disease should be performed during the same hospitalization after the acute phase of the disease has subsided. 
Drug-induced colonic pseudo-obstruction. Report of a case. Colonic pseudo-obstruction may have many possible causes. Some of these are well described and pose no diagnostic problems. Drug-related colonic pseudo-obstruction remains underreported, but is of importance in modern society where drugs are endemically abused. This case highlights the importance of drugs in altering colonic motility and emphasizes the nonsurgical management of this condition. 
Importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases. Areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth. In extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved. The importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated. Colonic anastomoses were performed in Hooded-Lister rats with and without omentectomy. Animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour. With intraluminal injection, tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent (omental remnant). With intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent (in omental remnant) following omentectomy. In this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support 'seeded' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by, or be dependent on, the proximity of the omentum. 
Fluorescence assays to monitor membrane fusion: potential application in biliary lipid secretion and vesicle interactions. Membrane fusion constitutes an essential, intermediate step in numerous cell biological processes, occurring for example during endocytosis, membrane recycling and exocytosis. Also less desirable events such as the infection of cells by animal viruses are mediated by membrane fusion during which the viral envelope merges with a cellular membrane, causing the expulsion of the viral nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm of the cell as an initial step in virus replication. Much of our current knowledge concerning the mechanism of membrane fusion has been derived from studies using simple artificial membranes, such as liposomes or phospholipid vesicles, as model systems. A most essential feature of these studies has been the development of membrane fusion assays that register in a sensitive and continuous fashion the mixing of membranes or the aqueous volumes initially enclosed by these membranes. Not only do these assays allow one to readily detect and quantify fusion, but they also provide the possibility to relate the kinetics of fusion to the rate by which certain molecular changes in membranes take place. Obviously, this insight is of relevance for understanding the mechanism of membrane fusion. The principles and applications of some representative assays that rely on the use of fluorescence spectroscopy will be discussed. Assays that monitor membrane mixing are commonly based on the detection of changes in resonance energy transfer efficiency or the relief of fluorescence self-quenching of appropriate fluorescent lipid analogs. Contents mixing assays rely on either the formation of a (aqueous-soluble) fluorescent complex or quenching of a fluorophore, encapsulated in one vesicle population, by a suitable quencher, entrapped in a second population. 
In micronodular cirrhosis, hepatocytes retain a normal C-25 hydroxylation capacity toward vitamin D3: a study using the rat carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhotic model. To test further the competence of the cirrhotic liver to metabolize vitamin D3 at C-25, hepatocytes were isolated from controls and from CCl4-induced cirrhotic rat livers, as well as from partially hepatectomized rats. The transformation of D3 into 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 was studied in the presence of 10(7) hepatocytes at D3 concentrations of 20 nmol/L to 15.4 mumol/L. Histologically, micronodular cirrhosis was present in all CCl4-treated rats, whereas controls had normal livers; portal venous pressure (p less than 0.008) and intrahepatic collagen content (p less than 0.0001) were significantly increased in CCl4-treated rats, whereas no difference was found between the two groups in the total and ionized serum calcium, D3 metabolites, ALT, AST and alkaline phosphatase. Cytochrome P-450 was 0.27 +/- 0.02 and 0.25 +/- 0.02 nmol/10(6) hepatocytes in controls and cirrhotic rats (N.S.), and it significantly increased in both groups after phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene administration (p less than 0.0001). 25-Hydroxyvitamin D3 formation was best described by power law equations and varied between 0.02 +/- 0.0004 and 29.57 +/- 2.8 in controls, and 0.024 +/- 0.0004 and 32.0 +/- 7.0 pmol.hr-1.10(6) hepatocytes-1 in cirrhotic rats. No statistically significant difference was found in the slopes of the 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 formation, but the y-axis intercept was found to be lower in cirrhotic rats under basal resting conditions (p less than 0.005). Inducers of the mixed function oxidases significantly increased 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 formation in controls as well as in cirrhotic rats (p less than 0.005). Moreover, both groups were found to respond similarly to the addition of modulators of the enzyme such as the calcium ionophore A23187 and parathyroid hormone. Partial hepatectomy was also without effect on the activation of D3. Furthermore, the cell sequestration of D3 was also found to be unperturbed in hepatocytes obtained from either cirrhotic or partially hepatectomized livers. The data indicate that in well-compensated micronodular cirrhosis, the C-25 hydroxylation of D3 is generally intrinsically normal at the cellular level and that it also remains fully responsive to in vivo and in vitro modulators of its activity. 
Brain and liver dolichol in chronic alcoholism: a necropsy study. Cerebral gray and white matter and liver dolichol levels were measured in postmortem samples from chronic alcoholics and nonalcoholic controls following recent suggestions that dolichol levels may be used as a marker for alcoholism. No significant differences in brain dolichol were found between the control and alcoholic groups. A significant reduction in the liver dolichol was observed in the alcoholic group. This was most marked in those alcoholics with liver disease. 
Geriatric constipation: brief update on a common problem. Constipation occurs frequently in the elderly and is often multifactorial in origin. A search for an underlying cause is necessary, and can often be found by taking an adequate history and performing a thorough physical examination. A minority of patients require further investigation, guided by the clinical setting. Management should be directed at correcting the underlying cause and providing dietary advice and, less commonly, medication to allow restoration of a normal bowel habit. 
Reduction in hepatic venous pressure gradient as a consequence of volume contraction due to chronic administration of spironolactone in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites. The effect of plasma volume contraction induced by a 4-wk administration of spironolactone or furosemide on the hepatic venous pressure gradient was evaluated in consecutively allocated patients with cirrhosis and no ascites. In the spironolactone group (n = 15), the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly (p less than 0.005), by 21.8%, with a significant contraction of circulating plasma volume (p less than 0.01). Although there were no statistically significant correlations between the change in hepatic venous pressure gradient and changes in circulating plasma volume or in simultaneously determined systemic hemodynamics, a significant negative correlation (r = -0.74, p less than 0.01, n = 12) between the hepatic venous pressure gradient change and the post-treatment plasma aldosterone levels was found. However, in the furosemide group (n = 10), the hepatic venous pressure gradient and circulating plasma volume did not significantly decrease. Our data demonstrated a significant reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient on a chronic administration of spironolactone, which may have been due to volume contractions in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites. 
Acute axonal polyneuropathy associated with anti-GM1 antibodies following Campylobacter enteritis. We report 2 patients with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) following Campylobacter jejuni enteritis. Electrophysiologic studies indicated that the predominant process was axonal degeneration of motor nerves, and clinical recovery was poor. Serum testing by thin-layer chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the sera from both patients contained high titers of IgG antibody against GM1 ganglioside. These cases may represent a subgroup of GBS as acute axonal polyneuropathy following C jejuni enteritis associated with anti-GM1 antibodies. 
Furosemide absorption in patients with cirrhosis. Twelve patients with cirrhosis (seven mild and five severe) were administered intravenous and oral furosemide in random order to assess its absorption and disposition. Total serum clearance (113 +/- 49 ml/min), volume of distribution (11.9 +/- 4.5 L), and elimination half-life (166 +/- 149 minutes) were similar to those reported previously in both healthy control subjects and patients with cirrhosis. Bioavailability of 58% +/- 17% (range, 37% to 82%) was comparable to that of previous studies, and there was no difference between patients with mild and those with severe cirrhosis. In 9 of 12 patients the mean absorption time was longer than the mean residence time determined after intravenous administration (mean for all patients, 203 +/- 86 versus 134 +/- 101 minutes; p less than 0.05), indicating that furosemide followed a "flip-flop" model in these patients. In all patients the mean absorption time was prolonged relative to normal subjects irrespective of the presence of edema. As such, the slower absorption of furosemide in edematous states, such as congestive heart failure and cirrhosis, does not appear to be a consequence of edema per se. Moreover, because similar changes occur in patients with congestive heart failure, it seems that diseases with diverse pathophysiology can slow furosemide absorption. 
Neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract. Gastrointestinal motility is the function of gastrointestinal smooth muscle. It is controlled by both the intrinsic and extrinsic nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and, to a lesser degree, the gastrointestinal hormones. Therefore, any abnormality of the above factors, theoretically, can cause gastrointestinal dysmotility. In a clinical situation, commonly seen is gastrointestinal dysmotility caused by either smooth muscle or intrinsic and extrinsic nerves dysfunction. Diseases that cause smooth muscle dysfunction include familial visceral myopathies, nonfamilial visceral myopathies, collagen disease, muscular dystrophies, amyloidosis, thyroid disease, and so on. Diseases that cause enteric nerve dysfunction include familial visceral neuropathies, nonfamilial visceral neuropathies, diabetes mellitus, Chagas' disease, ganglioneuromatosis of the intestine, visceral neuropathy of carcinomatosis, Parkinson's disease, and so on. The patients with neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract have a wide range of clinical manifestations regardless of the underlying cause. At one end of the spectrum, the patients may be asymptomatic, and at the other end of the spectrum, the patients may have functional obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract. Plain abdominal x-rays, upper gastrointestinal (UGI) and small bowel x-rays, enteroclysis, barium enema, and manometric studies are useful for the work-up of these patients. Enteroclysis is especially helpful in ruling out mechanical obstruction of the small intestine in patients with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive. There is no effective drug to improve gastrointestinal motility. Surgery may be helpful in selected cases of severe gastrointestinal dysmotility. 
Adenocarcinoma arising in Barrett's esophagus after total gastrectomy A 64-yr-old Japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21, a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25, and in whom Barrett's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47, was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy. The tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria. The entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium. This tumor was thought to derive from the Barrett's esophageal epithelium. 
Thoracic succussion splash: a new symptom and sign of achalasia. A patient with a "thoracic succussion splash" due to achalasia is described. She noted a splashing or sloshing sensation in her chest related to jogging and bending. On examination a splashing sound could be heard over the mid sternum and the posterior chest when the patient was rocked vigorously back and forth. 
Colonoscopy without prior preparation in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis. We evaluated the effect of different types of preparations on the diagnostic yield of colonoscopy (total or limited) in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis. Our ability to determine the extent of disease and see the mucosa beyond the inflamed areas was assessed in patients receiving no preparation (group A, 72 examinations) and those receiving diphosphosoda enemas (group B, 181 examinations). There were three failures in group A and 11 in group B. In the majority of patients (71% of group A, 83% of group B) the scope could be passed under optimal viewing conditions at least one segment beyond the involved area. In group A the cecum was reached in 16% of the procedures and in group B in 18%. We conclude that in mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis, colonoscopy can be performed without preparation, and still achieve the same results as with preparatory enemas. 
The associated anomalies that determine prognosis in congenital omphaloceles. Cogenital abdominal wall defects such as omphaloceles can be recognized by fetal ultrasonography. To determine whether associated anatomic features may be useful in determining fetal prognosis, a retrospective study was performed over a 5-year period. There were 28 cases of omphalocele; 16 were larger than 5 cm and classified as giant, and the remainder were considered small. Eleven of the 12 infants with small omphaloceles survived with minimal neonatal complications. Ten of the 16 infants with giant omphaloceles died because of associated congenital anomalies. These were congenital heart disease, central nervous system malformations, and diaphragmatic hernias. This review suggests that the prognosis is good when a prenatal diagnosis of giant omphalocele is made and careful fetal ultrasonography, including echocardiography, does not identify heart, central nervous system, or diaphragmatic malformations, even when there is liver herniation into the omphalocele. 
Diphenylhydantoin-induced hypogammaglobulinemia in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus. A case is reported of reversible panhypogammaglobulinemia in a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patient. Onset and resolution were temporally correlated with initiation and termination, respectively, of diphenylhydantoin therapy for a possible seizure. A rapid alteration in peripheral T-cell subpopulations was also noted in association with diphenylhydantoin administration. This case is compared with previous reports of diphenylhydantoin-associated hypogammaglobulinemia in non-HIV-infected patients. In addition, the case is discussed with regard to possible deleterious effects associated with the use of diphenylhydantoin as therapy for HIV-associated seizures or as an antiretroviral agent in HIV disease. 
Surgery for acute and chronic cholecystitis. Cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy remain appropriate and effective therapy for acute and chronic cholecystitis. Cholecystectomy is the gold standard against which all alternative methods of treatment of inflammatory biliary stone disease should be judged. The pathogenesis, diagnosis, and surgical treatment of acute and chronic cholecystitis have been described. Techniques of cholecystostomy, cholecystectomy, and intraoperative cholangiography used by the author have been given. Our results and those generally described in the literature indicate that the overall mortality rate for cholecystectomy, in all age groups, is approximately 0.5%. This rate increases slightly in patients with acute cholecystitis and in those over the age of 65 years. Cholecystectomy remains the most effective and the definitive treatment for acute and chronic cholecystitis. 
Neutrophil dysfunction in glycogen storage disease Ib: association with Crohn's-like colitis. Two cases of patients with Crohn's-like colitis and glycogen storage disease Ib have been reported previously. In the current report, chronic inflammatory bowel disease that developed in another adolescent with this glycogenosis is described, thereby corroborating the association. The neutrophil dysfunction observed in glycogen storage disease Ib is the most likely predisposing factor. Neutrophil function was investigated in our patient in an attempt to shed light on the pathogenesis of his intestinal inflammation. The patient displayed reduced neutrophil chemotaxis to zymosan-activated serum, N-formyl-methionine-phenylalanine, and Escherichia coli bacteria-derived factor and reduced intracellular killing of Staphylococcus aureus 502A. Others have found this defective bacteriocidal activity to be caused by impaired oxidative metabolism. The recent recognition of chronic inflammatory bowel disease in glycogen storage disease Ib, as well as in chronic granulomatous disease, suggests that further study of respiratory burst activity of neutrophils in Crohn's disease is warranted. 
Surgical treatment of hydatid disease of the liver. A 20-year experience. The medical records of 135 consecutive patients (74 women and 61 men) who underwent surgery for hydatid liver disease were reviewed. The patients ranged in age from 4 to 81 years. Twenty-seven patients had undergone previous surgery for hydatid liver disease. Cysts were solitary in 100 patients and multiple in 35 patients. Seventeen patients had concomitant extrahepatic disease. Conservative procedures were used in 71 patients (capitonnage in 50 patients and partial pericystectomy in 21 patients). Radical procedures were used in 64 patients (total pericystectomy in 35 patients, subtotal pericystectomy in 16 patients, and wedge or major liver resection in 13 patients). Operative mortality was 2.2% and morbidity rate was 23.7%. Recurrent disease was found in 13 patients at a mean interval of 3 years from the first operation. Better short- and long-term results were obtained with the use of radical procedures. 
Early results of combined electrohydraulic shock-wave lithotripsy and oral litholytic therapy of gallbladder stones at the University of Iowa. One hundred thirty-three patients were entered into a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy for symptomatic gallstones versus extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy plus adjuvant litholytic therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). Six months after lithotripsy, patients receiving placebo were crossed over to UDCA therapy without unblinding the study. One hundred sixteen patients have completed 6 months of follow-up. Five patients were dropped from the study. Nine percent have required cholecystectomy (11 patients with biliary colic and 1 with acute cholecystitis). Ninety-one patients had a solitary stone (64 patients had stones less than or equal to 20 mm and 27 patients had stones greater than 20 mm in diameter), and 25 patients had two to three stones. Fifty percent were retreated. Cumulative stone-free rates at 6, 12, and 18 months were 26%, 39%, and 41%, respectively. At 6 months there was a significant advantage for patients treated with UDCA versus placebo (36% vs 17% were stone free) that had disappeared by 12 months (placebo-treated patients had received 6 months of UDCA). Patients with solitary stones equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter treated with UDCA had stone-free rates at 6, 12, and 18 months of 58%, 58%, and 62%, respectively, versus 27%, 56%, and 50%. The difference was significant only at the 6- month follow-up. Stone-free rates for patients with large solitary stones and multiple stones were very low. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is both safe and effective therapy for treatment of symptomatic gallstones in patients with a solitary stone equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter. UDCA markedly improves the efficiency of the procedure and results in a stone-free gallbladder sooner. 
The role of a critical care unit in an epidemic. The role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established. The management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described. The solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims (out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics) are discussed. 
Modulatory action of adenosine on gastric function and ethanol-induced mucosal damage in rats. This study examines the gastric effects of adenosine and its antagonist, theophylline, on secretory function, mucosal blood flow, and on ethanol-induced glandular mucosal damage in rats that were fasted for 24 hr before experimentation. The animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone (50 mg/kg intraperitoneal) and their tracheae cannulated. An ex vivo stomach chamber then was prepared. The luminal bathing solution was collected every 15 min and the concentrations of H+ and Na+ were determined by a pH autotitrator and an ionmeter, respectively. The glandular mucosal blood flow was measured by a laser Doppler flowmeter and the severity of lesions was determined by measuring the hemorrhagic areas. Adenosine administration (2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg, subcutaneous) markedly lowered the H+ and Na+ output but increased the secretory volume and mucosal blood flow in a dose-dependent manner. The same doses of the nucleoside also prevented ethanol-induced mucosal damage. These effects were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline (30 or 60 mg/kg, subcutaneous). Ethanol given alone significantly depressed the H+ and Na+ secretion. Both effects were not modified by adenosine treatment. However, the depressive action of ethanol on mucosal blood flow was prevented by adenosine. These findings indicate that adenosine modulates the physiological function of the stomach. It also directly activates the defensive mechanism of the stomach, which is partially mediated by the improvement of the gastric mucosal blood flow and an increase in the nonacid component of gastric secretion. 
Clinical management of the complications of HIV infection. Patients with advancing HIV infection are subject to a broad range of complications that may challenge the primary care physician. The presence of more than one complication at a time is common. Selected, common complications are discussed, including a discussion of the approach to diagnosis and management. Areas covered include pulmonary, gastrointestinal, ocular, and mucocutaneous complications, as well as lymphadenopathy, the HIV wasting syndrome, and Kaposi's sarcoma. 
Endoscopic management of chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach. Endoscopic correction of the chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach was attempted in seven cases of primary and three cases of secondary volvulus. Endoscopic correction was successful in six cases of primary volvulus and one case of volvulus secondary to duodenal carcinoma. This paper describes the details of the technique of endoscopic correction of gastric volvulus, and documentation of correction of the volvulus by barium meal study with a follow-up of 5-26 months. 
Congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites. Isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops. This entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies. Fetal chyloperitoneum, however, should be considered as a possible cause. Pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications. We present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum. 
Interventional radiology of the biliary tract. Transcholecystic intervention. Diagnostic and therapeutic biliary intervention by percutaneous access to the gallbladder is an important new area in interventional radiology. The anatomy of the gallbladder, biliary tree, and surrounding viscera is reviewed in this article as a preliminary to discussion of the diagnostic techniques of aspiration, cholangiography, biopsy, and the therapeutic techniques of gallbladder drainage and cholelithotomy. Recently there has been a bewildering proliferation of procedures aimed at removal, fragmentation, and dissolution of gallbladder stones. Several of these are discussed in this article. Removal of common bile duct stones by percutaneous cholecystostomy also is discussed. 
Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and associated symptomatic esophageal webs. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA) is a well-characterized, subepidermal blistering disorder associated with autoimmunity to type VII collagen, which is the collagen localized to anchoring fibrils within the dermoepidermal junction of skin. Although the full clinical spectrum of EBA is still being defined, it is known that the clinical features of EBA may be reminiscent of hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, a scarring blistering disease of children that is commonly associated with esophageal stenosis. We describe a patient with EBA who had both an acral-predominant mechanobullous disease akin to dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and an inflammatory, widespread bullous eruption reminiscent of bullous pemphigoid in association with esophageal webs and dysphagia. Although esophageal involvement is common in dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, a review of the literature shows that this is the first bonafide case of EBA with symptomatic esophageal disease. 
Preventing postoperative acute bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract. Two hundred and ninety-eight critically ill patients at risk for the development of postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding were randomized into three groups. The first group comprised 85 patients who received meciadanol, a new bioflavonoid, 500 milligrams every six hours through a nasograstric tube; the second group comprised 100 patients who received sucralfate (crushed tablets), 1,000 milligrams every six hours through a nasogastric tube, and the third group comprised 113 patients who received an antacid (Maalox [magnesium aluminum hydroxide gel]) through a nasogastric tube at an initial dose of 15 milliliters every hour. The gastric pH was measured hourly and titrated to a pH greater than or equal to 4.0 in patients in the group receiving the antacid. The gastric pH was measured every two hours in the other two groups. Bleeding in the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract was determined visually (frank blood in gastric contents) or by guaiac testing. Bleeding occurred in seven patients receiving meciadanol, nine receiving sucralfate and six receiving the antacid. The difference in rates of bleeding was not statistically significant. Correlation between the severity of illness index and the development of bleeding was poor, at least in the low and intermediate index range. In contrast, there was a strong correlation between the age of the patient and the development of bleeding. Only one patient younger than 50 years had bleeding develop. Apparently, meciadanol exerts its action by a mechanism other than pH control. It may, therefore, fill an important gap in the ability to prevent postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding. 
Perianal abscess and fistula-in-ano in children. The authors present a retrospective review of 40 pediatric patients with perianal abscess and/or fistula-in-ano. The total patient population could be divided clinically into 2 broad groups. The first group consisted of 22 infants younger than 2 years of age, all of whom were males, and 10 of whom presented with recurrences after previous incision and drainage. Of the 14 infants presenting with an abscess, in 12 (85.7 percent), a fistula-in-ano was discovered at surgery. In contrast, in the group of 18 children older than 2 years of age, there were 7 females and 11 males, and fistulas were identified in only 7 of 13 patients (54.8 percent) who presented with abscesses. Surgical treatment consisted of examination under anesthesia and a diligent search for a fistulous tract. Abscesses were primarily saucerized and fistulotomy and cryptotomy of the confluent crypt was performed if a fistulous tract was identified. The only recurrences with this form of treatment occurred in the two immunocompromised patients. 
Scintigraphic measurement of oropharyngeal transit in man. Scintigraphic studies of the oropharyngeal transit of a liquid bolus were performed in 15 healthy controls, 12 patients with symptoms of oral-pharyngeal dysphagia, and 13 patients with neuromuscular disease, who did not have dysphagia. Gamma camera imaging of the head, neck, and upper thorax was undertaken, in the lateral projection, during the swallowing of the radiolabeled bolus of water. Inspection of summed images permitted the selection of regions of interest (ROI) to represent the mouth, pharynx, and upper esophagus. Transit times between each ROI were calculated and compared. Significant prolongation of bolus transit time between the mouth and esophagus was present in both patients with and without dysphagia (0.59 +/- 0.38 sec and 0.33 +/- 0.7 sec; mean +/- SD, respectively) compared with controls (0.26 +/- 0.04 sec P less than 0.001, P less than 0.01, respectively, Mann-Whitney U test). Repeat studies in 25 individuals indicated that the transit measurements were more reproducible between swallows in normal subjects than in patients with symptoms. Deglutitive scintigraphy provides a noninvasive technique for the quantitative study of swallowing and its disorders. 
Nonmucous glycoproteins as pronucleating agents. Cholesterol crystallization-promoting factors probably play an important role in the pathogenesis of gallstone disease. We have isolated one of the factors involved by using lectin-affinity chromatography. A potent promoting activity binds to concanavalin A-Sepharose. The activity is heat labile and sensitive to digestion by glycosidase but remarkably insensitive to proteases. The concanavalin A-binding pronucleator affects cholesterol solubilization in model bile in two ways. It induces a shift of cholesterol and phospholipid from the micellar to the vesicular phase but also interacts directly with cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles. The concanavalin A-binding protein fraction contains at least two different promoting factors with gel permeation molecular weights of about 150 kD and 5 kD, respectively. The higher molecular weight activity could be assigned to a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 130 kD. Concanavalin A-binding-promoting activity was present in bile from both patients with and without stones, indicating that it is a normal constituent of bile. However, the activity was strongly increased in bile from patients with multiple cholesterol gallstones, suggesting that it could play a key role in gallstone formation in these patients. 
Does paramedic-base hospital contact result in beneficial deviations from standard prehospital protocols? We reviewed written and audio records of paramedic-base hospital radio contact to determine whether care differed from that suggested in standard prehospital care protocols. Records of all 659 contacts for seizure, syncope, abdominal pain, or altered mental state during 1987 (28.4% of all contacts) were scored for the use of standard therapies (such as intravenous access, oxygen, naloxone hydrochloride) and unanticipated therapies (intubation, nitroglycerin). Cases that involved unanticipated treatments were reviewed to determine whether they could have been prospectively identified by simple clinical findings. Standard therapies were used in the majority of patients. Unanticipated therapies were administered to 13 patients, all of whom had abnormal vital signs, diaphoresis, respiratory distress, or a second prominent symptom. Data suggest that protocols could replace radio contact for most patients and that the few who might benefit from radio contact can be easily identified. A 90% reduction in radio contacts in Los Angeles county could save $3 million each year. 
Monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites: a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when (a) the ascitic fluid culture is positive, (b) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and (c) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection. Few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria (pure growth of a single type of organism), but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3. In this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients, 44 (31.9%) were episodes of "monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites" compared with 94 (68.1%) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Seventeen patients had both types of infection. The infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups. Patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease. In 62% of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis. Thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites (who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis--sometimes within a few hours. The concentration of the chemoattractant C5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients; this excludes ascitic fluid C5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis. Monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. 
Treatment of travelers' diarrhea: ciprofloxacin plus loperamide compared with ciprofloxacin alone. A placebo-controlled, randomized trial OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and efficacy of loperamide used in combination with ciprofloxacin or ciprofloxacin alone for the treatment of travelers' diarrhea. DESIGN: Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. SETTING: United States Army hospital in Egypt. PARTICIPANTS: United States military personnel with travelers' diarrhea (n = 104) during a military exercise in November 1989. Persons who were noncompliant, had bloody diarrhea, or had received antidiarrheal medications before entry into the study were excluded. INTERVENTIONS: All participants with travelers' diarrhea were treated with ciprofloxacin, 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. Fifty of these patients were randomly assigned to receive loperamide, a 4-mg first dose and 2 mg for every loose stool (as much as 16 mg/d), and 54 were randomly assigned to receive placebo. MEASUREMENTS: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli was isolated from 57% of patients; Shigella and Salmonella, seen in 4% and 2% of patients, respectively, were not common. MAIN RESULTS: After 24 hours, the symptoms of 82% of patients in the ciprofloxacin and loperamide group compared with 67% in the ciprofloxacin and placebo group had improved or fully recovered (odds ratio, 2.3; 95% CI, 0.8 to 6.3; P = 0.08). After 48 hours, the symptoms of 90% of both groups had improved or fully recovered. The mean number of stools for those receiving loperamide was not much lower than those who did not receive loperamide after 24 hours (1.9 +/- 0.2 [SE] compared with 2.6 +/- 0.2) or 48 hours (3.1 +/- 0.3 compared with 4.0 +/- 0.3) of treatment (P = 0.19). CONCLUSIONS: In a region where enterotoxigenic E. coli was the predominant cause of travelers' diarrhea, loperamide combined with ciprofloxacin was not better than treatment with ciprofloxacin alone. Loperamide appeared to have some benefit in the first 24 hours of treatment in patients infected with enterotoxigenic E. coli. Both regimens were safe. 
Bacteriologic findings with ectopic pregnancy. The fallopian tubes and peritoneum of 27 patients were cultured at the time of salpingotomy/salpingectomy to determine if active tubal infection was the cause of post-operative temperature elevations. Infection was documented in six patients (22%). Previous exposure to Chlamydia trachomatis was documented with 2 endocervical cultures and 17 serum specimens positive for IgG antibody. The culture results, however, did not correlate with the postoperative febrile morbidity. 
A case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis The group B streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias, puerperal sepsis, and neonatal meningitis. Group B streptococcal infections of muscle are rare. We report here an unusual case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis. Pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and, occasionally, Streptococcus pyogenes. Because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates, the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms, and the frequently negative blood cultures, considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis; in fact, the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma, cellulitis, thrombophlebitis, osteomyelitis, or neoplasm. Diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections. The response to antibiotics is usually rapid, but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses. This report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen. 
The effects of vitamin K on the generation of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (PIVKA-II) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. The clinical significance of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (PIVKA-II) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was investigated in 112 patients with and without vitamin K administration. The positivity rate of PIVKA-II was significantly decreased in patients receiving vitamin K (28.5%), compared with those without vitamin K administration (54.5%, p less than 0.05). The plasma levels of vitamin K derivatives [phylloquinone (VK1), menaquinone-4 (MK4), and menaquinone-7 (MK7)] measured were not decreased in patients with HCC, but were significantly increased in MK4 and VK1 + MK4 + MK7. The amount of PIVKA-II in plasma did not correlate with the plasma levels of vitamin K derivatives. However, PIVKA-II was decreased by the administration of vitamin K, and all of the six patients with more than 5.0 ng/ml of VK1 + MK4 + MK7 were within normal limits, whereas half of 32 patients with less than that had abnormal levels of PIVKA-II. Thus, it was suggested that PIVKA-II was not elevated due to vitamin K deficiency, but might result from the impaired metabolism or availability of vitamin K in the tumor. Therefore, PIVKA-II should be measured without vitamin K administration. 
Intussusception and the diagnostic value of testing stool for occult blood. A retrospective review was performed to determine the diagnostic value of testing for occult blood in stool of children suspect for intussusception. Ninety-six children had barium enema studies for suspected intussusception. Of the 57 children who had barium enema confirmed intussusception, 29 did not have history or physical findings of gross blood per rectum. Stool was tested for occult blood in 16 of these 29 patients, and 12 (75%) were positive. In comparison, three (20%) of the children who did not have intussusception had stool positive for occult blood. Stool with occult blood was significantly associated with intussusception (P less than .002). The only other clinical factor significantly associated with intussusception was abdominal mass (P less than .02). Vomiting, episodic irritability, poor feeding, abdominal pain and lethargy were not significantly different in the two groups. In conclusion, the authors suggest stool testing for occult blood when evaluating children who present with nonspecific signs and symptoms supportive of intussusception. 
Pemoline-associated hepatic injury. Among 100 cases of hepatic injury attributed to the administration of pemoline, 43 had sufficient accompanying information to permit analysis. All but two patients were less than 20 years old, and 80% were less than 12 years old. Males predominated the study. Injury appeared as early as 1 week or as late as greater than 1 year of taking the drug. The injury was uniformly hepatocellular as judged by the high values for aminotransferases and by death in massive necrosis in one patient. Mechanism was judged to be idiosyncratic, and the idiosyncrasy was probably metabolic rather than immunologic. 
Colon interposition for esophageal disease: histologic finding of colonic mucosa after a follow-up of 5 months to 15 years. Thirty-six patients, subjected to colon interposition for benign esophageal disease or carcinoma of the esophagus or gastric cardia, were studied by endoscopy for signs of mucosal disease in the interposed colon. Five months to 15 yr (mean 57 months) after the operation, endoscopic finding of the interposed colon was macroscopically normal in 28 patients. Signs of inflammation, including hyperemia or hyperemia and friability, were observed in seven patients. Histologic specimens obtained at endoscopy were examined microscopically, and the findings were compared with those seen in the preoperative graft. In two patients, chronic inflammatory changes were observed in the graft mucosa, consisting of mononuclear cell infiltration of the lamina propria accompanied by crypt dilatation and deformation. In one of these patients, the inflammation was in the proximal third of the graft, and it was also seen at the endoscopy. In the remaining 34 patients, the graft mucosa was microscopically comparable to normal. The alterations were unexpectedly few and mild considering the marked change in the location and function of the colonic segment. 
Malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli. Report of a case and review of the literature. Juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change. The authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis. Juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years. He underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years. At age 12, he underwent a proctectomy and a Swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump. At age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp. 
Comparison of shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine and technetium-99m-pertechnetate in a group of dogs with experimentally-induced chronic biliary cirrhosis. Portosystemic shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine (IMP) has been previously validated relative to portal vein macroaggregated albumin injections using an experimental model of cirrhosis. Transcolonic technetium-99m-pertechnetate (TcO4-) has been proposed as an alternative tracer to IMP to study portal circulation in cirrhotic patients. We compared shunt fraction estimates from paired transcolonic IMP and TcO4- studies performed on a group of dogs before and after common bile duct ligation surgery. Pertechnetate over-estimated shunt fraction in 6/7 postoperative studies relative to IMP. A good correlation between the two methods was demonstrated, however, the slope of the regression line was substantially less than 1.0 with TcO4- values reaching 100% at IMP shunt values of approximately 60%. This apparent inability to accurately assess high shunt flows may limit the quantitative aspects of TcO4- studies on patients with severe portosystemic shunting. 
The effect of posterior rectopexy on fecal continence. A prospective study. Twenty-three patients with rectal prolapse or intussusception were studied to specifically focus on the effect of posterior rectopexy on fecal continence, anal pressure, and rectal capacity. Before operation, five patients were fully continent (A), 10 were continent for solid stools (B) and eight patients were fully incontinent (C). Group A remained fully continent; continence was regained nine times in group B and in group C, three patients regained full continence, two became continent for solid stools, three patients remained incontinent. Other symptoms such as constipation, false urgency, and a feeling of incomplete evacuation were not beneficially influenced by rectopexy. The patients' continence status was correlated to anorectal manometry and rectal capacity measurement. In group B, incremental pressure (P = squeeze - basal P) increased significantly (P less than 0.02) as well as incremental volume (V = maximum tolerated volume - volume of first sensation) (P less than 0.05). We conclude that, by an increase of incremental anal pressure and incremental rectal volume, posterior rectopexy offers an 83 percent chance of regaining full continence, or a major improvement, and a 17 percent chance of stabilization of fecal incontinence. 
Binding to human jejunum of serum IgA antibody from children with coeliac disease. Jejunal histology and the presence of serum IgA antibodies (JAB) binding to human jejunum in vitro were studied in 139 children with severe malabsorptive symptoms. Among 33 children with confirmed coeliac disease (ESPGAN criteria), 13 (93%) of 14 sampled before starting on a gluten-free diet had JAB, none of 21 sampled had JAB while on a gluten-free diet of long duration, and 90% of 30 sampled during gluten challenge had JAB. 53 children had severe jejunal villous atrophy (probable coeliac disease): 71% of those younger than 2 years and 94% of those aged 2-18 years had JAB during gluten intake. JAB could not be detected in 53 disease control patients (normal jejunal histology) and in 3 coeliac disease patients with selective IgA deficiency. Simultaneous determination of antigliadin (AGA) and antiendomysium (EMA) levels, and gliadin and tissue absorption studies, showed that JAB and AGA are different, whereas JAB and EMA are probably identical. IgA JAB could be the target-organ-related autoantibodies in coeliac disease. 
A comparison in vitro of human and rabbit distal colonic muscle responses to inflammatory mediators. The present study compared in vitro the motor responses of human and rabbit distal colonic longitudinal and circular muscle to acetylcholine, histamine, leukotrienes B4 and D4, and prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha. The active and passive mechanical properties of these muscles were also evaluated. All muscle types were contracted by acetylcholine and histamine. Longitudinal muscle from both species was contracted by prostaglandin E2 and prostaglandin F2 alpha, although rabbit muscle was more sensitive. Prostaglandin E2 relaxed the majority of both human and rabbit circular muscle preparations that were studied. Prostaglandin F2 alpha first relaxed and then contracted circular muscle from both species. Leukotriene B4 had no effect on any tissue studied. Leukotriene D4 caused transient relaxations in a proportion of all muscle types, but the relaxations were not concentration-related. Contractile responses did not differ under isotonic recording conditions, but relaxations were much more clearly defined. Based on experiments using atropine, phentolamine and propranolol, and pyrilamine or tetrodotoxin, it was concluded that the responses of both human and rabbit distal colonic muscles to these inflammatory mediators have a similar pharmacological basis. All muscle types exhibited low passive tension and developed active tension in the range 0.8-1.2 Lo. These data strongly support the belief that after the onset of an induced colitis, the rabbit colon has value as a predictive model for the study of inflammatory mediator-induced colonic motility changes in humans. 
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of doxacurium in normal patients and in those with hepatic or renal failure. We determined the pharmacokinetics and duration of action of a bolus dose of doxacurium (15 micrograms/kg) in 27 patients anesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide. Nine patients had normal renal and liver functions and were undergoing a variety of surgical procedures, nine were undergoing cadaveric kidney transplantation because of end-stage renal disease, and nine were undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation because of end-stage hepatocellular disease. Plasma concentrations of doxacurium were measured for 6 h after administration using a sensitive and specific capillary gas chromatographic assay. Plasma concentration versus time data were analyzed by a noncompartmental method based on statistical moments. Neuromuscular blockade was assessed by measuring the electromyographic evoked response of the adductor pollicis muscle to train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve. The degree of neuromuscular blockade after doxacurium administration was described as the percent of control of the first train-of-four response. The pharmacokinetic variables were (normal vs hepatic failure vs renal failure, respectively): volume of distribution at steady state (220 +/- 110 vs 290 +/- 60 vs 270 +/- 130 mL/kg [mean +/- SD]), plasma clearance (2.7 +/- 1.6 vs 2.3 +/- 0.4 vs 1.2 +/- 0.7 mL.kg-1.min-1), mean residence time (95.2 +/- 57 vs 129.4 +/- 30 vs 270 +/- 210 min), and elimination half-life (99 +/- 54 vs 115 +/- 31 vs 221 +/- 156 min). Plasma clearance and mean residence time differed significantly between patients with renal failure and control patients. 
Anorectal surgery in the HIV+ patient: update. Anorectal surgery in HIV+ patients historically has been viewed with a great deal of nihilism. Advances in medical therapy and better understanding of unique pathophysiologic processes have afforded the colorectal surgeon the ability to treat better and sometimes cure the anorectal complications of AIDS. We present a series of 75 consecutive surgical procedures (1-year accrual) on HIV+ (40) and CDC AIDS (22) patients. Surgical procedures, perioperative T cell counts, and outcome will be presented; 53 percent of procedures resulted in complete healing of anal wounds; 30 percent resulted in partial healing with symptomatic relief; 17 percent resulted in symptomatic relief or tissue diagnosis without appreciable wound healing. The healing rate was significantly higher in the HIV+ group (69 percent) compared to the AIDS group (26 percent). Perioperative T cell counts did not have predictive value on outcome. No patients suffered significant unexpected morbidity, mortality, or incontinence. Pathophysiologic mechanisms of several disease processes unique to HIV+ patients and data from our ongoing investigation using RNA hybridization are presented. 
Ondansetron: a new entity in emesis control. Nausea and vomiting are serious problems for patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. Dopamine receptor and cholinergic receptor antagonism have been the target mechanism for agents used to combat drug-induced nausea and vomiting; more recently, blockade of serotonin receptors has been used for this indication. Current therapies are limited by extrapyramidal adverse effects, as well as drowsiness, sedation, respiratory depression, and cardiac effects. Ondansetron is an investigational serotonin antagonist that has documented effectiveness for cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis. Ondansetron appears to be well tolerated, with the possible exception of headaches and transient increases in liver enzymes. No extrapyramidal toxicities have been reported with this agent. While ondansetron looks promising, further studies are needed to fully define its role as an antiemetic. 
Spontaneous sump syndrome: Successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy. "Sump syndrome" is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal, nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile, gastrointestinal contents, and debris accumulate. We report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula, and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses. The patient's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics. This case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously, that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation, and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy. 
Surgical correction of hydrothorax from diaphragmatic eventration in children on peritoneal dialysis. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) is frequently used in the pediatric age group for reversible and end-stage renal failure. Most pediatric patients tolerate this therapy with few complications. Approximately 2% of children, however, develop massive unilateral hydrothorax. This major complication usually results in the discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in all forms and the institution of hemodialysis. Occult diaphragmatic defects account for most adult and pediatric patients who develop this complication. Three pediatric patients receiving CAPD complicated by massive hydrothorax are described. All patients were successfully treated by thoracotomy and repair of the diaphragmatic eventration with an immediate return to CAPD. This is the first report of successful therapy of this kind in children. A review of the cause, diagnosis, and treatment of massive hydrothorax developing during CAPD therapy is presented. 
Gracilis muscle transposition for faecal incontinence. Transposition of the gracilis muscle for faecal incontinence was performed in 13 patients. Six gained satisfactory continence, four were improved, two did not benefit from the operation and one patient died from intercurrent disease before closure of a pre-existing colostomy. Anal manometry compared with a control group showed no alteration in resting and pressure at a median of 35 mmHg (range 5-63 mmHg), whereas maximum squeeze pressure increased from a median of 38 mmHg (range 5-79 mmHg) to 59 mmHg (range 10-143 mmHg) (P = 0.041) which was, however, significantly lower than 130 mmHg (range 81-236 mmHg) in the control group. All patients who benefited from the operation had an increase in maximum squeeze pressure. The ability to retain a viscous fluid in the rectum was measured in seven patients, four of whom had gained satisfactory continence and three of whom had improved continence. They were able to retain a median volume of 200 ml (range 50-225 ml) without leakage compared with 325 ml (range 250-400 ml) in the control group. These patients could retain the maximum amount of viscous fluid for 5-8 min, whereas all control subjects could do so for more than 15 min. It is concluded that, although gracilis transposition never results in normal continence, acceptable continence may be achieved in selected patients provided careful attention is paid to the technical details of the procedure and provided that systematic postoperative exercises are performed. 
The symptom sensitivity index: a valuable additional parameter in 24-hour esophageal pH recording. Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring is useful for the quantitative measurement of gastroesophageal reflux and for the demonstration of a temporal relationship between symptoms and reflux. The symptom index, a numerical score, was developed to quantify the association between symptoms and reflux. Because the symptom index primarily assesses the specificity of a patient's reflux symptoms, we propose to refer to this score as the symptom specificity index. Because of certain limitations of this score, we developed and evaluated a new score, the symptom sensitivity index, that quantifies the subject's sensitivity for reflux. Fifty-two consecutive patients, referred to our laboratory for ambulatory 24-h pH recording were studied. Beside the conventional reflux variables, both indexes were calculated. Although a statistically significant correlation between the indexes was found, discordance between the specificity and sensitivity indexes was seen in 17 patients (33%). Based on the findings in this study we advocate that the symptom sensitivity index should be used, in addition to the symptom specificity index, and incorporated in future pH studies to optimalize the interpretation of the results. 
Dysphagia and esophageal motor dysfunction in gastroesophageal reflux are corrected by fundoplication. Abnormalities in esophageal peristaltic function and acid clearance appear to be responsible for prolonged esophageal acid exposure, a major determinant of the reflux esophagitis and esophageal stricture. We evaluated esophageal motility by manometry in 50 healthy controls and in 35 symptomatic reflux patients before, within 6 months, and 1 year after Nissen fundoplication. Preoperative motility was analyzed in relation to the presence or absence of both nonobstructive dysphagia and erosive esophagitis. We found that (a) preoperative dysphagia was related more to peristaltic dysfunction than to esophagitis; (b) peristaltic wave amplitude and duration were significantly lower than control values in patients with reflux, without correlation to degree of esophagitis or lower esophageal sphincter hypotension; (c) dysphagia ceased in most patients after antireflux surgery at the same time that normal motility was restored independently of lower esophageal sphincter pressure increments. These results suggest that motility disturbances are an important cause of dysphagia in reflux disease, and that reflux is the cause of, rather than the consequence of, peristaltic dysfunction. 
Mallory-Weiss syndrome after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. We report hematemesis from Mallory-Weiss tears after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). A computer search of the English language literature disclosed only 3 similar cases, and we review them. This complication of CPR may occur more frequently than recognized and should be prevented by careful technique. 
Crack-related perforated gastropyloric ulcer. Cocaine is a potent topical vasoconstrictor that causes nasal mucosal and dermal ulceration. Use of the purified cocaine derivative "crack" has reached epidemic proportions in large cities. In 18 months we operated on 24 patients with perforated peptic ulcers. Five of the patients were young (27-38 years) male crack users without prior history of gastric symptoms who presented with a perforated gastric ulcer related to smoking crack. Three had had symptoms for only 1-5 days before admission. All five were afebrile, had a rigid abdomen, normal leukocyte count, and free intraabdominal air upon radiography. Five other age-matched, non-crack-using patients served as case controls. Their duration of symptoms was 1-24 months, they had elevated leukocyte counts on admission, and, in contrast to the crack users, four of these patients had duodenal perforations. The clinical presentation of the crack smokers and the unusual localization of the perforations imply different pathogenetic mechanisms than are commonly seen in perforated ulcer disease. With increasing abuse of crack, greater numbers of patients with this new complication may be expected to present to emergency services in urban areas. 
Immune competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients: I. Flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulation. Lymphocyte subpopulations of the regional lymph nodes in 20 colorectal cancer patients were measured by flow cytometry to analyze nodal lymphocytes phenotypically. Eleven patients with cholelithiasis were used as controls. Comparison of lymphocyte subpopulations between colorectal cancer and control groups revealed a significantly increased rate of Leu-12+ cells in the cancer patients. Furthermore, a significant increase of Leu-3a+ Leu-8- cells and a significant decrease of Leu-3a+ Leu-8+ cells were also found in the paracolic nodes of the cancer patients. However, Leu-2a+ Leu-15- cells were not different between the both groups. Meanwhile, in the cancer patients, the rates of Leu-4+, Leu-3a+, and Leu-3a+ Leu-8- cells were higher in the paracolic nodes compared with the intermediate nodes. Additional investigation of the correlation between clinicopathological features of the tumors and lymphocyte subpopulations, showed that Leu-12+ cells were related to the tumor size and Leu-2a+ 15- cells related to the histopathological type. The foregoing results indicate that the rates of both B and helper T cells, which may specifically participate in the antibody production, increase in the regional lymph nodes of colorectal cancer patients. 
Inter- and intraindividual variation in pressure-volume relations of the rectum in normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome. The relation between intrarectal volume and pressure during increasing rectal distension by a latex balloon were studied on repeated occasions in 10 healthy adult volunteers to define variations within and between individuals. A wide intersubject variation in the maximum tolerable volume (58-908 ml) and pressure (12.2-108.8 cm H2O) at this end point was seen, and these two values were correlated (r = 0.78). Intrasubject variation in maximum tolerable volume also occurred which was related to study order and progressively reduced with repeated study. In 26 unselected patients with pain predominant irritable bowel syndrome similar intersubject variation was noted and virtually all patients data fell within the calculated 95% confidence limits of the normal individuals. Differentiation between patients and normal subjects was not possible from knowledge of rectal responses. These noticeable inter- and intrasubject variations in rectal responses to distension need to be considered whenever similar techniques are proposed for use in the study of rectal disease or of rectal response to treatment. 
Parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells. Mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy. We have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide (PLP). Immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of PLP cytoplasmic immunopositivity. PLP immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells. The results of these studies suggest that PLP immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that PLP production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma. 
Small bowel phytobezoar mimicking presentation of Crohn's disease. A case of small bowel phytobezoar formed from unusual ingested vegetation is described. The patient presented with recurrent subacute obstruction and a right iliac fossa mass mimicking the presentation of Crohn's disease. None of the usual gastrointestinal disorders that predispose to bezoar formation were present. The phytobezoar passed spontaneously following small bowel enema and colonoscopy. It is possible that relaxation of the gut secondary to the antispasmodics administered at investigation or the physical disturbance during these procedures enabled migration through the ileocecal valve. Antispasmodics may be of use in the conservative management of bezoars obstructing otherwise normal bowel. 
Clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin (des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases. Des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (DCP), a protein induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist-II (PIVKA-II) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases. DCP levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay (E-1023), using an anti-DCP monoclonal antibody. Forty-two of the 91 patients (46.2%) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of DCP, whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase. An increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice. There was no correlation between plasma levels of DCP and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). In most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, plasma DCP levels normalized after curative surgical resection. Plasma DCP levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin K in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Plasma DCP determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Recurrence of Crohn's disease after resection. Recurrent Crohn's disease develops in most patients after surgical resection if the patient is followed for sufficient time. This review examines various aspects of recurrent Crohn's disease. It is concluded that Crohn's disease is a diffuse condition of the gastrointestinal tract and that radical resection of Crohn's disease does not prevent recurrence. Assorted factors thought to be associated with recurrence are examined and the relevance of these factors to the surgeon treating Crohn's disease is discussed. 
Delayed presentation of intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia, an unusual cause of colon obstruction. The earliest symptoms of diaphragmatic hernia may not appear until viscera incarcerate in it years after the causal injury. The most unusual site for a diaphragmatic hernia to occur is through the central tendon of the diaphragm into the pericardium. We present the case of a 43-year-old man who suffered a bowel obstruction when the transverse colon and omentum became incarcerated in the intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia. The defect presumably resulted from blunt chest and abdominal trauma received 15 years earlier. The delayed presentation of intrapericardial diaphragmatic hernia is reviewed, and recommendations for evaluation and treatment are made. 
Helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia: a prospective controlled study. Although some authors believe that Helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis, it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event. This study documents the prevalence of H. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age-, race-, and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects. All subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus. A sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies (immunoglobulin A and immunoglobulin G) to H. pylori. The prevalence of H. pylori (by biopsy) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls (11% vs. 71%, P less than 0.0001). All patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology (inflammation and/or atrophy). In addition, 50% of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum. All controls with H. pylori had gastritis, 50% having active chronic gastritis. Atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia (75% vs. 7%, P less than 0.0001). Serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia: all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results, whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies. In conclusion, patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with H. pylori, and H. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process. 
Primary cytomegalovirus infection and gastric ulcers in normal host. A 42-year-old woman presented with epigastric pain and vomiting. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed three gastric ulcers. Histologic examination of biopsies from the ulcers showed cytomegalovirus inclusion bodies. The appearance of IgM antibodies to cytomegalovirus indicated a recent and primary infection. Stored serum from her last pregnancy 17 months previously contained no cytomegalovirus antibodies. A thorough evaluation of her immune system revealed no abnormality. We are aware of only two other cases where seroconversion was documented in normal hosts. Cytomegalovirus infections in the gastrointestinal tract of normal hosts are very unusual but a common cause of morbidity in immunocompromised hosts. We believe that cytomegalovirus may have a role in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal lesions in nonimmunocompromised patients. 
Circadian esophageal motor function in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease. Effective esophageal peristalsis is a major determinant of esophageal clearance function and may contribute to the development of complications in gastroesophageal reflux disease. Using 24-hour ambulatory esophageal manometry, we compared the circadian esophageal motor activity of normal volunteers to that of patients with increased esophageal exposure to gastric juice and various grades of mucosal injury (no mucosal injury, esophagitis, stricture, or Barrett's esophagus). The prevalence of a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter, esophageal acid exposure time, and the frequency of nonperistaltic esophageal contractions during the supine, upright, and meal periods increased with increasing severity of mucosal injury. The median amplitude of esophageal contractions was compromised only in patients with a mechanically defective sphincter. This was particularly so in patients with stricture or Barrett's esophagus and was associated with an increased frequency of ineffective contractions (less than 30 mm Hg). These data show that esophageal motor function deteriorates with increasing severity of mucosal injury. This appears to be caused by persistent reflux of gastric juice across a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter. The need for surgical correction of a mechanically defective sphincter before the loss of esophageal body function is implicated. 
Endosonography of peri-anal and peri-colorectal fistula and/or abscess in Crohn's disease. Transcolorectal endosonography (ES) was performed in 36 patients with Crohn's disease suspected clinically to have a fistula or abscess. A hypoechoic or anechoic duct-like lesion immediately adjacent to the anorectal lumen compatible with a fistula was found in 32 patients. A communication between the fistulous tract and adjacent structures such as the skin, anal canal, or vagina was detected in all 32 patients. An anechoic cavity adjacent to or communicating with the fistula was visualized in 29 of the 36 patients. A fistula was visualized in the remaining seven patients with no evidence of an abscess. This anechoic cavity compatible with an abscess was surgically confirmed in 14 of 17 patients. We judged the extent and configuration of the abnormalities to be more clearly visualized by ES when results were compared with fistulography in five patients. There were no ES complications, and we conclude that ES is the preferred diagnostic procedure in patients with peri-rectal pathology because of the low risk of bacterial dissemination and low incidence of patient discomfort. Utilizing ES after non-surgical treatment was successful in 19 patients for documentation of the response to therapy. 
Association of autoimmune hepatitis with HLA-Bw54 and DR4 in Japanese patients. Human leukocyte antigen-D region-related alleles (human leukocyte antigen DR and DQ) and human leukocyte antigen class I alleles were typed serologically in 31 Japanese patients with autoimmune hepatitis. These patients had increased serum levels of AST and IgG, high titers of autoantibodies, no history of blood transfusion and were negative for HBsAg and antibodies to HBc. Three hundred eighty-six healthy subjects and 30 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis served as control groups. The frequency of DR4 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients (90.3%) than in healthy subjects (38.6%) and in cryptogenic chronic hepatitis patients (30%). The frequency of Bw54 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients (45.2%) than in healthy subjects (10.9%). The risk to DR4-positive subjects for autoimmune hepatitis was 14.8 relative to healthy subjects. Two of 31 patients (6.5%) with autoimmune hepatitis were positive for antibody to hepatitis C virus; both clearly satisfied criteria for autoimmune hepatitis and both had Bw54 and DR4. This study revealed a highly significant association of autoimmune hepatitis with human leukocyte antigen Bw54 and DR4 in Japanese patients. Among the DR4-positive patients with autoimmune hepatitis, no significant differences were seen between those positive or negative for Bw54 with regard to clinical or laboratory data, relapse of disease or efficacy of prednisolone. Thus human leukocyte antigen class II alleles contribute to susceptibility and resistance to autoimmune hepatitis in Japanese patients, with distinct racial differences from those in white patients. 
Recurrence of duodenal ulcer and elevated serum pepsinogen I levels in smokers and nonsmokers. We determined serum pepsinogen I (PG I) levels by radioimmunoassay in 472 patients with duodenal ulcer and 141 normal subjects to investigate whether serum PG I levels were related to cigarette smoking, and in 225 patients to determine whether the recurrence of duodenal ulcer was related to serum PG I levels or cigarette smoking. Serum PG I levels were not influenced by cigarette smoking in either patients with duodenal ulcer or normal subjects. The recurrence rate of duodenal ulcer not under maintenance therapy was significantly higher in hyperPG I patients than in normoPG I patients, regardless of their smoking habits. Only in hyperPG I patients was the recurrence rate in smokers higher than in nonsmokers. Patients under maintenance therapy showed similar results. Multilogistic regression indicated that hyperPG I had a greater effect than cigarette smoking on ulcer recurrence. These findings indicate that serum PG I levels are not influenced by smoking, and the important characteristic in patients with recurrent duodenal ulcers is the increased serum PG I levels. 
Monitoring enzyme replacement treatment in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency using the cholesteryl octanoate breath test. The cholesteryl-14C-octanoate breath test was used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity of pancreatin preparations in six patients with severe pancreatic insufficiency. Conventional enzyme replacement, with cimetidine as an adjunct, was compared to supplementation with enteric coated microspheres. In healthy control subjects, 14CO2 excretion rose rapidly and peaked at 90-120 minutes; mean (SD) cumulative recovery at four hours was 51 (8)%. In patients with pancreatic insufficiency on no treatment mean (SD) cumulative recovery was only 6 (4)%. After pancreatin, with previous administration of cimetidine, it increased to 27 (11)% with a time course resembling that in controls. With 2 mm enteric coated microspheres, 14CO2 excretion did not rise significantly before 120 minutes and cumulative recovery after four hours was 15 (11)%. In a control study, 2 mm radio-opaque microspheres did not empty from the stomach until two hours after ingestion. The results suggest that the cholesteryl octanoate breath test can be successfully used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity after treatment with different forms of enzyme replacement in pancreatic insufficiency. In contrast to treatment with conventional pancreatin and cimetidine as an adjunct, 2 mm enteric coated microspheres did not show in vivo enzymatic activity until two hours after administration. 
Small bile duct abnormalities in sarcoidosis. We report four patients with hepatic involvement of sarcoidosis manifested primarily by bile duct depletion. The patients developed fever, weight loss, anorexia, a markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase, and mildly abnormal serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed slight intrahepatic irregularities but were not diagnostic of sclerosing cholangitis. Liver biopsy showed predominantly bile duct depletion, ranging from an estimated 10-100% absence of bile ducts in portal areas, which correlated with the degree of fibrosis. The degree of bile duct depletion is useful as a histological marker in patients with sarcoid liver disease. Steroids improve symptoms, but do not inhibit the development of "ductopenia.". 
Liver pathology in morbidly obese patients with and without diabetes. The contribution of obesity and/or diabetes to liver pathology in the morbidly obese patient is controversial. We studied the liver biopsies of 100 consecutive patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity. Multiple morphologic parameters were analyzed and graded independently, without knowledge of the clinical history, liver function tests, and oral glucose tolerance results of the patients. Six percent of the entire group demonstrated no fat, 42% mild fat, 20% moderate fat, and 24% severe fatty metamorphosis of the liver. Twenty-three percent of the patients had central vein fibrosis, 23% sinusoidal fibrosis, 19% bridging fibrosis, and 4% cirrhosis. Thirty-six percent of the patients had some degree of steatohepatitis, 66% possessed so-called glycogen nuclei of hepatocytes, 6% had PAS-positive thickening of blood vessels in the portal tracts, and 1% had lipogranulomas. The degree of fatty metamorphosis and fibrosis was analyzed in three separate groups, categorized by the glycemic status of the patient: 46 patients with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), 23 patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and 31 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Increasing severity of fatty metamorphosis from the normoglycemic obese to the diabetic obese patients was found, which was statistically significant by chi 2 analysis. Four of the six patients showing no fatty metamorphosis were normoglycemic. Glycogen nuclei and PAS-positive blood vessels were significantly more prevalent in the diabetic obese than in the normal obese. In conclusion, the distribution of significant liver histopathology in the morbidly obese patient correlates in severity with the degree of impaired glycemic status. 
Incidence and prevalence of ulcerative colitis in the upper Galilee, Northern Israel, 1967-1986. An epidemiological study of ulcerative colitis was performed in the Upper Galilee, Israel, over a 20-yr period (1967-1986). The average annual incidence of ulcerative colitis was 2.23 per 100,000 population, and the prevalence on December 31, 1986, was 44.58 per 100,000. Considering the fact that strict steps were taken to include only definite cases, these figures are probably an underestimation. An increase of the average annual incidence from 0.88 in the period 1967-1976 to 3.79 in 1977-1986 was found. When the data were stratified according to ethnic groups, the highest average annual incidence and the highest point prevalence was found in Israeli-born Jews (6.9 and 138.2 per 100,000 population, respectively). When Jewish residence patterns were compared, the highest average annual incidence and point prevalence were found among Kibbutz members (5.52 and 110.39, respectively), and the lowest (1.94 and 38.76) among Moshav inhabitants. There were 10 Arab patients with an average annual incidence of 0.96 and a point prevalence of 19.27. There were 25 women and 28 men (female:male ratio of 0.89). Among the Jews, the female:male ratio was 1.04. Peak incidence was found in the 25- to 34-yr-old range. No second peak was noticed. Anemia was demonstrated in 66.6% of the women and 27.5% of the men in our study. We suggest that the increase in UC incidence and prevalence in Israeli and Asia/africa-born Jew and in Arabs in the Upper Galilee points toward environmental factors in the etiology of this disease. 
The Munich Gallbladder Lithotripsy Study. Results of the first 5 years with 711 patients. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term results of three types of shock wave treatment in patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones. DESIGN: Cohort study. SETTING: Single-center trial. PATIENTS: Of 5824 patients with gallstones, 19% were eligible; 711 patients were treated. INTERVENTIONS: Patients received extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy as well as adjuvant therapy with bile acids. RESULTS: Lithotripsy was done in three ways, using a water-tank lithotriptor (group A), a water-cushion lithotriptor at low energy levels (group B), and a water-cushion lithotriptor at high energy levels (group C). The rate of complete fragment clearance 9 to 12 months after lithotripsy was done differed significantly among the three groups: Among patients with single stones of 20 mm or less in diameter, the rate of fragment clearance for group A was 76%; for group B, it was 60%; and for group C, it was 83% (P = 0.03). Among patients with single stones of 21 to 30 mm, the rate of fragment clearance for group A was 63%; for group B, it was 32%; and for group C, it was 58% (P less than 0.005). Among patients with two or three stones, the rate of fragment clearance for group A was 38%; for group B, it was 16%; and for group C, it was 46% (P = 0.01). Patients with fragments of 3 mm or less 24 hours after lithotripsy was done showed a higher probability of fragment disappearance than did those with larger fragments (P less than 0.001). The clearance rate was higher in patients who were compliant than in those who were noncompliant with bile acid therapy (P less than 0.001). Adverse effects included liver hematoma in 1 patients, biliary pain attacks in 253 patients (36%), mild biliary pancreatitis in 13 patients (2%), and cholestasis in 7 patients (1%). Elective cholecystectomy was done in 16 patients (2%), and endoscopic sphincterotomy was done in 4 patients (1%). CONCLUSIONS: The rate of complete disappearance of stones after shock wave therapy depends on the size and the number of the initial stones, the diameter of the largest fragment, and the mode of shock wave treatment. Adjuvant therapy with bile acids appears to be important for complete fragment clearance. 
Albumin absorption and protein secretion by the gallbladder in man and in the pig. To study albumin absorption by the gallbladder in man, an in vitro model was first established in the pig and compared with in vivo function in the same species. Water and electrolyte transport and 125I-albumin absorption and protein secretion in vivo and in vitro were compared. Then similar in vitro studies were performed on human gallbladders obtained at surgery. The in vivo study in the pig was performed without disturbing the gallbladder except to tie a cannula in the cystic duct end. The in vitro model was identical in the pig and human gallbladders. Gallbladders were excised using a technique causing minimal injury and anoxia. They were oxygenated on both mucosal and serosal surfaces in a temperature-controlled environment. Luminal and external bath test solutions consisted of modified Ringers bicarbonate with added glucose; luminal solutions also contained 125I-albumin from different species, depending on the study. Active absorption of sodium and water occurred in both types of studies in the pig but in vivo absorption rates were considerably greater than in vitro rates. Albumin absorption in vivo was substantial; although present in vitro, the absorption of albumin was diminished relatively more than electrolyte transport rates. Protein secretion rates into the gallbladder were similar in vitro and in vivo. The results of studies in the human gallbladders in vitro were similar to the pig, except albumin absorption was greater. Some human gallbladders were obtained from control patients and some from patients with cholesterol gallstones. There were no significant differences between the two groups for any of the variables studied; however, the numbers were small and some control gallbladders were not normal gallbladders. 
Regulation of insulin-like growth factor II gene expression by hepatitis B virus in hepatocellular carcinoma. In this study we investigated the regulation of insulin-like growth factor II gene expression to explain a role for this growth factor in concert with hepatitis B virus involvement in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis. Sections of normal liver and tumor and non-tumor-bearing liver disease tissue were hybridized in situ with [35S]-labeled insulin-like growth factor II oligonucleotide probe. Parallel sections were tested for presence of insulin-like growth factor II polypeptide using immunohistochemistry. To investigate a possible role for hepatitis B virus in insulin-like growth factor II gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma, results were analyzed against patient seropositivity for hepatitis B virus. Levels of insulin-like growth factor II transcripts in normal liver (n = 4) sections and in those from non-tumor-bearing individuals (n = 10) were so low that specific signal was not detectable above homogeneous tissue background. In contrast, 4 of 8 (50%) of the sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhosis or noncirrhotic chronic liver disease with hepatitis B virus involvement showed increased expression of insulin-like growth factor II messenger RNA transcripts. Up-regulation was observed in cell foci in the hepatocellular regions of the surrounding cirrhotic lobular cells and the fibrous septa. Numerous cell foci were observed in patch distribution in the tumor areas. The level of insulin-like growth factor II messenger RNA transcripts in sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhotic and noncirrhotic tissues obtained from patients seronegative for hepatitis B virus was similar to that of normal liver. 
Small intestinal transit in the portal hypertensive rat. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of portal hypertension on gastrointestinal transit. Portal hypertension was induced in a group of 15 rats by the staged portal vein ligation technique. A control group of 15 rats underwent a sham operation. Ten days later, a 51Cr-labeled Krebs' buffer solution was instilled into the duodenum and the distribution or radioactivity along the length of the small intestine was determined after 15, 30, and 60 minutes. Portal hypertension was consistently established in the study group; splenic pulp pressure (mm Hg, mean +/- SD, portal hypertensive vs. control) was 20.0 +/- 3.9 vs. 12.7 +/- 3.9, P less than 0.002. Various measures of intestinal transit revealed delayed transit in the portal hypertensive group. Retention of radioactivity in the most proximal quartile of the intestine was greater [percentage retained (portal hypertensive vs. control) was 57.9 +/- 17.3 vs. 31.2 +/- 15.3, P less than 0.02, 49.1 +/- 15.5 vs. 28.3 +/- 4.8, P = 0.03, and 42.4 +/- 17.6 vs. 29.0 +/- 8.8, P = 0.08, at 15, 30, and 60 minutes, respectively] and the geometric mean of transit was located more proximally (P less than 0.02) at each study interval in the portal hypertension group. It was concluded that portal hypertension is associated with delayed intestinal transit. This abnormality could predispose to bacterial overgrowth and contribute to altered digestion and absorption. 
A case of severe pancytopenia caused by ibuprofen. We here present the case of a patient with severe neutropenia, haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia associated with long-term use of ibuprofen. The blood parameters rapidly normalized when the drug was discontinued, and no further treatment, except for a short course of antibiotics, was required. 
Prognosis of Wilsonian chronic active hepatitis. Twenty of 320 patients with Wilson's disease initially presented with chemical and laboratory features of chronic active hepatitis, confirmed histologically in 17. When first seen, cirrhosis was present in all 20 and was complicated by ascites and/or jaundice in 11. Within 1 week to 8 years of the onset of over liver disease the diagnosis of Wilson's disease was established, and treatment with D-penicillamine was promptly initiated in 19 patients. One man refused treatment and died 4 months later. Treated patients received D-penicillamine or trientine for a total of 264 patient-years (median, 14 patient-years). Abnormal water retention, for which salt restriction and diuretics were added to penicillamine or trientine, disappeared in all but 1 of the patients so affected. Symptomatic improvement and virtually normal levels of serum albumin, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase followed within 1 year in the majority of subjects. One woman died after 9 months of treatment. Two patients, who became noncompliant with the therapeutic regimen after 9 and 17 years of successful pharmacological treatment, required liver transplants. These results indicate that the prognosis of specifically treated Wilsonian chronic active hepatitis is very good in spite of the presence of cirrhosis. 
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Award lecture. Pathobiology of the intestinal epithelial barrier. The major route of passive permeation across intestinal epithelia is paracellular. The intercellular tight junction lies in and serves as the rate-limiting barrier in this paracellular pathway. Once viewed as static, it is now clear that the structure and permeability of the tight junction is highly dynamic. Not only may inflammatory events (cytokines, neutrophil transmigration) reversibly effect the tight junction but this key barrier also is regulated by physiologic events such as activation of absorptive cell Na(+)-nutrient cotransporters. Such physiologic regulation of the junction is of major importance to the absorption of nutrients via parcellular solvent drag. 
Use of the pudendo-anal reflex in the treatment of neurogenic faecal incontinence. An electrical stimulator has been devised to treat neurogenic faecal incontinence caused by pudendal nerve neuropathy and works on the basis of repeated stimulation of the pudendo-anal reflex arc. Although conduction in the pudendo-anal reflex arc may be prolonged, and is so in neurogenic faecal incontinence, it must be shown to be present before the method can be used. This stimulation results in an immediate rise in the pressure in the anal canal and a significant increase in the electromyographic activity of the external anal sphincter. Maintenance of the stimulus over a two month period raised the mean resting pressure significantly in the anal canal and increased the reflex and voluntary responses of the external anal sphincter to coughing and squeezing actions respectively. The length of the sphincter was not affected. There was widening of the mean motor unit potential duration, though this was not significant. The resting electromyogram was enhanced after the course of treatment, indicating greater spontaneous activity in the external sphincter. The changes led to seven of the eight patients studied becoming continent at the end of the treatment. 
Retained intrahepatic stones: treatment with piezoelectric lithotripsy combined with stone extraction. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was performed in 11 patients with oriental cholangiohepatitis and intrahepatic stones associated with segmented strictures of intrahepatic ducts. All patients had previously undergone biliary surgery and basket extraction via a T-tube tract at the time of lithotripsy. The indication for ESWL was failure of, or anticipated difficulty with, basket extraction of the stones via a T-tube tract. A piezoelectric lithotriptor was used in all procedures. The average total number of shock waves administered was 29,756 (range, 10,000-61,395). The average number of treatment sessions was 3.1 (range, 1-6); the number of shock waves used in a single session ranged from 10,000 to 15,000 with a frequency of five shots per second and 30%-50% power. In six patients, the stones were successfully fragmented and completely removed; in three of the others of the stones were fragmented and removed. The overall success rate, including complete (54%) and incomplete (27%) success, was 82%. Difficulty in targeting stones, and severe strictures and deformities of intrahepatic ducts, were the factors responsible for failure. No significant complications were observed. 
Intraoperative fine needle aspiration cytology of pancreatic lesions. The aim of the present study was to demonstrate the practicality of intraoperative fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology of pancreatic lesions in 43 patients. The indication for performing this procedure was to determine the nature of pancreatic masses. Conclusive cytologic diagnoses were reached in 41 patients who represent the present study. On the basis of histologic findings in 30 cases (73.2%) and on clinical findings in 11 cases (26.8%), a final diagnosis of malignant pancreatic disease (MPD) was established in 31 and of benign pancreatic disease (BPD) in 10 patients. Among the 31 cases with MPD, the cytologic diagnosis was correct in 30 patients and falsely negative in one patient. Among 10 patients with BPD, all the cytologic finding were reported as benign. The sensitivity and specificity and positive and negative predictive values for cytologic findings were 96.8%, 100%, 100%, and 90.9%, respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of FNA cytology was 97.6%. No complications followed the procedure. We conclude that intraoperative FNA cytology of pancreatic lesions is a simple, safe, highly sensitive, and specific tool in differentiating benign from malignant pancreatic lesions. This procedure should be carried out in any patient with pancreatic mass incidentally found at laparotomy or in a patient undergoing surgery because of suspected nonmetastasizing MPD in whom repeated imaging guided FNA failed to demonstrate malignancy. 
Pancreatic response to percutaneous biliary drainage: a prospective study. To evaluate the effects of percutaneous biliary drainage (PBD) on the pancreas, serum amylase levels were measured for 7 consecutive days after PBD and compared with baseline values in 50 patients who underwent a total of 53 PBD procedures. Of the 45 patients with normal baseline serum amylase levels, 12 patients (24%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia without clinical symptoms and five patients (10%) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia with clinical signs of pancreatitis. Five patients who presented with elevated baseline serum amylase levels demonstrated decreases into the normal range after placement of stents without initiation of bowel rest or liquid diet. The level of biliary obstruction proved insignificant, as did the nature of the obstructing disease, in determining which patients would experience hyperamylasemia or pancreatitis after PBD. It is concluded that the frequency of pancreatic insult from PBD may be more common than previously reported and that patient susceptibility is not dependent on the level of biliary obstruction or the nature of the disease. 
Crohn's disease and pregnancy. Seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of Crohn's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of Crohn's disease. Overall, 21 pregnancies (27 percent) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions (9), infants small for gestational age (6), premature infants (5), and infants who developed respiratory distress (1). Eight (50 percent) patients with active disease compared with 13 (21 percent) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes (P less than 0.05). During pregnancy 15 (55 percent) with active disease and 6 (12 percent) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome (P less than 0.001). Neither medical nor surgical treatment, independent of disease activity, appeared to affect the outcome adversely. Eighteen of 73 (25 percent) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed, and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved (44 percent). Of 34 patients on medication, nine relapsed (27 percent), and of 39 patients not on medication, nine relapsed (24 percent) (P = N.S.). These results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by Crohn's disease. However, patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery. Neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease. 
Which clinical variables predict an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result? OBJECTIVE: To determine the relations among patient history, symptoms, objective indicators, and abnormal double-contrast barium enema results in outpatients. PATIENTS AND SETTING: Seven hundred and ninety-four patients receiving care in a large multispecialty medical group. DESIGN: Physicians completed a form before ordering a double-contrast barium enema, listing information about patient history, symptoms, and objective findings, including the results of a complete blood count, stool hemoccult, and sigmoidoscopy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Outcome measures were colon cancer and any abnormal finding. The results of 18.6% of the barium enemas were abnormal. The most frequent positive findings were of polyps (8.8%) and colon cancer (2.9%). Over 50% of the barium enemas were ordered solely on the basis of symptoms, yet there was no statistical correlation between symptoms and colon cancer or any positive finding. Using logistic regression, four variables were shown to be significant predictors of colon cancer (P less than 0.05): abnormal sigmoidoscopy, iron deficiency anemia, positive stool hemoccult results, and relevant history. The respective odds ratios of these variables were 3.76 (95% CI, 2.89 to 4.90); 2.86 (CI, 2.13 to 3.74); 1.87 (CI, 1.46 to 2.39); and 1.91 (CI, 1.44 to 2.52), respectively. In a patient without any of these indicators, the predicted probability of having colon cancer was only 0.7%. In a patient with at least two objective indicators, the probability of having colon cancer was greater than 15%. CONCLUSIONS: Symptoms without objective indicators or pertinent risk factors do not correlate with an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result. Objective indicators are useful predictors of an abnormal barium enema result, particularly when looking for colon cancer. 
A coproporphyria-like syndrome induced by glipizide. A 49-year-old man with a 1-month history of episodic, severe abdominal pain sought medical attention. The patient's history was remarkable for type II diabetes, for which glipizide therapy had been initiated 2 months earlier. No other medications were being taken at the time the paroxysms of pain began. During the episodes of pain, both examination of the abdomen and abdominal roentgenograms revealed normal findings. Initial assessment, including ultrasonography and computed tomographic scanning of the abdomen, upper gastrointestinal and colon roentgenograms, and esophagogastroduodenoscopy, revealed no cause of the pain. Empiric trials of famotidine, sucralfate, and antacids failed to relieve the pain. Both urine and fecal specimens collected after an attack demonstrated substantially increased coproporphyrins. The glipizide regimen was discontinued; 2 months later, the stool coproporphyrins had decreased to normal levels. At follow-up more than 1 year later, the patient had had no recurrence of abdominal pain. Although other orally administered hypoglycemic agents and other sulfa compounds have been reported to precipitate acute attacks of porphyria, to our knowledge this is the first such case associated with glipizide. We suggest that glipizide be added to the list of medications to be avoided in patients with porphyria. 
Delayed pharyngoesophageal perforation: a complication of anterior spine surgery. Stabilization of the cervical spine is often accomplished via an anterior cervical approach. Bone grafts and/or plates and screws are used to achieve stabilization. Injuries to the pharynx and esophagus are known complications in anterior exposure of the cervical spine. These injuries are manifest in the early postoperative period. Reports of late perforations are very rare. We present four cases of delayed injury to the pharynx and esophagus that resulted in abscess or fistula. We postulate that graft displacement with resulting erosion was responsible for these serious complications. Postoperative odynophagia in patients who undergo anterior cervical fusion warrants evaluation of the bone graft location. Early surgical intervention and repair may decrease prolonged morbidity in these patients. 
Treatment of severe colitis in Behcet's syndrome with thalidomide (CG-217). A 35-year-old male patient, known in our department since 1979 on account of a severe and complete Behcet's syndrome, was treated with thalidomide (CG-217) as a final pharmacological measure to avoid colectomy during a severe attack of Behcet colitis. Prior to the administration of thalidomide, the patient had been treated for 7 weeks with full parenteral nutrition and high doses of steroids intravenously without a satisfactory effect on the colitis. Treatment with sulphasalazin was unsuccessful because of a decreasing number of platelets on this drug. After a few days on thalidomide, 300 mg given once daily at bedtime, the patient's stools were normalized and without reaction for blood, his oral ulcers and pleural effusion disappeared, and his steroid doses could be reduced. Gradually he was put on oral nutrition again, and his rectal mucosa became normalized. The dose of thalidomide was reduced to 200 mg, and then to 100 mg daily when the patient was discharged from hospital, less than 3 weeks after institution of the drug treatment. After 5 months as an out-patient his condition is still satisfactory and without symptoms of his former disease. Thalidomide has previously been reported to be of value in treatment of Behcet's syndrome, but to my knowledge never with such a dramatic effect on a severe colitis as reported in this case. 
Impaired pressor reactivity in cirrhosis: evidence for a peripheral vascular defect. The blood pressure responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine and angiotensin II, sympathetic and nonsympathetic vasoconstricting agents, respectively, were measured in 20 patients with cirrhosis (10 Child-Pugh grade A and 10 Child-Pugh grades B or C) and in 20 healthy subjects. The log PD20 (dose of agonist required to raise blood pressure by 20 mm Hg) for norepinephrine was 4.78 +/- 0.36 (mean +/- S.D.) in patients with severe cirrhosis and 4.36 +/- 0.37 in controls, p less than 0.01. Log PD20 for angiotensin II was 3.16 +/- 1.06 in patients with severe cirrhosis and 1.97 +/- 0.74 in controls, p less than 0.01. Cardiovascular responses to selective sympathetic agonists were measured in 10 other cirrhotic patients (all Child-Pugh grades B or C) and in 10 healthy controls. Log PD20s for phenylephrine, an alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonist, and for alphamethylnorepinephrine; an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, were increased in cirrhosis (phenylephrine = 5.35 +/- 0.49 vs. 4.95 +/- 0.35, p less than 0.05; alphamethylnorepinephrine = 4.05 +/- 0.26 vs. 3.44 +/- 0.55, p less than 0.001). In contrast, log CD20 (dose of agonist required to raise the heart rate by 20 beats/min) for isoproterenol, a beta-adrenoceptor agonist, was similar in cirrhotic patients and controls (2.81 +/- 0.38 vs. 2.94 +/- 0.45, p = 0.49). These studies demonstrate that pressor reactivity to both sympathetic and nonsympathetic agonists is impaired in severe cirrhosis, that the impaired sympathetic responses are not caused by generalized sympathetic desensitization and that the site common to the four agonists with impaired responses is the peripheral vascular smooth muscle. 
Parathyroid hormone and cirrhosis of the liver. Fifty patients with liver cirrhosis (36 alcoholic, 1 drug-induced, 7 posthepatitic, and 6 cryptogenic) and normal renal function were investigated to determine whether PTH levels in serum, measured using the common midregion human PTH-(44-68) RIA, are elevated in such patients and whether this is related to impaired liver function rather than to the effect of secondary hyperparathyroidism. Their data were compared with those from 25 control subjects. The median PTH level of 462 +/- 18 ng/L (+/- SEM) was significantly increased (P less than 0.01) in cirrhotics compared with that of 236 +/- 13 ng/L in the control group. Significant correlations were found between PTH levels and parameters of liver function such as prothrombin time (r = -0.40; P less than 0.01), albumin as a percentage of total protein (r = -0.48; P less than 0.01), bilirubin (r = 0.35; P less than 0.05), albumin (r = -0.34; p less than 0.05), and cholesterol (r = -0.32; P less than 0.05), but not for antipyrine clearance, suggesting increasing PTH with decreasing liver function. The median calcium level (2.26 +/- 0.03 mmol/L), corrected for changes in albumin, was near the lower limit of the normal range (2.25-2.60), but corrected calcium and PTH were positively correlated (r = 0.33; P less than 0.05), indicating that the elevation is not reactive to calcium depletion. A negative correlation existed between PTH and 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol (r = -0.49; P less than 0.05), the main circulating metabolite of vitamin D. Normal values in an immunoradiometric assay that detects the whole sequence of human PTH-(1-84) suggest that fragments rather than the intact hormone are responsible for PTH elevations in cirrhosis. The positive correlation between midregion PTH and corrected calcium is probably an artifact of the correction formula. In conclusion, midregion PTH fragments are increased in patients with liver cirrhosis. The reason for this elevation may well be the impaired liver function rather than secondary hyperparathyroidism. 
Acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria. Enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage. Rarely, in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity, enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure. We report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea. One patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea. Both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition. The mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion. Enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction. 
Intrapartum uterine rupture and inflammatory bowel disease. The incidence of uterine rupture in pregnant women ranges from 0% to 1.1% in large series. This case report describes a woman with a history of obstetric complications, uterine rupture, and active inflammatory bowel disease that was treated with high-dose prednisone. 
Gallbladder perforation: correlation of cholescintigraphic and sonographic findings with the Niemeier classification. We retrospectively analyzed the cholescintigrams and sonograms of 36 consecutive patients with gallbladder perforation to (a) determine the sensitivity of each for the preoperative detection of gallbladder perforation and (b) correlate the findings with the modified Niemeier classification. Cholescintigraphic criteria of perforation (free spill, pericholecystic hepatic activity, and scintigraphic gallstone ileus sign) were detected in 14 of 28 (50%) cases, while sonographic criteria of perforation (pericholecystic fluid or pneumobilia with gallstones) were present in 18% (4 of 22) of patients (p less than 0.05). Cholescintigraphic patterns of perforation associated with the Niemeier classification were: Type I (acute free perforation), 3 of 7 scans demonstrated free spill; Type II (subacute pericholecystic abscess), 9 of 19 scans showed pericholecystic activity; and Type III (chronic cholecystoenteric fistula), 1 of 3 scans showed a scintigraphic gallstone ileus. Thus, although cholescintigraphy appears superior to sonography, both modalities are relatively insensitive for the detection of gallbladder perforation. 
Treatment of Wegener's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide PURPOSE: Concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide (CP) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity. This study sought to determine the efficacy, toxicity, and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids (GC) and intermittent high-dose intravenous CP ("pulse" CP) in the treatment of 14 patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG). PATIENTS AND METHODS: The diagnosis of active WG was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis, granulomatous inflammation, and tissue necrosis. GC treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive. Pulse CP treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months. If after 6 months remission had been attained and GC therapy had been discontinued, then pulse CP treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter. Treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center (National Institutes of Health). RESULTS: Thirteen of 14 patients (93%) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse CP therapy, and seven of 14 (50%) achieved remission within 4 months. However, treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients, so that a total of 79% either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy. Three of 14 (21%) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse CP protocol and one additional patient (who had a limited exacerbation of WG) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months (mean 17 months). CONCLUSIONS: The use of pulse CP and GC therapy in 14 patients with WG was associated with a high initial response rate. However, failure to respond initially to treatment, to sustain improvement, or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79% of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months. These observations indicate that this particular pulse CP protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy. 
Posterior colporrhaphy and perineorrhaphy: separate and distinct operations. Posterior vaginal repair is often poorly understood and ineffectively performed. The goals of reconstructive surgery emphasize relief of symptoms and restoration of normal anatomic relationships and of function. A useful method to preoperatively determine posterior vaginal wall weakness is outlined along with a surgical description of important steps in surgical reconstruction. 
Breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity. This study used a unique longitudinal survey of more than 3000 mother-infant pairs observed from pregnancy through infancy. The sample is representative of infants from the Cebu region of the Philippines. The sequencing of breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity events was carefully examined in a longitudinal analysis which allowed for the examination of age-specific effects of feeding patterns. Because the work controlled for a wide range of environmental causes of diarrhea, the results can be generalized to other populations with some confidence. The addition to the breast-milk diet of even water, teas, and other nonnutritive liquids doubled or tripled the likelihood of diarrhea. Supplementation of breast-feeding with additional nutritive foods or liquids further increased significantly the risk of diarrhea; most benefits of breast-feeding alone or in combination with nutritive foods/liquids became small during the second half of infancy. Benefits of breast-feeding were slightly greater in urban environments. 
Effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. Periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. In 19 months, a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases (179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage, younger than 70 years; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis, aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women). Of the 660 cases, 22 HCC cases (3.3%) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination. Four of those cases (18%) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter, and 11 cases (50%) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm. Surgical resection was performed on 12 cases (55%). In comparison with the control group (83 HCC cases not receiving any periodic checkup), the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher. This examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
A prospective randomized evaluation of chronic peritoneal catheters. Insertion site and intraperitoneal segment. The insertion site (midline or through the lateral rectus muscle) and type of chronic dialysis catheter (straight or spiral intraperitoneal segment) were evaluated in a prospective randomized trial. Dialysis catheter complications and catheter survival were the endpoints of evaluation. Eighty-five first catheters were evaluated. Neither race, gender, renal diagnosis, type of catheter, nor insertion site was a determinant of dialysis catheter survival. Overall median catheter survival was 308 days. There were 40 catheter complications (70%, n = 28) that occurred during the first 61 days following insertion. Median time to the first complication occurring within the first 61 days was 3 days. Late catheter removals were due to peritonitis episodes that failed to resolve. Complications are frequent with peritoneal dialysis catheters, and care of the peritoneal dialysis catheters requires constant vigilance. 
Early carcinoma of the gallbladder: macroscopic features and US findings. To facilitate early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, a comparative study of macroscopic forms and ultrasonographic (US) features of stage I (TNM staging system) gallbladder cancer was carried out retrospectively in 71 cases of such carcinomas that were resected surgically. Macroscopic forms of the lesions were classified into four types: pedunculated (eight cases), sessile (15 cases), superficial raised (25 cases), and flat (23 cases). Among 71 cases, only 20 were diagnosed preoperatively by means of US. US patterns of the lesions were also classified into four types: fungating mass, lumen filling, smooth raised, and thickening of mucosa. US features corresponded well to the macroscopic forms. No flat lesion was identified preoperatively. For early detection of carcinoma of the gallbladder, it seemed essential to pay careful attention to mild mucosal change, as more than 50% of early cancers did not show apparently protruding lesions. 
Laser recanalization versus endoscopic intubation in the palliation of malignant dysphagia. Forty patients with widely disseminated or locally advanced malignant obstruction of the middle or lower third of the oesophagus underwent endoscopic treatment by either NdYAG laser recanalization or intubation. Groups were matched on the basis of tumour location and swallowing was graded clinically before and after treatment. Technical success was achieved in 17 of 20 laser treated and 18 of 20 intubated patients. Pretreatment swallowing ability, histology, tumour location and overall length were unrelated to functional outcome in both groups. However, circumferential tumour length identified endoscopically strongly influenced the quality of swallowing after laser recanalization. Patients with excellent swallowing quality (n = 7) had significantly shorter circumferential tumour lengths, 3.1(1.0) cm, than those with poorer quality swallowing (n = 10), 6.3(1.6)cm, (P less than 0.001). Both methods of treatment had low complication rates and there was one death in the series in the laser-treated group. Laser recanalization provides a better functional result than intubation for short (less than 4 cm) circumferential tumour. Intubation at a single session seems more appropriate than repeated laser therapy when tumour length exceeds 4 cm. 
Stercoral perforation of the colon. Stercoral perforation of the colon is rare. The 64 reported cases are reviewed to define the syndrome of stercoral perforation, and to facilitate accurate diagnosis and treatment. Features of localized or generalized peritonitis were universal; however, only 11 per cent were correctly diagnosed before operation. Recognition that the disease involves a segment of colon rather than only the focal point of perforation is essential to adequate surgical treatment. It is postulated that this is the reason for the higher postoperative mortality following closure of the perforation and proximal colostomy (57 per cent) or exteriorization alone (43 per cent), compared with resection of the diseased segment and exteriorization (32 per cent). Resection and exteriorization is therefore the treatment of choice is most situations. 
Alpha 1-antitrypsin excretion in stool in normal subjects and in patients with gastrointestinal disorders. Fecal clearance of plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin is used as a measure of protein leakage into the intestinal tract. In this study, the alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration in stool and the plasma clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin in normal subjects and in a consecutive series of patients with chronic diarrhea, malabsorption, or unexplained hypoalbuminemia was determined. The normal subjects were studied in their usual state and also when they had diarrhea secondary to ingestion of lactulose, sorbitol, sodium sulfate, or phenolphthalein. The study first concluded that induced diarrhea can cause an increase in alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance; if this is not considered in establishing normal values, there may be an overdiagnosis of excess protein leakage in patients with diarrhea. Second, there is a highly significant statistical correlation (P less than 0.001) between alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and serum albumin concentration. On average, the serum albumin falls below 3.0 g/dL (30 g/L) when the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance exceeds 180 mL/day, a value that is about threefold higher than the upper limit of normal. Third, three of nine patients with microscopic/collagenous colitis had elevated clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin; by contrast, abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was not found in 23 patients with idiopathic secretory diarrhea. Fourth, fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration is not a reliable index of abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance. 
Intra-abdominal abscesses in Crohn's disease. We reviewed 22 patients who had intra-abdominal abscesses secondary to Crohn's disease. A total of 29 abscesses were discovered. These included superficial and deep intraperitoneal as well as pelvic and retroperitoneal abscesses. Diagnosis was aided by ultrasound and computer tomographic scanning. Barium studies continue to play an important role in delineating the extent of bowel involvement and fistulization. Treatment varied depending on the location and size of the abscess. The need for ultimate bowel resection was determined in the majority of cases by the presence of fistulization between the abscess cavity and the bowel. The terminal ileum or neoterminal ileum were almost always involved. 
Plasma fatty acid profile in advanced cirrhosis: unsaturation deficit of lipid fractions. Fatty acid (FA) profile of plasma total lipids, phospholipids (PL), cholesteryl esters (CE), and triglycerides (TG) were measured in 101 patients with advanced liver cirrhosis and in 44 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Plasma levels of lipidic phosphorus, esterified cholesterol, and TG also were measured, and the unsaturation index (UI) was calculated for each fraction. Total plasma concentrations of saturated FA, linoleate, and polyunsaturated FA (PUFA) were lower in cirrhotics than in controls. This profile was also found in plasma levels of PL- and CE-associated FA. No detectable amounts of C20:3n9 were found in cirrhotic patients. Percent FA distribution of lipid fractions showed a lower percentage of linoleate and PUFA and a higher relative amount of saturated and monoenoic FA in cirrhotics than in controls. As a consequence, the UI of PL and CE was diminished in liver cirrhosis. Linoleate and PUFA deficiency was more marked in CE than in PL, as shown by the number of patients with values below the 5th percentile of the control group, suggesting an attempt to maintain the unsaturation of PL as the most important component of cell membranes. Hepatic failure, poor essential FA intake, and malnutrition are some of the possible etiologic factors for PUFA deficiency in cirrhosis. Their relative contribution to plasma FA abnormalities, as well as the clinical and pathophysiological consequences of PUFA deficit in cirrhotic patients, requires further investigation. 
Oral contraception in disease states. Oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease, ischemic heart attack, or cerebral stroke. Patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation, because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding. Patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery. Migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications, depending on the individual situation. Long-term diseases, such as Crohn's disease, epilepsy, and sickle cell anemia, also require individualized consultation. 
Congenital biliary tract disease. Jaundice in the pediatric patient requires prompt and directed evaluation. This dictum is highlighted in infants with biliary atresia, in whom the progressive sclerosing process results in complete obliteration of patent but microscopic hilar biliary structures by 4 months of age. Kasai's operation, if done before that time, will re-establish bile drainage in 90% of infants. One fourth to one third of patients achieve long-term jaundice-free survival. Complications of cholangitis, portal hypertension, and fat malabsorption are experienced by many patients. In children with early or late operative failure, liver replacement now offers legitimate hope for extended survival. Choledochal cyst is a conglomerate of pancreaticobiliary anomalies consisting of a choledochal cyst, a common-channel-type pancreaticobiliary junction, intrahepatic cystic disease, and partial obstruction of the distal common bile duct. Many patients have one or more of these malformations. It is now widely accepted that the preferred treatment of choledochal cyst is total excision of the diseased biliary duct with reconstruction by Roux-en-Y choledochojejunostomy. "Internal" excision avoids injury to other structures in the hepatoduodenal ligament, particularly if pericystic inflammation is present. Congenital perforation of the common bile duct responds in most cases to simple peritoneal drainage of the perforation. Retention of the tube cholecystostomy is useful for subsequent cholangiographic follow-up. Tube cholecystostomy may also be useful for irrigation of the biliary tract in infants with inspissated bile syndrome. 
Catecholamine regulation of adipocyte lipolysis after surgery. The effect of surgical trauma on the regulation of lipolysis was studied in isolated fat cells obtained before and 24 hours after elective cholecystectomy in 12 patients who were not obese and who were healthy otherwise. Surgery was accompanied by a twofold increase of the basal rate of lipolysis and by a significant 50% elevation of the lipolytic effect of catecholamines. The actions of various agents that selectively stimulate lipolysis at different early or late steps in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate system beyond the adrenoreceptors were also increased about 50% after surgery (p less than 0.01). The properties of the beta-adrenoceptors were not altered by surgery, as assessed by radioligand binding and isoprenaline sensitivity. The antilipolytic properties of catecholamines (mediated by alpha 2-adrenoreceptors) were not influenced by cholecystectomy. Lipolysis was not altered in four subjects who had no surgery and who served as control subjects 24 hours after being given the same type of postoperative nutrition as patients who underwent cholecystectomy. We concluded that moderate surgical trauma is associated with increased lipolytic activity of fat cells. This is secondary to an enhanced ability of catecholamines to stimulate lipolysis because of a modification at the most distal steps in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate system, which may involve the protein kinase/hormone sensitive lipase complex. 
Expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules by mucosal mononuclear phagocytes in inflammatory bowel disease. Leukocyte adhesion molecules are important in cell-cell interactions of the immune system. Lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (cluster designation 11a) mediates interactions between T cells and mononuclear phagocytes through its ligand, the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (CD54), whereas complement receptors 3 (CD 11b) and 4 (CD11c) are involved in complement-mediated phagocytosis. Expression of CD11 molecules and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was studied in colonic biopsy specimens from 20 patients with inflammatory bowel disease and 10 normal controls. In normal colon, few mononuclear phagocytes expressed lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 at high densities. The major adhesion molecule was CD11c. Thus, the largest population of normal colonic mononuclear phagocytes was represented by quiescent, resident macrophages with likely phagocytic function. In inflammatory bowel disease, mononuclear phagocytes showed only a slight increase in CD11a expression and no significant change in expression of CD11b and CD11c. By contrast, the percentage of mononuclear phagocytes expressing intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was increased from 6.9% +/- 3.9% in controls to 69.2% +/- 12.8% in ulcerative colitis (P less than 0.001) and to 45.7% +/- 22.8% in Crohn's disease (P less than 0.01), showing a close relationship with histological activity. The increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in inflammatory bowel disease indicates a state of immunological activation induced by local release of inflammatory cytokines. Such induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on mononuclear phagocytes may be important in the maintenance of chronic inflammation by facilitating interactions with T cells and T-cell antigen recognition. 
Physicochemical determinants of in vitro shock-wave biliary lithotripsy. Human gallstones were studied by visual inspection, computerized tomographic imaging, and chemical analysis to assess physicochemical characteristics that may determine the outcome of in vitro shock-wave fragmentation. Eighty-five stones (mean diameter: 13.2 +/- 5 mm) were each collected from different patients. Fifty-five (65%) calculi were angular and 30 (35%) round or oval-shaped. Three easily obtained measures were derived from each stone's optimal computerized tomographic image including the mean stone density, a measure corresponding to the standard deviation of the mean stone density value which we termed the stone density distribution index and which may reflect the physicochemical heterogeneity of a given gallstone, as well as the density range. After the administration of 2500 shock waves using an electrohydraulic generator, fragmentation was noted in 68 calculi (80%) and was satisfactory in 27 (32%) (where the largest resulting fragment diameters were all less than or equal to 5 mm). Strong determinants of satisfactory fragmentation on multivariate analysis included a stone diameter of less than or equal to 15 mm, the presence of an angular stone shape, and a stone density distribution index of greater than or equal to 60 Hounsfield units. The other parameters did not independently determine satisfactory fragmentation. Prospective clinical trials are needed to assess whether these findings result in a better prediction of the success of extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy and a broadening of its indications. 
Microspectrophotometric DNA analysis in ulcerative colitis with special reference to its application in diagnosis of carcinoma and dysplasia. The deoxyribonucleic (DNA) content was measured by microspectrophotometry in 100 specimens from 60 patients with ulcerative colitis, including six patients in whom the colitis was associated with carcinoma. Some 23 of 30 (77%) specimens of dysplastic tissue showed aneuploidy or polyploidy, whereas 50 of 53 (94%) specimens of non-dysplastic tissue showed diploidy. The difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.001). Polyploidy was often observed in non-dysplastic mucosa from patients who had carcinoma or dysplasia. In the non-dysplastic patients all samples of inflamed tissue showed diploidy. Some 10% of samples without inflammation, however, also showed polyploidy. A good correlation was found between the frequency of polyploid cells and the grade of dysplasia. Microspectrophotometric measurement of DNA content proved useful in the assessment and diagnosis of dysplasia in ulcerative colitis and could be considered for screening high risk patients. 
Technical aspects of biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Radiologic imaging procedures play a major role in the evaluation of the potential patient for biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, both during the procedure and in follow-up evaluation. The treating physician must have a thorough knowledge of ultrasonography techniques. Lithotripsy requires continual monitoring and frequent reassessment to optimize targeting and fragmentation of the gallstones while maintaining patient comfort. 
Vascular and microvascular changes--key factors in the development of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. The present study examined the time sequence and histologic and ultrastructural features of the formation and evolution of experimental, acetic acid-induced gastric ulcerations in rats. One hundred percent acetic acid was applied to the gastric serosa of 140 fasted male Sprague-Dawley rats through a polyethylene tube for 30 s. Gastric mucosal changes were evaluated at 1, 5, 15, and 30 min, 1 and 3 h, and 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, and 11 days after acetic acid application by visual inspection, by quantitative and qualitative light microscopy, and by transmission electron microscopy. Following exposure to acetic acid, the earliest morphologic changes occurred at 1 min and consisted of dilatation of large submucosal veins and arteries and mucosal collecting venules. Five to 15 minutes after injury, thrombi developed in submucosal veins and collecting venules, leading to microvascular stasis and mucosal necrosis. By 3 h, necrotic masses started to detach. By 24-48 h, necrotic changes penetrated the submucosa. By 72 h, most ulcers underwent transition into a "chronic" stage characterized histologically by the presence of granulation tissue at the bottom, and the appearance of a transitional healing zone at the margins. By 5 days, an increased amount of granulation tissue was observed and the gastric glands in transitional zones at the ulcer margin displayed cystic dilatation. Based on this study, we conclude that a key feature of acetic acid-induced ulcer formation is the early vascular and microvascular injury, which precedes glandular cell necrosis. 
Mucosal injury and gamma-irradiation produce persistent gastric ulcers in the rabbit. Evaluation of antiulcer drug binding to experimental ulcer sites. A method producing persistent gastric ulcers in the rhesus monkey by combined mucosal injury and gamma-irradiation was modified and evaluated in the rabbit. gamma-Irradiation (800-1000 cGy) immediately after removal of 2-mm-diameter sections of antral mucosa resulted in ulcer craters 5-7 days later. Ulcer sites were characterized by loss of the mucosa, muscularis mucosa, and much of the submucosa. The exposed submucosa was coated with fibrin and necrotic debris infiltrated with heterophils, the rabbit equivalent of neutrophils. These ulcers strongly resemble human chronic gastric ulcers. Binding of Carafate (sucralfate; Marion Laboratories, Inc., Kansas City, MO) and Maalox (magnesia-alumina oral suspension; Wm. H. Rorer, Inc., Ft. Washington, PA) to ulcer and nearby nonulcer sites in the antrum was assessed 1 hour after drug dosing. Drug binding was determined by aluminum quantitation of stomach wall punch biopsies at necropsy. Both drugs significantly increased aluminum bound to the stomach wall compared with vehicle treatment. Significantly more antiulcer drug was bound to ulcer sites than to nearby nonulcer sites only after sucralfate administration. This model of persistent gastric ulcer should be useful to further study gastric ulcer pathogenesis and treatment. 
Dysphagia in patients with the post-polio syndrome BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Dysphagia may develop in some patients many years after an attack of acute paralytic poliomyelitis. To identify clinical or subclinical signs of oropharyngeal dysfunction, we examined 32 patients (mean age, 48.9 years) with the post-polio syndrome (defined by new weakness in the limbs). Of the 32 patients, 14 had symptoms of new swallowing difficulties, and 18 were asymptomatic in this respect; 12 had a history of bulbar involvement during acute poliomyelitis. Swallowing function was assessed objectively by ultrasonography, videofluoroscopy, and an oral motor index score for 10 components of oral function. RESULTS. All but 1 of the 32 patients, regardless of whether they had new symptoms or previous bulbar involvement, had some abnormality on detailed testing of oropharyngeal function; only 2 patients had any signs of aspiration. The mean oral motor index score (a quantitative measure of oral sensorimotor function) in the patients was higher than that in age-matched normal subjects (P less than 0.001). Videofluoroscopy showed abnormalities of varying severity, including unilateral bolus transport through the pharynx, pooling in the valleculae or pyriform sinuses, delayed pharyngeal constriction, and impaired tongue movements. On ultrasonography, the mean (+/- SD) duration of wet swallows was significantly longer in the symptomatic patients than in the asymptomatic patients (2.67 +/- 0.70 vs. 1.65 +/- 0.42 seconds). The four patients who were reexamined two years later had objective signs of worsening oropharyngeal function and corresponding new symptoms. CONCLUSIONS. In patients with the post-polio syndrome, the bulbar muscles often have clinical or subclinical signs of dysfunction. These abnormalities suggest that in bulbar neurons there is a slowly progressive deterioration similar to that in the muscles of the limbs. 
Why does somatostatin cause gallstones? Long-term administration of the somatostatin analogue, octreotide, is complicated by gallstone formation. Somatostatin is known to inhibit hepatic bile secretion and gallbladder emptying. However, the effect of octreotide on gallbladder bile composition remains unknown. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that octretide would alter hepatic bile composition and cause gallbladder stasis, thereby increasing gallbladder bile solute concentrations. Fourteen control prairie dogs received daily saline injections, whereas 10 animals received 1 micrograms of octreotide subcutaneously three times per day for 5 days. Cholecystectomy and common bile duct cannulation were then performed. Octreotide increased hepatic bile concentrations of bilirubin monoglucuronide (p less than 0.05), total bilirubin (p less than 0.05), and total protein (p less than 0.01). Rsa, an index of gallbladder stasis, was decreased (p less than 0.01) in the octreotide group. Gallbladder bile total calcium (p less than 0.05), bilirubin monoglucuronide (p less than 0.05), total bilirubin (p less than 0.01), total protein (p less than 0.05), and total lipids (p less than 0.05) were increased in the octreotide group. Animals receiving octreotide also had decreased hepatic (p less than 0.05) and gallbladder (p less than 0.001) bile pH. No differences in cholesterol saturation index were observed. These data suggest that in the prairie dog, octreotide (1) alters hepatic bile composition, (2) causes gallbladder stasis, and (3) increases gallbladder bile calcium, bilirubin, protein, lipid, and hydrogen ion concentrations. We conclude that octreotide causes alterations in gallbladder bile composition that increase the likelihood of cholesterol and calcium bilirubinate precipitation. 
Helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma. Serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks. This investigation examined the correlation between Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection, as reflected in immunoglobulin G serum antibodies, and the risk of gastric cancer. Serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks. The highest prevalence of HP infection, 93%, was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk, the residents of Pasto, Colombia. In the lower risk Colombian city of Cali, a 63% overall prevalence rate was found. Both children and adults were sampled in New Orleans, Louisiana, where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites. The prevalence of HP infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults, 70% versus 43%, P = 0.0001. A higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children, 49% versus 32%, P = 0.01; however, an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals, regardless of race, which serve different socioeconomic groups. A prevalence rate of 54% was found at Charity Hospital compared with 24% (P = 0.0001) at Children's Hospital. Our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions, known to influence gastric cancer risk, are also important determinants of HP infection. 
Treatment of pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis with rifampin. Pruritus can be a debilitating symptom in patients with chronic cholestasis. Based on previous reports of its efficacy, we evaluated the impact of rifampin on the pruritus associated with primary biliary cirrhosis. Fourteen patients were included in a randomized, crossover study. After a 15-day washout period, subjects were followed for three weeks. During the first and third week, patients received 600 mg of rifampin or placebo; no treatment was administered during the second week. Pruritus was subjectively scored on a scale from 0 to 100. With rifampin, pruritus disappeared in 11 patients and partially improved in three; with placebo, only two had a partial response (P less than 0.001). Six patients with a prior poor or no response to cholestyramine improved with rifampin. No changes in biochemical tests or side effects were observed during this period. We conclude that short-term administration of rifampin relieves pruritus in primary biliary cirrhosis. When administered over a period of eight months in an open study, the relief of pruritus was maintained, while one individual developed an allergic reaction. Rifampin appears to be a safe drug in the management of the pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Endoscopic sclerotherapy for control of bleeding varices in children. Thirty-three children with esophageal varices due to portal hypertension underwent injection sclerotherapy over a period of 6 yr. Thirty-one completed the sclerotherapy course, and the varices were eradicated in all. In nine, the procedure was performed as an emergency because of continued bleeding and, in each case, a gastric fundal varix was the source of the blood loss. Sclerotherapy successfully controlled the bleeding in four of these, whereas five required surgical underrunning of the fundal varix. After surgery, these five continued sclerotherapy until the esophageal varices were eradicated. Complications included transient pyrexia (39%), retrosternal discomfort (30%), esophageal ulceration (18%), and esophageal stricture (12%). Rebleeding before initial eradication of the varices occurred in 12 patients but, thereafter, was very uncommon and always small in amount. Esophageal varices recurred after initial eradication in 33% of cases but were easily sclerosed with further injections. This study demonstrates that sclerotherapy is effective in reducing bleeding frequency in children with portal hypertension, but emphasizes the need for regular follow-up endoscopy after initial eradication of esophageal varices. 
Rectal examination in general practice OBJECTIVE--To investigate factors influencing a general practitioner's decision to do a rectal examination in patients with anorectal or urinary symptoms. DESIGN--Postal questionnaire survey. SETTING--General practices in inner London and Devon. SUBJECTS--859 General practitioners, 609 (71%) of whom returned the questionnaire. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Number of rectal examinations done each month; the indication score, derived from answers to a question asking whether the respondent would do a rectal examination for various symptoms; and the confidence score, which indicated the respondent's confidence in the diagnosis made on rectal examination. RESULTS--279 General practitioners did five or fewer rectal examinations each month and 96 did more than 10 each month. Factors significantly associated with doing fewer rectal examinations were a small partnership and being a female general practitioner, and the expectation that the examination would be repeated. Lack of time in the surgery, and a waiting time of less than two weeks for an urgent outpatient appointment were also important. General practitioners were deterred from doing rectal examinations by reluctance of the patient (278), the expectation that the examination would be repeated (141), and lack of time (123) or a chaperone (39). Confidence in diagnosis was significantly associated with doing more rectal examinations, the perception of having been well taught to do a rectal examination at medical school, and being a male general practitioner. CONCLUSIONS--Factors other than clinical judgment influence the frequency of rectal examination in general practice. Rectal examination may become commoner with the trend towards larger group practices and if diagnostic confidence is increased and greater emphasis put on rectal examination in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching. 
Duodenal ulcer is associated with low dietary linoleic acid intake. It has been suggested that the falling incidence and virulence of duodenal ulcer is related to increased dietary polyunsaturated essential fatty acid intake. The adipose fatty acid profile, which closely reflects dietary intake, was measured in 35 men with chronic duodenal ulcer and 35 matched control men. The mean percentage of linoleic acid in adipose tissue was significantly lower in the ulcer group (10.0 (0.7) v 12.3 (0.7)%, p less than 0.01) and this difference was found in both smokers and non-smokers. This finding suggests that the diets of duodenal ulcer patients are deficient in linoleic acid and this could be of aetiological importance. 
Hepatic involvement in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection: discrepancies between AIDS patients and those with earlier stages of infection. The effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on type and severity of liver disease was studied in 61 HIV-positive patients who did not have AIDS and in 45 AIDS patients. Liver biopsies revealed viral hepatitis in 12 of 18 non-AIDS patients but in only 4 of 34 AIDS patients (P less than .0005, Fisher's exact test). Acute, non-A non-B, and chronic active hepatitis B were seen exclusively in the non-AIDS group; however, chronic persistent hepatitis B was seen in both groups. In 9 of 18 AIDS patients intra vitam liver histopathology established diagnoses of opportunistic infections or tumors. Tissue reaction to certain pathogens, such as hepatitis B virus, mycobacteria, and cryptococci, seems to be milder in AIDS patients than in others who are HIV positive or the expected reaction of the normal host. This is likely because of impaired cell-mediated immunity in patients with advanced HIV disease. 
Pain on common bile duct injection during ERCP: does it indicate sphincter of Oddi dysfunction? The reproduction of a patient's biliary-type pain upon initial injection of contrast material into the common bile duct during diagnostic ERCP is a dramatic experience for both patient and physician. The significance of this phenomenon is not clear, but it is touted by some to be a provocative test for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Sphincter of Oddi manometry was performed on 224 consecutive patients referred over a 2-year period for evaluation of post-cholecystectomy syndrome and suspected sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. All patients received only intravenous diazepam as premedication for ERCP. Delayed drainage time (greater than 45 min), bile duct dilation (greater than or equal to 12 mm), and a basal sphincter of Oddi pressure of greater than 40 mm Hg (mean +/- 3 SD) were considered elevated. We observed a reproduction of pain in 15 of 224 patients (6.7%) immediately following contrast injection. There was no correlation between pain on contrast injection and elevated basal sphincter of Oddi pressure, delayed common bile duct drainage, bile duct dilation, or abnormal liver enzymes. Therefore, we feel that reproduction of the patient's biliary-type pain associated with contrast injection of ERCP is not a provocative test for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. 
Glutathione S-transferase. Novel vaccine against Fasciola hepatica infection in sheep. The potential of GST as a vaccine candidate against liver fluke infection in ruminants was studied by vaccinating sheep (n = 9) with GST purified from adult worms of Fasciola hepatica and challenging with 500 F. hepatica metacercariae. The immunization induced a high antibody response to GST in contrast to the poor or undetectable response to this Ag observed in naturally infected sheep. Throughout the trial, the progress of the fluke infection was monitored by measuring RBC hemoglobin levels, the extent of liver damage and the fecal egg output in the sheep. This analysis indicated that a subpopulation (n = 4) of the GST vaccinated animals exhibited no anemia, reduced liver damage and a lower mean fecal egg count relative to the infected control group suggesting a lower fluke burden in these animals. Worm burdens in the livers of the GST vaccine group (107 +/- 22) were 57% lower than in the infected control group (250 +/- 25). The subpopulation of the GST vaccine group demonstrated a 78% reduction in mean worm burdens relative to the control group. These results show that GST of adult F. hepatica is a novel Ag that can significantly protect sheep against liver fluke infection. The results suggest that the immune response to GST is directed to the juvenile worm reducing the number of worms that can establish in the liver of the vaccinated animals. 
Experimental reduction of portal hypertension by mechanical increase of liver portal flow Studies on the isolated perfused rat liver demonstrated that an increase in portal pressure is associated with an increase in the portal blood flow in normal and in cirrhotic livers. In two pigs with portal hypertension mesenteric portal pressure was lowered by mechanically increasing the liver portal blood flow by means of a balloon pump around the portal vein. 
Diagnosis of pneumoperitoneum on supine abdominal radiographs. A blinded, retrospective study was performed to determine the value of supine abdominal radiographs in diagnosing pneumoperitoneum. Supine films from 44 cases of pneumoperitoneum were randomly interspersed among supine films from 87 control subjects without free air, and the films were reviewed for the presence or absence of various signs of pneumoperitoneum, including Rigler's sign (gas on both sides of the bowel wall), the falciform ligament sign (gas outlining the falciform ligament), the football sign (gas outlining the peritoneal cavity), the inverted-V sign (gas outlining the medial umbilical folds), and the right-upper-quadrant gas sign (localized gas in the right upper quadrant). One or more of these signs were present in 26 cases (59%) of pneumoperitoneum, including the right-upper-quadrant gas sign in 18 cases (41%), Rigler's sign in 14 cases (32%), and the falciform ligament and football signs in one case each (2%). Unfortunately, there were frequent errors in the interpretation of the right-upper-quadrant gas sign and Rigler's sign, with a total of 11 false-positive cases (13%). Further analysis of the true-positive right-upper-quadrant gas signs showed that these gas collections were always triangular or linear with an inferolateral to superomedial orientation and, if triangular, a concave superolateral border. In the true-positive Rigler's signs, the bowel wall thickness ranged from 1 to 8 mm, whereas the false positives all had a bowel wall thickness of 1 mm or less. Proper interpretation of the various signs of pneumoperitoneum on supine films should lead to more accurate diagnosis of this condition. 
Nonoperative management of small-bowel obstruction with endoscopic long intestinal tube placement. Intestinal obstruction remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in surgical patients. We reviewed the records of 77 patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction who were treated with endoscopically and fluoroscopically placed Leonard long intestinal tube decompression. Most patients (59%) had failed a trial of nasogastric tube or Miller-Abbott tube decompression. Overall, 29 per cent of patients were able to resolve their obstruction with Leonard tube decompression alone. Subdivision of patients on the basis of the etiology of their obstruction demonstrated a much higher rate of success for tube decompression in adhesive obstruction (37%) versus malignant obstruction (12%) or inflammatory obstruction (no successes). Patients with radiographic and clinical evidence of complete intestinal obstruction were significantly less likely to respond to long intestinal tube treatment (13%). The long intestinal tube was easily passed in all patients. There were no complications of the intubation procedure in our series, and the incidence of tube-related complications was four per cent. We conclude that an initial period of long intestinal tube decompression allows a significant percentage of patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction to be treated nonoperatively, particularly if a partial obstruction from postoperative adhesions is present. Patients who have failed a trial of nasogastric tube decompression and are poor operative risks should also be considered for long intestinal tube placement. 
Genital herpes simplex virus infections. There has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections. This has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections, particularly severe, first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior HSV-1 infection. Virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis, and use of viral cultures is encouraged. Type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of HSV in transmission of genital infections, the role of genital HSV in transmission of HIV, the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with HSV-2, and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of HSV-2 in 25% of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes. Unfortunately, commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to HSV-1 and HSV-2. Recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10% in heterosexual couples. Currently, promotion of "safe sex" is the only available approach for prevention of transmission. However, ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine. Acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes, but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated. Acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of HSV infections in persons with AIDS. Additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of ACV-resistant HSV infections in the immunocompromised host. 
Treatment of severe peptic esophageal stricture with Roux-en-Y partial gastrectomy, vagotomy, and endoscopic dilation. A follow-up study Eleven patients with dysphagia caused by severe esophageal stricture (length 2 to 10 cm) resulting from reflux esophagitis were treated with fibroendoscopic dilation (Eder-Puestow) and Roux-en-Y partial gastrectomy with vagotomy during 10 years (1979 to 1988). There was no operative mortality, but complications developed in three patients: One patient had a mediastinal abscess demanding thoracotomy as a result of esophageal perforation after dilatation; one had postoperative pneumonia; and one patient had ileus. After a mean follow-up of 4 years (range 1 to 10 years) esophagitis healed in all cases, as judged by endoscopy. Eight patients were asymptomatic, but three had slight transient dysphagia. Postoperatively one to eight dilations (average three to four) were needed to relieve dysphagia in the first postoperative year, but later the stricture healed in every case. Postoperative pH measurement was performed in six latest patients and showed complete absence of reflux in all cases. It is concluded that Roux-en-Y partial gastrectomy with vagotomy and endoscopic dilation is an effective, simple, and safe procedure in the management of severe peptic esophageal (acid or alkaline esophagitis) stricture. However, occasional postoperative dilations at the outpatient clinic are often needed in severe cases in the first postoperative year. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory gastropathy: from theory to practice. The success of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in managing joint inflammation and pain has come at the cost of impressive side effects, particularly in the gastrointestinal tract. This manuscript reviews the magnitude of the problem, the risk factors, and presentation of nonsteroidal gastropathy. It also presents some points in the prevention and management of the disorder. 
Divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis. The role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or Escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis. Intravenous administration of E. coli LPS or E. coli (live or dead) resulted in large transient increases in serum TNF alpha levels, peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30,000 units/ml. In contrast, the serum TNF alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less, peaking at 200-500 units/ml. Sterile peritonitis (essentially nonlethal) and bacterial peritonitis (greater than 60% lethal) elevated TNF alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge. Passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-TNF alpha IgG improved survival from 8% to 75% in rats administered LPS intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal E. coli peritonitis. Thus significant differences exist in the role TNF alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis. 
Reoperation for recurrent peptic ulcer disease. The patient with recurrent peptic ulcer evidences failure of an initial operation to control the ulcer diathesis. A trial of aggressive medical therapy is warranted in elective presentations and has a moderate chance of success. Failing this, we believe that reoperation should be tailored to the patient's physiologic status and previous operation (Table 5). Nevertheless, in most cases, we believe that the second operation should be the final operation and should consist of the procedure with the lowest recurrence rates. Therefore, we believe that the assurance of an adequate antrectomy and complete vagal section is the preferred procedure for most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer. 
Prospective randomized comparison of Brown-McHardy and microvasive balloon dilators in treatment of achalasia. We report the results of a randomized prospective study comparing a standard bougie rubber balloon dilator [Brown-McHardy (BMH)] and a newer polyethylene dilator passed over a guide wire [Microvasive Rigiflex (MVR)]. Twenty achalasia patients (15M, 5F, mean age 45.4 yr) considered candidates for either dilator were randomized. Symptom assessment, body weight, and upright radionuclide solid esophageal emptying study were measured before and 6 months after pneumatic dilatation. All dilatations were performed by one of three experienced gastroenterologists under fluoroscopic guidance. Overall success occurred with 10/10 BMH and 7/10 MVR. One patient not improved with MVR had myotomy; the other two were successfully treated by BMH. No complications occurred with either dilator. 
Lymphoma of the gastric stump: report of a case. We report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man. The patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and Billroth II reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer. The rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed, and the literature is reviewed. 
Incidence of parenchymal liver diseases in Denmark, 1981 to 1985: analysis of hospitalization registry data. The Danish Association for the Study of the Liver. The sex-specific and age-specific incidence rates of the major parenchymal liver diseases in a North European population were estimated using a computerized registry of all admissions to somatic hospitals in Denmark. The incidence was calculated by counting all incident cases of these diseases reported to the registry in the 5-yr period 1981 to 1985 and dividing the number of cases by the number of person-years at risk in this period. The incidence rates (per million person-years) were for men and women, respectively: infectious hepatitis, 109 and 71; toxic hepatitis, 19 and 22; chronic hepatitis, 27 and 29; alcoholic cirrhosis, 190 and 85; nonalcoholic nonbiliary cirrhosis, 110 and 82; primary biliary cirrhosis, 4 and 14. The pattern of the age-specific incidence rates was similar in men and women in infectious hepatitis, alcoholic cirrhosis, nonalcoholic nonbiliary cirrhosis and primary biliary cirrhosis. Toxic and chronic hepatitis had a higher incidence in women than in men only in older age groups. The incidence of idiopathic hemochromatosis, Wilson's disease, secondary biliary cirrhosis, portal vein thrombosis and Budd-Chiari's syndrome were less than four in both sexes. 
Pharmacokinetics of propofol infusions in patients with cirrhosis. We have compared the pharmacokinetics of propofol as an infusion in 10 control and 10 patients with cirrhosis. Anaesthesia was induced within 3-4 min during administration of an infusion of propofol 21 mg kg-1 h-1. After 5 min, the infusion was decreased in a stepwise manner to 12 mg kg-1 h-1 and subsequently 6 mg kg-1 h-1. The mean recovery time after discontinuation of the infusion was significantly longer in the cirrhotic group; however, when patients opened their eyes, blood concentrations of propofol were similar in both groups (1 micrograms ml-1). Pharmacokinetic analysis was performed from the beginning of infusion to 8 h after termination. Total body clearance was not reduced significantly in cirrhotic (1.56 (SD 0.48) litre min-1) compared with control (1.75 (0.32) litre min-1) patients. The volume of distribution at steady state was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in control patients (202 (82) litre vs 121 (49) litre). However, this difference did not change terminal elimination half-life. The pharmacokinetics of propofol given by infusion to maintain general anaesthesia were not affected markedly by moderate cirrhosis. 
Inguinal hernia complicating flexible sigmoidoscopy. Flexible sigmoidoscopy has become part of routine preoperative workup for patients over the age of fifty who present with an inguinal hernia. A recent experience with two patients with a left inguinal hernia allowing sigmoid colon to herniate into the scrotum bring awareness of the possibility for an increased risk of perforation of the sigmoid colon during flexible sigmoidoscopy, or possible iatrogenic incarceration of the hernia. These cases are presented so this clinical entity can be recognized and the complications prevented. 
Medical dissolution of gallstones. Clinical experience of d-limonene as a simple, safe, and effective solvent. Retained gallstones in the bile ducts account for 60-70% of all the cases of postcholecystectomy syndromes. A solvent d-limonene preparation was injected directly to the biliary system of 200 patients to dissolve or disintegrate the retained gallstones. The outcomes were: retained stones completely disappeared in 96 cases (48%); partial dissolution in 29 (14.5%); chelating agent was also used with partial dissolution in 16 (8%); ineffective in 59 (24.5%). To make this method more effective, several guidelines should be observed including an in vitro trial dissolution test. Cautious observation for possible side effects and frequent hepatic and pancreatic function tests during the treatment with this preparation also should be performed. 
Cirrhosis of the liver. A risk factor for development of cholelithiasis in males. An ultrasonographic study about the prevalence of cholelithiasis was performed in 410 cirrhotic patients and in 414 controls matched for age and sex. Gallstone disease was found more often in cirrhotic patients (31.9%) than in controls (20.7%) (P less than 0.001). The female-to-male ratio of gallstones prevalence in cirrhotic patients approached to 1:1. Gallstone disease in cirrhotic patients vs controls was significantly higher (30.2% vs 16.5%) (P less than 0.001) in males only. No difference was found, for gallstone disease prevalence in cirrhosis of different etiology. The prevalence of cholelithiasis increased from Child's A to Child's C with a significant trend (P less than 0.001); this difference was significant in males (12.3% vs 40.5%) (P less than 0.001) but not in females. This study shows that cirrhosis represents a risk factor for the development of cholelithiasis in males. We suggest that high levels of estrogens could play a role in these patients, by an impairment of gallbladder emptying similar to that observed in pregnant women. 
Stationary vs. mapping manometry in evaluating dysphagia. Two methods are used to assess esophageal motility. The mapping technique uses catheter withdrawal at 1 cm steps until the entire esophagus is evaluated. A simpler method is commonly used that involves keeping the catheter stationary for the entire evaluation. We compared these 2 techniques in 30 patients referred for the evaluation of dysphagia. Emphasis was placed on the distal 10 cm of the esophagus because this is the primary location of esophageal motility disorders. There was excellent correlation between techniques for mean distal amplitude (r = 0.945), mean distal duration (r = 0.942), and percentage of non-peristaltic contractions (r = 0.967). The overall manometry diagnosis was similar by both methods in 27 (90%) patients. Three patients had different manometry diagnoses resulting from use of the two techniques. However, the change in diagnosis was only clinically important in one patient in whom the mapping technique identified a segmental motility disorder that had been missed by the stationary technique. Stationary manometry had a 94% sensitivity and 93% specificity rate for identifying motility disorders compared to mapping manometry. We conclude that stationary manometry is a simple and accurate method for evaluating esophageal pressures and distal disorders. Only those patients with normal results of stationary studies may benefit by further mapping to identify rare segmental motility disorders. 
Effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia. Dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders. Aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates. Assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively. This prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients' caloric intake and body weight, decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia, or improve patients' feeding ability. Patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit. A time series design was utilized. The control group consisted of 15 patients (mean age = 46.1 years), managed according to the existing ward routine. Subsequently, nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program. Following this, the treated group of 16 patients, (mean age = 49.3 years) was assessed by the dysphagia team, using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder. An individualized treatment program was designed for each patient. The groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight, deviation from ideal energy intake, and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia. Statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age, number of days on the study, and Glasgow Coma Scale score; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group. No incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group. We speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups. 
Managing dysphagia. Special problems in patients with neurologic disease. Swallowing is a brief but intricate process. When this process is interrupted, as in patients with neurologic disorders, problems such as aspiration and risk of malnutrition can occur. The authors of this article discuss an individualized approach to evaluation and management of neurogenic oropharyngeal dysphagia. Three cases illustrate the diversity of causes, signs and symptoms, and clinical course. 
Intra-abdominal palpation of a nasogastric tube in the stomach does not assure appropriate placement. Improperly placed nasogastric (NG) tubes have been associated with considerable morbidity. The only reliable indicator of correct NG tube placement appears to be the aspiration of gastric contents. We have reported a case of major morbidity from an improperly placed NG tube that perforated the cervical esophagus, dissected the mediastinum, and terminated in the omental bursa. No gastric aspirate was obtained by suctioning of the tube, but correct placement was presumed based upon the surgeon's direct intraoperative palpation of the tip of the tube. Failure to aspirate gastric contents should alert the practitioner to the possibility of improper NG tube placement. 
Light microscopic diagnosis of human microsporidiosis and variable response to octreotide. Microsporida are protozoan parasites that have recently been identified as a cause of human disease in immunocompromised patients. Because of their small size, they have been recognized primarily by electron microscopy. This has limited the study of their prevalence, incidence, and association with large-volume diarrhea. The present report describes two cases of Enterocytozoon bieneusi infection of the small intestine in patients with intractable diarrhea in whom the diagnosis was made by light microscopy and confirmed by electron microscopy. Both patients were treated with octreotide, and one had a good response. 
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy: an initial report. Sixty consecutive patients underwent an elective attempt at laparoscopic cholecystectomy between March 15 and July 31, 1990 at the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. Fifty-two patients had successful completion of the laparoscopic cholecystectomy (87%). The reasons for conversion to open cholecystectomy were acute cholecystitis (four patients), inability to define the cystic duct-common duct junction (three patients), and one patient with an unexpected choledochal cyst variant. Forty patients (77%) were discharged on the first post-operative day, and the remaining 12 patients on the second post-operative day. Thirty-three patients (63%) required only oral pain medication, and 11 patients (21%) needed no pain medication post-operatively. Fifty-one patients (98%) had resumed normal activities by the seventh post-operative day. Cholecystectomy remains the treatment of choice for biliary colic. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy minimizes length of stay in the hospital, lessens post-operative pain, allows quicker return to normal activities, and has a superior cosmetic result. 
Reactivation of hepatitis B virus replication in patients receiving cytotoxic therapy. Report of a prospective study. One hundred Chinese patients who received induction cytotoxic therapy for malignant lymphoma were prospectively studied to determine the incidence, morbidity, mortality, and predisposing factors for reactivation of hepatitis B virus replication during cytotoxic therapy. In 18 (67%) hepatitis B surface antigen-positive and 10 (14%) hepatitis B surface antigen-negative patients, hepatitis developed during cytotoxic therapy (P less than 0.0001). Hepatitis could be attributed to exacerbation or reactivation of chronic hepatitis B in 13 (72%) hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients but in only 2 (20%) hepatitis B surface antigen-negative patients (P less than 0.0001). Sudden increase or reactivation of hepatitis B virus replication gave rise to icteric hepatitis, nonfatal hepatic failure, and death in 22.3%, 3.7%, and 3.7% of patients who were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen; in 2%, 2%, and 0% of those positive for hepatitis B antibodies; and in none of those who were seronegative. Among the hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients, male sex was the only factor that was associated with an increased risk of reactivation of hepatitis B virus replication. We recommend that hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients with malignancies receiving cytotoxic therapy be closely monitored. 
L-glutamine stimulates jejunal sodium and chloride absorption in pig rotavirus enteritis. Rotavirus enteritis is the leading cause of diarrhea in infants worldwide. A research priority of the World Health Organization is to develop oral rehydration solutions containing amino acids or other additives that will stimulate intestinal absorption more efficiently than the current glucose-based oral rehydration solutions. Glutamine is the principal metabolic fuel of the small bowel and a putative stimulator of mucosal repair. This report describes the transport response to mucosal L-glutamine following intestinal injury caused by porcine rotavirus. Peak symptoms and mucosal damage were observed 2-7 days after oral rotavirus inoculation. In vitro transport studies of the maximally injured region, the midjejunum (80% reduction in lactase), surprisingly, showed transport responses to L-glutamine (30 mmol/L) and L-alanine (30 mmol/L) that were similar qualitatively and quantitatively to those observed in control tissue. Subsequent application of mucosal D-glucose (30 mmol/L) caused additional stimulation of electrogenic Na+ transport, but the response to glucose was blunted (P less than 0.05) in the infected tissues. Glutamine and alanine enhanced Na+ absorption to a similar degree (2-2.5 muEq.cm-2.h-1), but glutamine stimulated equal amounts of electrogenic and electroneutral NaCl absorption, whereas alanine had no significant effect on net Cl- flux. Glutamine is a potentially useful substrate for investigation in oral rehydration solutions for infant diarrhea. 
In vivo assessment of shock-wave pressures. Implication for biliary lithotripsy. During extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, the pressure profile, which is generated by the lithotriptor, determines the risk of tissue damage. In the present study, the pressure distribution of a lithotriptor (Lithostar; Siemens A.G., Erlangen, Federal Republic of Germany) was investigated in 10 pigs, five of which had gallstones surgically implanted into the gallbladder. The in vivo values were compared with in vitro data. Measurements were carried out along the shock-wave transmission path at the focus within the gallbladder, the adjacent liver, the diaphragmatic surface of the right lung, and the shock-wave exit site from the skin. Interposition of ribs did not cause a significant decrease in focal positive pressure. However, a gallstone positioned in the focus caused a 30%-65% reduction in pressure, recorded immediately behind the stone. Pressures obtained in vivo were always 15%-25% lower than those measured in vitro. The spatial distributions of the positive pressure in vivo and in vitro were almost identical. There was a high correlation between the pressures in vitro and in vivo (r = 0.88; P less than or equal to 0.01). This justifies assessment of shock-wave energies generated during biliary lithotripsy by extrapolation of in vitro data. It is concluded that it is possible to characterize different lithotriptors by in vitro pressure profile measurements. 
Spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula: the "abdominal pain, hematuria, silent left kidney" syndrome. Spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula (ALRVF) is a rare occurrence; with this case, only 16 have been reported to date. Common features in patients with ALRVF include abdominal pain (81%), hematuria (100%), impaired renal function (85%), and nonvisualization of the left kidney (100%). Less common but also present in the majority of cases are a left sided bruit (73%), pulsatile abdominal mass (63%), and proteinuria (50%). Also important, 94% have a retroaortic left renal vein, unlike the six cases of traumatic ALRVF that have been reported. This magnifies the diagnostic value of contrast abdominal computed tomographic scanning, which demonstrates not only the anomalous location of the left renal vein but also the abdominal aortic aneurysm and poor enhancement of the left kidney. These findings rule out the possibility of the "nutcracker syndrome" (left renal vein compression between aorta and superior mesenteric artery). Although confirming the presence of a fistula by early caval opacification, aortography does not always distinguish ALRVF from the more common aortocaval fistula. This can be accomplished by Duplex scanning with deep probes and even preferably color coding of velocity signals. With such precise preoperative localization, surgical repair is relatively easy and safe. 
Benefit of ketotifen in patients with eosinophilic gastroenteritis. PURPOSE: Eosinophilic gastroenteritis (EG) is a rare condition of unknown etiology characterized by vomiting, diarrhea, protein-losing enteropathy, and eosinophilic infiltration of the gastrointestinal mucosa. The potential association of EG with allergy and related mast-cell release of mediators led us to evaluate the ability of an antihistamine drug to modify the course of the disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six patients with protracted gastrointestinal symptoms were diagnosed with EG because of histologic evidence of predominantly eosinophilic infiltrates in the gastrointestinal mucosa. Each patient was treated in an open trial for 12 months with ketotifen (Zaditen), an antihistamine of the H1 class that is known to stabilize mast cells. RESULTS: All six patients improved clinically; four also gained weight. Total serum IgE levels decreased after 4 to 6 months of therapy. Clearing of eosinophilic infiltrates was documented in the four patients who underwent follow-up mucosal biopsies. CONCLUSION: We conclude that ketotifen treatment represents a safe and effective alternative to traditional systemic corticosteroid therapy for treatment of EG. 
Stimulation of glucagon secretion by gastric inhibitory polypeptide in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and hyperglucagonemia. Porcine gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) was infused iv (120 micrograms in 60 min) in seven patients with biopsy-proven hepatic cirrhosis who had surgical porta-caval anastomoses and hyperglucagonemia in the postabsorptive state. The infusions resulted in elevation of blood levels of immunoreactive GIP into the upper range of those observed after ingestion of large mixed meals. This was accompanied by significant increments in immunoreactive glucagon (IRG) in the plasma. Similar infusions in two cirrhotic patients with surgical porta-caval anastomoses who had normal plasma IRG levels in the postabsorptive state had no effect on the plasma IRG level. Ingestion of triglyceride (60 g) in hyperglucagonemic cirrhotic patients with porta-caval anastomoses also resulted in elevation of plasma immunoreactive GIP, and this was again associated with significant elevation of the plasma IRG level. Chromatography studies showed that the increments in plasma IRG after the administration of GIP or triglyceride were largely accounted for by increases in pancreatic-type glucagon. There were no significant effects of administration of GIP or triglyceride on the blood levels of glucose or immunoreactive insulin. It is concluded that porcine GIP is glucagonotropic in patients with cirrhosis of the liver who show elevated levels of IRG in the plasma in the postabsorptive state. This effect is not due to diversion of portal blood to the systemic circulation and may be attributable to hypersensitivity of the alpha-cells to stimulation by GIP. 
The effect of ursodiol on the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy of gallstones. The Dornier National Biliary Lithotripsy Study BACKGROUND. In the treatment of gallstones with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, the bile acid ursodiol is administered to dissolve the gallstone fragments. We designed our study to determine the value of administering this agent. METHODS. At 10 centers, 600 symptomatic patients with three or fewer radiolucent gallstones 5 to 30 mm in diameter, as visualized by oral cholecystography, were randomly assigned to receive ursodiol or placebo for six months, starting one week before lithotripsy. RESULTS. The stones were fragmented in 97 percent of all patients, and the fragments were less than or equal to 5 mm in diameter in 46.8 percent. On the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis of all 600 patients, 21 percent receiving ursodiol and 9 percent receiving placebo (P less than 0.0001) had gallbladders that were free of stones after six months. Among those with completely radiolucent solitary stones less than 20 mm in diameter, 35 percent of the patients receiving ursodiol and 18 percent of those receiving placebo (P less than 0.001) were free of stones after six months. Biliary pain, usually mild, occurred in 73 percent of all patients but in only 13 percent of those who were free of stones after three and six months (P less than 0.01). There were few adverse events. Only diarrhea occurred with a significantly different frequency in the two groups: 32.6 percent were affected in the ursodiol group, as compared with 24.7 percent in the placebo group (P less than 0.04). Severe biliary pain occurred in 1.5 percent of all patients, acute cholecystitis in 1.0 percent, and acute pancreatitis in 1.5 percent; endoscopic sphincterotomy was performed in 0.5 percent, and cholecystectomy in 2.5 percent. CONCLUSIONS. Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy with ursodiol was more effective than lithotripsy alone for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones, and equally safe. Treatment was more effective for solitary than multiple stones, radiolucent than slightly calcified stones, and smaller than larger stones. 
Ticlopidine treatment reduces the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. The TIMAD Study Group. The Ticlopidine Microangiopathy of Diabetes study (TIMAD), a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial, assessed the effect of this antiplatelet agent (ticlopidine hydrochloride) in reducing the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy in 435 patients followed up for 3 years. The mean yearly increase in definite microaneurysms on fluorescein angiograms was significantly higher (P = .03) in the placebo group (1.44 +/- 4.67) than in the ticlopidine group (0.48 +/- 5.79). Significance was limited to primary analysis using a quality angiographic coefficient for definite microaneurysms in patients with at least three readable angiograms over a 3-year period. Ticlopidine was significantly beneficial to insulin-treated diabetic patients, inducing a sevenfold reduction of the yearly microaneurysm progression (0.23 +/- 6.66) compared with the placebo (1.57 +/- 5.29) (P = .03). Among insulin-treated diabetic patients, fewer had development of new vessels in the ticlopidine group than in the placebo group, at borderline statistical significance (P = .056). Overall retinopathy progression was significantly less severe in the ticlopidine group (P = .04). Adverse reactions associated with ticlopidine included neutropenia (severe in one patient) with no clinical complications, diarrhea, or rash. This study demonstrated that ticlopidine slows down the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. 
Computed tomography in patients with esophageal perforation. Contrast esophagram is the diagnostic procedure of choice in patients with clinically suspected perforation of the esophagus. In patients in whom the usual clinical signs or symptoms are unrecognized and in whom the diagnosis is obscure, the diagnosis of a perforated esophagus may be suggested by the finding of mediastinal fluid and air on CT. Three patients are reviewed. The perforations included one spontaneous, one from erosion of an esophageal carcinoma, and one iatrogenic. In two of the three patients, the diagnosis of perforated esophagus had not been made initially and in one patient the initial esophagram was interpreted as normal. Computed tomography of the chest in each patient led to the suspected diagnosis of perforated esophagus. Prompt appropriate surgical intervention followed. The findings of mediastinal fluid and more importantly mediastinal air on CT of the chest are strongly suggestive of esophageal perforation. 
Primary biliary cirrhosis: paradigm or paradox for autoimmunity. Primary biliary cirrhosis has been classified as a model autoimmune disease based on striking defects in immune regulation and the presence of autoantibodies to mitochondria. Until recently the significance and definition of mitochondrial autoreactivity was unknown. Since 1987, there has been a vast improvement in the understanding and definition of the biochemical and molecular target autoantigens. The cloning of complementary DNAs for mitochondrial antigens has led to the identification of three enzymes of the 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase family as the targets of the autoantibodies to mitochondria in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. The major reactive autoantigen is the E2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase. Immunodominant sites on pyruvate dehydrogenase E2 (autoepitopes) have been mapped and have been shown to be the site of attachment of the functionally important lipoic acid prosthetic group. The autoepitope for the other enzymes probably occupies an equivalent site on the enzyme. The availability and definition of these mitochondrial autoepitopes have allowed specific questions to be addressed relating to the processing and targeting of these autoantigens as well as further studies on mechanisms of immunopathology. Similarly, the availability of well-defined autoantigens could contribute to the development of valid animal models in addition to the already described reproduction of the biliary ductular lesions by transfer of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis into severe combined immunodeficient mice. Such models will facilitate specific study of the role of major histocompatibility complex expression and the characterization of T-cell reactivity. Thus, primary biliary cirrhosis is a key example of significant progress in autoimmunity being made by use of recombinant DNA technology. 
Cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas. The rarity of cholangiocarcinoma occurring in von Meyenburg complexes is well appreciated. We describe the case of a 35-year-old man found to have cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas of the liver. Areas of ductal proliferation and atypia within the bile duct hamartomas suggest malignant transformation to cholangiocarcinoma. 
Natural killer cell activity in patients with liver cirrhosis relative to severity of liver damage. To evaluate the role of severe liver damage on natural killer cell activity, 29 patients with liver cirrhosis were examined. The natural killer cell activity was measured with a 4-hr chromium release assay, and the K562 cell line was employed as target cells. The natural killer cell activity was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients compared with normal controls and patients with chronic active hepatitis. Cirrhotic patients with Pugh's C grade of severity of liver disease had lower natural killer cell activity. The depression of natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients was inversely correlated with prothrombin time ratios, and the natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy was lower than in patients without hepatic encephalopathy. Thus, the diminished natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients might be related to the severity of liver damage. 
Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. In a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases (8.7%) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer. Almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen, the back or the flank. Unilateral (7) or bilateral (2) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients (20%). A diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients. In 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done, unilaterally (6) or bilaterally (2). After ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis. Preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography, showing medial deviation, ultrasonography and CT-scanning of the abdominal aorta. All patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief. Ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results. 
Hemolytic anemia associated with the use of omeprazole. Omeprazole is the first drug designed to block the final step in the acid secretory process within the parietal cell. It has been shown to be extremely effective in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, reflux esophagitis, and the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Although clinical experience with omeprazole is still limited, many controlled studies have established the short-term safety of this drug. We report the first case of a serious short-term adverse reaction with the use of omeprazole: hemolytic anemia. The patient developed weakness, lethargy, and shortness of breath 2 days after starting therapy with omeprazole. Two weeks after the initiation of therapy, her hematocrit had decreased from 44.1% to 20.4%, and she had a positive direct Coombs antiglobulin test and an elevated indirect bilirubin. After she discontinued the omeprazole, her hemoglobin and hematocrit gradually returned to normal. The mechanism by which omeprazole caused the patient's hemolytic anemia is uncertain, but physicians should be alerted to this possible adverse effect. 
Methylene iodide poisoning. A 20-month-old girl ingested a maximum of 25 mL of pure methylene iodide. Within two hours, the patient exhibited lethargy and incoordination and vomited. An abdominal radiograph demonstrated the radiopaque material in the gut. In vivo conversion to carbon monoxide was documented with a peak carboxyhemoglobin level of 14.2% reached at 11 hours after ingestion. Two days after ingestion, evidence of hepatotoxicity was apparent, and fulminant hepatic failure quickly ensued. Despite aggressive supportive care and transfer to a liver transplant center, the patient died nine days after ingestion. Methylene iodide ingestion has not been previously reported in human beings. This case verifies that this substance is a potent hepatotoxin, is metabolized to carbon monoxide in vivo, is radiopaque, and may cause bone marrow suppression. 
Carbon tetrachloride-induced alterations of hepatic calmodulin and free calcium levels in rats pretreated with chlordecone. Calmodulin, a low molecular weight Ca2+ binding protein, regulates a large number of cell activities including cell division. Previous studies from our laboratory indicated excessive accumulation of Ca2+ in hepatocytes succeeded by rapid glycogen breakdown and suppressed cell division in rats receiving CCl4 after previous dietary exposure to 10 ppm chlordecone. Since calmodulin plays a major role in Ca2(+)-regulated events and has been reported to be localized in mitotic apparatus during cell division, we have assessed subcellular distribution of calmodulin and estimated cytosolic phosphorylase a to indicate cytosolic free Ca2+ levels in livers of rats fed 0 ppm or 10 ppm (chlordecone) in the diet for 15 days before CCl4 (100 microliters/kg) administration to understand the role of Ca2(+)-calmodulin in chlordecone + CCl4 toxicity. Hepatotoxicity was assessed by determining serum AST and ALT succeeded by histopathological observations of liver sections. Serum aminotransferases were significantly elevated 6 hr after CCl4 administration to normal rats and returned to control level by 24 hr. However, serum AST and ALT elevations were severalfold higher, and progressive increase was observed starting 4 hr after CCl4 administration to chlordecone rats. Histopathological observations of liver sections for necrotic, swollen and lipid-laden cells provided findings commensurate with the serum enzyme data. These data indicate that normal rats do recover from CCl4 hepatotoxicity. However, the CCl4 hepatotoxicity is progressive in chlordecone rats without recovery. In normal rats, CCl4 administration resulted in a slight increase in phosphorylase a starting at 6 hr. 
Metabolic studies of radioiodinated serum amyloid P component in normal subjects and patients with systemic amyloidosis. 125I-Serum amyloid P component (SAP), injected intravenously into 10 normal subjects, remained predominantly intravascular with mean (SD) T1/2 (half time) in plasma of 24.5 (5.9) h. The fractional catabolic rate of 68 (19)% of the plasma pool per day was more rapid than other reported human plasma proteins. All radioactivity was excreted in the urine by 14 d. In 16 patients with monoclonal gammopathy or chronic inflammatory diseases, but without amyloidosis, 125I-SAP metabolism was normal. However, among 45 patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis (25, amyloid A type; 20, amyloid L type), 125I-SAP was cleared from the plasma more rapidly, accumulated in the amyloid deposits, and persisted there. The T1/2 in amyloid, measured directly with 131I-SAP, was 24 d. Repeat studies after 6-18 mo were notably consistent in normals but changed significantly in amyloid patients, generally correlating with clinical signs of disease progression. Measurements of 125I-SAP turnover may thus be of value for diagnosis and monitoring of amyloidosis. Analysis of SAP metabolism in amyloidosis suggests that plasma SAP is in dynamic equilibrium with a very large amyloid pool, and in two autopsies the total mass of SAP in the amyloid deposits was 2,100 and 21,000 mg, respectively. 
Incarceration of colonoscope in an inguinal hernia. "Pulley" technique of removal. Because of its relative safety, colonoscopy has become an accepted diagnostic and therapeutic procedure in the evaluation of patients with colorectal disorders. Many unusual complications of colonoscopy have been described, but only anecdotal reports of hernial incarceration have been published. We present a case of a right-sided hernial incarceration of the colonoscope that would not permit reduction of the hernia nor removal of the instrument by conventional means. The mechanism of incarceration, which dictates the size of hernia at risk for incarceration, is explained. The "pulley" technique, which was used to remove the instrument without surgical intervention, is described. 
A laser-induced scar at the cardia increases the yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter Low yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter is associated with esophageal reflux, and fundoplication must increase yield pressure if it is to prevent reflux. We attempted to increase yield pressure endoscopically in the dog by using the Nd:YAG laser to produce a fibrous scar at the cardia in the approximate line of the gastric sling fibers. Ten beagle dogs were studied. In a pilot study with two dogs, 15 watts for 4.2 sec were found to produce a scar deep into the muscle coat of the stomach. Three configurations of scar were used. One produced significant rises in yield pressure in all four of the dogs treated, the second produced a significant rise in one of the two dogs treated, and the third caused a significant drop in yield pressure in the one dog treated. One dog died of gastric perforation 10 days after lasering, but no other animal experienced any ill effects. These findings may have therapeutic implications for the management of esophageal reflux. 
Evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma aggressiveness by a panel of extracellular matrix antigens. Invasion and metastasis requires a series of interactions between malignant cells and the extracellular matrix (ECM). Antigen markers that relate to these interactions were evaluated for prognostic correlation in human hepatocellular carcinoma. Basement membrane type IV collagen (cIV), type IV collagenase (cIVase), laminin, and laminin receptors (LRs)--all ECM antigens previously proposed to be modulated in association with tumor aggressiveness--were immunohistochemically investigated in 30 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). The pattern of antigen expression was correlated with 1) 36 months' clinical follow-up and 2) the pathologic grade. As a means of estimating the proliferation fraction, an additional antigen, Ki67, was also studied in this series. There were major differences in the distribution of cIV and laminin, and in the quantity of cIVase-, LR-, and Ki67-positive cells associated with grade and prognosis. A smaller quantity of cIV and laminin and a higher number of cIVase-, LR-, and Ki67-positive cells were detected in the poorly differentiated compared with the well-differentiated HCCs. The tumors with lower immunoreactivity for cIV and laminin components accompanied by a higher number of cIVase-, LR-, and Ki67-positive cells fall into a group with the poorest overall survival (P less than 0.006). The panel of antigens is proposed as a useful prognostic tool for evaluating HCC tumor aggressiveness. 
Immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders. A fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/mL. When concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (n = 31) [including the calcifying forms (n = 10)], pancreatic cancer (n = 22), or nonpancreatic diseases (n = 17), no significant differences were found. In contrast, increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic (39/66) and acute pancreatitis (16/20) compared with control patients. The differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant (P less than 0.0001) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity. Immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point (pH 9) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein. With respect to recent communications, these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators. 
Neoplastic changes in the stomach after gastrectomy. Partial gastric resection for benign ulcer disease has been associated with an increased incidence of mucosal dysplasia and invasive adenocarcinoma, particularly 15 to 20 years after resection. These remnant carcinomas are particularly virulent with little hope of resection or cure once symptoms occur. Using a planned protocol of routine endoscopic surveillance with biopsy, the goal was to identify early markers of neoplasia, that is, dysplasia, and a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the gastric remnant, while both resection and cure were possible. Between July 1980 and August 1988, yearly flexible gastroscopic examination and random biopsy have been performed on 163 patients at least ten years after gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. All biopsy results were interpreted for findings of dysplasia and early gastric adenocarcinoma. Results of this ongoing screening program revealed dysplasia of the gastric remnant in nine patients with eventual findings of adenocarcinoma in four of this group. These patients underwent total gastrectomy with findings of limited disease. Five patients with mucosal dysplasia continue to be observed at six month intervals. Three additional gastric carcinomas were found on initial gastroscopic screening, while one patient had adenocarcinoma diagnosed during a third yearly gastroscopic examination. These eight asymptomatic patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastric remnant had a postgastrectomy interval which ranged from 15 to 29 years (mean of 26.5 years). The results of this study support the concept of neoplastic change in the gastric remnant as a function of time from initial gastric resection. Findings of dysplasia on random biopsy indicate a greater likelihood of development of carcinoma of the gastric remnant and identify a subset of patients requiring aggressive endoscopic surveillance. 
Prevalence of ulcerative colitis in the Israeli kibbutz population. We carried out an epidemiological study of ulcerative colitis in 279 Israeli kibbutzim (121,403 population). The prevalence on December 31, 1987 was 121.08 per 100,000 population. When the data were stratified according to ethnic groups, the highest point prevalence was found in Israeli-born Jews (220.56 per 100,000 population), more than in Asian-African-born, or European-American-born kibbutz members (139.20 and 78.73 cases per 100,000 population, respectively). There were 68 men and 78 women (ratio of 0.87). The average age of the patients in the year of this survey was 46 years; it was 35 years at the time of diagnosis. Proctitis was found in 57%, left-sided colitis in 12%, and substantial or total colitis in 31%. Relapse at pregnancy was demonstrated in seven patients, and remission in one. Family history of a first-degree relative with inflammatory bowel disease was documented in three patients (2%). Probable complications of ulcerative colitis were observed in 38 (26%), anemia in 13 (9%). One patient (0.7%) with rectal cancer, also had breast cancer. We suggest that the impressive increase in ulcerative colitis prevalence among Israeli and Asian-African-born, in comparison with European-American-born kibbutz members, points toward a role of environmental factors in the etiology of this disease. 
Long-term follow-up in patients who have undergone balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction. Although balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction has supplanted vagotomy plus drainage or resective therapy in some institutions, there are no long-term data which demonstrate what percentage of patients ultimately requires surgical intervention. Of 23 evaluable patients treated with hydrostatic balloon dilation in our institution, 70% were asymptomatic at a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. Five patients required surgery--one for acute perforation and the other four for symptoms of continued obstruction, despite one to three additional attempts at dilation. Only three of seven patients with previous gastric resection had a satisfactory long-term result. Whereas endoscopic therapy initially cost one tenth to one fifth that of surgical intervention, such figures do not factor for loss of productivity, on the one hand, or potential need for chronic H2 blockade, on the other. Despite instruction to the contrary, only 6 of 15 (40%) active patients continue acid-suppressive therapy. We conclude that balloon dilation remains a viable alternative for selected patients with gastric outlet obstruction. 
Sclerotherapy for esophageal varices. Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) frequently is used for patients with esophageal varices, both for controlling acute hemorrhage and for prophylaxis. An old technique, interest in EIS increased when other methods did not improve patient outcomes. Clinical trials of EIS for acute hemorrhage demonstrated efficacy and improved outcome, although some researchers disagree with these findings. Recent data on prophylaxis with EIS fail to support the value of EIS for this indication. Ethanolamine oleate compares favorably with other sclerosing agents, and is the only one currently approved for EIS. The intravariceal method is used more frequently than the paravariceal method because it has better efficacy and can be performed more rapidly. The percentage of patients developing significant complications from EIS may be as high as 15 percent; common complications include retrosternal pain, pyrexia, and sepsis. EIS is currently an important clinical tool in the management of esophageal varices. 
Hepatic cyst associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. A solitary hepatic cyst, associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, is described. To our knowledge, this association has not been previously reported. A developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested. Knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity. 
Autologous implant of peritoneal mesothelium in rabbits and man. With the purpose of studying peritoneal physiology, original biopsy methods were devised and human and rabbit peritoneal mesothelial cells cultured and characterized. It was then decided to verify whether these cells could be implanted autologously during peritoneal dialysis in cases of acute loss of mesothelial surface. Staphylococcal peritonitis was induced in 12 rabbits and after 4 days of antibiotics, 6 of them were autoimplanted with cultured mesothelial cells, previously marked in 3 cases with thymidine (H3TdR). Implanted rabbits sacrificed after 3 and 6 days showed taking of the new mesothelial cells both by direct morphological observation and by autoradiography. Four uremic CAPD patients recovering from severe peritonitis were implanted with 300 million of their own peritoneal mesothelial cells, previously cultured and frozen. Morphological signs of taking were evident by laparoscopy and from peritoneal biopsies performed 3 and 6 days after implant. The fact that such implants are possible may have interesting applications in medicine and surgery. 
Jejunal immunoglobulin and antigliadin antibody secretion in adult coeliac disease. We compared the local intestinal immunoglobulin (Ig) secretion in six adult patients with coeliac disease and nine control subjects by perfusion of a small bowel segment under an occluding balloon and analysis of the perfusion fluid for the content of Ig and secretory component. The results were compared to the number of Ig-containing plasma cells in the test segment. There was, respectively, a two-fold and a fivefold increase in jejunal secretion rates of IgA (both monomeric and polymeric) and IgM in patients with coeliac disease compared with control subjects. The high IgA and IgM secretion rates parallel the increase of Ig-containing plasma cells in the lamina propria. In contrast, the IgG plasma cell density increase was barely significant in patients with coeliac disease and did not result in a high IgG secretion rate. The jejunal secretion rate of secretory component was significantly increased in patients with coeliac disease and no free dimeric IgA was present in the jejunal fluid. Antigliadin-IgA was detected in the serum and jejunal fluid of the six patients with coeliac disease. Antigliadin-IgA, however, was almost entirely polymeric IgA linked to secretory component in jejunal fluid, whereas 61% was dimeric IgA not linked to secretory component in serum. This result, combined with a raised secretory component secretion rate with no evidence of secretory component saturation, suggests that serum and intestinal antigliadin IgA might be of different origins in coeliac disease. 
Effects of common illnesses on infants' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in Huascar (Lima), Peru. To assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake, 131 Peruvian infants were observed longitudinally. Home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly, and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations. Mean (+/- SD) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 +/- 128 kcal/d (92.4 +/- 26.5 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 +/- 193 kcal/d (77.7 +/- 25.7 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged greater than 180 d. Statistical models controlling for infant age, season of the year, and individual showed significant 5-6% decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever. There were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding, total suckling time, or amount of breast-milk energy consumed. By contrast, energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30% during diarrhea and fever, and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods. 
Dysphagia following fundoplication: "slipped" fundoplication versus achalasia complicated by fundoplication. Failure to obtain preoperative esophageal manometry in patients being considered for antireflux surgery can result in immediate persistent postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. We describe the clinical assessment and management of a case of delayed postoperative dysphagia due to a "slipped" fundoplication, which is contrasted with three patients with immediate postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia. Surgical revision was required to correct the "slipped" fundoplication, and pneumatic dilatation was successfully used in two of three cases of achalasia complicated by fundoplication. Careful preoperative esophageal evaluation with manometry is essential to rule out the presence of a primary esophageal motor disorder. 
Prospective study of early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis. We prospectively monitored 140 cirrhotic patients for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma for 6 yr, using periodical screening by high-resolution convex-array ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein. Twenty-eight patients were positive for HBs antigen, 26 patients had received blood transfusions and were negative for HBs antigen and 26 patients had a history of heavy drinking. We detected hepatocellular carcinoma in 40 patients during this period. The overall cumulative incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the 6 yr was 39%; the cumulative incidence was 59% in patients with HBsAg, 53% in patients who had had blood transfusions and were negative for HBsAg and 22% in patients who had a history of heavy drinking and who were without HBsAg. Detection of the carcinoma in 85% of these 40 patients was based on results of ultrasonography. Twenty-six of the patients (65%) had a small hepatocellular carcinoma of 2 cm or less. alpha-Fetoprotein levels were lower than 100 ng/ml in 56% of these 40 patients. Patients with cirrhosis are at high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma, especially patients with HBsAg or with a history of blood transfusion who are negative for HBsAg. Periodic monitoring by use of ultrasonography in particular is recommended for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of recombinant alpha-interferon treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. In a randomized controlled trial of recombinant alpha-2a interferon for chronic hepatitis B, interferon antibodies developed in 21 (39%) of 54 Chinese adults who received IFN. No correlation was observed between sex, age, pretreatment serum ALT level or liver histological findings and the development of interferon antibodies. Antibodies were significantly more likely to develop in patients who received lower doses (2.5 or 5 MU/m2) of alpha-2a interferon than in those who received a higher dose (10 MU/m2): 53% vs. 11% (p = 0.006). The development of interferon antibodies appeared to reverse the initial antiviral response to treatment, with reappearance of hepatitis B virus DNA in serum in 12 patients and HBeAg in three patients. Sustained clearance of HBeAg was achieved in only one (5%) patient but was achieved in seven (21%) patients without interferon antibodies. The mere presence of interferon antibodies did not preclude an antiviral response to interferon therapy, but patients with high titer neutralizing antibodies were less likely to respond. These findings suggest that interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of alpha-2a interferon. A higher incidence of interferon antibodies in Chinese vs. white patients with chronic hepatitis B may contribute to the poorer antiviral response in Chinese patients. 
The prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons. We present the results of a study that was undertaken at a large geriatric nursing home to assess the prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons. One hundred seventeen residents underwent ultrasound examination of the gallbladder. Two thirds of 82 women and half of 35 men had gallstone disease. When stratified for age, 80% of women and men over the age of 90 years were positive for the disease. In summary, the prevalence of gallstone disease in our very old nursing home population was found to be unexpectedly high. 
Cerulein-induced pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreas. Infusion of supramaximal doses of the cholecystokinin analog cerulein is well established as an in vivo technique for inducing experimental pancreatitis in small animals. An attempt was made to simulate this model and initiate pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreas. Control preparations gained minimal weight (mean 8.3 +/- 5.1 gm), demonstrated no edema accumulation, and did not develop hyperamylasemia (mean 1342 +/- 790 units) after 4 hours of perfusion. Electron microscopy after 4 hours of perfusion remained normal. Intraarterial cerulein infusion produced significant weight gain (mean 27.6 +/- 12.3 gm; p less than 0.001), edema formation, and marked hyperamylasemia (mean 26,838 +/- 21,341 units; p less than 0.001) after 4 hours of perfusion. During the 4-hour perfusion, electron microscopy of cerulein preparations demonstrated depletion of zymogen granules, condensing vacuole formation, and basolateral exocytosis. Pretreatment of cerulein preparations with the free radical scavengers superoxide dismutase and catalase and the iron chelator deferoxamine did not modify the pancreatitis. Continuous infusion of the nonpeptide cholecystokinin antagonist L364,718 reduced cerulein-induced weight gain (4.3 +/- 3.4 gm; p less than 0.001) and hyperamylasemia (9392 +/- 6718 units; p less than 0.05). We conclude that cerulein pancreatitis in the ex vivo isolated perfused canine pancreatic preparation is identical physiologically, biochemically, and morphologically with that seen in intact animals. 
Acute and chronic stress in duodenal ulcer disease. Acute and chronic life event stressors were objectively assessed in a sample of duodenal ulcer patients and community controls. Stress was assessed on two dimensions, "personal threat" and "goal frustration." Chronic stressors (those of 6 months' duration or more) involving high goal frustration were significantly and independently associated with the onset and relapse of duodenal ulcers, as were acute events of high immediate but transient personal threat. 
Induction of arthritis in rats by aqueous suspensions of mycobacteria without the use of oil. We report for the first time the induction of arthritis by an aqueous, rather than an oil, suspension of killed tubercle bacilli. This was accomplished in the highly susceptible dark Agouti strain of rats, by intraperitoneal injection during the healing phase of chemically induced peritonitis. The same procedure (injection after the induction of peritonitis) augmented the incidence of arthritis produced by bovine type II collagen and Freund's complete adjuvant. Enhanced delivery of antigen from the peritoneal cavity to regional lymph nodes in the postinflammatory state was responsible for this increase in the induction of arthritis. 
Failure of hepatitis B immunization in liver transplant recipients: results of a prospective trial. Twenty patients with advanced liver disease, in need of transplantation, were given three injections of 20 micrograms and three injections of 40 micrograms hepatitis B vaccine to see if an antibody response could be obtained. Only 20% of patients developed measurable anti-HBs. One who failed to develop anti-HBs developed chronic hepatitis B after exposure to her infected sexual partner. Type of liver disease in the native liver, age, sex, sexual preference, timing of immunization (before or after transplantation), and dosage of hepatitis B vaccine did not seem to explain the lack of immunologic response to hepatitis B vaccine. It is presumed that immunosuppression, both from the underlying disease and from immunosuppressive medications, best explains our findings. Liver transplantation patients infrequently benefit from hepatitis B vaccine. It is possible that other vaccines given to prevent viral and bacterial illness may also fail to elicit immunologic response in such patients. 
Glucose and fat metabolism during short-term starvation in cirrhosis. To evaluate the metabolic consequences of short-term (i.e., less than 24 hours) starvation, glucose and fat metabolism were studied in eight healthy subjects and in eight patients with stable cirrhosis after 16-hour and again after 22-hour starvation by 3-[3H]glucose and [14C]palmitate turnover and by indirect calorimetry. Although patients and controls showed significant increases in free fatty acid concentration (respectively, 48% +/- 12% and 53% +/- 17%) and turnover (55% +/- 14% and 71% +/- 21%) during short-term starvation, the values after 16- and after 22-hour starvation were higher in cirrhosis. Fat oxidation was enhanced in the patients, but did not increase during fasting in contrast to controls (increase 19% +/- 17%, P less than 0.05). Net glucose oxidation was decreased in postabsorptive cirrhotics (P less than 0.05). Although postabsorptive glucose turnover was not different from controls, starvation induced a greater decrease in glucose turnover in the patients (25% +/- 3% vs. 10% +/- 3%, P less than 0.05). This was not reflected in plasma glucose concentrations. In conclusion, the effects of starvation on glucose and fat metabolism are enhanced in cirrhosis; fasting hypoglycemia is prevented by decreased use of glucose. It remains to be established whether these changes are merely explained by defective liver function, per se. 
Gallbladder mucin as a pronucleating agent for cholesterol monohydrate crystals in bile. Mucin is a densely glycosylated macromolecule secreted by the gallbladder epithelium as the principal constituent of gallbladder mucus. Hypersecretion of gallbladder mucus occurs in response to a lithogenic diet in experimental animals, and mucus accumulates as a viscous gel within the gallbladder lumen before gallstone formation. In both animals and man, the initial stage of cholesterol gallstone formation, the nucleation of cholesterol monohydrate crystals, occurs within the mucus gel. Inhibition of mucus secretion with aspirin prevents gallstone formation in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog, indicating the importance of mucus in gallstone formation. Mucin contains domains that bind cholesterol and lecithin transported as vesicles in supersaturated bile. Furthermore, mucin accelerates the nucleation of cholesterol crystals in both supersaturated model and native biles. Binding of cholesterol-enriched vesicles to hydrophobic domains on the mucin protein core appears to be critical for the acceleration of cholesterol crystal nucleation by mucin. Further study of the structure and function of gallbladder mucin should help to elucidate the pathogenesis of cholesterol cholelithiasis. 
Crohn's disease and adenocarcinoma of the intestinal tract. Report of four cases. Four patients with intestinal adenocarcinoma complicating Crohn's disease are reported. The youngest of the four patients was a 21-year-old female with a 9-year history of Crohn's disease of the terminal ileum as well as of the entire colon. She developed mucus-producing moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum. Of the remaining three patients with Crohn's disease, one presented an adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon, one in the rectum and the remaining one in the duodenum. All three colorectal adenocarcinomas originated in areas of high-grade dysplasia and all four in areas with chronic transmural inflammation. The review of the literature indicates that a total of 174 small and large bowel cancers occurring in Crohn's disease have been recorded (including the four reported herein). The vast majority of the reported cases have been found in the North American subcontinent. Only in a few instances were bowel adenocarcinoma and Crohn's disease observed in the European continent. It is therefore remarkable that three of our four cases were seen within a period of 12 months. Interestingly, six patients having colorectal adenocarcinoma in association with Crohn's disease were recently reported from a single hospital in England. The question therefore arises whether our cases and those reported recently from England are unrelated and merely coincidental or whether carcinomas are now also affecting European CD patients. If the latter is the case, the surveillance policy for patients with CD should be reconsidered at this hospital. 
Hemodynamic events in a prospective randomized trial of propranolol versus placebo in the prevention of a first variceal hemorrhage. In a double-blind randomized trial, the hemodynamic events following the administration of propranolol (n = 51) or a placebo (n = 51) were prospectively studied in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices. The hepatic venous pressure gradient, heart rate, and variceal size were determined at the baseline and 3, 12, and 24 months after the beginning of therapy. Baseline values were similar in both groups. At 3 months, the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly in propranolol-treated patients (from 18.1 +/- 4.2 to 15.7 +/- 3.4 mm Hg; P less than 0.05) but not in patients receiving the placebo (19.6 +/- 6.8 to 17.5 +/- 5.3 mm Hg; NS). At subsequent time intervals this gradient decreased significantly from the baseline value in both groups. Heart rate decreased significantly in the propranolol-treated group at all times (P less than 0.001). Variceal hemorrhage occurred in 13 patients (11 placebo-, 2 propranolol-treated; P less than 0.01), all of whom had a hepatic venous pressure gradient greater than 12 mm Hg. In 21 patients (14 propranolol-, 7 placebo-treated) the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased to less than or equal to 12 mm Hg; none of them bled from esophageal varices, and their mortality rate also decreased. Because most of the bleeding events occurred during the first year (10 placebo-, 1 propranolol-treated; P less than 0.01), propranolol seems to have its protective effect during the period associated with the largest reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient. Because a reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm Hg protects from variceal bleeding and increases the rate of survival, this should be the aim of the pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension. 
Infections in HIV-infected travelers: risks and prevention. OBJECTIVE: To review risks for infection and to outline strategies to protect the health of travelers infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). DATA SOURCES: Original reports and summaries of the geographic distribution and frequency of infections as well as of special risks these infections impose on HIV-infected persons. The recommendations incorporate guidelines published by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the World Health Organization. STUDY SELECTION: Sources containing the most recent, pertinent information. DATA SYNTHESIS: Infections of the gastrointestinal tract are common in all travelers to developing countries and are likely to be more frequent, severe, and difficult to treat in HIV-infected persons. Prominent among the respiratory tract infections that pose special risks to HIV-infected travelers are influenza, measles, and fungal infections with geographically focal distributions. The most common vector-borne infection, malaria, appears to present relatively little, if any, incremental risk to the HIV-infected traveler. Persons with HIV infection respond less vigorously to vaccines and have a higher frequency of adverse reactions to antimicrobial agents. Nevertheless, immunizations and chemoprophylaxis can reduce the risk for many travel-related infections. Additionally, there are protective measures that travelers can take to minimize exposure to pathogens. CONCLUSIONS: By understanding the risks for disease in different destinations, assessing patients' HIV status, counseling patients about travel plans and personal protective measures, appropriately using vaccines and chemoprophylaxis, as well as instituting early treatment of infection, physicians can help HIV-infected patients to preserve their health during travel. 
Gastrointestinal disease and oral contraception. Oral contraceptive steroids play a major role in modern family planning. With the present tendency to decrease the doses of both estrogens and progestogens, any factor that reduces the bioavailability of the lower-dose preparations may have an impact on contraceptive protection. Although ethinyl estradiol, the most commonly used oral estrogen, is liable to an enterohepatic circulation as unchanged drug, the commonly used progestogens are not. At present, no convincing evidence exists in the human subject that disruption of the enterohepatic circulation by antibiotics or antacids does reduce contraceptive efficacy of the pill. Oral contraceptive steroids are mainly absorbed from the small bowel, and contraceptive efficacy depends on its absorptive capacity. Enhanced passage of gastrointestinal contents or impaired absorption may thus contribute to contraceptive failures in patients who have chronic inflammatory disease, diarrhea, ileostomy, or jejunoileal bypass. 
Macroscopic and microscopic gut lesions in seronegative spondyloarthropathies. A retrospective study by ileocolonoscopy and multiple biopsies was performed on 96 patients with seronegative spondylarthropathy, 17 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) and 19 patients with chronic abdominal discomfort. Under these conditions, inflammatory gut lesions were detected in 66.7% of the patients with spondyloarthropathy, 12.5% with OA and 15.8% with chronic abdominal discomfort. In 10 patients treated by sulfasalazine (Salazopyrine), pathologic lesions disappeared simultaneously with an improvement of the rheumatic conditions. comparison between patients treated and untreated with nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs (NSAID) demonstrated that NSAID did not enter into the etiopathology of the intestinal lesions. Our study therefore confirms the high incidence of inflammatory gut lesions among patients with spondylarthropathy which seems not to be related to NSAID therapy. 
Small bowel morphology in British Indian and Afro-Caribbean subjects: evidence of tropical enteropathy. Distal duodenal biopsy specimens taken from 30 white, 35 Indian, and 20 Afro-Caribbean residents of West Birmingham during routine endoscopy for dyspepsia, were assessed by dissecting microscopy and morphometry. Finger-shaped villi were significantly less frequent in the Indian and Afro-Caribbean subjects than in the white subjects when assessed by dissecting microscopy (p less than 0.005), and both immigrant groups had decreased mucosal thickness (p less than 0.01), villous height (p less than 0.001), villous:crypt ratios (p less than 0.01) and enterocyte height (p less than 0.05) compared with the white group. In the Indian subjects, villous height and villous:crypt ratios correlated significantly with the time since the last visit to the Indian subcontinent (p less than 0.005). Serum alkaline phosphatase values were significantly higher in the Indian subjects compared with the whites (p less than 0.02), and serum globulins were increased in both the Afro-Caribbean and Indian subjects (p less than 0.01). There were no correlations between morphometric indices and body habitus or biochemical or haematological indices and the long term effect of the morphological changes is not clear. 
Colonic volvulus as a complication of celiac sprue. Colonic volvulus has been a rarely reported complication of celiac sprue. We describe two patients with long-standing celiac sprue, one in whom a recurrent sigmoid volvulus developed, and in the other, a cecal volvulus. Following surgery, both are now asymptomatic on a gluten-free diet. The association between celiac sprue and colonic volvulus was first reported in 1953. There have been only a few isolated cases documented, surprisingly so because the two major predisposing conditions for colonic volvulus are often seen in patients with celiac sprue. Colonic bacterial fermentation of malabsorbed carbohydrate (in celiac sprue) leads to excess gas production. Flaccid bowel loops with sigmoid redundancy, a long mesentery, or cecal hypermobility are not uncommon. A motility disorder in celiac sprue has also been proposed. Thus these factors together would suggest that the likelihood of development of colonic volvulus in celiac sprue would be relatively great. The possibility of underlying celiac sprue should be considered in patients with colonic volvulus who have a background history of recurrent abdominal distention or malabsorptive symptoms. 
Reproducibility of 24 hour oesophageal pH studies in infants. Thirteen infants who had undergone 24 hour oesophageal pH monitoring to diagnose gastro-oesophageal reflux had a second study carried out to see if the results were reproducible. The studies were done without restricting the babies' activities. Appreciable differences were found, the percentage of the total time during which the pH was less than 4 varying by up to 3.7-fold between the two tests. The differences were largely the result of biological rather than technical variability. From these results estimates were made of the reliability of a single diagnostic study and the size of changes that would be necessary to show the effect of treatment. These findings have a considerable impact on the diagnosis of abnormal gastro-oesophageal reflux and its response to treatment whether using 24 hour pH monitoring or any other method of measurement. 
Transmission of Rift Valley fever virus by adult mosquitoes after ingestion of virus as larvae [published erratum appears in Am J Trop Med Hyg 1991 Jun;44(6):580] We studied the ability of Culex pipiens, Aedes circumluteolus, and Ae. mcintoshi, exposed as larvae to liver tissue from a Rift Valley fever (RVF) virus-infected hamster, to become infected and transstadially transmit virus to the adult and for the adults to transmit virus by bite to hamsters. After exposure as larvae, 9% (5/54) of adult Cx. pipiens and 8% (38/505) of the adult Ae. (Neomelaniconion) species were infected. All of the infected Cx. pipiens and about half of the infected Ae. circumluteolus and Ae. mcintoshi tested transmitted RVF virus by bite to hamsters. Transmission rates for mosquitoes orally infected as larvae were higher than those for mosquitoes orally infected as adults. Animals infected with RVF virus may abort or die in the vicinity of mosquito larvae breeding habitats and infected tissue from these animals may contaminate the water. 
AIDS enteropathy: occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea OBJECTIVE: To investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause. DESIGN: Case-control study. SETTING: Referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center. PATIENTS: Twenty-two patients with advanced HIV infection (19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS], 3 with AIDS-related complex) with chronic diarrhea, selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens, were compared with 13 patients with advanced HIV infection (9 with AIDS, 4 with AIDS-related complex) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy, viral culture, and morphometric studies. Both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Eleven of twenty-two patients with HIV infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens (that is, undetected by routine studies) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies. Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea (5 each). Patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss (mean, 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg; P less than 0.05) and shorter survival (1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive; P less than 0.004) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens (defined as "AIDS enteropathy"). Duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in HIV-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls (P less than 0.001 for each). All three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses. CONCLUSIONS: Further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with AIDS who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases. However, altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced HIV infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with AIDS enteropathy. Subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor, but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure. We suggest that T-cell dysfunction may play a role. 
Peptic ulcer disease. How to treat it now. Options for treatment of peptic ulcer disease are becoming more diverse. Most new agents are effective yet offer no real advantage over more traditional therapy. However, omeprazole (Prilosec) may be of benefit owing to its potent inhibition of acid secretion, but it is not yet approved for this purpose. Whether treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection will prove beneficial is not yet known, but the answer should be forthcoming. Finally, as with any disease process, alleviation of risk factors is always important. Appropriate counseling regarding use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cigarette smoking is a necessity. 
Adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder. A premalignant lesion? Gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract, but its early diagnosis is uncommon. The use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors, and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed. Adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential, and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery. The more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to "benign" polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer. 
The role of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP) in blunt abdominal trauma. The diagnosis of pancreatic injury is often difficult because it lies retroperitoneally in a protected area. Delayed diagnosis and treatment of blunt pancreatic trauma can result in significant morbidity and mortality. Endoscopic Retrograde Pancreatography (ERP) is infrequently used in the diagnosis of pancreatic injury. We reviewed our experience with the use of ERP in patients with blunt pancreatic injury. Two stable patients with traumatic pancreatitis underwent ERP shortly after injury. CT scans revealed a transverse fracture of the distal pancrease in one and fluid accumulation in the other around the pancreas extending to the right kidney and left hepatic lobe. The absence of ductal disruption on ERP allowed nonoperative management of the pancreatitis. Resolution was documented by the absence of symptoms on regular oral intake, normal serum amylase levels, and normal follow-up CT scans. A third patient with persistent fistulae three months postinjury underwent preoperative ERP revealing ductal obstruction. This facilitated the planning of a distal pancreatectomy and subsequently the fistulae healed. A fourth patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy on the basis of clinical and CT scan findings that could have been circumvented with preoperative ERP. ERP in selected patients allows nonoperative treatment in the absence of ductal injury or earlier operative treatment of ductal injury. It also aids the treatment of late complications by delineating ductal anatomy. 
Electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis. The central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation, pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), and sphincter disturbance, including incontinence of urine or faeces, urinary voiding dysfunction, or constipation. The central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the MS group compared to controls (p less than 0.05). Damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in MS. The latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by MS. 
High incidence of viral hepatitis among American missionaries in Africa. Protestant missionaries (n = 360) serving in sub-Saharan Africa between 1967-1984 were studied to determine the risk of hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Personnel were serologically screened for antibody to both the hepatitis A virus (anti-HAV) and the surface antigen to the hepatitis B virus (anti-HBs) prior to departure, periodically during service abroad, and upon completion of their African tour. Rates of seroconversion were used as measures of the incidence of infection. Prior to service, 16% of the staff had anti-HAV and 3% had anti-HBs; post-service rates were 42% and 26%, respectively. Over 90% of the staff with greater than 20 years of service were seropositive for anti-HAV. For both viruses, the infection rate was highest during the first 1-2 years of service, when 28% of those susceptible to HAV and 11% of those susceptible to HBV became infected. Over the next decade, the median annual attack rate was 5.4% for HAV and 4.2% for HBV. Differences in the missionary HBV infection rate among the various African nations served tended to reflect differences in the magnitude of chronic HBV carriage among indigenous population groups. We conclude that missionaries to sub-Saharan Africa are at enhanced risk of both HAV and HBV infection, and that all should receive passive immunization with immune globulin and active immunization with hepatitis B vaccine. 
Glutathione disulfide formation and oxidant stress during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in mice in vivo: the protective effect of allopurinol. Acetaminophen (500 mg/kg i.p.) induced hepatotoxicity in fasted ICR mice in vivo. Acetaminophen also caused a long-lasting 50% reduction of the hepatic ATP content, an irreversible loss of hepatic xanthine dehydrogenase activity and a transient increase of the xanthine oxidase activity. All effects occurred before parenchymal cell damage, i.e., the release of cellular enzymes. The hepatic content of GSH and GSSG was initially depleted by acetaminophen without affecting the GSSG:GSH ratio (1:200), however, during the recovery phase of the hepatic GSH levels the GSSG content increased faster than GSH, resulting in a GSSG:GSH ratio of 1:18 24 h after acetaminophen administration. The mitochondrial GSSG content increased from 2% in controls to greater than 20% in acetaminophen-treated mice. The extremely elevated tissue GSSG levels were accompanied by a 4-fold increase of the plasma GSSG concentrations but not by an enhanced biliary efflux, although hepatic GSSG formation and biliary excretion were not affected by acetaminophen. Allopurinol protected dose-dependently against acetaminophen-induced cell injury, the loss of ATP and the increase of the GSSG content in the total liver and in the mitochondrial compartment without inhibiting reactive metabolite formation. High, protective as well as low, nonprotective doses of allopurinol almost completely inhibited hepatic xanthine oxidase and dehydrogenase activity, but only high doses prevented the increase of the mitochondrial GSSG content. The data indicate a long-lasting, primarily intracellular oxidant stress during the progression phase of acetaminophen-induced cell necrosis. The protective effect of allopurinol is unlikely to involve the inhibition of reactive oxygen formation by xanthine oxidase but could be the result of its antioxidant property. 
Referral of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis for liver transplantation. All patients with primary biliary cirrhosis referred to this unit for consideration for transplantation between April 1981 and January 1989 were analysed retrospectively to assess whether disease stage at referral affects the outcome after grafting and whether greater awareness of the benefits of the procedure means that patients are now being referred at an earlier stage. Seventy of the 107 patients have been grafted, with an overall one year actuarial survival of 62%. A better prognosis at the time of referral, as assessed by both serum bilirubin concentration and a mathematically derived prognostic index, was associated with a greater probability of survival after grafting. Patients in the tertile with the best prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration at referral 84 mumol/l and estimated survival in the absence of transplantation of more than nine months) had a 78% one year actuarial survival after transplantation, whereas those in the tertile with the worst prognosis (median serum bilirubin concentration 467 mumol/l and estimated survival of less than four months) had a one year actuarial survival of only 50%. No trend towards earlier referral of patients, however, was shown using either of these two markers. This retrospective analysis suggests that many patients are being referred too late for an optimal outcome. We recommend that patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who are potential candidates for liver grafting should be referred to a transplant centre before the serum bilirubin concentration approaches 150 mumol/l. 
Starch peritonitis. A case report and clinicopathologic review. A case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem. The syndrome's presentation, diagnosis, histopathology and treatment are discussed. The rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons, fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome. In order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves, maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used, and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively. 
Dyspareunia. Tracing the cause. Difficult or painful sexual intercourse is a sensitive topic for most women. The causes range from inflammation of the vulva and interstitial cystitis to marital discord. To exclude an organic disorder, a detailed pelvic examination with good lighting and magnification is in order. Dr DeWitt describes the technique for meticulous examination and discusses the diagnoses that need to be considered. 
Anal sphincter function after intersphincteric resection and stapled ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. This study was done to determine the effect of the direct ileal pouch-anal anastomosis upon pressure and sensory components of the anal canal and ileal pouch. These findings were related to postoperative continence. Thirty-three patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (25 continent, eight with episodic minor incontinence) were studied 3 +/- 0.3 and 25 +/- 5 months after ileostomy takedown. The maximum resting pressure in the anal canal was significantly lower in patients with an imperfect result (35 +/- 5 mm Hg) than in continent patients (44 +/- 5 mm Hg) (P less than 0.05). Postoperatively the maximum squeeze anal pressure was slightly greater in continent than in incontinent patients (99 +/- 8 mm Hg vs. 87 +/- 7 mm Hg) (P greater than 0.05). The postoperative recto-(ileo-)anal inhibitory reflex was present in 27 percent. The linear correlation between strength of rectal (ileal) distension and depth resp. duration of internal sphincter relaxation as preoperatively observed disappeared postoperatively in every group of patients. Simultaneous measurements of pouch and anal pressure in patients with imperfect results revealed a reduced positive pouch anal pressure gradient compared to the continent group. This low pouch-anal pressure gradient is thought to be responsible for the increased incidence of soiling in some of our patients. 
Sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy in patients with severe erosive peptic esophagitis resulting from gastroesophageal reflux. A total of 36 patients with grade 2 or greater erosive esophagitis and an abnormal 24-h pH monitor study, were treated in a randomized, double-blind fashion to assess the efficacy of sucralfate suspension as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine for severe esophagitis secondary to gastroesophageal reflux. Treatment consisted of cimetidine, 300 mg qid and either sucralfate suspension (1 g/10 ml) or an identical placebo suspension, 10 ml after meals and 20 ml hs. Patients were treated for 12 wk unless endoscopic healing occurred earlier. Initial evaluation and monthly follow-up consisted of symptom monitoring, endoscopic evaluation and pre- and post-therapy esophageal manometry, Bernstein test, and 24-h pH monitoring. The combination of cimetidine and sucralfate suspension was superior to cimetidine alone in improving daytime heartburn symptoms (p less than 0.05) but not nighttime heartburn, dysphagia, or regurgitation. Sucralfate plus cimetidine improved the overall endoscopic outcome of esophagitis more than cimetidine alone (p less than 0.05). More patients exhibited endoscopic healing in the adjunctive sucralfate group than in the cimetidine-only group. Endoscopic healing, however, was not statistically different between groups. We conclude that sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine resulted in improvement of some of the symptoms of reflux, and probably increases the likelihood of complete healing of esophagitis, compared with cimetidine alone. 
Esophageal candidiasis in AIDS. Successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth. In this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with AIDS, of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms. Therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets, 100 mg, taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms, oral candidiasis, and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men. Clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in AIDS patients. 
Fibronectin-related substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa. A novel substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa, which was detected immunologically by either polyclonal or monoclonal antihuman fibronectin (FN) antibodies, is reported. All three polyclonal antihuman FN antibodies used in this study reacted immunohistologically exclusively with the chief cells. Monoclonal antibody against C-terminal peptide or cell binding peptide reacted clearly with the human chief cells, but monoclonal antibodies against FN N-terminal and midmolecule failed to react with the cells. Western blot analysis of the rat gastric mucosal extract with polyclonal antihuman FN antibody showed that this substance has a molecular weight of about 70,000 Da. Therefore, this substance appears to be a fragment containing the C-terminal peptide of whole molecule FN and thus in the present study is named FN-related substance (FNRS). In a further study with ethanol-induced ulcer model of the rat, the physiological significance of FNRS was examined. The FNRS decreased remarkably, in a dose-dependent manner, in the fundic mucosa of the rats that ingested ethanol. The FNRS appeared to be associated with development of mucosal damage and repair, subsequently playing, in part, an important role in the gastric mucosal protection mechanism. 
Preliminary report: the antegrade continence enema. The principles of antegrade colonic washout and the Mitrofanoff non-refluxing catheterisable channel were combined to produce a continent catheterisable colonic stoma. The intention was that antegrade washouts delivered by this route would produce complete colonic emptying and thereby prevent soiling. The procedure has been successfully carried out in five patients with intractable faecal incontinence. 
Pivoting larynx--an unusual clinical observation at laryngoscopy. Rigid oesophagoscopy was planned in the investigation of a young patient with dysphagia. During laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation an unusual pivoting manoeuvre was required to see the vocal cords. Although the initial diagnostic investigations were unhelpful, follow up directed at explaining the clinical observations led to an eventual diagnosis of anterior tubercles of C6, which explained the observation and accounted for the dysphagia. 
Management of an extensive tracheoesophageal fistula by cervical esophageal exclusion. Giant tracheoesophageal fistulae occurring in ventilator-dependent patients usually result in significant ventilatory embarrassment. Cervical exclusion of the fistula can safely control the fistula and quickly restore adequate ventilation to these critically ill patients. 
Changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients--a quantitative Golgi study. Although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients, there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation. Loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients; these areas were chosen for this study. Using a modified rapid Golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer III pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls. All parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices. Changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches, which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity. Such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients. 
Diagnosis of magnesium-induced diarrhea BACKGROUND. There is no specific method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. Therefore, the frequency and clinical importance of diarrhea caused by magnesium are unknown. The purposes of this study were to establish a method for diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea and to apply it to patients with chronic diarrhea. METHODS. We measured fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in 19 normal subjects with formed stools (15 collection periods), with non-magnesium-induced diarrhea (36 collection periods), and with diarrhea induced by magnesium hydroxide alone (11 collection periods) or in combination with phenolphthalein (3 collection periods), and in 359 patients with chronic diarrhea. RESULTS. The upper limits of fecal output of soluble magnesium and fecal magnesium concentration in normal subjects were 14.6 mmol per day and 45.2 mmol per liter, respectively. When normal subjects had diarrhea due to the ingestion of magnesium hydroxide alone or in combination with phenolphthalein, fecal magnesium output was always abnormally high. For each millimole increase in fecal magnesium output, fecal weight increased by approximately 7.3 g. The fecal magnesium concentration was very high when magnesium was the only cause of diarrhea but only moderately elevated when diarrhea was induced by magnesium hydroxide plus phenolphthalein. Biochemical and clinical evidence indicated that excessive ingestion of magnesium was an important cause of chronic diarrhea in 15 of the 359 patients with chronic diarrhea (4.2 percent), if not the only cause. CONCLUSIONS. Quantitative fecal analysis for soluble magnesium is an accurate method of diagnosing magnesium-induced diarrhea. Some patients with chronic diarrhea ingest excessive amounts of magnesium (in antacids or food supplements), and physicians may fail to discover this before embarking on an expensive and invasive diagnostic evaluation. 
Cytologic patterns in juice from human pancreatic transplants: correlation with histologic findings in the graft. In 19 patients who had undergone pancreatic transplantation with temporary exteriorization of the pancreatic juice, graft tissue became available for histologic examination. In these patients the cytologic patterns in the pancreatic juice were compared with the histologic findings in the graft specimens. In five samples the diagnosis by cytologic studies was rejection. Acute rejection was confirmed in all the histologic specimens. In eight cytologic samples, graft pancreatitis was suspected because of the increased amounts of neutrophils, degenerating cells, epithelial cells, monocytes, and some macrophages, with or without necrotic tissue fragments. All eight histologic specimens showed findings characteristic of pancreatitis. In three cytologic samples, bacteria or fungi were observed. Histologic examination of these patients showed graft pancreatitis. In four patients the cytologic findings were normal. Graft histologic factors were normal in two instances. In one of these grafts there was graft pancreatitis, and in one graft chronic vascular rejection was seen. Our study shows that two different pathologic events occurring in the pancreatic graft (i.e., acute rejection and pancreatitis) are reflected by characteristic changes in pancreatic juice cytology. 
Prospective randomized study on the effect of ranitidine against injection ulcer after endoscopic injection sclerotherapy for esophageal varices. Thirty-five consecutive patients undergoing endoscopic injection sclerotherapy for esophageal varices were randomly allocated to either ranitidine-administered group (18 patients) or ranitidine-nonadministered group (17 patients), in an attempt to evaluate the efficacy of ranitidine for prevention and healing of postinjection ulcer with a prospective randomized trial. Two of seventeen patients in the nonadministered group dropped out of this trial because of development of gastric ulcer, so 18 patients in the first group were evaluated and compared with the 15 remaining patients in the second group. Sclerotherapy was performed with 5% ethanolamine oleate and 0.6% polydocanol; the mean number of injection courses and the mean amount of sclerosant were the same in both groups. Moreover, there was no significant difference between the two groups in either the occurrence rate or the size of injection ulcer 1 wk after the last session. However, the persistence rate of ulcer 1 month after last injection in the ranitidine-administered group was significantly lower than that in the ranitidine-nonadministered group (6.3% vs. 38.5%, p less than 0.05). Our study demonstrated that ranitidine administration will help to hasten healing of postinjection ulcer, although it was not effective for prevention of injection ulcer. 
Acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy. A case of unusual cholecystitis that developed on completion of interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy is described. A 62-year-old man was treated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells for disseminated renal cell carcinoma. During the course of the immunotherapy, his serum alkaline phosphatase level increased, as did the peripheral eosinophil count (0.31). Subsequently, clinical and radiologic evidence of acute cholecystitis was noted. The removed gallbladder showed acalculus cholecystitis with extensive diffuse infiltrates of numerous eosinophils and T lymphocytes, but sparse polymorphonuclear leukocytes. The authors name this unusual cholecystitis acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis and believe it to be associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy. The pathogenic relationship is discussed. 
Ultrasonic imaging of the abdomen. Report of the ultrasonography task force. Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association. As new imaging modalities emerge and existing technologies improve, indications for a particular imaging method may change. This article examines current indications for abdominal and prostatic ultrasound examination and, where possible, compares ultrasound with other imaging techniques. This is not an attempt to list all possible ultrasound indications or examinations, but rather an attempt to serve as an aid to informed imaging selection based on current literature and equipment. 
Endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension. To assess reliability of the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa for diagnosing portal hypertension, 50 patients with portal hypertension and 1323 controls were studied. Endoscopic evidence of mild gastritis was seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension than in the control group (42% vs. 13.1%, p less than 0.001). The mosaic sign was also seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension compared with controls (14% vs. 0.9%, p less than 0.001). However, the mosaic sign was found to be nonspecific, and the sensitivity for diagnosis of portal hypertension was only 14%. Biopsy specimens from the stomach of all patients with portal hypertension and 100 controls with a normal endoscopic appearance revealed mucosal vascular congestion in 72% of patients with portal hypertension compared with 59% of controls (NS). There was no correlation between endoscopic and histologic evidence of congestive gastropathy. Similarly, there was no correlation between the severity of mucosal vascular congestion and the degree of inflammatory changes observed in the biopsy specimens; both in the control (r = 0.1) and in patients with portal hypertension (r = 0.14). It is concluded that endoscopic and histologic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension are of low sensitivity and nonspecific and cannot be used to diagnose portal hypertension. 
Gallbladder motility in cholesterol gallstone disease. Effect of ursodeoxycholic acid administration and gallstone dissolution Gallbladder motility was evaluated by ultrasonography in 75 cholesterol gallstone patients and in 77 matched control subjects. All 75 gallstone patients were candidates for oral bile acid therapy (radiolucent gallstones, less than 2 cm in diameter, in well-opacified gallbladder), and 38 of them were also studied during ursodeoxycholic acid administration. An additional 20 gallstone patients were studied 1 year after confirmed gallstone dissolution with oral bile acids. Gallstone patients showed significantly greater fasting and residual volumes, a decreased percent of gallbladder emptying, but a similar absolute emptying and emptying rate compared with the control subjects. Greater fasting volumes and reduced percents of gallbladder emptying were also found in gallstone-free patients who achieved complete dissolution with oral bile acids. After ursodeoxycholic acid administration, fasting gallbladder volumes were greater, and percents of gallbladder emptying were further decreased than in untreated gallstone patients. In conclusion, greater fasting volumes, and not reduced gallbladder contractility, account for the defective gallbladder function in radiolucent (cholesterol-rich) gallstone patients. This condition is likely to precede, and possibly to promote, gallstone formation because it persists after gallstone dissolution. Ursodeoxycholic acid administration worsens the defect observed in gallstone patients. This finding also suggests, although indirectly, that the expected normalization of cholesterol saturation during oral bile acid administration is not paralleled by an improvement in gallbladder function. 
Idiopathic gastroparesis is associated with a multiplicity of severe dietary deficiencies. Idiopathic gastroparesis (IG), a disorder characterized by abnormally delayed emptying of food from the stomach, is associated with many symptoms that could have an impact on dietary intake. The intake of dietary protein, carbohydrate, fat, fiber, vitamins, and minerals was prospectively evaluated in patients with symptomatic IG and compared with asymptomatic controls. Twenty-four patients and 24 age- and sex-matched controls completed a detailed 7-day diet record while consuming a self-selected diet. Dietary information was entered into a computer and analyzed using the Nutranal program. Results were expressed as daily intake and percent recommended dietary allowance (%RDA) when applicable. Patients consumed a diet containing fewer calories than would have been predicted based on age, height, sex, frame, and weight (85% of calculated energy expenditure vs 100%) for controls. Although patients with IG consumed significantly fewer calories than controls (1112 kcal vs 1431 kcal), the proportion of fat (32% vs 34%), carbohydrate (49% vs 48%), and protein (17% vs 16%) was similar in the two groups. Intake of vitamins B6, vitamin C, folate, niacin, riboflavin, thiamine, calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, and zinc were below the %RDA. Intake of vitamin B12, vitamin C, folate, thiamine, niacin, magnesium, phosphorus, and zinc were significantly less than controls. Vitamin A intake was above the RDA and not different from that of controls. Prolonged t1/2 of solids correlated with diminished intake of protein, iron, niacin, and potassium. They correlated inversely with serum albumin in patients with idiopathic gastroparesis. Conclusion: Although eating less, patients with IG do not consistently alter the proportion of fat, carbohydrate, and protein in their diets. Because their diet is markedly deficient in a number of essential vitamins and minerals, dietary evaluation and counseling is suggested for all patients with idiopathic gastroparesis. 
Safety of same-day sequential extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and dissolution of gallstones by methyl tert-butyl ether in dogs. Passage of stone fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) of gallstones has resulted in biliary colic, duct obstruction, and pancreatitis in some patients. Rapid dissolution of these fragments with methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) may prevent such side effects and achieve complete clearance of gallstones within hours rather than several months to a year or longer. This study examines the safety of same-day ESWL fragmentation and MTBE dissolution of surgically implanted human gallstones in 15 dogs. The animals were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups to assess MTBE absorption from the gallbladder and to observe hematology and chemistry profiles after 0, 400, and 1,200 shock waves from a lithotriptor followed by MTBE dissolution therapy. They were sacrificed either immediately after treatment (12 dogs) or 2 weeks later (3 dogs). The results demonstrated that although ESWL causes moderate trauma to the gallbladder, this did not result in increased MTBE absorption or histologic evidence of mucosal disruption. Blood profiles demonstrated an increase in only the level of aspartate aminotransferase. The three dogs that were sacrificed 2 weeks after the combined treatment had no residual evidence of gallbladder injury or remaining stone material. In all animals, severe injury occurred where shock waves passed through lung or air-filled colon. This study suggests that same-day sequential fragmentation of gallstones by ESWL followed by dissolution of stone fragments with use of MTBE may be associated with only mild to moderate and reversible gallbladder trauma and can rapidly achieve clearance of gallstones. 
Prospective randomized comparison of esophageal variceal sclerotherapy agents: sodium tetradecyl sulfate versus sodium morrhuate. We designed a prospective randomized study to evaluate differences in efficacy and complication rate between the two most commonly used sclerosing agents, sodium tetradecyl sulfate (STD) and sodium morrhuate (MOR). Of 41 patients with acute index variceal bleeding initially evaluated, 21 were randomized to receive 0.75% STD and 20 to receive 1.6% MOR diluted with 50% dextrose. Overall mortality for the STD group was 38% and that for the MOR group was 25% (NS). Control of acute bleeding was achieved in 86% of the STD patients and 90% of the MOR patients (NS). Overall, obliteration was achieved in only 33% of the STD group and 25% of the MOR group; but in those patients who remained in the study over 3 months, obliteration was achieved in 87 and 83%, respectively (NS). There was a trend toward higher rebleeding in the STD group compared with the MOR group (81% vs. 51%) (p = 0.078), but there was no significant difference between the STD and MOR patients with regard to transfusion requirements (8.4 units/patient vs. 8.7 units/patient), ulceration (53% vs. 40%), or stricture formation (9.5% vs. 0.0%). The results of this study suggest that STD and MOR are clinically equivalent sclerosing solutions, and that bias favoring use of one agent over the other may be unfounded. 
Ulcerative proctitis in central Sweden 1965-1983. A population-based epidemiological study. Ulcerative proctitis has by tradition been regarded as a subgroup of ulcerative colitis. Population-based epidemiological studies of ulcerative proctitis are, however, virtually nonexistent. In an epidemiological study of inflammatory bowel disease in the Uppsala Health Care Region, 1065 cases of ulcerative proctitis were diagnosed from 1965 through 1983. Males predominated, with the male to female ratio 1.4:1. Annual incidence rates were higher in urban than in rural areas. The annual incidence rates increased threefold from 2.8 per 10(5) to 6.6 per 10(5) during the period, affecting all age groups over 14 years of age, in both urban and rural areas and in both sexes. Differences in temporal trends and certain other epidemiological characteristics between ulcerative proctitis and extensive ulcerative colitis suggest that ulcerative proctitis is a specific disease whose etiology differs from that of extensive ulcerative colitis. 
Reoperation for failed gastric bypass procedures for obesity. Reoperation is worthwhile when there is an obvious defect in the gastric reduction operation that has failed to control weight. Reoperation occasionally is necessary to correct a complication of gastric bypass. Vertical banded gastroplasty is the operation of choice for reoperations, as it provides weight control while eliminating the problems of bypass. Conversion of a horizontal to a vertical pouch is safe but requires careful attention to the technique to avoid injury to the other organs in the area and preservation of blood supply to the stomach. The gastrogastrostomy across the old horizontal staple line in the vertical pouch can be constructed in a way that will minimize the risk of obstruction. Vertical banded gastroplasty is now the only operation in use at UIHC for the treatment of obesity and is used not only as the primary operation but in all reoperations. Bypass of the stomach and duodenum is not necessary for weight control and adds some risk of malabsorption and duodenal and stomal ulcer plus a lifetime of inaccessibility of the excluded areas for diagnostic and therapeutic measures. 
The efficacy of palliative and definitive percutaneous versus surgical drainage of pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts: a prospective study of 85 patients. We compared the efficacy of percutaneous to surgical drainage in a prospective study in 85 patients with pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts. Percutaneous drainage of pancreatic abscesses in 18 patients cured three and palliated 12 who were eventually cured by elective surgical ablation; three patients died. This compares well to our 15 surgical patients, of whom four were cured by surgery alone and six were palliated. All were subsequently cured by additional computerized tomography-guided or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage and medical management or surgery. Five of the 15 died. Percutaneous drainage cured 11 of 14 infected pseudocysts and palliated two, which were subsequently cured by surgery; one was palliated but the patient was lost to follow-up. Surgical drainage cured six of 12 infected pseudocysts and palliated the other six, of which four were cured by further surgery and the other two were cured by secondary percutaneous drainage. Nine of 12 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by percutaneous aspiration, and two were palliated and later cured. In one patient, disease progressed, and he was ultimately lost to follow-up. Thirteen of 14 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by surgical drainage. The other patient died of pulmonary embolus. In patients treated by percutaneous techniques, there were four major complications. Our study established distinct advantages of percutaneous drainage under computerized tomographic and ultrasonic guidance: (1) the procedures can be carried out under ultrasonic guidance in an intensive care unit on critically ill patients, (2) the technique proved highly effective for initial palliation, with defervescence and stabilization occurring in most critically ill patients within 48 hours, (3) findings from fine needle aspiration provided valuable information as to microorganisms and antibiotic sensitivities and differed in 29 of 85 patients from those of concomitant blood cultures, and (4) definitive eradication of the process (surgical ablation of residual necrotic material) can be elected after the patient's clinical condition stabilizes. 
Gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether in 120 patients--efficacy and safety. Of 612 patients with cholesterol gallbladder stones, 120 were eligible for percutaneous transhepatic litholysis with methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE). Puncture of the gallbladder was successful in 117/120 (97.5%). In 113/117 (96.6%) the stones dissolved. With solitary stones, treatment lasted for an average of 4 hr, with multiple stones 10 hr. Mean hospitalization was 3.6 days. In 3/117 (2.6%) patients a bile leakage developed; 33% reported mild complaints. After the end of treatment 34% had some residue in the gallbladder; two of these patients developed recurrent stones. MTBE is exhaled, is distributed in fatty tissue, and is excreted renally together with its metabolite tert-butanol. Methanol was found only in traces. Gallbladder histology of six patients showed chronic cholecystitis. Since these findings were independent of treatment time and the interval between treatment end and operation, they are most consistent with stone-related changes rather than caused by MTBE. 
Biliary sludge: a critical update. Biliary sludge has been for many years a poorly defined entity, usually with low amplitude, nonshadowing echoes within the most dependent part of the gallbladder, which shift under the influence of postural changes. From a sonographic point of view, the detection of sludge implies the coexistence of small-sized, solid components and of a gel-like embedding material. The chemical nature of biliary sludge has recently been recognized to be predominantly composed of a coaggregate of cholesterol monohydrate crystals and liquid crystalline droplets, and in some cases, such as obstructive jaundice or symptomatic liver diseases, by bilirubin granules, all embedded in a gel matrix of mucous glycoproteins. From a pathogenic point of view, biliary sludge is often associated with biliary stasis, or with conditions characterized by impaired gallbladder contraction, such as prolonged total parenteral nutrition, fasting, and pregnancy. Other causes include mucus hypersecretion, which may favor cholesterol nucleation and crystal growth, and bile infection. Sludge may be an intermediate step in the formation of different types of stones. From an epidemiological point of view, sludge is quite rare in the asymptomatic, free-living population, but may be common in selected series of symptomatic patients. From a clinical point of view, sludge often has a fluctuating course, including frequent disappearances and reappearances, suggesting that the early stages of gallstone formation are reversible. 
Fulminant hepatitis B: induction by hepatitis B virus mutants defective in the precore region and incapable of encoding e antigen. Clones of hepatitis B virus were propagated from 10 cases of fulminant hepatitis B after amplification by polymerase chain reaction and their nucleotide sequences of the precore region were determined. All 113 clones from 9 cases had a point mutation from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region, which converted codon 28 for tryptophan (TGG) to a stop codon (TAG) and prohibited the synthesis and secretion of hepatitis B e antigen. Precore-region defects were not detected in any of 23 clones from the remaining 1 case. By contrast, precore-region defects were not found in any of 180 clones from 8 cases of acute hepatitis B without hepatic failure serving as controls. The source of infection was traceable in 3 cases. The same precore-region defect, along with the sequence identity of 435 nucleotides, was observed in clones from the case of a baby and his grandmother, who carried the virus and was implicated in the transmission, and also in clones from two pediatricians and the carrier patients they attended. These findings support the hypothesis that precore-defective mutants have stronger activity to induce fulminant hepatitis than nondefective viruses. 
Success of a program of routine prenatal screening for hepatitis B surface antigen: the first 2 years. Prenatal screening for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) restricted to women with defined risk factors for chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection fails to identify many carriers. A centralized program of routine HBsAg screening for all pregnant women in Alberta was introduced in 1985. We collected and analysed data for the first 2 years of the program in Edmonton to determine the frequency of risk factors for HBsAg positivity, the proportion of multiparous HBsAg-positive women not identified in previous pregnancies, the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of providing immunoprophylaxis to infants at risk of HBV infection and the degree of success in inducing adequate protection. A total of 149 women (158 pregnancies) were found to be HBsAg positive. Risk factors were readily ascertainable for 85% of the women; the remaining 15% would not have been identified through risk-selective screening. The most common risk factors were Oriental ethnic origin, history of hepatitis, jaundice or multiple transfusions of blood or blood products, and occupational exposure to blood. Although 86% of the multiparous HBsAg-positive women had risk factors, only 7% had been identified in previous pregnancies. The Alberta program appears to be cost-effective. We conclude that only routine prenatal screening will identify all infants at risk of perinatal HBV infection and that a comprehensive public health program involving central laboratories, private physicians and public health staff can be highly effective and efficient in protecting infants against hepatitis B. 
A valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit for biliary atresia. Forty-six consecutive patients with biliary atresia were operated on at our institution during the 11-year period between 1978 and 1989. Their ages at operation ranged from 18 to 153 days (mean, 59 days). After dissecting the porta hepatis structures by Kasai operation, a biliointestinal anastomosis was constructed with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit in all cases. The intestinal valve is an intussuscepted muscular valve. Valvular function was examined radiologically. The upper gastrointestinal series demonstrated no reflux of contrast material into the conduit proximal to the valve and liver scintigraphy demonstrated that radioactive isotope drained readily into the duodenum through the valve. Thirty-nine of the forty-six patients (85%) had bile drainage after initial operation. At present 30 patients (65%) are alive without jaundice, 6 (13%) are alive with jaundice, and 10 (22%) are dead. The 5-year jaundice-free survival rate was 64%. Cholangitis occurred in 9 of 39 patients (23%) who had obtained apparent bile drainage: 5 had tractable cholangitis and 4 had refractory cholangitis. Reoperation restored bile flow in 2 of 8 patients who abruptly ceased to have bile drainage without cholangitis. In conclusion, with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit, the incidence of cholangitis was decreased, its medical control became easier, and the survival rate was improved. 
Interferon-alpha receptor expression and regulation in chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Interferon-alpha elicits antiviral and immunoregulatory activities by binding to specific receptors on the cell surface. In this study, binding characteristics of interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection were studied using radioiodinated recombinant interferon-alpha 2b to determine interferon-alpha receptor numbers and dissociation constants. A single class of interferon-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection (n = 20) and controls (n = 16) expressed a similar number of interferon-alpha receptors (484 +/- 175 vs. 511 +/- 168 sites/cell respectively, p = NS) with a similar dissociation constant (dissociation constant approximately 0.2 to 0.7 nmol/L). Expression of interferon-alpha receptors was similar in monocyte-enriched and lymphocyte-enriched fractions in both groups. Similar changes were observed in patients receiving alpha-interferon therapy. There was no correlation between interferon-alpha receptors expression and serum transaminase, serum HBsAg, serum HBV DNA, liver histological findings or the response to interferon-alpha therapy. After incubation of lymphocytes in vitro with interferon-alpha 2b (10 to 1,000 U/ml), interferon-alpha receptors number dropped by 42% to 80%, but this was associated with an increase in binding affinity (dissociation constant approximately 0.05 to 0.15 nmol/L) in both patients and controls. There was significant delay in the initial phase of receptor recovery in the patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection compared with normal controls (days 1 and 2, p less than 0.05). 
Hepatic metabolism of cholesterol in Crohn's disease. Effect of partial resection of ileum. To study cholesterol metabolism in Crohn's disease and especially the effect of ileum resection, liver biopsy specimens were obtained from patients undergoing partial ileal resection because of Crohn's disease (n = 17) and patients with Crohn's colitis undergoing colectomy (n = 3). Gallstone-free patients (n = 16) undergoing cholecystectomy because of adenomyomas or polyps of the gallbladder served as controls. The mean levels of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity, rate-determining enzymes in bile acid, and cholesterol synthesis, respectively, were twofold to threefold higher in the ileum-resected patients than in the controls. Significant positive correlations were obtained between length of resected ileum and cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity. Provided patients who had received total parenteral nutrition preoperatively were excluded from analysis, a significant correlation was also observed between length of resected ileum and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity. Significant positive correlations were also obtained between length of resected ileum and serum levels of 7 alpha-hydroxycholesterol (a marker for bile acid biosynthesis) and lathosterol (a marker for cholesterol synthesis). The plasma levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were negatively correlated to the length of resected ileum. The expression of hepatic low-density lipoprotein-receptor binding activity was determined in five of the patients and in three of the controls. A significant positive correlation was observed between 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity and low-density lipoprotein-receptor binding activity. The results show that malabsorption of bile acids leads to parallel stimulation of cholesterol synthesis, cholesterol degradation, and low-density lipoprotein-receptor expression in human liver. The resulting effect in the present patients was a significant reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. 
Suboptimal response to hepatitis B vaccine in drug users. Fifty-five drug users institutionalized in a community for drug detoxification were vaccinated against hepatitis B virus (HBV) with a recombinant yeast-derived vaccine (Engerix B, Smith Kline Biologicals, Belgium). At 0, 1, and 6 months, 20 micrograms of vaccine was given in the deltoid to these patients, of whom 17 had no serum HBV markers, 15 had only the antibody to core antigen (anti-HBc), and 23 had anti-HBc and antibody to the surface antigen (anti-HBs) values lower than the allegedly "protective" value of 10 mIU/mL. Forty-one healthy controls were vaccinated in parallel. At month 7 (ie, 1 month after the third dose of vaccine), in 76% (13/17) of drug users with no HBV markers, 6% (1/15) of those with isolated anti-HBc, and 69% (16/23) of those with anti-HBc and nonprotective anti-HBs, protective anti-HBs titers (greater than or equal to 10 mIU/mL) developed, compared with 97% (40/41) of controls. At month 24, these rates fell to 43% for drug users with no HBV marker, 0% for those with anti-HBc, 31% for those with anti-HBc and anti-HBs, and 86% for controls. The drug users who did not respond to vaccination were more likely to be those with evidence of prior HBV infection and anergy to skin tests. This indicates that unresponsiveness to hepatitis B vaccine in drug users may be due to altered immunity. 
Long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis B: a prospective, randomized treatment trial. We conducted a prospective, randomized trial to study the efficacy and tolerance of long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Ten patients were randomly assigned to a 6-month interferon regimen, and 10 patients were assigned to a 3-week interferon trial. Eleven patients (five assigned to long-term treatment and six to short-term treatment) did not complete interferon therapy: eight had either severe thrombocytopenia or neutropenia; one had pronounced fatigue in relationship to administration of interferon; one had spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and sepsis and died; and one had a massive fatal variceal hemorrhage during interferon therapy. Most of the serious hematologic complications occurred in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism. In one patient, seroconversion to hepatitis B virus DNA negativity occurred before the onset of treatment. Four of the five patients able to complete the 6-month interferon regimen and only one of four patients able to complete the 3-week trial had seroconversion to hepatitis B virus DNA negativity. Thus, we conclude that the therapeutic response was better among patients who were able to complete a 6-month interferon trial. In patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism, development of either severe thrombocytopenia or leukopenia associated with interferon therapy precluded completion of treatment. 
Mechanical lithotripsy of common duct stones. Over the past 8 years we have utilized various types of mechanical lithotriptors to crush common bile duct stones. The procedure was performed in 93 patients with an overall success rate of 94%. However, because many accessories were in a developmental stage, entrapment of stones was not always possible on the first attempt, and the procedure was repeated in some patients a second or third time. During the interim, while awaiting another attempt at lithotripsy, cholangitis was prevented by leaving a prosthesis in place. A variety of lithotriptor models from different manufacturers have proven effective. We recommend that endoscopists use these devices to rid the bile duct of retained stones. 
Surgical complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Surgical experience with 260 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) at one medical center from 1980 to 1989 is reviewed. Patients received CAPD for a mean of 24.2 months (range: 3 days to 91 months). Catheter longevity consistently improved in all but 1 year from 1984 to 1989, as did exit-site and tunnel infections. Of 311 catheters inserted, 151 (49%) required removal, of which 111 (74%) were attributed to peritonitis. Cumulative patient survival was 80%, 60%, and 53% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Diabetic patients had statistically significant lower survival rates. Additional complications including catheter leakage, catheter malposition, catheter obstruction, and abdominal wall hernias were negligible. Although CAPD is not free from serious complications, our data show remarkable improvement since 1980 in catheter longevity, hospital stay, and infection rates. 
Primary adrenal insufficiency: a new cause of reversible gastric stasis. Primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms; however, it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis. We have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement. A follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying. Although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency, this represents the first case in which it has been documented, and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting. 
Defective jejunal brush border membrane sodium/proton exchange in association with lethal familial protracted diarrhoea. The spectrum of clinical disease associated with specific defects in jejunal brush border membrane sodium/proton exchange is poorly defined and only two patients have been described so far. Jejunal brush border membrane transport studies were performed in a boy who presented with lethal familial protracted diarrhoea in the first few days of life. Using jejunal brush border membrane vesicles prepared from conventional jejunal biopsy specimens, initial sodium uptake under H+ gradient conditions was found to be only 6% of the mean control value. In contrast, sodium stimulated glucose uptake was normal. Our data confirm the importance of a congenital defect in this exchanger as a cause of severe sodium-losing diarrhoea and extend the spectrum of disorders characterised by a specific defect in brush border membrane Na+/H+ exchange to include some forms of lethal familial protracted diarrhoea. 
Ten years' experience with an elemental diet in the management of Crohn's disease. The immediate and longterm outcome of treating patients with acute Crohn's disease with an elemental diet was studied retrospectively. Successful diet induced remission was achieved in 96 of 113 patients (85%) regardless of age, sex, site or severity of disease, or associated complications of strictures, fistula, or perianal disease. Treatment was unsuccessful in 17 patients (15%), but there were no features at the outset of treatment that distinguished these patients from those who had successful remission. The longterm outcome of treatment was assessed over a five year period by analysis of life tables and survival curves. Twenty two per cent of the patients relapsed within six months of treatment and thereafter the annual relapse rate was 8-10%. Patients with disease complicated by fistula or perianal involvement had early relapse, approaching 100% for the latter. A further retrospective comparison of longterm outcome of diet v steroid induced remissions showed no significant difference in the relapse rates between the two groups at one, three, and five years. 
Regulation of collagen production in freshly isolated cell populations from normal and cirrhotic rat liver: effect of lactate. Previous work has shown that lactic acid, and to a lesser extent pyruvic acid, is able to increase collagen synthesis significantly in liver slices of CCl4-treated rats but not normal rats. The purpose of this report is to document which cells in the cirrhotic liver are responsible for the lactate-stimulated increase in collagen synthesis. It was found that (a) incorporation of 3H-proline into protein-bound 3H-hydroxyproline is increased threefold to fourfold in hepatocytes from CCl4-treated rats as compared with normal rat hepatocytes; (b) neither the hepatocytes from normal nor those from CCl4-treated rats modify their collagen synthesizing capacity when 30 mmol/L lactic acid was added to the incubation medium; (c) nonparenchymal cells obtained from livers of CCl4-treated rats synthesize much less collagen than hepatocytes, but their synthesis is stimulated twofold by lactic acid; (d) from the different nonparenchymal cells, only fat-storing (Ito) cells increase collagen synthesis when lactic acid is present in the incubation medium. These results suggest that the increased lactic acid levels observed in patients with alcoholic hepatic cirrhosis may play an important role in the development of fibrosis by stimulating collagen production by fat-storing (Ito) cells. 
Collis gastroplasty: origin and evolution. In 1957 J. Leigh Collis published his innovative operation for treating the difficult problem of the irreducible hiatal hernia, esophagitis, and stricture. The design of the operation was based on the relatively primitive understanding of hiatal hernia and the newly emerging concept of reflux esophagitis. A variety of antireflux operations by different surgeons emerged over the years to follow. The original Collis gastroplasty has been subsequently modified with the addition of both partial and complete fundoplication procedures. The place of the modified Collis gastroplasty-fundoplication operations in today's approach to the problems of hiatal hernia and gastroesophageal reflux disease remains unsettled. 
In vitro anticolon antibody production by mucosal or peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with ulcerative colitis [published erratum appears in Gut 1991 Apr;32(4):460] Serum anticolon antibody and in vitro anti-colon antibody production by peripheral blood and mucosal lymphocytes was investigated in patients with ulcerative colitis. The frequency of serum anticolon antibody was 71% in 41 patients with ulcerative colitis, estimated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using isolated rat colon epithelial cells. This finding confirms our previous report on the frequency of serum anticolon antibody detected by flow cytometry analysis. The estimated frequencies of IgG anticolon antibody secreting cells were 1.5-12.5/10(6) cells in the colonic mucosa and 0.1-0.5/10(6) cells in peripheral blood, from patients with ulcerative colitis when Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was used as a B cell polyclonal activator. Poisson analysis of limiting dilution culture showed that about one per 140 IgG cells in the colonic mucosa synthesised anticolon antibody. Two monoclonal IgG antibodies were obtained from EBV transformed anticolon antibody secreting cells by limiting dilution method. One reacted with goblet cells in the intestine, and the other reacted mainly with colonic epithelial cells. These results suggest that heterogeneous anticolon antibodies are present in patients with ulcerative colitis and that colonic mucosa may be the main source of anticolon antibody. Local autoimmune reaction might have an important role in causing the inflammation of colonic mucosa in this disease. 
Evaluation of portal-systemic shunting in rats from mesenteric and splenic beds. In rats with partial portal vein ligation, 95 +/- 0.9% of the splenic blood flow is shunted from the portal to the systemic circulation when an intrasplenic injection of microspheres is used to determine the degree of shunting. Despite this magnitude of portal-systemic shunting, several biochemical and endocrine consequences of portal-systemic shunting occur at levels below what is expected for the degree of shunting found. In an effort to resolve these discordant findings, shunting from both the splenic and the mesenteric bed was studied in anesthetized portal hypertensive rats with various degrees and/or duration of portal vein stenosis. The shunting from the mesenteric bed averaged 66.7 +/- 29.9% (range 5.1-99.1%) and was influenced both by the degree and duration of portal vein stenosis. In contrast, shunting from the splenic bed averaged 97.3 +/- 4.0% (range 79-99.9%) and demonstrated no variation between groups determined by the degree of portal vein stenosis. The shunting from the splenic bed was consistently greater than that found from the mesenteric bed. Mesenteric but not splenic shunting correlated with serum bile acid levels. Mesenteric shunting was related inversely to the weight-adjusted liver mass and to serum testosterone levels. Based upon these data obtained in portal hypertensive rats, it is concluded that splenic injections of microspheres overestimate portal-systemic shunting. In contrast, mesenteric injections of microspheres yield values for shunting that correlate well with independently determined biochemical and endocrine consequences of shunting. These observations support the validity of the mesenteric shunting measurements obtained. 
Increased cholecystectomy rates in Saudi Arabia Gallstones have become increasingly prevalent in Saudi Arabia, where cholecystectomy is now one of the commonest major abdominal operations. 2854 people underwent cholecystectomy in the 14 hospitals of the country's Eastern Province in the years 1977 to 1986. During this period the overall frequency of cholecystectomy increased by 978%, a finding not explained by the 67% increase in population or the 87% increase in other operations. Simultaneously, the average daily individual consumption of total calories, fat, and sugar increased by 81%, 197%, and 164%, respectively, and consumption of high-fibre grain fell by 75%. This striking increase in the frequency of cholecystectomy, which presumably reflects the incidence of gallstones, cannot be explained by demographic changes and seems more closely linked to the concomitant changes in dietary habits. 
Gallstone lithotripsy: relevant physical principles and technical issues. A basic understanding of shock wave generation is essential for the radiologist who performs gallstone lithotripsy. Shock waves differ from ordinary acoustic waves in that they have a rapid rise time, a positive pressure component that gives rise to compressive forces approaching 1,000 atm, and a low-amplitude sustained negative pressure (rarefactive) component. Shock waves are created by means of three different types of shock wave generators: spark-gap, electromagnetic, and piezoelectric. The authors describe and compare these three types of shock wave generators with regard to equipment selection. Regardless of how shock waves are generated, they share common interactions with tissue. These interactions are reviewed along with the proposed mechanisms of stone fragmentation. 
Pancreatic pseudocysts. When to drain, when to wait. Acute pain in the upper abdomen in a patient recovering from pancreatitis or abdominal trauma may herald a pancreatic pseudocyst. Although small cysts resolve spontaneously, those larger than 6 cm across usually require treatment to prevent such complications as rupture into adjacent structures and infection. The authors describe operative and nonoperative treatment methods and the success reported with each. 
Evaluation of the magnitude of gastro-oesophageal reflux in Barrett's oesophagus. A manometric study to determine the role of gastro-oesophageal reflux in Barrett's oesophagus was performed on 20 patients with Barrett's oesophagus and 53 patients with reflux oesophagitis without Barrett's oesophagus (25 with mild oesophagitis and 28 with severe oesophagitis). For the same reason, the 20 patients with Barrett's oesophagus also underwent 24 hour continuous oesophageal pH monitoring, and the results obtained were compared with those of 20 oesophagitis patients without Barrett's oesophagus (10 with mild oesophagitis and 10 with severe oesophagitis). The manometric results show that the motor changes found in the Barrett's group are specific but similar to the motor dysfunction associated with reflux oesophagitis. Motor anomalies are probably related more to the inflammatory process in the oesophageal wall than to the metaplastic changes themselves. The pH monitoring results show that while reflux in the Barrett's oesophagus patients was greater overall than in the oesophagitis group without Barrett's oesophagus, the changes are similar when the results are compared with the severe oesophagitis group. In conclusion there are other factors besides gastro-oesophageal reflux involved in the pathogenesis of Barrett's oesophagus. 
Propofol as an i.v. anaesthetic induction agent in variegate porphyria. The choice of an i.v. anaesthetic induction poses problems for the anaesthetist confronted with a patient with one of the acute porphyrias. We undertook a prospective clinical trial in 13 variegate porphyric subjects using propofol as an anaesthetic induction agent. Urinary porphyrin precursors and porphyrins were measured before operation and 1-5 days after operation. Stool and plasma porphyrin concentrations were measured over the same period. Comparison of these data in the porphyric patients and in 21 control subjects over the trial period revealed no significant change in porphyrin or porphyrin precursor output after operation. Urinary porphyrin precursor concentrations did not exceed the limits established for variegate porphyric patients in remission, and there were no changes in the stool and plasma porphyrin profiles or any symptoms of an acute porphyric attack. We conclude that propofol did not appear to be porphyrinogenic when used for the induction of anaesthesia in 13 patients with variegate porphyria. 
Proposal of a modified scintigraphic method to evaluate duodenogastroesophageal reflux. Hepatobiliary scintigraphy with 99mTc-HIDA offers a noninvasive method to detect duodenogastric reflux. Biliary reflux was graded using the persistence rather than the intensity of the radioactive refluxate: Grade 0 was considered the absence of reflux, minimal reflux, or reflux in the first 10-15 min; Grade 1 was repetitive reflux lasting less than 10 min; Grade 2 was persistent reflux; and Grade 3 was reflux up to the esophagus. Twenty-five patients with foregut symptoms were studied and results were compared to 24-hr gastric pH monitoring. Scintigraphy and pH monitoring agreed in 15 out of 25 patients (60%), but no correlation was found with the endoscopic findings. The rationale for this approach is based on pathophysiologic evidence that damage to gastric and/or esophageal mucosa is mainly related to the prolonged contact time with duodenal contents. This technique seems to allow a complete functional evaluation of the esophagogastroduodenal tract without causing adjunctive irradiation or discomfort to the patient. 
Plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is related to liver function but not to portal-systemic shunting, systemic vascular resistance, or urinary sodium excretion. We tested the hypothesis that increased plasma glucagon concentration resulting from portal-systemic shunting or liver dysfunction causes arterial vasodilation and thereby stimulates sodium retention in cirrhosis. Twenty-seven studies were performed in patients with alcoholic liver disease, 11 of whom had ascites. Liver function was quantitated as the elimination rate of antipyrine, caffeine, and stable isotopes of cholic acid administered both orally (2,2,4,4-2H) and intravenously (24-13C). Portal-systemic shunt fraction was calculated as the ratio of the intravenous and oral clearances of the isotopes of cholic acid. Cardiac output was measured by using Doppler echocardiography. Plasma glucagon concentration was increased in patients with ascites when compared with that in patients without ascites (474 +/- 180 pg/ml vs 245 +/- 120 pg/ml, p = 0.0007) but was unrelated to urinary sodium excretion, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and systemic vascular resistance (r = -0.48, 0.35, -0.13, 0.18, and 0.22, respectively). Plasma glucagon concentration correlated with the half-lives of all model compounds (r = 0.58, p = 0.002; r = 0.62, p = 0.0008; r = 0.62, p = 0.001; and r = 0.64, p = 0.0005; for caffeine, antipyrine, oral and intravenous cholic acid, respectively) but not with shunt fraction (r = 0.14). Increased plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is probably a result of diminished hepatic clearance. However, increased plasma concentration of glucagon does not appear to cause a hyperdynamic circulatory state or sodium retention. 
Relationships of somatic symptoms to behavioral and emotional risk in young adolescents. Junior high students (n = 1508) from a midwestern community completed a health behavioral questionnaire that asked the frequency of headache and abdominal pain and of a number of behavioral and emotional risk indicators. Headache (24%) and abdominal pain (13%) were frequently reported among these young adolescents, particularly among girls. Those reporting frequent somatic complaints also reported significantly more behavioral and emotional symptoms indicative of risk (p less than 0.001). Further, the interaction between somatic complaint and gender significantly affected risk status (p less than 0.01). This interaction was greater with behavioral risk: boys with both abdominal pain and headaches reported higher behavioral risk than all other groups (p less than 0.0001). Somatic symptoms continued to account for a significant amount of variance in behavioral risk after the effects of emotional risk and age were removed. This suggests that behavioral risk and emotional risk are independently associated with somatic complaints. The evaluation of persistent somatic complaints in adolescents, particularly in boys with abdominal symptoms, should include careful examination of emotional risk factors and other health-endangering behaviors such as substance use, early sexual activity, and delinquency. 
Involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours. This study tests whether the rate of IL-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane (Tx) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event. Recombinant human IL-2, 10(5) U (n = 7), 10(6) U (n = 9), or vehicle (n = 8) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour. At 6 hours edema, as measured by increase in wet to dry weight (w/d) ratio, was present in the heart, liver, and kidney, with 10(5) U IL-2 and in the lung, heart, liver and kidney, with 10(6) U IL-2, relative to values with vehicle-infused controls (all p less than 0.05). With a 1-hour infusion of 10(6) U IL-2, there was an increase in plasma thromboxane (Tx)B2 level to 1290 +/- 245 pg/mL, higher than 481 +/- 93 pg/mL in control rats (p less than 0.05); lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) sequestration of 53 +/- 7 PMN/10 higher-power fields (HPF) relative to 23 +/- 2 PMN/10 HPF in controls (p less than 0.05); and increased bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid protein concentration of 1970 +/- 210 micrograms/mL relative to 460 micrograms/mL in controls (p less than 0.05). When 10(6) U IL-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus (n = 9), edema was not demonstrated, plasma TxB2 levels were similar to controls, there was no leukosequestration, and BAL protein levels were normal. These data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of IL-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema, increased plasma TxB2, sequestration of PMNs, and microvascular permeability. These findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose IL-2 in cancer treatment. 
Blood contacts during surgical procedures Operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact. To describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors, trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Ga, for 6 months. In 62 (30.1%) of 206 operations, at least one blood contact was observed. Of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed, 96 (5.3%) had 147 blood contacts (133 skin contacts [90%], 10 percutaneous injuries [7%], and four eye splashes [3%]). The mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons (18.6). The frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff (mean, 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group). Risk factors for surgeons' blood contacts were (1) performing a trauma, burn, or orthopedic emergency procedure (odds ratio [OR], 4.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.0 to 8.7); (2) patient blood loss exceeding 250mL (OR, 2.1; 95% CI, 1.2 to 3.7); and (3) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour (OR, 3.3; 95% CI, 1.6 to 7.1). Of 110 blood contacts among surgeons, 81 (74%) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions, such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns. Twenty-one (84%) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers. Of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel, 20 (69%) would have been prevented by glove use. For surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact, reevaluation of surgical technique, use of appropriate barrier precautions, and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated. 
Prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding. The prognostic significance of the white nipple sign in variceal bleeding was evaluated prospectively in 203 separate admissions for bleeding esophageal varices in 145 cirrhotic patients. During all admissions a standardized protocol of management defined the failure of transfusion and vasoactive drugs (conservative measures) to stop bleeding and the occurrence of early rebleeding, at which time either emergency sclerotherapy or a staple transection of the esophagus was used. The finding of a white nipple in 18 admissions (9%) did not have predictive value as regards the failure of conservative measures to stop bleeding within 24 hours or rebleeding within 5 days, and there was no association with increased mortality. In one case, a white nipple was seen to occur after spontaneous cessation of a variceal venous spurt, suggesting it is a platelet-fibrin plug. The white nipple sign is diagnostic of a varix that has bled but has no adverse prognostic significance. 
Abdominal sparganosis in Ecuador: a case report. Sparganosis, infection with plerocercoids of the pseudophyllidean tapeworm Spirometra, rarely has been described in Ecuador. We report the details of a human case of sparganosis identified serendipitously in the course of an abdominal hernia repair. The parasite was found moving freely upon the external oblique fascia adjacent to the site of a direct abdominal hernia. The organism was recovered intact, photographed while alive and preserved for subsequent detailed morphological studies. The presumed route of entry into this patient was percutaneous, after application of a poultice of snake flesh to the site of a painful abdominal hernia. The literature on sparganosis in South America is reviewed. This is the second case of human sparganosis reported from Ecuador. 
Update on the epidemiology of anorexia nervosa in a defined region of Switzerland. In this follow-up investigation, the authors studied all Swiss women in the canton of Zurich who developed anorexia nervosa between ages 12 and 25 years and who were hospitalized for the first time with this diagnosis between 1983 and 1985. Data were compared with those from an earlier study, which focused on the periods 1956-1958, 1963-1965, and 1973-1975. The incidence of anorexia nervosa did not increase significantly during 1983-1985 compared to 1973-1975, in contrast to the constant increase found between 1956 and 1975. However, the more frequent use of vomiting and abuse of laxatives in 1983-1985 may indicate an increase in cases with mixed features of anorexia nervosa and bulimia. 
Barium meals in the elderly--a quality reassurance. The consecutive double contrast barium meal examinations of 100 elderly patients (aged over 65 years) and a group of 33 younger adult patients were analysed by two observers for technical quality and pathological abnormalities. Technical quality declined with patient age, especially in those over 75 years, but was sufficient to enable diagnosis of abnormalities in 60% of the elderly group. It is concluded that, in the majority of elderly patients, the technical quality of double contrast barium meal examinations is sufficiently high to offer considerable diagnostic utility. 
Gallstone disease in north India: clinical and ultrasound profile in a referral hospital. We studied the prevalence of gallstones in patients with upper abdominal pain, heaviness, or discomfort by ultrasound examination of the gallbladder. The actual ultrasound examination was performed by a clinical gastroenterologist blinded to the symptoms. Of 1,680 consecutive dyspeptic patients, 500 (29.8%) had gallstones. The gallbladder was contracted in 450 (91.2%), normal-size in 36 (7.2%), and distended in 8 (1.6%). Biliary colic was more frequently the presenting complaint in patients with a contracted gallbladder than in those with normal size gallbladder (p less than 0.001). Dyspepsia was more frequent in the presence of a normal size gallbladder than a contracted one (p less than 0.001). We conclude that ultrasonography of the gallbladder by the clinician has a high diagnostic yield, and the symptom complex has an excellent correlation with the sonographic appearance. 
Outpatient health care utilization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. On the basis of the normal life expectancy of inflammatory bowel disease patients, the early onset of their disease, and the variety of symptoms, inflammatory bowel disease patients were anticipated to be frequent users of outpatients services. This study assesses (1) the characteristics, (2) outpatient health care utilization, and (3) the degree of satisfaction with health care of inflammatory bowel disease patients compared to patients with other gastrointestinal disease. The study method was a secondary analysis of data collected on 395 patients attending the University of Calgary Gastroenterology Outpatient Clinic in 1988. Inflammatory bowel disease patients were significantly younger (P less than 0.001) and better educated (P less than 0.05) than other patients. During the past year inflammatory bowel disease patients consulted significantly more often with their gastroenterologist (P less than 0.001) and spent more time in hospital (P less than 0.05) than other patients. Inflammatory bowel disease patients also consulted more frequently with herbalists and naturopaths. Lastly, inflammatory bowel disease patients were as satisfied with the health care they received as other patients. These results provide information useful for health care planners as well as for those dealing directly with inflammatory bowel disease patients. 
Castor bean intoxication. We report the cases of a child who ingested two or more castor beans and two adults who each ingested four beans. All three patients developed severe gastroenteritis and recovered without sequelae after receiving IV fluids. The literature contains reports of 424 cases of castor bean intoxication. Symptoms of intoxication include acute gastroenteritis, fluid and electrolyte depletion, gastrointestinal bleeding, hemolysis, and hypoglycemia. Delayed cytotoxicity has not been reported. Of the 424 patients, 14 died (mortality rates: 8.1% of untreated and 0.4% of treated). Deaths were due to hypovolemic shock. Recommended treatment for asymptomatic patients who have chewed one or more raw beans is emergency department evaluation, gastric decontamination, administration of activated charcoal, observation until four to six hours after ingestion, and discharge instructions to return if symptoms develop. After decontamination and activated charcoal, symptomatic patients require hospitalization for treatment with IV fluids, supportive care, and monitoring for hypoglycemia, hemolysis, and complications of hypovolemia. Monitoring for delayed cytotoxicity is unnecessary. Castor beans and their dust are highly allergenic and may cause anaphylaxis. 
Increasing prevalence of gallstones in male veterans with alcoholic cirrhosis. Cases of alcoholic cirrhosis identified at necropsy were studied for the prevalence and type of gallstones, compared with age- and race-matched autopsy controls. Data were examined from 1970-1977 and 1980-1987. In the early sample of 460 cirrhotic patients, 33% had gallstone disease, contrasted with 12% in the controls. In the 1980s, among 299 patients, 46% had gallstone disease, whereas it was present in 13% of the controls. The prevalence of stones was significantly greater in the patients than in the controls for both time periods and, among the patients, was significantly greater in the 1980s than in the 1970s (p less than 0.05). A comparison of cirrhotic patients with and without gallstones indicated a significantly higher incidence of ascites in the patients with gallstones. The gallstones in cirrhotics were more frequently pigmented than in the controls in both time periods. In 100 living patients with advanced cirrhosis studied by sonography during 1987 and 1989, the prevalence of gallstones was 43%, almost the same as the autopsy sample from 1980-1987. In these cirrhotics, ascites, encephalopathy, and varices were more prevalent in the patients with stones than those without. We conclude that pigmented gallstones are increasing in cirrhosis of the liver related to the severity of the liver disease. 
Gastric emptying in infants and children: limited utility of 1-hour measurement. Gastric emptying measurements were performed in infants and children at 1 and 2 hours after a liquid feeding. The 1-hour measurements were predictive of only 58% of the variability in the 2-hour measurements, indicating that the 1-hour measurement was not a good predictor of the 2-hour measurement. Gastric emptying measurements in children should be continued until 2 hours after feeding unless rapid emptying is observed during the 1st hour of the study. 
Abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries. The causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial. Cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation, pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization. Right heart (especially right ventricular) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 (81%) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 (46%) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In contrast, only 2 (6%) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests (p less than 0.001). None of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests. Cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. No relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing. Thus, patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli. This increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain. The same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown. 
Esophageal motility in children with Hirschsprung's disease. Esophageal motility was studied in 12 children with Hirschsprung's disease to see if extracolonic motor dysfunction was present in this disorder. Manometric tracings were compared with those from eight children with idiopathic megacolon and from 10 children without esophageal disease or constipation. Amplitude of esophageal contraction waves was significantly higher in children with Hirschsprung's disease than in the other two groups. Swallows that were followed by simultaneous contractions or double-peaked waves were also more common in the group with Hirschsprung's disease (subjects with Hirschsprung's disease, subjects with megacolon, and controls; 57%, 10%, and 8%, respectively). Lower esophageal sphincter characteristics did not differ among the three groups. The increase in simultaneous contractions and double-peaked waves persisted in those children who were reexamined following surgery for Hirschsprung's disease, whereas wave amplitudes fell to a level similar to that observed in the other groups. These data suggest that gastrointestinal motor dysfunction in persons with Hirschsprung's disease is not restricted to the colon, and that some of the observed abnormalities in esophageal motility do not reflect nonspecific responses to megacolon or colonic obstruction. 
Gastric injury and invasion of parietal cells by spiral bacteria in rhesus monkeys. Are gastritis and hyperchlorhydria infectious diseases? The possibility of using the rhesus monkey as a model for studying gastric function in the presence of infection with spiral bacteria was studied. Endoscopic evaluation of the gastric mucosa was performed under general anesthesia in 29 colony-bred rhesus monkeys, and gastric pinch biopsy specimens were obtained from each animal. On a separate day, gastric emptying and acid output were determined using a 99mTc dilution technique. Biopsy samples were fixed for light microscopy (H&E, Gram, and Warthin-Starry stains) and for transmission electron microscopy. The presence of spiral bacteria and gastritis was assessed and rated on coded slides. In 8 of 29 monkeys, Helicobacter pylori-like organisms were observed in close proximity to the mucosal epithelial cells or in the lumen of the gastric pits. In 14 other monkeys, "Gastrospirillum hominis"-like organisms were observed in the mucus covering the surface of epithelial cells, in the lumina of the gastric glands, and overlying parietal cells. Gastritis was present in 8 of 8 animals positive for H. pylori-like organisms, in 2 of 14 animals positive for "G. hominis"-like organisms, and in none of the uninfected monkeys, and the mean gastritis index was significantly greater in animals positive for H. pylori-like organisms. Moreover, acid output was significantly higher in monkeys positive for "G. hominis"-like organisms than in controls or animals positive for H. pylori-like organisms. Gastric emptying was not significantly different in the three groups. In conclusion, (a) H. pylori-like, but not "G. hominis"-like, organisms cause gastritis while not modifying acid output; (b) "G. hominis"-like, but not H. pylori-like organisms, invade and on occasion damage parietal cells while apparently causing hyperchlorhydria; and (c) the rhesus monkey appears to be a good model for the study of gastric infection with spiral bacteria. 
Liver disease in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency: prognostic indicators. We reviewed the clinical presentation, subsequent course, and outcome of 98 patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency seen at our institution during the past 20 years to obtain answers to the following questions: (1) What prognostic factors aid in determining the course of liver disease in affected patients? (2) When is the appropriate time for referral to a liver transplant center? (3) Does breast-feeding prevent chronic liver disease? (4) What is the incidence of severe liver disease in family members? Our analysis revealed that the initial values of alanine aminotransferase, prothrombin time, and trypsin inhibitory capacity may have prognostic value. During clinical follow-up the recurrence or persistence of hyperbilirubinemia along with deteriorating results of coagulation studies indicated the need for liver transplantation because of imminent poor outcome. Girls had a worse prognosis than boys. Initial breast-feeding versus feeding of commercial formulas did not influence overall overcome. The incidence of significant liver disease among "at risk" siblings was 21% (3/14); if one assumes mendelian inheritance from heterozygous parents, the overall risk for siblings in our families was 5%. 
A pilot study of suramin in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Suramin sodium is an aromatic polysulfonated compound that was originally introduced as an antiparasitic agent in the 1920s. Recently, in view of its ability to bind and disrupt the function of multiple growth factors and cellular enzyme systems, the authors have been evaluating the role of suramin as an antitumor agent. In this study, 12 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received parenteral suramin by continuous infusion to a peak plasma suramin level greater than 200 micrograms/ml. No objective radiographic responses were observed, although greater than 90% necrosis of multiple tumor sites was documented at autopsy in one patient and normalization of tumor-related hypercalcemia occurred in another patient. Two patients had stable disease of 10 and 28 weeks' duration, respectively. Significant toxicities included hypotension related to sepsis and resulting in renal insufficiency (one patient), development of liver function abnormalities (one patient) marked thrombocytopenia (one patient), prothrombin time prolongation (all patients), vortex keratopathy (two patients), and Grade 1 sensory neuropathy (two patients). On the basis of the current results, suramin does not appear to be an active single agent against metastatic renal cell carcinoma when administered by this dosing schedule. 
Prevention of pancreatic fistula by modified pancreaticojejunal anastomosis. A major cause of morbidity after pancreatoduodenectomy is leakage from the pancreaticojejunal anastomosis. To prevent this complication, we have employed mucosal stripping from the proximal jejunum prior to end-to-end anastomosis in 19 patients with good results. 
Effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine on cognition, function and behaviour in Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) in Alzheimer's disease. DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, multiple crossover trial with three treatment periods, each consisting of 3 weeks of active drug therapy and 3 weeks of placebo administration. SETTING: Referral-based geriatric practice in a community hospital. PATIENTS: Thirty-four patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. Subjects were included if they had stage 3 to 6 disease (as determined by the Reisberg scale) and had not been taking psychotropic drugs for at least 1 month and if informed consent had been obtained from the patients and their next of kin. INTERVENTIONS: Fifty to 100 mg of THA daily and matched placebo. RESULTS: Of the initial 34 patients 14 experienced liver toxicity and 3 gastrointestinal side effects during the study; however, all 22 who completed the study were able to tolerate at least the minimum dose. For the 22 patients there was no clinically or statistically significant effect of THA on cognition, functional status or behaviour. The results for individual patients showed no subgroup of THA-responsive patients. CONCLUSION: THA has no clinically important benefits in Alzheimer's disease and is associated with appreciable toxic effects. 
Further notes on Munchausen's syndrome: a case report of a change from acute abdominal to neurological type. A rare case of Munchausen's syndrome beginning in early childhood is described. The diagnosis of Munchausen's syndrome was made at the age of 29 years, after the symptoms had changed from acute abdominal to neurological complaints, with feigned loss of consciousness, first ascribed to an encephalitis. Insight into the psychopathology of this patient is given by his biography, by assessment of a psychotherapist, who had treated him some years before, and by his observed profile in some psychological tests. 
Pancreatitis. Pancreatitis is a common but rather poorly understood entity most often associated with alcohol abuse or biliary tract disease. Despite the availability of a variety of diagnostic tests and imaging techniques, the diagnosis of pancreatitis continues to be primarily a clinical one. Of major concern to the emergency physician is distinguishing pancreatitis from other, potentially lethal, causes of abdominal pain, and identifying those patients with severe pancreatitis who are at risk for a complicated course secondary to the remote systemic effects of the disease. 
Omeprazole enhances the efficacy of pancreatin (pancrease) in cystic fibrosis. We studied the effect of the addition of omeprazole (20 mg once a day) to treatment with pancreatin (Pancrease, Cilag, Herentals, Belgium), two or four capsules three times a day, on fecal fat excretion in a double-blind, crossover fashion in nine patients with cystic fibrosis having persistent steatorrhea while taking Pancrease, two capsules three times a day (mean fecal fat excretion, 22.3%; range, 12% to 44%). Neither doubling of the dose of Pancrease nor addition of omeprazole to the lower dose of Pancrease significantly reduced fecal fat excretion (mean, 19.6% [range, 10% to 34%]; mean, 16.4% [range, 6% to 32%], respectively). However, addition of omeprazole to the higher dose of Pancrease (four capsules three times a day) significantly reduced fecal fat excretion when compared with the two doses of Pancrease alone (mean, 10.7%; range, 4% to 25%; P less than 0.01). We conclude that adjunct therapy with omeprazole reduces fecal fat excretion in cystic fibrosis provided that a high dose of Pancrease is supplied. 
The abdominal trauma index--a critical reassessment and validation. The Abdominal Trauma Index (ATI) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma. With scores greater than 25, the risk of postoperative complications became exponential. The purpose of the present study was to determine if: 1) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid; and 2) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis. Fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis. There were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors. The addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis. This clinical study demonstrates that: 1) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ATI score; 2) the previous (1979-initial) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid; 3) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order (1989-revision); 4) the addition of demographic, physiologic, and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis. 
Studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction. VII. Evidence for antigenic changes on beta-cells leading to autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in BB rats. The diabetic syndrome in BioBreeding (BB) rats is believed to result from the destruction of beta-cells by autoimmune responses. However, the initial events that cause the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells remain largely unknown. This investigation was initiated to see whether there are any antigenic changes on the beta-cells from neonatal to adult BB rats that may lead to the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells. Pancreatic grafts from neonatal BB rats remained largely intact without insulitis when transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of acutely diabetic BB rats. Similarly transplanted islet grafts from neonatal BB rats were also not subject to autoimmune destruction. In contrast, islet grafts obtained from adult BB rats, which had been treated with silica to prevent insulitis, were rapidly destroyed in diabetic recipients. These results indicate that beta-cells from neonatal BB rats are different from beta-cells from adult BB rats, at least regarding their recognition by immunologic effectors. Considering our observations and previous information on the initial role of macrophages/dendritic cells in the development of insulitis in BB rats, we suggest that beta-cell-specific antigenic changes that precede insulitis may result in the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in BB rats. 
Treatment of renal colic by prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors and avafortan (analgesic antispasmodic). In a study of the pain-relieving effect of 3 drugs commonly used to treat acute renal colic in this hospital, intravenous indomethacin and intramuscular diclofenac (prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors) were compared with intravenous Avafortan (analgesic antispasmodic). As first-line analgesics, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors, if given intravenously, offer an effective alternative to Avafortan. Of 145 patients studied, 32 required a second injection for complete relief of pain. Administering a second dose of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors resulted in equally significant pain relief rate even though the route was intramuscular. 
How bad are the symptoms and bowel dysfunction of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome? A prospective, controlled study with emphasis on stool form. Since it is not known whether the symptoms and bowel function of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome are truly abnormal we used diaries and frequent telephone interviews over a 31 day period to assess symptoms, defecation, and stool types in 26 unselected female hospital patients with the irritable bowel syndrome, 27 women who admitted to recurrent colonic pain but had not consulted a doctor (non-complainers), and 27 healthy control subjects. Unexpectedly, abdominal pain and bloating occurred in most of the control subjects. Pain, however, was six times more frequent in the patients and was more often considered severe. Bloating occurred three times more often. Defecation was more frequent, more erratic in timing and stool form, and more likely to produce stools of extreme forms, indicating rapid fluctuations in intestinal transit time. Urgency was four times more prevalent in patients than control subjects. Straining to finish defecating was nine times more prevalent and was often accompanied by feelings of incomplete evacuation--a combination which could lead to the misdiagnosis of constipation. The normal relation between stool form and the above symptoms was distorted, possibly due to rectal irritability. Non-complainers were intermediate between patients and control subjects in almost every parameter but were closer to control subjects than to patients. Patients with the irritable bowel syndrome have real cause for complaint and their bowel function is truly abnormal. 
Yersinia enterocolitica O:3: an emerging cause of pediatric gastroenteritis in the United States. The Yersinia enterocolitica Collaborative Study Group. After an outbreak of Yersinia enterocolitica infections among black children in Atlanta, a seven-hospital study was conducted to determine the importance of this pathogen in other communities with large black populations. Of 4841 stool specimens from patients with gastroenteritis examined between November 1989 and January 1990, Y. enterocolitica, Shigella, Campylobacter, and Salmonella were identified in 38, 49, 60, and 98 specimens, respectively; 34 (92%) of 37 Y. enterocolitica isolates were serotype O:3. Of the 38 patients with yersiniosis, 37 (97%) were children. Illnesses were clustered around the holidays, and 20 (62%) of 32 patients had been exposed to raw pork intestines in the 2 weeks before onset. Exposure was significantly associated with illness in a case-control study of eight patients identified at one hospital (P = .004). Infants less than or equal to 6 months old with yersiniosis were more likely to have immature-to-total neutrophil ratios greater than 0.50 than were infants of comparable age with salmonellosis (P = .02). Infrequently isolated in the past, Y. enterocolitica O:3 is emerging as an important enteric pathogen in this country, particularly among black children. 
Dietary predictors of symptom-associated gallstones in middle-aged women. In 1980, 88,837 women aged 34-59 y completed a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire and were followed for 4 y. Four hundred thirty-three women reported a cholecystectomy for recent cholecystitis, and 179 reported unremoved, newly symptomatic gallstones diagnosed by ultrasound or x ray. Among the 59,306 women with Quetelet's index of relative weight less than 25 kg/m2, inverse associations were observed between intakes of vegetable fat and vegetable protein and the risk of reportedly symptomatic gallastones, after adjusting for age, Quetelet's index in 1980, weight change between 1976 and 1980, energy intake, and alcohol intake. The relative risk in the highest quintile of vegetable fat intake, as compared with the lowest quintile, was 0.6 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.4-0.9], and the corresponding relative risk for vegetable protein intake was 0.7 (95% CI, 0.6-0.9). No significant associations were found with energy-adjusted intakes of cholesterol, animal fat, animal protein, carbohydrate, or sucrose. 
Diagnosis of Campylobacter pylori gastritis. Campylobacter pylori is a bacterium that inhabits gastric mucosa. It causes chronic active gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal ulcer. Campylobacter pylori has a urease enzyme (not present in man), which allows diagnosis by a [14C]urea breath test. We compared two noninvasive tests, the breath test and serum ELISA, to biopsy and histologic diagnosis. Twenty-two patients who underwent gastroduodenoscopy for evaluation of possible peptic ulcer disease entered the study. The breath test detected the organism in eight of eight patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%). The breath test was negative in 12 of the 14 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 86%). The ELISA was performed in 14 patients. It was positive in 5 of 5 patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%) and negative in 7 of 9 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 78%). We conclude that both the ELISA and the [14C]urea breath test are excellent noninvasive methods to detect Campylobacter pylori. However, only the breath test is suitable for following the response to treatment, as it detects the presence of the organism rather than an immune response to it. 
Idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis in a man. Idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis is a rare disease described in young adolescent women, characterized by fibrosis and adhesions of the peritoneum to loops of the small bowel. Here we describe a 35-year-old man who underwent exploratory laparotomy for repeated small bowel obstruction. Only partial resection of the terminal ileum was possible because of adhesions; recurrent abdominal infections and leakage from anastomosis required further resection, which ultimately resulted in short bowel syndrome and malabsorption. The clinical and pathological findings were characteristic for idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis. We review the relevant literature, to confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that this is the first report of a male patient who has developed this rare disease. 
Colonoscopic screening of asymptomatic patients with a family history of colon cancer. The records of 201 asymptomatic patients who underwent colonoscopy based solely on a family history of colon cancer were reviewed. Eighty-five patients (42 percent) had a total of 166 lesions. Fifty-four (27 percent) patients of the screened population had neoplastic lesions, while 31 (15 percent) patients had nonneoplastic polyps. Four carcinomas were found. Twenty-five of the patients with polyps (29 percent) had no polyps distal to the splenic flexure; these proximal polyps (and two carcinomas) would have been missed on screening with fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy. Nineteen of these 25 patients had polyps smaller than 0.5 cm, which likely would have been missed with contrast enemas. Almost one half (47 percent) of all polyps discovered at screening colonoscopy were proximal to the descending colon. Only one patient younger than 40 years old had adenomas. The yield of polyps and cancer in patients with familial risk indicates screening colonoscopy should be considered after age 40. 
Sexual behavior before AIDS: the hepatitis B studies of homosexual and bisexual men. Data on sexual practices, collected during studies of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in 1978 and 1979, were analyzed for 4910 homosexual and bisexual men from Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and St Louis. Data on sexual practices in 1978 showed that white participants had larger numbers of non-steady male sexual partners and engaged in oral-genital activities more frequently but were equally likely to engage in anal intercourse as black and Hispanic participants. San Francisco participants had more non-steady sex partners and were more likely to engage in receptive anal intercourse with non-steady partners than participants from all other sites. Analysis of data on 606 HBV-antibody-negative men interviewed on three occasions in 1978 and 1979 showed no changes in risk indices for insertive and receptive anal intercourse between these years, except in San Francisco where significant declines occurred in insertive anal intercourse and receptive anal intercourse without ejacultion in a small, highly select group of participants. 
Oral cholecystography in contemporary gallstone imaging: a review. The introduction of nonoperative alternatives to elective cholecystectomy in the management of gallstones has resurrected use of oral cholecystography (OCG). This article reviews basic principles involved in the proper performance of OCG and interpretation of the resulting images. The role of OCG in the current management of gallstones is discussed. 
In vivo evaluation of monopolar versus bipolar electrosurgical polypectomy snares. The energy required and tissue damage in bipolar and monopolar polypectomy snares were compared in a canine model. The bipolar snare required an average of 34 joules of energy, whereas the monopolar snare required 228 joules to cut the same diameter of gastric mucosa tended into a polypoid structure (p = 0.0005). The reduced energy delivered to the tissue from the bipolar procedure resulted in only 32% average depth of damage to the underlying gastric wall, whereas the monopolar procedure caused an average 69% (p = 0.001). Surgically created polyps required 247 joules and 69 joules for corresponding monopolar and bipolar polypectomy (p = 0.001). The decreased energy required and the correspondingly reduced damage caused to the underlying bowel wall by the bipolar snare should reduce the incidence of perforation and post-polypectomy syndrome. The bipolar snare completes a local circuit about the snare, eliminating the return electrode and, consequently, the possibility of any return electrode burns. The bipolar snare thus provides an added safety margin during polypectomy. 
Human breast milk contains bovine IgG. Relationship to infant colic? Previous studies have suggested that an unidentified cow's milk protein, other than beta-lactoglobulin and casein, might play a pathogenetic role in infant colic. Therefore, a radioimmunoassay was used to analyze human breast milk and infant formula samples for the presence of bovine IgG. Milk samples from 88 of the 97 mothers tested contained greater than 0.1 micrograms/mL of bovine IgG. In a study group of 59 mothers with infants in the colic-prone 2- to 17-week age group, the 29 mothers of colicky infants had higher levels of bovine IgG in their breast milk (median 0.42 micrograms/mL) than the 30 mothers of noncolicky infants (median 0.32 micrograms/mL) (P less than .02). The highest concentrations of bovine IgG observed in human milk were 8.5 and 8.2 micrograms/mL. Most cow's milk-based infant formulas contained 0.6 to 6.4 micrograms/mL of bovine IgG, a concentration comparable with levels found in many human milk samples. The results suggest that appreciable quantities of bovine IgG are commonly present in human milk, that significantly higher levels are present in milk from mothers of colicky infants, and that bovine IgG may possibly be involved in the pathogenesis of infant colic. 
A prospective comparison of laser therapy and intubation in endoscopic palliation for malignant dysphagia. There is little objective long-term follow-up comparing laser therapy with intubation for palliation of malignant dysphagia. In a prospective, nonrandomized two-center trial 43 patients treated with the neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser were compared with 30 patients treated by endoscopic intubation; the two groups were comparable for mean age and tumor position, length, and histology. Dysphagia was graded from 0 to 4 (0, normal swallowing; 4, dysphagia for liquids). Pretreatment mean dysphagia grades were similar: laser-treated group, 2.9 (SD, 0.6); intubated group, 3.2 (SD, 0.55). For thoracic esophageal tumors, the percentage of patients achieving an improvement in dysphagia grade by greater than or equal to 1 grade initially and over the long term was similar (laser, 95% and 77%; intubation, 100% and 86%). For tumors crossing the cardia, intubation was significantly better (laser, 59% and 50%; intubation, 100% and 92%, respectively; P less than 0.001). In patients palliated over a long period, however, the mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their mean dysphagia grade over the remainder of their lives (mean survival: laser, 6.1 months; intubation, 5.1 months) was better in the laser group (1.6 vs. 2.0; P less than 0.01); 33% of laser-treated and 11% of intubated patients could eat most or all solids (P less than 0.05). For long-term palliation, laser-treated patients required on average more procedures (4.6 vs. 1.4; P less than 0.05) and days in the hospital (14 vs. 9; P less than 0.05). The perforation rate was lower in the laser-treated group (2% vs. 13%; P less than 0.02); no treatment-related deaths occurred in either group. For individual patients, the best results are likely to be achieved when the two techniques are used in a complementary fashion in specialist centers. 
Effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis. Sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit (SICU) patient following major surgery or trauma. Recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals (OFR) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis. A total of 85 male Sprague-Dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups. CONTROL: cecal ligation and puncture (CLP); PRE-AT: pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol (AT) 10 mg/100 gm SC x 3 days, and 5 mg/100 gm IV prior to CLP; AT: 20 mg/100 gm at time of CLP and 4 hours following CLP; U74006F: (21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation) 3 mg/kg IV at the time of and 4 hours following CLP; U78517F: (alpha-tocopherol analogue) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following CLP. Survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours. Pretreatment with AT resulted in improved survival, whereas the novel OFR scavengers U78517F and U74006F significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment. It was concluded that OFR scavengers can improve survival in sepsis. 
Preventing colorectal cancer. Knowledgeable patients should not die of colorectal cancer. Increasing the intake of dietary fiber, decreasing fat consumption, and increasing the use of modern technology to detect adenomatous polyps and early cancer can greatly decrease the mortality associated with colorectal cancer. 
Functional comparison between double and triple ileal loop pouches. Ileal pouch function in 35 patients operated upon by the same surgeon were compared. Seventeen of the patients had a double loop (J) ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) and 18 a triple loop (S) pouch. The patients were examined a mean of 27.9 months and 5.1 months, respectively, after ileostomy closure. Ten of the S-pouch patients were evaluated more than 6 months (S greater than 6 months), mean 9.1 after ileostomy closure. There were no differences in the mean maximum resting pressures or maximum squeeze pressures between the groups. The incidence of daytime and nocturnal leakage was lower in the S-pouch group, 22 and 29 percent, than in the J group 29, and 53 percent. Though the mean maximum tolerated volume (MTV) of the S-pouch group was greater than the J group, the difference was not statistically significant. The difference in the mean compliance between the J- and S-pouch groups and the J and S greater than 6 months group was statistically significant (P less than 0.01) and (P less than 0.008). All the patients could evacuate spontaneously. The difference in the 24-hour frequency of defecation between the S greater than 6 months and J group was significant (P less than 0.05), but not between the S and J groups. The median frequency of nocturnal defecation between the S greater than 6 months and J pouch groups was significant (P less than 0.005), but not between the S and J groups. The triple loop S-pouches were more compliant than the J-pouches and had a better functional result as shown by a lower incidence of nocturnal leakage, and a lower frequency of defecation during the day and night. 
The role of bacteria in pigment gallstone disease. One hundred ten of nine hundred sixty consecutive patients who underwent surgery for gallstones (GS) had pigment stones (PS) (11.45%). Fifty brown PSs contained calcium bilirubinate, small amounts of cholesterol, and always calcium palmitate, were usually found in the common duct (96%), and were almost always associated with bile infection (98%) and diffuse erosion of the biliary mucosa. Fifty-one black PSs contained bilirubin polymers, calcium carbonate, and/or phosphate, seldom cholesterol, and never evident amounts of calcium palmitate, were mostly found in the gallbladder, and were associated with hemolysis or liver damage and with hyperplastic cholecystosis. Bile infection was found in 19.6% of cases, but bacteria were never found in the center of black PSs by scanning electron microscopy. Nine additional patients (8.2% of PSs, 0.9% of GSs) had concomitant black and brown PSs that were mostly found in the common duct and were always associated with bile infection. It is suggested that, even if PSs with concomitant black and brown material can be found, black and brown PSs greatly differ not only in pathogenesis but also in clinical behavior and treatment. In particular bacterial infection is important only in the pathogenesis of brown PSs while it plays no role in the initial formation of cholesterol, mixed or black GSs. 
High cholestanol and low campesterol-to-sitosterol ratio in serum of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis before liver transplantation. Serum levels of cholesterol precursors (squalene, delta 8-cholestanol, desmosterol and lathosterol), plant sterols (campesterol and sitosterol), cholestanol and cholestanol/noncholesterol sterol ratios were related to liver damage and liver transplantation indications in healthy controls (n = 26) and in 31 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis divided into group I (S-bilirubin less than 21 mumol/L; n = 14), group II (S-bilirubin 21 to 108 mumol/L; n = 7) and group III (elected for liver transplantation; S-bilirubin 109 to 520 mumol/L; n = 10). The mean serum respective lathosterol levels in controls and in group I were three and two times higher than those in groups II and III, respectively. The plant sterol contents were higher in group II than in groups I and III and the campesterol/sitosterol ratios were lowest in group III. The serum cholestanol levels were high even in group I (i.e., in patients without icterus) and increased progressively to group III, up to 6 and 13 times those in group I and the control group, respectively. The cholestanol/noncholesterol sterol ratios increased progressively from the controls to groups I, II and III. The serum cholestanol levels were positively related to serum bilirubin levels in all primary biliary cirrhosis patients (n = 31, r = 0.906) and to the plant sterol levels in the control group and group I, but significantly negatively in group III. The cholestanol vs. precursor sterol correlations were negative in most cases. 
Imidazole salicylate versus piroxicam in the treatment of arthrosis in elderly patients. A double-blind clinical and endoscopic trial. The clinical efficacy and gastroduodenal tolerability of imidazole salicylate (imidazole 2-hydroxybenzoate, ITF 182), a new synthetic drug with an anti-inflammatory action, was evaluated endoscopically in comparison with those of piroxicam in elderly patients suffering from osteoarthrosis. Of the 41 patients entering the trial, only 38 completed the protocol (6 men and 32 women; mean age, 71; range, 65-80 years). After upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for the purpose of excluding gastric and duodenal mucosal lesions, the patients were allocated at random, according to a double-blind, double-dummy protocol, to treatment either with imidazole salicylate 750 mg three times daily or with piroxicam 20 mg once daily for a period of 4 weeks. Imidazole salicylate proved active in controlling a number of the pain symptoms caused by arthrosis, although its efficacy was inferior to that of piroxicam. Grade 2 gastric mucosal lesions were detected in 1 of 20 patients (5%) treated with imidazole salicylate; lesions corresponding to grades 2, 3, and 4 were found in 6 of 18 (33%) of those treated with piroxicam (P = .034). Painful dyspepsia was reported by 15% of the patients in the imidazole salicylate group and by 28% of those in the piroxicam group. On the basis of these results and under the experimental conditions adopted in this trial, the authors concluded that imidazole salicylate is characterized by good gastric tolerability and can thus be used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases in the elderly. 
Successful hyperlipemic pregnancy. Women with hypertriglyceridemia are prone to gestational pancreatitis, a condition carrying substantial maternal and fetal risk. We describe a 33-year-old woman with familial hypertriglyceridemia who had recurrent hyperlipidemic abdominal crises during previous pregnancies despite dietary fat restrictions. A fifth pregnancy was carried to term without complications after aggressive dietary therapy and intermittent intravenous feeding, administered whenever her triglyceride levels exceeded an arbitrarily selected threshold concentration of 28 mmol/L. The efficacy of this approach may be explained by the published observation that low-fat (high-carbohydrate) isocaloric diets elevate serum triglyceride levels by the oral, but not the intravenous, route in normal individuals. Reduction of this patient's serum triglyceride concentrations by interrupting oral intake and administering intravenous glucose appeared to prevent late-pregnancy pancreatitis and culminated in uncomplicated full-term delivery. 
Gastrointestinal pathology in adult iron overdose. The gastrointestinal effects of iron overdose have been described in children. They may occur acutely, ranging in severity from mucosal injury to complete infarction, or several weeks later, as obstruction due to stricture formation. They typically occur in the stomach or proximal small bowel. We describe an adult example of both, each occurring in the distal portion of the small intestine. Both patients had ingested enteric-coated iron preparations and both experienced significant, protracted abdominal pain. Thus adults as well as children are at risk for severe gastrointestinal complications after iron overdose. Significant protracted abdominal pain should alert the clinician of its possibility. Damage to distal areas of the bowel can occur with complete sparing of proximal portions particularly if the iron is an enteric-coated preparation. 
Variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients: a 5-year follow-up study. To assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension, a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast Brazil, where this parasitosis is endemic. Fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from July through December 1981 were chosen for the study. The 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally, using ethanolamine oleate; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group. The incidence of rebleeding was 28.1% in the former and 44.5% in the latter, a difference which was not statistically significant (Fisher's test, p = 0.375). Mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1% in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7% in the control group, a statistically significant difference (Fischer's test, p = 0.017). Since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients, this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis. 
Gallstones, cholecystitis and diabetes [published erratum appears in Surg Gynecol Obstet 1991 Jul;173(1):72] Findings from studies showing an increased incidence of gallstones in diabetic patients do not control for other variables, such as obesity. There is no proof that diabetic patients have more gallstones. Gallstones do not cause diabetes mellitus. The principal gallbladder pathologic feature in diabetic patients is a functional deficit of uncertain etiologic factors, creating a large, flaccid, poorly emptying organ. Bile acid and lipid composition are usually increased in diabetic patients. Cholecystitis seems to be a more serious disease in diabetic patients, with worse infectious sequelae and more rapid disease progression. This conclusion has not been examined statistically. Even with modern care, the complication rate for operations upon the biliary tract in patients with diabetes is increased. Those with diabetes are generally older than other patients requiring cholecystectomy. Systemic changes of aging partly explain increased morbidity and mortality. Diabetic patients with symptomatic gallbladder disease usually require operation. Risk of cholecystectomy in diabetic patients is similar to that in nondiabetics. Prophylactic cholecystectomy for diabetic patients with "silent" gallstones was formerly recommended because of an apparent high risk of cholecystitis. Until the natural history of gallstones in those with diabetes has been defined, such patients should be considered in danger of serious illness. The risk of acute cholecystitis in diabetic patients with stones is probably significant enough to warrant the performance of early cholecystectomy. 
Liver cirrhosis: changes of Doppler waveform of hepatic veins [published erratum appears in Radiology 1991 Aug;100(2):586] The authors compared the Doppler ultrasonographic pattern of hepatic veins (HVs) in a group of 60 patients affected by liver cirrhosis and in 65 healthy subjects comparable for sex and age to (a) detect possible differences in HV waveform in the two groups and (b) investigate the relationship of these differences with the severity of the disease (according to Child-Pugh classification) and the modifications of systemic hemodynamics. The waveform of HVs was arbitrarily classified into three patterns: HV0, a normal waveform; HV1, lower oscillations without the reversed phase; and HV2, completely flat waveform. The resistivity index of the superior mesenteric artery, reflecting the peripheral splanchnic impedance and the hyperdynamic circulation, was also measured in a subgroup of 45 cirrhotic patients. The waveform of HVs in all healthy subjects corresponded to the HV0 pattern. Among cirrhotic patients, HV0 was found in 30 (50%), HV1 in 19 (31.7%), and HV2 in 11 (81.3%). The severity of functional impairment was greatest in the HV2 group and least in the HV0 group. This was significantly correlated with the decrease of the resistivity index in the superior mesenteric artery in the subgroup of 45 patients. Changes in the normal HV waveform could be considered a useful adjunctive tool for the noninvasive evaluation of liver disease. The pathophysiology of these changes in HV blood flow is still unclear. The significant correlation with the severity of the disease and with the decrease of splanchnic resistances indicates that these changes in the HV waveform occur in the presence of marked rearrangements of liver tissue and of hyperdynamic systemic circulation. 
Genital and anal conditions confused with child sexual abuse trauma. Examination of a child with genital or anal disease may give rise to suspicion of sexual abuse. Dermatologic, traumatic, infectious, and congenital disorders may be confused with sexual abuse. Seven children referred to us are representative of such confusion. 
Asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology. A 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 IU/L after his appendectomy. These abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms, fever, and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis. At the time of operation, a normal appendix was removed, and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted. The myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient, and the patient remained asymptomatic. We review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents. The possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed. 
Approaches to the patient with aspiration and swallowing disabilities. Aspiration, or soiling of the tracheobronchial tree, can produce life-threatening pulmonary disease. Intermittent or persistent aspiration may cause symptoms including cough, intermittent fever, recurrent tracheobronchitis, atelectasis, pneumonia, and/or empyema. The pulmonary disease may be associated with weight loss, cachexia, and dehydration. In many cases the aspiration is caused by laryngeal dysfunction, allowing pulmonary contamination by swallowed material. In other cases the aspiration is caused by a dysfunction of the oral, pharyngeal, or esophageal phases of swallowing. In some cases the aspiration is caused by a combination of laryngeal and swallowing dysfunction. Geriatric patients are more likely to experience aspiration, since muscle weakness causing mechanical disability and neurologic impairment are more common in this age group. Therefore, with the ever-increasing aging of our population, these disabilities will be on the rise, with an associated increase in pulmonary disease and death. The approach to evaluation and management of these disorders must be based on an understanding of the underlying functional impairment. 
Exacerbation of chronic active hepatitis type B after short-term corticosteroid therapy resulting in fatal liver failure. The case of a 36-yr-old male with chronic active type B hepatitis in whom 4-wk prednisone therapy resulted in prolonged and fatal exacerbation of liver disease is described. Thus, short-term corticosteroid therapy may in some patients have disastrous effects on the course of chronic active hepatitis B. 
Proximal gastric vagotomy in the emergency treatment of bleeding duodenal ulcer. Proximal gastric vagotomy for bleeding duodenal ulcer was performed in 52 low-risk patients between 1973 and 1986. Duodenotomy without violation of the pylorus was done in all patients to allow inspection and control of the bleeding site. The median duration of operation was 3 hours and 20 minutes, although 25% of the procedures required 4 or more hours. There was no postoperative mortality and no early reoperations. Among the six patients with postoperative complications, one rebled from the ulcer and two developed prolonged gastric atony. At the time of follow-up (median, 2.9 years), 48 of the patients were alive and 4 had died of non-ulcer causes. No patient had significant postvagotomy sequelae. Ulcer recurrence was documented in six patients, and three required reoperation. Proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe, effective therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer. Because of the length of the operation, it should be restricted to low-risk patients who are hemodynamically stable at the time of operation. 
Esophageal motility, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux: variations in clinical presentation of esophageal dysphagia. Dysphagia is a potentially important symptom, often leading to the finding of an anatomical or motility disorder of the esophagus. Dysphagia and heartburn represent two of the most common symptoms associated with esophageal motility disorders. To explore the relationship of symptomatic esophageal dysphagia and heartburn and their association with primary esophageal motor disorders, we have performed a retrospective assessment of 1035 patient evaluations performed at our gastrointestinal laboratory. A clear statistical association of symptomatic dysphagia and heartburn was established; however, no pattern diagnostic of a specific motility disorder was discernible. A sizable fraction of our patient population with dysphagia demonstrated normal esophageal motility. A significant portion of dyspeptic patients exhibited both normal motility and acid exposure. The differences observed between the incidence of subjective symptoms and objective dysfunction may be explained in part by an altered or increased esophageal sensitivity of these patients. 
A plasma protease which is expressed during supramaximal stimulation causes in vitro subcellular redistribution of lysosomal enzymes in rat exocrine pancreas. The complex events by which digestive enzyme zymogens and lysosomal hydrolases are segregated from each other and differentially transported to their respective membrane-bound intracellular organelles in the pancreas have been noted to be disturbed during the early stages of several models of experimental pancreatitis. As a result, lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsin B are redistributed to the subcellular zymogen granule-rich fraction and lysosomal hydrolases as well as digestive enzyme zymogens are colocalized within large cytoplasmic vacuoles. The current study was designed to create an in vitro system that would reproduce this redistribution phenomenon. Our results indicate that cathepsin B redistribution occurs when rat pancreatic fragments are incubated with a supramaximally stimulating concentration of the cholecystokinin analogue caerulein along with plasma from an animal subjected to in vivo supramaximal caerulein stimulation. Neither the plasma nor a supramaximally stimulating concentration of caerulein, alone, is sufficient to induce in vitro cathepsin B redistribution. The ability of the plasma to induce in vitro cathepsin redistribution is dependent upon its content of a 10,000-30,000-D protein and is lost by exposure to protease inhibitors. In vitro cathepsin B redistribution also occurs when rat pancreatic fragments are incubated with plasma obtained from opossums with hemorrhagic necrotizing pancreatitis caused by bile/pancreatic duct ligation. 
Gastroesophageal reflux and respiratory symptoms: is there an association? Proposed mechanisms and treatment. Gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is a dysfunction of the distal esophagus causing movement of stomach contents into the esophagus. Patients may develop heartburn, regurgitation, dysphagia, odynophagia, and hemorrhage. Respiratory symptoms occur in 10-60 percent of patients with GER or hiatal hernia. Although there is evidence associating pulmonary symptoms and GER, causality has not been proven. The appropriate use of antireflux therapy or surgery to treat GER may consequently alleviate respiratory symptoms. 
Diffuse-adhering Escherichia coli (DAEC) as a putative cause of diarrhea in Mayan children in Mexico. Diarrhea is a major cause of infantile morbidity and mortality in developing countries. A community-based, case control study was conducted in a southern Mexican Mayan village for 3 weeks during the peak diarrhea period to prospectively identify the infectious agents associated with childhood diarrheal disease. Several enteropathogens were isolated from stools of 34 of 58 cases, although none was significantly associated with diarrhea. For the 24 cases from which no enteropathogens were isolated, diffuse-adhering Escherichia coli (DAEC) strains were significantly associated with diarrheal disease (P less than .02; odds ratio = 6; 95% confidence limit, 1.08-99.0). DAEC were highly heterogeneous with respect to plasmid content and serotype. Three DNA probes designed to differentiate E. coli exhibiting localized, diffuse, or aggregative adherence were compared with results from a standard HeLa cell binding assay to assess the utility of these probes in the field. This study provides evidence for the potential pathogenic capacity of DAEC and underscores the variety of diarrheal agents operating within a community. 
Bile duct emptying in response to fat: a validation study. Fatty meal sonography has been suggested to assess patients with biliary pain after cholecystectomy, but the effects of gallbladder removal on biliary dynamics has not been studied prospectively. Before elective cholecystectomy, 25 patients had their common hepatic ducts' diameter measured by ultrasonography before and after a fat stimulus. In 23, tests were repeated 1 month, 1 year, and 5 years after surgery. In preoperative studies, 5 patients showed dilatation after fat and 2 of these had stones in the common bile duct. However, another 4 patients with stones or sludge in the duct did not show dilatation, so that the response to fat was a poor indicator of patients requiring common bile duct exploration. No patient had major symptoms after surgery. At 1 month and 12 months, the response to fat was variable with more than half of those tested showing no decrease in duct size. A more consistent pattern emerged at 5 years, when 14 of 18 patients tested showed a decrease in common hepatic duct after fat; 3 were unchanged and 1 increased by 1 mm. The response to fat was less consistent and more difficult to measure in the common bile duct, even 5 years after operation. It was concluded that not all patients with indications for exploration of the common bile duct on operative cholangiography show a dilatation response to fat on preoperative testing. Also, fatty meal sonography should be used with caution because the response to fat in asymptomatic patients soon after operation is unpredictable, with occasional patients showing dilation without apparent obstruction. Measurement of common hepatic duct is preferred to common bile duct and increases in diameter of 1 mm are probably not significant. 
Postanginal sepsis with dysphagia. We have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis. Streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy, and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis. The patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics. 
Immunohistochemical demonstration of acetaldehyde-modified epitopes in human liver after alcohol consumption. Acetaldehyde, the toxic product of ethanol metabolism in the liver, covalently binds to a variety of proteins. Recent studies indicate that such binding can stimulate the production of antibodies against the acetaldehyde adducts. We raised rabbit antibodies which recognized various protein-acetaldehyde conjugates but not the corresponding control proteins. Such antibodies were used in immunohistochemical studies to find out whether acetaldehyde-generated epitopes can be detected from liver specimens of 13 human subjects with different degrees of alcohol consumption. While the specimens obtained from alcohol abusers (n = 4) and alcoholics (n = 3) exhibited marked positive staining for acetaldehyde adducts inside the hepatocytes in a granular uneven pattern, the control samples (n = 6) were almost devoid of immunoreactivity. In the alcohol abusers with an early stage of alcohol-induced liver damage, staining was detected exclusively around the central veins. The data indicate that intracellular acetaldehyde adducts occur in the centrilobular region of the liver of individuals consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. Immunohistochemical detection of such adducts may prove to be of value in the early identification of alcohol abuse and in elucidating the mechanisms of alcohol-induced organ damage. 
Symptoms of achalasia in young women mistaken as indicating primary anorexia nervosa. The case of a young women with dysphagia, regurgitation, and weight loss, who was diagnosed as having anorexia nervosa but in whom reevaluation showed that achalasia was causing the symptoms, is presented together with related observations. Misinterpretation of esophageal symptoms may occur not only as a consequence of inadequate history taking and of being biased by a patient's emaciation, age, and gender, which leads to view certain aspects of the patient's history and behavior as suggesting a pathologic attitude towards eating and body weight, but also as a consequence of a misinterpretation of the symptoms as indicative of an eating disorder by the patients themselves. In some cases a disordered attitude toward eating and body weight may develop together or coexist with achalasia. The clinical evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of anorexia nervosa but also of bulimia nervosa should include the taking of a thorough history regarding swallowing and vomiting in order to recognize a possible esophageal motor disorder. 
Endemic Cryptosporidium and Giardia lamblia infections in a Thai orphanage. We conducted a point prevalence survey for enteric protozoa in 205 institutionalized orphans 1-61 months of age in Bangkok, Thailand. Cryptosporidium was identified in 17 children (8%), Giardia lamblia in 42 (20%), and 3 children (1%) had both parasites. At the time of diagnosis, diarrheal symptoms were present in a minority of subjects: 36% of children with Cryptosporidium alone, 10% with G. lamblia alone, and in 20% of those with neither parasite. Although chronic nutritional status (height/age) was similar in all groups, acute nutritional status (weight/height) was lower only in children with Cryptosporidium (Z score = -1.39 +/- 0.13) compared with children with G. lamblia (mean Z score +/- SEM = -0.56 +/- 0.26) or neither parasite (Z score = -0.78 +/- 0.13; P = 0.05). Detectable levels of Cryptosporidium-specific IgG antibodies by ELISA were identified in 15 of 16 Thai children with Cryptosporidium and in 17 of 19 Thai children without Cryptosporidium (mean OD +/- SEM = 1.27 +/- 0.18 vs. 1.06 +/- 0.13, respectively), but in only 1 of 18 sera from toddlers in day-care centers in Denver, CO (OD = 0.128 +/- 0.03). Although neither infection with Cryptosporidium nor G. lamblia was consistently associated with acute diarrheal symptoms, Cryptosporidium was more often associated with depressed acute nutritional status than G. lamblia. The high prevalence of specific antibodies to Cryptosporidium in Thai orphans suggests an association between high rates of exposure with asymptomatic excretion of the parasites. 
Pharyngoesophageal perforation after blunt neck trauma. Pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma is an uncommon injury that can cause serious morbidity and mortality if not recognized and treated. Pharyngeal perforation secondary to blunt trauma sustained while boxing is reported. Review of the world literature found 10 cases of pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma. Analysis of these cases indicates that perforations less than 2 cm and limited to the pharynx may be treated medically with close observation. Large perforations and those perforations that extend to the esophageal inlet or involve the esophagus exclusively are best treated surgically. 
Choice of emergency operative procedure for bleeding duodenal ulcer In a consecutive series of 201 emergency operations in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer the size of the ulcer was the only factor that showed a significant correlation with the procedure chosen. Vagotomy, pyloroplasty and underrunning of the bleeding point was performed in 101 cases with ten deaths (10 per cent), partial (Billroth II) gastrectomy in 81 cases with ten deaths (12 per cent), and vagotomy and antrectomy in 16 cases with one death (6 per cent). A patient was more likely to be treated by partial gastrectomy if a giant ulcer with an internal diameter of greater than or equal to 2 cm was found. The results suggest that while vagotomy and pyloroplasty, combined with a direct attack on the bleeding point or excision of an anterior ulcer is an acceptable standard emergency operation for bleeding duodenal ulcer, gastric resection proved to be a satisfactory alternative procedure and should be considered in the technically difficult case with a very large ulcer. A giant ulcer was present in 37 per cent of cases coming to surgery. 
Erythrocyte sedimentation as a measure of Crohn's disease activity: opposite trends in ileitis versus colitis. To test our hypothesis that the erythrocytic sedimentation rate (ESR) correlates well with clinical activity in inflammatory disease of the colon, but not of the small bowel, we stratified 49 Crohn's disease patients according to their anatomic involvement and then measured the correlations between ESR and clinical activity within each of these anatomical subgroups. For 18 patients with Crohn's disease involving primarily the colon, there was a trend toward a direct correlation between clinical score and ESR (p = 0.15). In the 14 patients with Crohn's disease limited to the colon, this direct correlation was even more pronounced and statistically significant (p less than 0.02). By contrast, an opposite trend was observed for patients with small bowel disease. For the 26 patients with disease involving predominantly the small bowel, as well as for the 22 with disease limited to small bowel, there were statistically significant inverse correlations between clinical score and ESR (p less than 0.04). This difference between the directions of the correlations for Crohn's colitis versus ileitis was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). This study provides further evidence for the importance of analyzing putative indications of disease activity separately for each of the protean forms in which Crohn's disease occurs. 
The hands in alcoholic liver disease. Chronic liver disease is frequently associated with a hyperdynamic circulation, with warm hands and capillary pulsations. In our experience, however, a significant number of patients with alcoholic liver disease complain of cold hands. In this study, we have investigated the presence of the subjective feeling of hand temperature in 114 patients with alcoholic liver disease compared with 96 healthy controls, and studied possible correlations of this subjective feeling with the severity of liver disease. Significantly more patients with alcoholic liver disease complained of cold hands than did normals, and these differences were more prominent in the male group. The awareness of cold hands appears to be commoner in an intermediate group of patients, between those with noncirrhotic liver disease without varices and those with cirrhosis with varices. A similar pattern of awareness of hand temperature was found when patients were staged according to the severity of their liver disease. We conclude that a staging can be made; at an early stage of liver disease, patients tend to have warm hands, subsequently develop cold hands, and at a later stage, their hands become warm again. 
Crohn's disease: what about the pancreas? [editorial] Crohn's disease (CD) is now accepted as a systemic illness. The importance of extraintestinal manifestations is underlined by the fact that such "complications" can be more prominent and even more difficult to control than the intestinal disease itself. Lately, evidence for a more than accidental association of pancreatitis and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency with CD is growing. This might have a significant impact on the treatment of abdominal pain and diarrhea in CD, symptoms which have so far been attributed exclusively to the intestinal rather than the extraintestinal manifestations of the disease. 
Colonic glycoproteins in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease. Colonic glycoprotein composition was evaluated in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease using ion-exchange chromatography. Fifty-three individuals, 12 pairs and 1 single twin with ulcerative colitis and 14 pairs with Crohn's disease, were evaluated. Seven twin pairs were concordant for the presence of ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease, whereas twin siblings of 10 ulcerative colitis probands and 9 Crohn's disease probands were not known to have inflammatory bowel disease. Content of one chromatographically defined component of colonic mucin, designated HCM species IV, was reduced in both patients with ulcerative colitis (1040 +/- 300 cpm/10,000 cpm total HCM) and their apparently healthy twins (1340 +/- 540 cpm/10,000 cpm total HCM) compared with control subjects (4030 +/- 1,000 cpm/10,000 cpm total HCM). Composition of mucin in Crohn's disease patients and their nonaffected twins was not significantly different than in controls. These observations suggest that altered profiles of mucin glycoprotein may be present before the onset of ulcerative colitis and may be genetically defined. Conversely, it appears that alterations in glycoproteins only are not sufficient to initiate mucosal inflammation. 
High-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Since 1985, eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated. All but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies. Laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was the cause in three patients, and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient. In the four other patients, chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy; follow-up of these latter patients, including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients, disclosed no specific cause. Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found. However, despite extensive evaluation, a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains. 
Detection of hepatitis B virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction in plasma of volunteer blood donors negative for hepatitis B surface antigen. Plasma samples from 206 volunteer blood donors were tested for hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA by dot blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). All donors were negative for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and had normal serum alanine aminotransferase levels. None of the 206 plasma samples was positive for HBV DNA by dot blot hybridization assay. However, nine samples were positive for HBV DNA by PCR using two primer pairs specific for surface and core regions. Nine persons received the HBV-DNA-positive plasma, and one developed posttransfusion non-A, non-B hepatitis; the others remained well 6 months later. Therefore, approximately 4% of blood donors in Taiwan have low titers of HBV DNA, and a more sensitive method to screen donors may be needed in the future, although the current serologic test remains the most practical at present. 
Severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose. Two patients with severe thrombocytopenia after paracetamol overdose are described. The platelet count was lowest two days after the overdose. Neither leucopenia nor anaemia occurred. 
Adult immunization in a network of family practice residency programs. A substantial proportion of morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases occurs among adults. Teaching residents about disease prevention is mandated in the curriculum guidelines for family practice programs. A cooperative study among the Kansas City family practice residency programs was begun to look at immunization behaviors in these teaching programs. A retrospective audit of medical records and a prospective survey of residents and faculty were performed. From the medical records of 400 patients seen for health maintenance examinations, the frequency of tetanus-diphtheria immunizations recorded was 4.75%. The pooled immunization rate recorded for pneumococcal vaccine was 25%, and for influenza vaccine, 24%. Although 93% of respondents knew patients need tetanus-diphtheria immunization every 10 years, on a written questionnaire giving clinical examples, they were less likely to elect to immunize older patients eligible for tetanus-diphtheria vaccine. The following immunization criteria were listed by respondents: for pneumococcal vaccine, age over 65 years (86%); for influenza vaccine, age over 65 years (85%), chronic diseases (69%), residence in a chronic care facility (7%), and being a health care worker (28%). Educational interventions stressing the appropriate criteria and involvement of the patient are planned at the separate programs. 
Clostridium difficile--a common and costly colitis. Clostridium difficile infection manifests as a self-limiting diarrhea, protracted colitis, or toxic pseudomembranous colitis. The incidence of C. difficile in a 514-bed community hospital was studied retrospectively; 155 patients of a total 18,262 admitted during 1988 were identified with C. difficile as an admitting or subsequent diagnosis. The method of diagnosis, mode of therapy, and related costs were analyzed. We have determined that education, with an emphasis on pathogenesis and prevention, is necessary to reduce the incidence in the hospital and the cost to the patient. 
Changes in anal canal sensation after childbirth. Obstetic trauma predisposes to faecal incontinence. Anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients. To assess the effect of childbirth on anal canal sensation anal mucosal electrosensitivity was measured in 122 primiparous patients in the immediate postnatal period and in 74 at 6 months postpartum. There were 35 normal vaginal deliveries, 36 forceps deliveries, 20 ventouse extractions, ten vaginal breech deliveries and 21 caesarean sections. Sensation was impaired in the lower, mid and upper anal canal immediately after delivery in those patients who had a normal vaginal delivery or a forceps delivery when compared with controls or with those delivered by caesarean section. Women who had ventouse deliveries had impaired sensation immediately after delivery in the mid anal canal compared with controls and those undergoing caesarean section. By 6 months there were no differences between any group. Patients who sustained a division of the external anal sphincter at delivery had impaired sensation which persisted in the upper anal canal at 6 months. 
Surgical options in postgastrectomy syndromes. The various operations performed for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease can lead to a variety of iatrogenic disorders collectively referred to as the "postgastrectomy syndromes." Although the etiology of most of these disorders remains unclear, loss of vagal innervation and bypass, ablation, or destruction of the pylorus clearly are involved in the pathogenesis of most, if not all, of these disorders. Unfortunately, there often is also a poorly understood psychological element involved in the pathogenesis. Of all ulcer operations, proximal gastric vagotomy results in the fewest physiologic abnormalities and the mildest postoperative symptoms. The continued popularity of this operation should effect a marked reduction in the incidence of disabling postgastrectomy syndromes. Fortunately, symptoms severe enough to necessitate remedial operation are uncommon, and conservative medical management is always indicated and usually suffices. When disabling symptoms are refractory, a thorough evaluation of the patient and an accurate classification of the syndrome are essential to guarantee a satisfactory result from surgical intervention. Although numerous surgical procedures have been developed to deal with the different syndromes, with varied results, the Roux-en-Y procedure has emerged as the operation of choice for most, if not all, postgastrectomy syndromes. However, the Roux-en-Y procedure has not been universally successful, and this operation can itself lead to the recently recognized postgastrectomy state of Roux-en-Y stasis syndrome. Prevention therefore remains the best form of therapy, and remedial operation should not be undertaken until adequate time has elapsed since the original operation and all forms of conservative treatment have failed. 
Gastric lesions secondary to long-distance running. Gastrointestinal disorders have been reported during long-distance running. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prolonged exercise on the upper digestive tract. Seven subjects were submitted to a standard endoscopic examination of the upper digestive tract before and after long-distance running (range 18-50 km). Mucosal biopsy specimens were taken during all endoscopies. After running, all runners had histologically pathological features in the stomach. Vascular lesions were present in the chorion in six subjects after running, with the intensity of the lesions ranging from congestion to hemorrhage. Postexercise histological examination also showed a decrease in mucosal secretion. These lesions secondary to prolonged exercise indicate the presence of hemodynamic perturbations in the upper digestive tract. 
5-Aminosalicylic acid is a potent inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta production in organ culture of colonic biopsy specimens from patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Interleukin 1 beta in biopsy specimens from inflamed colonic mucosa of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease was studied. Compared with normal colonic mucosal biopsy specimens, a significantly greater amount of interleukin 1 beta was present in rectal mucosa before (median (range) 4.3 (2.0-11.8) v 119.2 (30.1-286.8) pg/mg; p less than 0.01) and produced during organ culture (39.1 (9.4-106.8) v 97.6 (28.2-991.6) pg/mg; p less than 0.01). Values of interleukin 1 beta after culture correlated with concentrations of thromboxane B2. Organ culture of inflamed biopsy specimens in the presence of 5 aminosalicylic acid and dexamethasone reduced the amount of interleukin 1 beta detected. At the doses studied, 5 aminosalicylic acid also reduced the amount of leukotriene B4 detected after culture. 
Advanced assessment of the abdomen and gastrointestinal problems. There are many unique physical assessment findings that are associated with specific gastrointestinal disorders. The detection of these findings enables the nurse to manage gastrointestinal emergencies on the patient unit in a timely fashion, preventing deterioration and maintaining the safety of the patient. These skills build well on the traditional, detailed, and comprehensive assessments the nurse makes when using the nursing process. Specific abdominal assessments include detection of signs associated with appendicitis such as rebound tenderness and McBurney's, Rosvig's, and Aaron's signs. The nurse must always be alert to the possibility of peritonitis and the urgency of early detection and treatment. The patient with cirrhosis of the liver presents a distinct clinical picture. There is a need for subtle evaluation of mental status to detect early signs of hepatic coma. Another extra-abdominal assessment of this complication is asterixis. Finally, the assessment of the patient is enhanced when the nurse is able to help identify the location of bleeding. Improving abdominal and gastrointestinal system assessment leads to early detection of nursing problems and appropriate interventions. 
Chronic alcoholic gastritis. Roles of alcohol and Helicobacter pylori. We assessed the relative roles of alcohol and infection with Helicobacter pylori in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis in alcoholic patients. Helicobacter pylori was found in 14 of 18 alcoholics with dyspepsia and was associated with chronic antral gastritis. Gastric biopsy specimens were normal in four H pylori-negative alcoholics. Studies were repeated 3 to 4 weeks after controlled abstinence. There was no change in histologic findings during this period, indicating that alcohol itself was not the major causative agent. We then eliminated H pylori in 10 subjects by giving triple therapy (bismuth subsalicylate, amoxicillin, and metronidazole). Treatment for H pylori was associated with almost complete normalization of histologic findings. Four control subjects who received antacids alone showed no improvement. Dyspeptic symptoms in H pylori-positive patients significantly improved after elimination of this organism, whereas there was no change with antacid treatment. 
A tongue force measurement system for the assessment of oral-phase swallowing disorders. A computer-aided measuring system using a highly sensitive beam transducer has been developed to provide a quantitative, reliable measure of tongue strength. This tool has application in both the diagnosis and treatment of dysphagic patients with oral-stage dysfunction. The device is customized to comfortably adapt to each individual. Audiovisual feedback is used to enhance subject interest and motivation. The device has proven reliable in measurements of upward and side tongue thrust in six able-bodied subjects measured during five separate sessions. It has also been used with two dysphagic patients. 
Pharynx: value of oblique projections for radiographic examination. The utility of oblique views for augmenting standard posteroanterior and lateral double-contrast radiography of the pharynx was examined. Over an 8-month period, two oblique views were added to the standard posteroanterior and lateral views of the pharynx during routine upper gastrointestinal studies in 102 patients divided into two groups. Group 1 consisted of 81 patients without suspected pharyngeal or esophageal disease who demonstrated what was considered to be normal anatomy on all radiographic views. Group 2 consisted of 21 patients who were known or suspected to have pathologic abnormality of the pharynx. The members of this latter group each demonstrated various abnormal pharyngeal anatomy on the standard views. In just over half of these cases the oblique projection contributed significant information not obtained with conventional views. Therefore, the authors conclude that oblique images are a beneficial addition to the diagnostic evaluation of patients highly suspected of having pharyngeal disease. 
Serial prothrombin time as prognostic indicator in paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure. OBJECTIVE--To find out whether changes in the daily prothrombin time are of prognostic importance in patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure. DESIGN--Retrospective study. SETTING--The Liver Unit, King's College Hospital, London. PATIENTS--150 Consecutive patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure admitted between October 1986 and February 1989. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Death. RESULTS--Of the 150 patients, 72 (48%) died. In all, 34 of the 37 (92%) patients with a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds died as did 20 of the 41 (49%) with a time of 130-179 seconds, nine of the 25 (36%) with a time of 90-129 seconds, and nine of the 47 (19%) with a time of less than 90 seconds. Of the 42 patients with a continuing rise in prothrombin time between days 3 and 4 after overdose, 39 died (93%) compared with 21 of the 96 (22%) in whom the prothrombin time fell. CONCLUSIONS--These data indicate that a continued increase in prothrombin time on day 4 after overdose and a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds identify at an early stage those patients with a less than 8% chance of survival. Liver transplantation should be considered in patients meeting either of these criteria. 
Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli elaborate a heat-stable enterotoxin demonstrable in an in vitro rabbit intestinal model. Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAggEC) have been associated with persistent diarrhea in young children, but little is known about its pathogenesis. We assayed for enterotoxic activity in culture filtrates (CF) of EAggEC strains in Ussing chambers mounted with rabbit ileal mucosa. CF from strain 17-2, a prototype Chilean EAggEC strain, caused a greater rise in potential difference and short circuit current (SCC) than that seen in HB101 control, and this effect was abolished by protease pretreatment and partially stable after heat treatment. Ultrafiltration of 17-2 CF preparations localized the active moiety to the 2-5 kD Mr size range. CF from HB101 transformed with the 17-2 plasmid showed Ussing chamber activity. less than 10-kD CF fractions from five of six other EAggEC strains screened in Ussing chambers gave SCC responses of similar magnitude to 17-2. The 17-2 CF activity was not neutralized after pretreatment with polyclonal anti-STa antibody. Additionally, all of the seven EAggEC strains studied were nonreactive by heat-stable enterotoxin variant STa ELISA, were negative in the suckling mouse assay, and failed to hybridize with heat-stable enterotoxin variant STh and STp DNA probes. In summary, our data indicate that 17-2 produces a low molecular weight, partially heat-stable, protease-sensitive enterotoxin which appears to be plasmid associated, and genetically and immunologically distinct from E. coli STa. Preliminary screening suggests that this tox+ phenotype may be common among EAggEC. 
Bile acids in human plasma interfere with cholecystokinin bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini. A bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini was used to measure fasting plasma cholecystokinin (CCK) concentrations in 105 patients with various kinds of gastrointestinal diseases, 17 patients with diabetes mellitus, and 6 healthy volunteers. High plasma CCK bioactivities were observed in patients with obstructive jaundice, choledocolithiasis, and primary biliary cirrhosis. Twenty-three samples with high CCK bioactivities were assayed by the same bioassay after the addition of a specific CCK antagonist and by a CCK radioimmunoassay in order to determine whether the high CCK-like bioactivity was due to circulating CCK or other factors. High CCK bioactivities were partially inhibited by the specific CCK antagonist, CR-1409, but the activities were not totally abolished. The residual bioactivities (not inhibited by CR-1409) correlated with plasma bile acid concentrations. The inhibitable CCK bioactivities correlated with plasma CCK levels obtained by radioimmunoassay. Although the bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini has several advantages for measuring plasma CCK, this method overestimates CCK bioactivities in patients with high plasma bile acid concentrations. 
Improved water and sodium absorption from oral rehydration solutions based on rice syrup in a rat model of osmotic diarrhea. Rice syrup solids, rice protein, and casein hydrolysate were added to experimental oral rehydration solutions in various combinations and tested in a rat intestinal perfusion system. Chronic osmotic diarrhea was induced in juvenile rats by supplying the cathartic agents, magnesium citrate and phenolphthalein, in their drinking water for 1 week. The experimental oral rehydration solutions were compared with standard oral rehydration solutions containing 20 gm/L or 30 gm/L of glucose and with each other to determine if there were significant differences in net water, sodium, or potassium absorption. An oral rehydration solution containing 30 gm/L of rice syrup solids had a net water absorption rate significantly higher than that of the standard 20 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.1 +/- 0.62 versus 1.5 +/- 0.48 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). Casein hydrolysate did not significantly affect net water absorption. However, combinations of 30 gm/L rice syrup solids and 5 gm/L casein hydrolysate significantly increased (p less than 0.05) net sodium and potassium absorption compared with the 20 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution but not versus rice syrup solids alone. Oral rehydration solutions containing 30 gm/L rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/L rice protein, and 30 gm/L rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/L casein hydrolysate, had net water absorption rates significantly higher than the rate of a 30 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.5 +/- 0.36 and 2.4 +/- 0.38, respectively, versus 0.87 +/- 0.40 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). Rice protein and casein hydrolysate, however, did not significantly affect net water, sodium, or potassium absorption when added to rice protein glucose-based oral rehydration solutions. An inverse correlation between osmolality and net water absorption was observed (r = -0.653, p less than 0.02). The data suggest that substitution of rice syrup solids for glucose in oral rehydration solutions will improve water absorption and that rice syrup solids in combination with protein hydrolysates may, in addition, promote better sodium and potassium uptake. 
Adrenergic control of the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence. There is histological and functional evidence that the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence. The in vitro responsiveness of the internal anal sphincter to noradrenaline (an important sympathetic neurotransmitter) and electrical field stimulation (known to stimulate the intrinsic innervation) has been studied. Muscle strips from eight patients with incontinence undergoing postanal repair and five controls undergoing resection for low rectal carcinoma were studied. The contraction-response curves for noradrenaline were significantly different, and the EC50, the concentration required to produce 50 per cent of maximum contraction, was higher in incontinent patients (P less than 0.001). Electrical field stimulation produced initial contractions in four of the control group which were blocked by phentolamine. This contraction was not present in the incontinent patients (P less than 0.01). These results indicate an abnormality in the adrenergic innervation of the internal anal sphincter in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence. 
Effect of omeprazole and high doses of ranitidine on gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in patients with moderate-severe esophagitis Thirty to fifty percent of patients with reflux esophagitis fail to heal after treatment with conventional doses of H2-receptor antagonists, whereas omeprazole administration induces more than 90% healing. To investigate the effect of omeprazole and higher-than-presently-recommended doses of H2-blockers, we evaluated gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in 17 patients with severe-moderate esophagitis before and after treatment with 300 mg ranitidine twice daily or 20 mg omeprazole once daily. Three pH-metric studies were performed, in a cross-over design, before and after 8 days of treatment with omeprazole or ranitidine. Both drugs significantly reduced intragastric acidity (p less than 0.001) during both night and day hours. Median hourly 24-h intragastric pH was 1.8 in the basal study, 2.9 after ranitidine, and 3.4 after omeprazole. Intragastric acidity fell from 84.0 mmol/L in the basal study to 14.2 mmol/L (79% inhibition) with ranitidine and 9.3 mmol/L (84% inhibition) with omeprazole. Patients with esophagitis were significantly more exposed to acid than healthy subjects, in both the supine and upright position (p less than 0.01). The time with esophageal pH less than 4 dropped from 23.9% in the basal study to 8.5% with ranitidine and to 7.2% with omeprazole (p less than 0.001). Both drugs significantly reduced esophageal exposure to acid in both the supine and upright positions (p less than 0.001), whereas neither had any effect on esophageal acid clearance. 
Provision of gastrointestinal endoscopy and related services for a district general hospital. Working Party of the Clinical Services Committee of the British Society of Gastroenterology. (1) The number of endoscopic examinations performed is rising. Epidemiological data and the workload of well developed units show that annual requirements per head of population are approaching: Upper gastrointestinal 1 in 100 Flexible sigmoidoscopy 1 in 500 Colonoscopy 1 in 500 ERCP 1 in 2000 (2) Open access endoscopy to general practitioners is desirable and increasingly sought. For a district general hospital serving a population of 250,000, this workload entails about 3500 procedures annually, performed during 10 half day routine sessions plus emergency work. (3) High standards of training and experience are needed by all staff, who must work in purpose built accommodation designed to promote efficient and safe practice. (4) The endoscopy unit should be adjacent to day care facilities and near the x ray department. There should be easy access to wards. (5) An endoscopy unit needs at least two endoscopy rooms; a fully ventilated cleaning/disinfection area; rooms for patient reception, preparation, and recovery; and accommodation for administration, storage, and staff amenities. (6) The service should be consultant based. At least 10 clinical sessions are required, made up of six or more consultant sessions and two to four clinical assistant, hospital practitioner, or staff specialist sessions. Each consultant should be expected to commit at least two sessions weekly to endoscopy. Extra consultant sessions may be needed to provide an efficient service. (7) A specially trained nursing sister (grade G or H) and five other endoscopy nurses are needed to care for the patients; their work may be supplemented by care assistants. (8) A new post of endoscopy department assistant (analogous to an operating department assistant) is proposed to maintain and prepare instruments, and to give technical assistance during procedures. (9) A full time secretary should be employed. Records, appointments, and audit should be computer based. (10) ERCP needs the collaboration of an interventional radiologist working with high quality x ray equipment in a specially prepared radiology screening room. This facility may need to serve more than one hospital. (11) A gastrointestinal measurement laboratory can conveniently be combined with the endoscopy unit. In some hospitals one or more gastrointestinal measurement technicians may staff this laboratory. (12) An endoscopy unit is a service department analogous to a radiology department. It needs an annual budget. 
Surgical management of bile duct stones. The biliary surgeon in the 1990s must be familiar with all of the available techniques for the treatment of bile duct stones. Experience and judgment are important in the successful management of the individual patient with intrahepatic or extrahepatic stones. Knowledge of the nonsurgical methods of stone removal is important in the decision-making process. However, the biliary surgeon must resist the temptation to do less than a thorough removal of all stones at the operation lest the patient be subjected to additional procedures, which carry their own risks of morbidity and death. The goal should be to clear the stones from the biliary system with the fewest procedures offering the lowest morbidity and mortality risks to the patient. 
Left retroperitoneal exposure for distal mesenteric artery repair. Distal disease in the mesenteric arteries has usually been repaired transabdominally since it is believed that only the proximal centimeter of each vessel is accessible through the retroperitoneum. We treated five patients with chronic visceral ischemia and lesions extending beyond the orifice using a retroperitoneal approach. Exposure was obtained with a left flank incision through the tenth interspace. The left crus of the diaphragm was divided in order to control the supraceliac aorta. The mesenteric vessels were identified and dissected until their entrance into the peritoneum. There were no difficulties in exposing the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) as it coursed under the pancreas and over the duodenum for an approximate length of 5 to 10 cm. The uncinate process of the pancreas was not a limiting factor for exposure of the SMA in this region and further distal exposure could be obtained by incising the peritoneum. The trifurcation of the celiac artery and the splenic artery were accessible through this exposure; however, only the first centimeter of the hepatic and gastric branches could be reached. Revascularization was performed with endarterectomy (2 patients) and bypass (3 patients). Bowel viability was assessed at the conclusion of the procedure by incising the peritoneum. There were no complications from this exposure and no patient required reoperation for ischemic bowel. We conclude that the left retroperitoneal approach is not only acceptable for orifice lesions but is also applicable for distal disease. 
Intermittent obstruction of an incarcerated hiatal hernia with a total thoracic stomach. A case of intermittent obstruction of a sliding hiatal hernia is presented. The obstruction occurred when the patient's stomach was totally above the diaphragm. The anatomy of sliding hiatal hernias is discussed, as well as the presenting signs and symptoms of obstruction in sliding hiatal hernias. 
Sequential esophageal motility studies after endoscopic injection sclerotherapy: a prospective investigation. To assess prospectively the effects of endoscopic intravariceal sclerosis (EIS) on esophageal function, we performed esophageal manometry on 13 cirrhotic patients before EIS, 24 h after the second session and 4 wk after the fourth session. EIS had no impact on lower esophageal sphincter pressure. However, a significant decrease in the amplitude of peristaltic waves was observed immediately post-EIS in the lower two-thirds of the esophagus. There was no modification of duration or velocity of progression of peristaltic waves. A four-fold increase in simultaneous contractions was observed early after EIS. These changes were reversible, as assessed by late esophageal testing after EIS. No correlations were demonstrated between esophageal motor parameters and doses of sclerosant. We conclude that sclerosant injection into the esophageal wall acutely impairs esophageal motility, but motor function is partially restored 4 wk after completion of EIS, suggesting that dysmotility is reversible. 
Peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in CAPD patients. To evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage (PM) Beta-2 Microglobulin (B2M) production, and its relationship with PM Interleukin-1 (IL-1) and Leukotriene B4 (LTB4) release, the authors studied 20 CAPD patients (10 with peritonitis): 1. in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent (PDE) B2M, IL-1, and LTB4 levels; 2. in vitro B2M, IL-1, and LTB4 release by PM. Values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis (HD) patients (10 treated with Cuprophan [CU]; 10 with Polyacrylonitrile [PAN]; and 10 with Cellulose Acetate [CA]). Results showed that in CAPD patients with bacterial peritonitis B2M, IL-1 and LTB4 concentrations in the PDE were significantly higher than those seen in CAPD patients without peritonitis, or in the plasma of HD patients treated with PAN or CA, but were similar to those seen in HD patients treated with CU. At the same time, in vitro PM from CAPD patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more B2M, IL-1, and LTB4, than did PM from CAPD patients without peritonitis, or peripheral blood monocytes from HD patients treated with PAN or CA. The authors conclude that in CAPD patients, bacterial peritonitis is able to induce PM B2M production, probably via a cytokine mediated process, which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of HD patients treated with CU. 
Peptic ulcer disease: CT evaluation. The authors retrospectively describe the computed tomographic (CT) findings in 35 patients with peptic ulcer disease. Three of eight patients with gastritis or duodenitis had bowel-wall thickening. Ten of the remaining 27 patients had CT evidence of ulcer perforation (n = 2) or penetration (n = 8), four cases of which were unsuspected clinically. Both patients with acute free perforation had pneumoperitoneum, and one showed free extravasation of orally administered contrast material. The precise site of perforation could not be established in either case with CT. The eight patients with ulcer penetration had CT evidence of bowel-wall thickening (n = 3) and inflammatory changes in adjacent soft tissues and organs (n = 8), including the pancreas (n = 4), liver (n = 1), and lesser omentum (n = 1). Ulcer craters were seen in only two. The CT findings of penetration can mimic other disease processes. CT was not useful in detecting uncomplicated peptic ulcer disease. 
Evaluation of WC3 rotavirus vaccine and correlates of protection in healthy infants. The safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of WC3 rotavirus vaccine was evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of healthy infants 2-12 months of age; 103 received one dose of vaccine and 103 received placebo. Vaccination appeared to be safe and induced an antibody response (WC3 neutralizing antibody) in 97% of vaccinees. Only 9 (9%) of these, however, produced antibody to human rotavirus serotypes; at least 7 of the 9 were naturally infected before vaccination. Neither the number of symptomatic episodes of rotavirus diarrhea (21 vs 25) nor the number of moderate to severe rotavirus illnesses (9 vs. 15) was significantly different in vaccine or placebo recipients, respectively, during a predominantly serotype 1 rotavirus season. A slight but significant decrease in mean symptom score was detected in vaccine recipients. Despite an overall lack of efficacy, protection could be correlated to previous rotavirus infection, high levels of WC3 neutralizing antibody, and preexisting (maternal) serotype 1 neutralizing antibody with a titer greater than or equal to 30. 
Insulin resistance in noncirrhotic idiopathic portal hypertension. To explore further the pathogenesis of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance observed in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension, we studied a 35-year-old woman with presinusoidal portal hypertension without cirrhosis due to nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. After oral glucose ingestion, glucose tolerance remained normal; however, this occurred at the expense of a markedly hyperinsulinemic plasma response, suggesting the presence of insulin resistance. To examine this question more directly, we performed a stepwise euglycemic insulin clamp study in combination with an infusion of [6-3H]glucose and [1-14C]palmitate and indirect calorimetry. The ability of insulin to promote total body (primarily muscle) glucose uptake was markedly impaired, whereas its effect to suppress hepatic glucose production was normal compared with results obtained in nine healthy subjects. Moreover, insulin failed to normally suppress plasma free fatty acid turnover and oxidation in this patient. This informative case demonstrates that portal hypertension alone, without hepatic dysfunction from cirrhosis, is associated with impaired insulin-mediated glucose and plasma free fatty acid metabolism and may also play a predominant role in the development of insulin resistance in many cirrhotic patients. 
Tuberculosis of the esophagus. Tuberculosis of the esophagus is rare. More cases of secondary tuberculosis of the esophagus have been reported compared to primary esophageal tuberculosis. An illustrative case of primary tuberculosis of the esophagus is presented and 54 published cases of esophageal involvement in tuberculosis are reviewed. There were eight primary and 46 secondary cases of esophageal tuberculosis. There were more male than female patients (M/F = 2.6:1) with an average age of 39.2 years (range 6 months to 75 years). Diagnosis can be difficult, being based on clinical, radiological, endoscopic, and histological features and on the response to chemotherapy. Most cases can be successfully treated with antituberculous chemotherapy even in the presence of fistulous tracts. Patients with esophageal tuberculosis in the presence of AIDS do not respond as well to antituberculous chemotherapy. 
Rectal irrigation with short-chain fatty acids for distal ulcerative colitis. Preliminary report. Colon cells from patients with ulcerative colitis utilize short-chain fatty acids inefficiently and may be exposed to decreased concentrations of these compounds. To test whether irrigation of the inflamed mucosa with short-chain fatty acids is useful, we conducted a six-week preliminary trial in 12 patients with distal colitis. Each patient used twice daily rectal irrigations with 100 ml of a solution containing acetate (80 mM), propionate (30 mM), and butyrate (40 mM). Two patients stopped at three weeks, one because of no improvement and the other because of complete resolution of symptoms. Of the 10 who completed the trial, nine were judged to be at least much improved and showed a change in a mean disease activity index score from 7.9 +/- 0.3 (SE) to 1.8 +/- 0.6 (SE) (P less than or equal to 0.002) and in a mucosal histology score from 7.7 +/- 0.7 (SE) to 2.6 +/- 0.7 (SE) (P less than or equal to 0.002). Thus, ulcerative colitis patients appear to benefit from increased contact with or higher than usual levels of these critical energy substrates. 
Immunohistochemical detection of abnormal cell proliferation in colonic mucosa of subjects with polyps. Previous studies have shown the presence of increased proliferation in the large bowel epithelium of those at high risk of developing colon cancer. An in vitro technique for labelling large bowel mucosa with the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine (Brdu) was therefore developed and its ability to distinguish differences in mucosal proliferation between subjects with colorectal adenomas and normal controls was assessed. Sigmoid biopsy specimens from 15 subjects with polyps and 15 age and sex matched controls were labelled and the incorporated Brdu visualised with an immunohistochemical technique. Mean labelling index (LI) was significantly higher in those with polyps than in controls. Differences in the pattern of labelling in colonic crypts were compared by the generation of cumulative labelling distributions. Analysis showed a significant expansion of the proliferative compartment in the colon crypts of those with polyps. It is concluded that in vitro labelling with Brdu provides a useful method for the assessment of mucosal proliferation in subjects at high risk of developing colon cancer. 
Rosacea and ulcerative colitis: a possible association. Although rosacea was formerly believed to be associated with gastrointestinal upsets, no one any longer finds a significant association between rosacea and the intestinal tract. We describe four patients with a combination of ulcerative colitis and rosacea. In all four, ulcerative colitis preceded the onset of severe papulopustular rosacea, and we therefore feel that the severity of rosacea could have been due to the associated bowel disorder. In one, the severity and poor initial response of rosacea to treatment was clearly related to the activity of the ulcerative colitis, and the rosacea improved only after proctocolectomy. While it is possible that this purported association is fortuitous, we report these cases in the hope that others may have seen this combination of diseases, to our knowledge previously unreported. 
Hyperdynamic circulation in cirrhosis: a role for nitric oxide? Hypotension, low systemic vascular resistance, and a reduced sensitivity to vasoconstrictors are features of cirrhosis. These cardiovascular changes might be the result of increased synthesis of a vasodilator. Nitric oxide (NO), a potent vasodilator, is synthesised in and released from peripheral blood-vessels in man. Studies in animals indicate that bacterial endotoxin and cytokines induce NO synthase expression in vessel walls, with sustained NO release and consequent hypotension. Endotoxaemia is a common feature of cirrhosis; persistent induction of NO synthase may account for the associated haemodynamic changes. 
Cereal-based oral rehydration therapy. I. Clinical studies. Studies of "improved" oral rehydration solutions, in which glucose polymers (starch) derived from rice or other cereals were added to improve cotransport of sodium and to promote sodium and water absorption, have been reported. These solutions were administered to decrease diarrhea volume and duration, reduce vomiting, and replace volume loss in stools. In clinical trials of children and adults with high-output diarrhea, such as in cases of cholera, the use of cereal-based oral rehydration solutions (ORS) compared with glucose-based ORS produced significant (20% to 53%) reductions in stool volumes. In one study the duration of diarrhea was shortened by 30%. In noncholera diarrhea in children, cereal-based ORS was as effective as glucose-based ORS. Although the amino acid transport systems were intact in patients with cholera, the addition of glycine to glucose-based or rice-based ORS did not reduce stool volume or duration of diarrhea. The exception was alanine, which reduced stool output and ORS requirements. More research is needed to determine the optimal mix of starch, amino acids, oligopeptides, and proteins that would utilize the absorptive active transport systems maximally to reduce fluid losses and duration of diarrhea. 
Generation of ammonia and mucosal lesion formation following hydrolysis of urea by urease in the rat stomach. We examined the morphological changes in gastric mucosa and the generation of ammonia after exposure of the rat stomach to urea in the presence of urease, in attempts to investigate a pathophysiological role of urea, urease, and ammonia system in gastric ulcer diseases. Exposure of the stomach for 20 min to 2 ml urea (0.025-0.2%) together with urease (100 IU) induced histological damages in a concentration-related manner. Either urea or urease alone did not induce any histological change in the mucosa. Instillation of urea into the stomach generated ammonia in the presence of urease; the amount of ammonia was increased depending on the concentration of urea, and was closely associated with the severity of histological damage. The exposure of the stomach to ammonia (NH4OH: 0.01-0.1%) also produced histological damages in the gastric mucosa in a concentration-related manner. The characteristics of injury induced by 0.5-1.0% ammonia were stasis of microcirculation, disruption of the surface epithelial cells, and necrosis of the mucosa. These results demonstrated that ammonia generated from the hydrolysis of urea by urease in the stomach causes damages in the gastric mucosa. 
Pulmonary acinar development in diaphragmatic hernia. Pulmonary acinar development was assessed in 17 autopsy cases of pulmonary hypoplasia associated with diaphragmatic hernia. Morphologic examination was conducted by light and electron microscopy, and morphometric study was achieved by radial alveolar count and biochemical quantitation of surfactant phospholipid. In most cases of unilateral diaphragmatic hernia, the ipsilateral lung was underdeveloped morphologically and biochemically compared with the contralateral lung. However, both ipsilateral and contralateral lungs were well developed in some cases of unilateral diaphragmatic hernia. Thus, acinar development of hypoplastic lung in diaphragmatic hernia is varied. The influence of other conditions, such as oligohydramnios, polyhydramnios, and other anomalies that may influence retention of lung fluid or fetal respiratory movement, should be considered to assess the acinar development of hypoplastic lung in diaphragmatic hernia. 
The fetus as a patient. Surgical considerations. The diagnosis and treatment of human fetal defects has evolved rapidly over the past decade due to improved fetal imaging techniques and better understanding of fetal pathophysiology derived from animal models. The detection of a fetal anomaly may now lead to a change in the timing of delivery, a change in the mode of delivery, or prenatal treatment. Because most therapeutic maneuvers involve some risk to the fetus and mother, there must be a reasonable expectation that the procedure is feasible, safe, and effective before it can be attempted in humans. This requires reliable information about the pathophysiology and natural history of the disease process, the efficacy of fetal surgical intervention in ameliorating the disease, and the feasibility and safety of the proposed intervention. This paper focuses on the rationale and initial clinical experience with fetal surgery for a variety of life-threatening fetal anatomic defects. 
Cytomegalovirus colitis and wasting. Disseminated cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is associated with significant and progressive depletion of body cell mass and body fat in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In a study examining the effect of ganciclovir on wasting in AIDS patients with disseminated CMV infection, it was found that patients receiving ganciclovir had significant improvement in such variables as body cell mass, body fat, body weight, and total body energy content when compared with those not receiving ganciclovir. The repletion of body cell mass observed in AIDS patients with disseminated CMV infection who are successfully treated with ganciclovir appears to be associated with improved quality of life and prolongation of survival. 
Bronchopulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis. We report two cases of pulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis. The first patient, a 37-year-old woman, had bilateral basal bronchiectasis full of mucopurulent secretion, with a marked improvement of pulmonary function and roentgenographic appearance after a conservative approach. The second patient had severe pulmonary fibrosis of autoimmune nature and died owing to a pulmonary infection. In the second patient, a sulfasalazine reaction as an etiologic factor was excluded, while in the first this possibility seemed unlikely. Therefore, we take these two cases as examples of the extraintestinal manifestations of ulcerative colitis. 
Induction of pS2 and hSP genes as markers of mucosal ulceration of the digestive tract. The recently discovered pS2 protein is expressed under estrogen control in a subset of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancers and in an estrogen-independent manner in normal stomach mucosa. The pS2 gene belongs to a family of genes encoding peptides that contain a conserved 5-cysteine domain, the P domains. Although the function of the pS2 protein is unknown, it has been suggested that it may have cell growth stimulatory activity. We report here that expression of the pS2 gene in the digestive tract, which is normally restricted to the stomach, is strongly induced by mucosal ulcerations elsewhere in the tract, most notably in Crohn's disease. pS2 gene expression is restricted to the mucosal layers adjacent to the ulcerations, in a region where a novel epidermal growth factor-secreting cell lineage was shown to be induced by mucosal ulceration. The human hSP gene, which contains a tandem duplication of the pS2 gene P domain and is coexpressed with the pS2 gene in normal stomach mucosa but not in breast cancers, is also expressed in Crohn's disease. We suggest that pS2 gene expression may provide a useful marker for mucosal ulcerations of the digestive tract. 
Colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Report of two cases. Colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity. There have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Because of the increasing incidence of HIV infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic, this condition may become more common. Gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations, and symptoms are often nonspecific. Any patient with HIV infection who has unexplained GI symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis. Aggressive long-term amphotericin B therapy has been effective in HIV patients with histoplasmosis. Resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy. 
Assessment of functional gastrointestinal disease: the bowel disease questionnaire. A need exists for a self-report questionnaire that reliably and accurately measures symptoms and that distinguishes patients with functional gastrointestinal disease from those with other conditions. We have developed such an instrument, the bowel disease questionnaire, and herein describe details of its discriminatory validity. Data from 399 subjects were analyzed. Patients with gastrointestinal symptoms were ultimately diagnosed as having functional gastrointestinal disease (82 with the irritable bowel syndrome and 33 with functional dyspepsia) or organic gastrointestinal disease (N = 101). There were 145 healthy control subjects and 38 patients with a psychiatric disease, somatoform disorder (which includes those with a diagnosis of hypochrondriasis, psychogenic pain, and somatization or conversion disorder). All subjects completed the questionnaire before undergoing an independent diagnostic assessment by experienced physicians. Functional gastrointestinal disease could be distinguished from organic disease, somatoform disorder, and health by using models derived from logistic discriminant analysis. With use of these models, the estimated probability of functional gastrointestinal disease was then calculated. Descriptive symptom scores were of less value than the scores derived from the data sets by logistic discriminant analysis. Age did not significantly affect the responses to the questionnaire items. We conclude that, in the population studied, the bowel disease questionnaire is a valid measure of symptoms of functional gastrointestinal disease, and this instrument may have clinical and research applications. 
Hypergastrinemia, gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia, and intractable diarrhea. A patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day. Investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin. No obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found, but after antrectomy, the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided. Possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel. 
Gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis. Report of a case. The first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed. The lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule. Crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow. Generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen. The xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia. Advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant. Disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed. 
Long-term outcome after surgery for biliary atresia. Study of 40 patients surviving for more than 10 years. To define long-term prognosis of children who underwent surgery for biliary atresia, a retrospective study was undertaken in 122 children who underwent one of the Kasai procedures between 1968 and 1977. Forty of the 122 children (32.7%) were alive after 10 years. Firm hepatomegaly was present in 31 and splenomegaly in 29 children. Serum bilirubin or all liver function tests were normal in 21 and 11 children, respectively; survival rate decreased with the age at operation, but no significant difference was observed in the rate of children surviving with normal serum bilirubin whether they underwent surgery before age 2 months or between 2 and 3 months. Twenty-four had esophageal varices and 15 experienced gastrointestinal bleeding. Normal liver-function tests and absence of portal hypertension were observed in 11 of 122 children. These results indicate that Kasai's procedures were helpful in a significant proportion of children with biliary atresia who underwent surgery during this period. However, 80% of children who initially underwent surgery with Kasai's procedures should eventually undergo liver transplantation. 
Temporal relationship between the decrease in arterial pressure and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis. It has been proposed that the initial event of sodium retention in cirrhosis is a peripheral arteriolar vasodilation causing underfilling of the arterial vascular compartment and stimulation of the renin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems. To test this hypothesis, systolic blood pressure, sodium balance and urinary excretion of sodium and aldosterone were sequentially measured in 13 conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats submitted to a cirrhosis induction program with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbital and in 14 control hypertensive animals. No significant differences were found between control and cirrhotic rats in any of the measured parameters during the first 7 wk of the study. The eighth week sodium retention developed in cirrhotic rats as indicated by a positive sodium balance and a marked decrease of sodium excretion. At the same time a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and a great increase in urinary excretion of aldosterone were detected. These changes were more marked the ninth week of the study. In cirrhotic rats there was a highly significant direct correlation between systolic blood pressure and urinary sodium excretion. Postmortem examination showed a histological picture of cirrhosis in all animals given carbon tetrachloride and ascites in six of them. These results indicate that the onset of hyperaldosteronism and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis is chronologically related to a significant decrease in arterial pressure, thus supporting the "peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis" of ascites. 
Prokinetic treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome: a placebo-controlled study of cisapride. The effects of prokinetic treatment with cisapride in patients with constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Sixty-nine IBS patients were assigned to a 12-week treatment with either 5 mg cisapride or placebo t.i.d.; this dosage could be changed if necessary. The mean weekly number of days on which a stool was passed in the cisapride and placebo group increased to 5.3 and 4.4 (p less than 0.05) during weeks 8-12 of treatment, and the number of days with stools of normal consistency increased to 3.5 and 1.9 (p less than 0.05), respectively. At week 12, the reduction in severity and frequency scores for abdominal pain was significantly greater (p less than or equal to 0.05) in the cisapride group (60 and 61%) than in the placebo group (40 and 32%), as it was for abdominal distension (p less than 0.05). Cisapride tended to be better than placebo in diminishing flatulence. In 71% versus 39% of the patients the overall rating for the response to treatment was good or excellent at week 12. Cisapride was well tolerated. These results suggest that the drug will be useful for the management of constipation-predominant IBS. 
Efficacy of biofeedback training in improving faecal incontinence and anorectal physiologic function. The efficacy of biofeedback treatment on faecal incontinence and anorectal function was evaluated in eight patients with faecal incontinence treated with biofeedback training and medical therapy. Outcome and anorectal function were compared with nine faecal incontinent patients who received medical therapy alone. Three month follow up showed that 50% of patients in the biofeedback plus conventional treatment group and 56% of those treated conventionally only had improved. One year follow up showed that 13% in the biofeedback group were free of soiling and an additional 25% had improved. The results were similar in the conventionally treated group--11% were free of soiling and an additional 44% improved. Anal pressures at rest and squeeze, the rectal distension volume that induced sustained inhibition of both the external and internal anal sphincter, and continence to rectally infused saline were significantly reduced in both groups of patients compared with controls (p less than 0.05). Biofeedback treatment had no effect on these abnormal anorectal functions in either patients who improved or those who did not. The improvement in faecal incontinence was probably due to medical intervention or regression of symptoms with time, or both, and not the result of biofeedback training. 
Role of mast cells in ion transport abnormalities associated with intestinal anaphylaxis. Correction of the diminished secretory response in genetically mast cell-deficient W/Wv mice by bone marrow transplantation. To investigate the role of mast cells in transport abnormalities during intestinal anaphylaxis, we examined responses to antigen in isolated intestinal preparations from ovalbumin-sensitized genetically mast cell-deficient WBB6F1-W/Wv (W/Wv) mice and congenic normal WBBGF1(-)+/+ (+/+) mice. Changes in ion transport (primarily secretion of chloride ions) were indicated by increases in short-circuit current (Isc). In tissues from +/+ mice, antigen caused increases in Isc which were significantly inhibited by antagonists to histamine (diphenhydramine) and serotonin (ketanserin), by a cyclooxygenase inhibitor (piroxicam) and by a neurotoxin (tetrodotoxin). In preparations from W/Wv mice, antigen-stimulated responses were approximately 30% of that in +/+ mice and were inhibited only by piroxicam. Responses to electrical transmural stimulation of nerves were approximately 50% in W/Wv versus +/+ mice, and were inhibited by antagonists of mast cell mediators in +/+ but not W/Wv mice. Reconstitution of mast cells in W/Wv mice by intravenous injection of +/+ bone marrow cells restored the normal responses to both antigen and nerve stimulation. Our results indicate that mast cell-dependent mechanisms are primarily responsible for the ion secretion associated with intestinal anaphylaxis, but that other cells are also involved. In addition, our data provide evidence for the functional importance of bidirectional communication between nerves and mast cells in the regulation of ion transport in the gastrointestinal tract. 
Computerized identification of pathologic duodenogastric reflux using 24-hour gastric pH monitoring. Duodenogastric reflux is a naturally occurring sporadic event, the incidence, occurrence, and detrimental effects of which have been difficult to assess. The reliability of 24-hour gastric pH monitoring to detect duodenogastric reflux was studied. Central to the use of pH monitoring for this purpose is confidence in its ability to measure and display pH data in a way that reflects changes in the gastric pH environment with sufficient sensitivity. To test this the gastric pH of 10 dogs was measured in the fasting state, after feeding, and after pentagastrin stimulation. The antrum was more alkaline in the fasting state (p less than 0.01) and the display of data by frequency distribution graph was sensitive enough to reflect induced pH changes. To test the consistency of gastric pH at a given position, simultaneous 24-hour gastric monitoring was performed in 12 normal subjects with two probes placed at either 5 or 10 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter. Only at the 5-cm position did the two probes read within 1 pH unit of each other more than 90% of the time. Based on these principles, gastric pH monitoring was performed 5 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter in 30 normal subjects and 11 patients, fulfilling Ritchie's clinical criteria for pathologic duodenogastric reflux. The data obtained was arranged into 71 variables and subjected to discriminant analysis. Sixteen variables were identified, each with a corresponding coefficient to be used as a multiplier to derive a score. A score of more than +2.2 indicated a high probability of pathologic duodenogastric reflux. The test was applied to a validation population consisting of 10 additional normal subjects and 10 patients meeting Ritchie's criteria. All normal subjects had a normal score and all but one (90%) of the patients had an abnormal score. When compared to O-diisopropyl iminodiacetic acid (DISIDA) scintigraphy in another group of 22 normal subjects and 60 patients, 24-hour gastric pH monitoring was superior in the detection of pathologic duodenogastric reflux. The study shows how the application of computer technology can be used to diagnose pathologic duodenogastric reflux in patients with complex foregut complaints. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease: an update on management. Gastroesophageal reflux is commonplace; all humans experience it. For many patients, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a manageable condition. For others, GERD can progress to severe symptoms, inflammation, and disruption of the mucosal lining. Effective therapy calls for a clear understanding of the pathogenesis of GERD. The final common denominator to GERD is a lower esophageal sphincter mechanism that relaxes or is incompetent and allows gastroesophageal reflux to occur. Key factors associated with GERD are (a) gastric content, (b) potency of refluxate, (c) esophageal clearance, (d) tissue resistance, and (e) disruption of the anatomic hiatus. GERD is generally a chronic condition characterized by recurrent symptoms. Treatment goals for the GERD patient need to be defined: is therapy directed toward eliminating the symptoms or is therapy designed to eliminate gastroesophageal reflux? Unfortunately, effective therapy for GERD usually does not affect the mechanism(s) underlying the problem. The broad goals of therapy in GERD are to decrease gastroesophageal reflux and neutralize it, to enhance esophageal clearance, and to protect esophageal mucosa. The therapeutic modalities related to each of these situations are numerous and overlap, but treatment strategies for managing the GERD patient can be used in clinical "stages" or as the clinical situation dictates. H2-receptor antagonist therapy has become the "keystone" in management of GERD. Unfortunately, not all GERD patients respond to conventional H2-receptor antagonist dosage treatment; high-dose H2-receptor antagonist therapy recently has been demonstrated to be more effective in a greater number of GERD patients with severe esophagitis. 
Sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes. Sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions. Disseminated N. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis, which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy. In contrast, both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic "reactive" arthritis or Reiter's syndrome. Inheritance of HLA B27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition. The demonstration of C. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class I HLA antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease. Arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50% of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis B infection. Joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions, especially on the legs; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice. Hepatitis B infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis, which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis. Seronegative arthritis, including Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, and undifferentiated arthritis, a Sjogren's-like syndrome, vasculitis, and myopathies have been described in association with HIV infection. It is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that HIV is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired. Nevertheless, synovitis may occur in the presence of marked CD4-positive lymphocyte depletion. Rheumatic syndromes, including arthralgia, inflammatory arthritis, and neuropathic arthritis, may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis. Syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy, but neuropathic lesions cannot be treated effectively. Septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated Mycoplasma or Urea-plasma infections, and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale. 
Ulcerative colitis disease activity as subjectively assessed by patient-completed questionnaires following orthotopic liver transplantation for sclerosing cholangitis. To assess whether or not liver transplantation and subsequent immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone affect ulcerative colitis symptomatology, we surveyed by questionnaire all 23 surviving patients with pretransplant colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis who were transplanted for primary sclerosing cholangitis between June 1982 and September 1985. At follow-up [89.8 +/- 7.6 weeks (mean +/- SEM], all six patients who had had asymptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis reported continued ulcerative colitis quiescence. Among the 17 patients who had had symptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis at time of liver transplantation, 88.2% reported improvement in overall ulcerative colitis severity (P less than 0.001), with significant improvement in the frequency of bowel movements reported by 100%, in crampy abdominal pain by 87.5%, in bowel urgency by 75%, in the occurrence of pus or mucus in stool by 87.5%, in the incidence of ulcerative colitis flares by 81.8%, and in the number of days unable to function normally due to ulcerative colitis symptoms by 78.6% (all at least P less than 0.01). These data demonstrate that ulcerative colitis symptom severity significantly improves following liver transplantation with immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone. 
Pathogenetic role of Helicobacter pylori in duodenal ulcer disease. Multivariate analysis of factors affecting relapse. The pathogenesis of duodenal ulcer disease is multifactorial and the contribution of Helicobacter pylori in relation to the other factors to the release of duodenal ulcer is unknown. To investigate this, we studied 147 patients with endoscopically proven healed ulcers. These patients were randomized to receive either placebo, misoprostol 200 micrograms or misoprostol 300 micrograms four times daily, and clinical, personal, physiological and endoscopic characteristics were obtained prospectively. Endoscopy was performed at the active phase of the ulcer and when the ulcer healed. Biopsies were taken from the antrum to assess histologically for: (1) the activity of gastritis as assessed by the degree of polymorph infiltration, (2) the degree of chronic inflammation by the degree of chronic inflammatory cells infiltration and degree of mucosal degeneration, and (3) bacteriologically for the presence of H. pylori. The severity of the gastritis and the bacterial density were graded independently by two pathologists. The patients were assessed at two-month intervals for 12 months or until the ulcer relapsed. The results demonstrated that the relapse rates of duodenal ulcer were similar in the three treatment groups. The relapse rate was higher in the group with higher density of the bacteria (P less than 0.05). The degree of gastritis did not affect the relapse rate of duodenal ulcer in either the placebo or misoprostol group or in all patients combined. Stepwise logistic regression analysis identified that increased duodenal inflammation, male sex, early-onset disease, and H. pylori adversely affected relapse of the ulcer. We conclude that multiple factors affect the relapse of duodenal ulcer and H. pylori is one of them. 
Unconjugated bilirubin and cholesterol gallstone formation. Cholesterol gallstones usually have small amounts of pigment at their centers and often have diffuse pigmentation or pigmented layers alternating with cholesterol layers and/or pigmented rims associated with calcium carbonate (eggshell calcification). The pigments are primarily monomeric calcium salts of unconjugated bilirubin anions and/or an insoluble, black, network polymer of tetrapyrroles. Bilirubin presumably can precipitate only if bile is supersaturated with calcium bilirubinates. Among various in vitro model systems, the aqueous solubilities and pK'a values for unconjugated bilirubin differ greatly. It is therefore not known whether normal bile is saturated with unconjugated bilirubin. However, all systems indicate that unconjugated bilirubin is solubilized by binding to bile salt monomers and oligomers, as well as micelles; marked metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin can occur in the presence of bile salt micelles, and both pK'a values of unconjugated bilirubin are greater than 6.0, probably because of internal hydrogen-bonding of the--COOH groups. Lecithin decreases equilibrium solubilization of unconjugated bilirubin crystals but enhances metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin. Calcium ions form insoluble salts with unconjugated bilirubin monoanions and dianions but soluble complexes with bilirubin conjugates. The solubility products of the calcium bilirubinate salts suggest that normal hepatic bile is not saturated with CaB or Ca(HB)2 but that gallbladder bile may be supersaturated with Ca(HB)2. 
Esophageal obstruction after ingestion of a fiber-containing diet pill. Foreign bodies of the esophagus in adults may be the result of a food bolus that becomes lodged proximal to a structural abnormality of the distal esophagus. A case of peptic stricture of the esophagus in a patient who presented with acute dysphagia after ingesting an over-the-counter diet pill composed of guar gum is discussed. It is recommended that anorectics composed of dietary fiber should not be used in patients with a history of esophageal stricture. 
Cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation. To assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation, we reviewed our experience at the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years. Four patients had a liver transplant, indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients, hepatic failure secondary to Wilms' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient, and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient. A fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium. After transplant, chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients. The patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression. All patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone (0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily) and cyclosporine (to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay) throughout the duration of chemotherapy. Courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents: Adriamycin (Adr, 20 mg/m2 daily, three patients), Cyclophosphamide (Ctx, 1 gm/m2, one patient), cisplatin (CDDP, 90 mg/m2, one patient), Vincristine (Vcr, greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2, three patients), Actinomycin D (Act-D, 7.5 micrograms/kg, one patient), Ifosfamide (I, 1800 mg/m2, one patient) and Etoposide (VP-16, 100 mg/m2, one patient). All patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses (range, 3 to 9; mean, 5) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks. Dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50%. Severe rejection was seen in one patient who had, however, manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy. No nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen. This preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation. 
Cigarette smoking, gastric acidity and peptic ulceration. What are the relationships? The influence of cigarette smoking on intragastric acidity was assessed in duodenal ulcer patients in symptomatic remission and in healthy volunteers in a retrospective study. Continuous 24-hr pH recordings in 150 nonsmokers and 174 smokers receiving placebo treatment were compared. Daytime intragastric acidity was higher in smokers with a median pH (interquartile range) of 1.56 (1.34-1.80) than in nonsmokers, who had a median pH of 1.70 (1.45-1.97) (P less than 0.001). There was no difference in 24-hr and nighttime median pH between the two groups. The small difference in daytime intragastric acidity in smokers and nonsmokers is unlikely to account for the increased prevalence of peptic ulcer disease in smokers. The analysis of smoking status in duodenal ulcer patients and healthy controls and males and females supports the general trend towards higher daytime acidity in smokers. Again, no differences in pH during the 24-hr or night period were found between the groups. The epidemiological and clinical correlation between smoking and duodenal ulcer disease is not adequately explained by increased intragastric acidity. 
Intrahepatic cholesterol stones: a rationale for dissolution therapy. A case of primary cholesterol hepatolithiasis is reported. Stone composition was documented by infrared spectroscopy, and the presence of cholesterol saturated bile was demonstrated using standard biochemical techniques. The patient was treated with operative stone extraction, choledochoscopy, biliary enteric anastomosis, and oral dissolution therapy. The administration of oral dissolution agents has altered the composition of the patient's bile and may prevent further stone formation. We advocate the use of both stone and biliary biochemical analysis for patients with primary hepatolithiasis to facilitate optimal therapy. 
Inflammatory bowel disease and tobacco smoke--a case-control study. A case-control study was carried out in Stockholm, Sweden between 1984 and 1987 to evaluate the association of cigarette smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood and the subsequent development of inflammatory bowel disease. Information on smoking was obtained by a postal questionnaire. The relative risk of Crohn's disease in current smokers compared with those who had never smoked was 1.33 (95% confidence limits 0.7; 2.6) in men and 4.99 (2.7; 9.2) in women; the corresponding results for ulcerative colitis were 0.96 (0.5; 1.8) and 0.72 (0.4; 1.4). The relative risk of ulcerative colitis in recent exsmokers compared with those who had never smoked was 2.18 (0.9; 5.0). Furthermore, an increase in the risk of Crohn's disease was found in those who were exposed to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood, the relative risk being 1.50 (1.0; 2.3). The corresponding relative risk of ulcerative colitis was 0.98 (0.6; 1.5). 
Endoscopy in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection. Two cases of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (MAI) infection in association with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are presented to highlight the distinctive upper gastrointestinal endoscopic appearances: 2 X 4 mm diameter, white nodules with intervening erythema and hemorrhagic erosions covered the mucosa of the second part of the duodenum. Histological evaluation of these nodules revealed diffuse expansion of the lamina propria by macrophages that contained numerous intracellular and extracellular acid-fast organisms. We conclude that endoscopy with endoscopic biopsy may represent the most rapid and sensitive diagnostic tool available in this disease. 
Portacaval shunt as an experimental model of impaired hepatic release of vitamin A in liver disease. Vitamin A concentrations in serum and liver were studied in rats with a portacaval shunt for 48 days after shunt surgery. In addition, serum and tissue concentrations of zinc were analyzed. Following portacaval shunting serum vitamin A concentration decreased to 25% of the level in sham-operated controls, whereas serum zinc concentration decreased to 80%. The mean urinary excretion rate of zinc increased in shunted rats [18.7 +/- 2.1 micrograms/day (0.28 +/- 0.03 mumol/day)] compared with controls [13.8 +/- 1.7 micrograms/day (0.21 +/- 0.03 mumol/day)] (P less than 0.01). The concentration of retinol and total retinoids in liver tissue increased 2-3-fold in rats with a portacaval shunt, and the ratio of retinol to retinoids was slightly increased. The differences were reduced when the total organ content was calculated, because of the reduced liver weight in the shunted rats. The concentration of zinc in liver tissue decreased in rats with portacaval shunts [30.8 +/- 4.9 micrograms/g wet wt (0.47 +/- 0.07 mumol/g) vs. 35.6 +/- 3.7 micrograms/g wet wt (0.54 +/- 0.06 mumol/g) in controls; P less than 0.01]. The concentration of zinc was inversely correlated with retinol (r = -0.52, P less than 0.05) and total retinoid levels (r = -0.70, P less than 0.05) in rats with portacaval shunts but not in controls. The data are consistent with the hypothesis of an impaired release of vitamin A from the liver in rats with portacaval shunts, an impairment that could be due to liver zinc deficiency. 
Occupational distribution of inflammatory bowel disease among German employees. Previous reports have shown that both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis affect people in white collar occupations associated with higher income and higher social class more frequently than other groups in the population. This study sought to carry these analyses one step further and investigate the distribution of inflammatory bowel disease by individual occupations. The German social security statistics for 'rehabilitation' were used to assess the occupational distribution of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. From 1982 to 1988, a total of 12,014 people were granted rehabilitation as a result of inflammatory bowel disease. Low male prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease was found among bricklayers, road construction workers, unskilled workers in brick and stone, unskilled labourers, and security personnel. Low rates were found among women employed in cleaning and maintenance, and in those without occupation. In contrast, a high male prevalence was found among instrument makers, electricians, bakers, and technical assistants. Among female employees, inflammatory bowel disease was significantly associated with sales representatives, office workers, health occupations, and hairdressers. These associations were found in the complete data for 1982-8 as well as in the separate data for the two half periods 1982-5 and 1986-8. Highly significant correlations between the occupational distribution of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis were found among both male and female employees. It seems that occupations involving work in the open air and physical exercise are protective, while being exposed to air conditioned artificial working conditions or extended and irregular shift working confer a risk of contracting inflammatory bowel disease. 
Ten years' experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Up to January 1989, 171 patients were trained at our center on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), and 17 on continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Over 10 years, we have gained 5,068 patient-months experience. Patient survival was 60% and 31% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. In contrast, diabetics had a survival of 32% at 5 years. Major complications included 499 new episodes of peritonitis, 304 exit-site infections, 22 hernias, five bowel perforations, one hydrothorax, and three episodes of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis. Our technique survival has been 62% and 40% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. We believe that CAPD is a viable dialysis technique for long-term treatment of chronic renal failure and it should be offered as an option to intermittent hemodialysis. 
Diarrhea. Diarrhea is one manifestation of GI disturbance. Symptoms may be acute if caused by such things as infections, drug reactions, alterations in diet, heavy metal poisoning, or fecal impaction. Chronic diarrhea is a symptom of GI diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome, lactase deficiency, cancer of the colon, inflammatory bowel disease, and malabsorption diseases. Chronic diarrhea may also be associated with GI surgery, radiation therapy, laxative abuse, alcohol abuse, and chemotherapeutic agents. When interventions are required to deal with diarrhea, they may include such things as alteration in tube feeding products and methods of administration, fluid replacement by oral rehydration procedures, a rapid return to feeding, and education aimed at the health information clients need to prevent or control the symptom of diarrhea. 
The effect of diaper type and overclothing on fecal contamination in day-care centers [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Jun 5;265(21):2810] Fecal coliform contamination of environmental surfaces and hands in the day-care center is common. This study evaluated the effect of two diaper types on fecal contamination. Ten rooms in four day-care centers containing 141 children were studied in a prospective, randomized, crossover study. A total of 2946 samples were cultured during the 9-week study. Fecal coliforms were isolated from 307 inanimate objects (15%), 73 toy balls (46%), and 131 hands (17%). The number of contaminated inanimate objects was significantly less in rooms where paper diapers were worn when compared with that in rooms where double cloth diapers with plastic overpants were worn and in rooms where clothes were worn over diapers. Inanimate object cultures had more contamination in rooms in which diarrhea had occurred. Containment of feces by overclothes and diaper type may be important in decreasing transmission of enteric pathogens in day-care environments. 
Omeprazole in H2 receptor antagonist-resistant reflux esophagitis. We conducted a retrospective review of 25 patients with severe reflux esophagitis treated with omeprazole because of failure of H2 receptor antagonists to heal their esophagitis. Prior to beginning omeprazole (40 mg/day), all patients were on H2 antagonists for at least 9 months and still had endoscopic evidence of longitudinal (grade II) or circumferential (grade III) distal esophageal ulceration. Omeprazole therapy brought about complete endoscopic healing in 24 of 25 patients (96%). Twenty-three of 24 healed patients were then restarted on H2 antagonists as maintenance therapy. Repeat endoscopy was performed if symptoms recurred. Fourteen of 24 patients (58%) had recurrence of endoscopic esophagitis documented between 26 and 300 days from the time of starting maintenance therapy. Two of these 14 patients opted for antireflux surgery, whereas the remaining 12 were once again given omeprazole, which again resulted in symptom resolution in all patients. These data suggest that most patients with H2 receptor antagonist-resistant ulcerative esophagitis cannot be successfully maintained on H2 antagonists even after the ulcers have been healed with omeprazole. Further studies are required to determine the role of omeprazole compared to other treatments in the long-term maintenance therapy of these patients. 
Healing or amelioration of esophagitis does not result in increased lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressure [published erratum appears in Am J Gastroenterol 1991 Feb;86(2):253] There is conflicting evidence regarding whether lower esophageal sphincter and esophageal contractile pressures are affected by changes in the severity of gastroesophageal reflux disease. We compared the manometric and endoscopic findings from 30 patients before and after treatment for esophagitis. Before treatment, the grade of esophagitis (I-III) was significantly correlated (r = -0.37; p less than 0.05) with lower esophageal sphincter pressure, but not with esophageal contractile pressure. After treatment, the grade of esophagitis did not change or became worse in 15 patients, and became better in 15 patients. Of these, seven healed. The group that showed no endoscopic improvement demonstrated no change in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures. The group that did show endoscopic improvement also demonstrated no increase in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures, and this was particularly evident in those whose esophagitis healed. These data suggest that healing of esophagitis does not result in improvement of esophageal motor function. 
The intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma. The avoidance of a colostomy. Traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy. Primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed. We report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube (ICBT) without concomitant colostomy. In all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion. Four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma. Healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases, and the ICBTs were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively. On the basis of this study, we conclude that the ICBT has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy. 
Prostaglandin E2-induced diarrhea in mice: importance of colonic secretion. The present study has investigated the basis for induction of diarrhea by prostaglandin (PG)E2 in mice. When given i.p., PGE2 induced a dose- and time-dependent diarrhea; the shortest post-treatment time for diarrhea onset was approximately 7 min, at a PGE2 dose of 200 micrograms/kg. At this dose, PGE2 also produced accumulation of fluid in the small intestine and in the colon (enteropooling). The enteropooling reached its maximum by 9 min and did not decrease until approximately 11 min (i.e., 2 to 4 min after the mean time for diarrhea onset). PGE2 treatment altered neither gastric emptying nor gastrointestinal propulsion, but strongly enhanced the expulsion of a glass bead from the colon (i.e., decreased the time to bead expulsion). The shortest time to expulsion of the glass bead was observed at 200 micrograms/kg i.p. The induction of diarrhea by PGE2 was unaffected by cecectomy, or sham-cecectomy, but the dose-response curve for time to onset of diarrhea by i.p. PGE2 was displaced to the right in animals with ligations of the ileo-ceco-colonic (ICC) junctions. The intraluminal fluid accumulation in the colon, evaluated in mice with ICC ligations, was increased by PGE2 administration within 2 min and remained greater than in vehicle-treated animals until the onset of diarrhea. The stimulation of colonic bead expulsion produced by i.p. PGE2 in control mice was not observed in animals with acute ICC ligations, even at i.p. doses up to 800 micrograms/kg. 
Glomerular binding and contractile response to angiotensin II in rats with chronic experimental cirrhosis of the liver. 1. The effects of angiotensin II on glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were studied in surgically instrumented conscious control and cirrhotic rats. In addition, angiotensin II binding and the contractile response to angiotensin II were studied in glomeruli isolated from cirrhotic and control rats. 2. Cirrhotic rats had a higher glomerular filtration rate and a higher renal plasma flow than control animals. A non-pressor dose of angiotensin II induced small but significant decreases in glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow in both control and cirrhotic rats, the effect on renal plasma flow being the most pronounced. 3. Plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations were similar in control and cirrhotic rats. 4. The cross-sectional area of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats was 42% greater than that of glomeruli from control animals. Angiotensin II (10(-9) mol/l) decreased the cross-sectional area of glomeruli from control animals by 6.4 +/- 0.9% and of glomeruli from cirrhotic rats by 6.6 +/- 0.8% (P = not significant for comparison between control and cirrhotic animals). 5. There were no differences between control and cirrhotic rats in the affinity of angiotensin II for its glomerular receptors. However, the angiotensin II receptor density was higher in cirrhotic than in control rats, thereby producing an increased total angiotensin II binding in cirrhotic rats. 6. Since no functional differences between control and cirrhotic animals were present in the response to angiotensin II, even though angiotensin II binding was increased, a post-receptor blockade of the angiotensin II signal could be present in cirrhotic rats. 
Non-specific reactions in enzyme linked immunosorbent assays for serum antibody to entamoeba histolytica and Giardia lamblia in non-endemic areas. Serum samples from 20 Indian children with diarrhoea were compared with those from 20 children resident in the United Kingdom who had been diagnosed as having ulcerative colitis, or Crohn's disease, or indeterminate colitis using enzyme linked immunosorbent assays specific for Entamoeba histolytica and Giardia lamblia. More than 50% of the United Kingdom patients had high IgG responses in ELISAs for E histolytica and G lamblia. A confirmatory ELISA showed that the British sera reacted specifically to bovine serum proteins rather than to protozoal antigens. Prior incubation of sera with 5% bovine serum prohibited this reaction. Bovine serum is an integral part of the crude soluble antigen used in most ELISAs for E histolytica and G lamblia and needs to be replaced with purified antigen preparations. The British sera also reacted to other commonly used blocking agents such as bovine serum albumin, casein, and normal sheep serum. These reactions were attributed to uptake of dietary antigens or an enhanced immunological response to these antigens in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. 
The importance of intraoperative cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) using electrocoagulation was successfully performed in 56 out of 58 selected patients. Cholangiography was performed in 53 patients. Six patients had common duct stones; five were unsuspected preoperatively. After the gallbladder was removed, three patients underwent open common duct exploration. In another five cases, anatomical anomalies were discovered. Cholangiography performed via the cystic duct before any structures are divided can prevent the most serious complication--common duct injury. Cholangiography should be attempted on all patients undergoing LC. 
Stasis syndromes following gastric surgery: clinical and motility features of 60 symptomatic patients. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 60 patients who had been referred for gastrointestinal manometry because of stasis after gastric surgery. Nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal pain, and weight loss were the most common symptoms. Two thirds of these patients had a well-documented history of peptic ulcer before their initial operations; in others, surgery was performed for other reasons, such as obesity (5%) or reflux esophagitis (8%). Twelve patients had undergone truncal vagotomy and a "drainage operation" and 48 had received a partial gastrectomy with a gastroenterostomy: Billroth I (n = 8), Billroth II (n = 11), Roux-en-Y (n = 29). All patients had recordings of gastrointestinal manometry; 16 also had a scintigraphic measurement of gastric emptying. Measurements were compared with data from healthy controls. Gastric manometry, which could be assessed only in the group with an intact antrum, was characterized by antral hypomotility (p less than 0.05). Gastric emptying studies showed rapid early emptying of liquids and delayed emptying of solids (both p less than 0.05). In the whole group, fasting jejunal motility was characterized by absence of phase II in 13, presence of bursts of phasic activity in 18, and abnormal propagation of phase III in 8. A significantly increased frequency of phase III of MMC was noted in the patients after Billroth II and Roux-en-Y operations. Postprandially, 19 patients failed to develop a "fed pattern.". 
A complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with Crohn's disease: technical considerations and review of the literature. A high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with Crohn's disease, weight loss, malnutrition, and a persistent vaginal discharge. Preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae. The principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters, resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel, and interposition of healthy tissue (ie, omentum) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff. 
The Roux operation for postgastrectomy syndromes. The aim of this paper is to describe the technique, indications, and results of the Roux operation as used in the treatment of postgastrectomy syndromes. A Roux gastrojejunostomy with a 40-cm Roux limb is the procedure of choice for alkaline reflux gastritis, because it virtually eliminates reflux of bile and pancreatic juice into the stomach. The slow transit through a Roux limb can also be used to good advantage to slow gastric emptying in patients with dumping. Patients with delayed gastric emptying respond to the combination of near-total gastric resection, which removes the atonic gastric remnant and speeds emptying, and Roux-Y gastrojejunostomy, which prevents reflux esophagitis and provides a reservoir for ingesta in the upper gut. After all Roux operations, however, the Roux limb may slow emptying so much that pain, fullness, nausea, and food vomiting result, the so-called Roux stasis syndrome. Prevention of the Roux stasis syndrome with an "uncut" Roux limb and the treatment of the syndrome by using electrical pacing to suppress the ectopic pacemakers that emerge in the limb offer possible new solutions to this vexing problem. 
Phospholipids from rat, human, and canine gastric mucosa. Composition and metabolism of molecular classes of phosphatidylcholine. To validate a recent proposal that a phospholipid lining with a high content of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine may protect gastric mucosa against luminal acid, it was decided to study composition and metabolism of phospholipids in the gastric mucosa. Phospholipids were analyzed in rat, human, and dog gastric mucosal surface tissue and in a chloroform/methanol-lavage of rat and canine stomach. Phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine were the main components. Saturated fatty acids were almost exclusively esterified at the sn-1 position of the glycerol moiety of phosphatidylcholine, and unsaturated fatty acids mainly at the sn-2 position. The disaturated class of phosphatidylcholine comprised 2%-6% of total phosphatidylcholine. Precursors of phosphatidylcholine, i.e., [32P]orthophosphate and [methyl-14C]choline, were preferentially incorporated into the disaturated molecular class 0.5-6 hours after IV administration. It can be speculated that disaturated phosphatidylcholine, although quantitatively a minor component, is specifically triggered in mucosal renewal processes. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and peptic ulcer disease. Evidence has accumulated that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) cause clinically important gastroduodenal ulcers. The pathogenesis, which involves the impairment of mucosal resistance to injury in an acid-peptic environment, is multifactorial and controversial. Ulcers caused by NSAIDs can occur either in mucosa inflamed because of infection with Helicobacter pylori or in histologically normal mucosa. The use of these drugs has been linked to an unexpectedly high incidence of ulcer complications, and a history of peptic ulcer disease is common in such cases. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs thus appear both to exacerbate an underlying peptic diathesis and to cause de novo ulcers. The association between the use of these drugs and ulcer complications is supported by ulcer prevalence data from cross-sectional studies, and by data from case-controlled and cohort studies, and from randomized, experimental trials. Drug-induced gastric ulcers have been prevented by misoprostol, but not by H2 blocker therapy. Several therapies have been reported to promote ulcer healing despite continued use of NSAIDs, but adequate controlled trials have not been done. Small gastric and duodenal ulcers readily heal, whereas larger gastric ulcers require vigorous and prolonged therapy. The relative efficacies of various therapies in preventing ulcers, healing ulcers, or preventing complications remain to be established. 
Response to treatment of detrusor instability in relation to psychoneurotic status. A total of 53 females who entered a double-blind crossover trial of oxybutynin and placebo for idiopathic detrusor instability were questioned about life events and associated medical disorders and were given a psychometric test. Their response to treatment was studied in relation to these factors. It was found that 11% of patients had nocturnal enuresis beyond age 8 and 25% had irritable bowel syndrome: their response to treatment was generally poor. Life events were not consistently related to treatment response. The mean psychoneurotic score of "poor responders" (43.7) was similar to that of female psychoneurotic out-patients (47.7), although one-third of poor responders were normal. Patients who responded well to simple anticholinergic treatment had a mean score (30.7), which was similar to that of normal urban females (33.5). Most good responders and one-third of poor responders showed little evidence of psychoneuroticism: a further search for neurophysiological abnormality in idiopathic detrusor instability is needed. 
Clinical significance of cholelithiasis in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. There is general agreement that the prevalence of gallstones in cirrhotics is high (at least twice that in the general population), but the pathogenetic link between cirrhosis and cholelithiasis is still uncertain. The influence of cholelithiasis on survival in cirrhotics is also unknown. During an 8-year period, we observed 90 patients affected by decompensated cirrhosis: 36 of them (40%) turned out by cholecystographic/cholangiographic or ultrasonographic examination to have cholelithiasis. We were not able to demonstrate any correlation between cholelithiasis and sex, age of patients, etiology of cirrhosis, severity of the illness, degree of portal hypertension, previous gastrointestinal bleeding, number of pregnancies, or levels of serum cholesterol, bilirubin, and triglycerides. During the follow-up observation, (range, 1-91 months), 30 patients died. Survival curves analyzed by the log-rank test did not show any difference between patients with or without gallstones. We therefore confirm that cirrhosis is a lithogenic condition, but we were not able to explain the reasons for the close relationship between cholelithiasis and cirrhosis. Gallstones, however, did not affect the survival of these patients. 
Redevelopment of hepatitis B surface antigen after renal transplantation. A patient with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) and chronic renal failure received a renal transplantation. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) disappeared, and antibodies to HBsAg appeared 10 months before transplantation. Liver tests showed no abnormality at transplantation. Six months later, chronic hepatitis reactivated, antibodies to HBsAg disappeared, and HBsAg reappeared. Hepatitis B virus DNA was demonstrated with polymerase chain reaction in the serum collected before transplantation. This observation suggests that low level HBV replication was present before transplantation despite the absence of detectable HBsAg and was reactivated under immunosuppressive therapy after transplantation. 
Management of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders Fifty-three patients suffering from dysphagia because of suspected esophageal motor disorders were treated by pneumatic dilatation using the Rider-Moeller technique. Fifteen had achalasia demonstrated by manometric studies. Forty-nine of them had remarkable clinical improvement after the procedure. During the mean period of follow-up (average 5 years, range 1-11), 75% of the patients needed a new dilatation, with a delay of two years. The results of the dilatation were excellent or good in 80% of the cases. Early complications consisted in two esophageal perforations surgically treated. There was no mortality. We did not observe late complications of the procedure. We conclude that pneumatic dilatation should be the initial procedure in the treatment of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders. 
Witzel pneumatic dilation for achalasia: safety and long-term efficacy Forceful dilation of the lower esophageal sphincter is considered primary therapy for achalasia. The Witzel pneumatic balloon dilator, unlike fluoroscopically placed dilators, is placed over a standard gastroscope allowing positioning and dilation under direct vision. We report our experience with the Witzel dilator in 45 patients with achalasia over a 5-year period. All patients had at least one major symptom score of 8 out of 10 for dysphagia and/or regurgitation before dilation. After Witzel dilation, symptomatic response was graded as excellent (score 0 to 2), good (score 3 to 5), fair (score 6 to 8), and poor (no improvement). Symptom response was assessed after 1 week, 1 month, 6 month, 1 year, and present. The mean period of follow-up was 25 months (range, 3 to 85 months). Passage of the balloon across the gastroesophageal junction was technically unsuccessful in three patients. Esophageal perforation occurred in two patients (4%) and transient chest pain greater than 2 days in three patients (7%). There was no bleeding or death. Symptomatic long-term improvement was excellent in 25 patients (63%), good in 6 patients (15%), fair in 4 patients (10%), and poor in 5 patients (12%). A repeat Witzel dilation was performed in five patients but resulted in good/excellent improvement in only one patient. We conclude that pneumatic dilation with the Witzel balloon is a safe, effective procedure for achalasia. 
A rat model of esophageal varices. We have developed a new method for inducing portal hypertension and esophageal varices in rats--partial ligation of the portal vein after devascularization of the circumference of the left renal vein and complete ligation of the portal vein on the fifth day thereafter. Thirty rats were separated into groups of 10, control (sham operation), complete portal ligation only and complete portal ligation plus devascularization. Two weeks after the surgery, the presence of esophageal varices in rats with complete portal ligation plus devascularization was confirmed by portography and by the histological findings. The diameter (mean +/- SD) of the submucosal veins of the lower esophagus in the complete portal ligation plus devascularization group (219.4 +/- 86.6 microns) was significantly larger than that in the complete portal ligation group (99.8 +/- 53.4 microns) or in the control group (30.5 +/- 16.6 microns) (p less than 0.01). Vascular structures of the lower esophagus closely resembled those in humans with esophageal varices. This new technique is simple, rapid and reliable, and application can be made to various experimental studies on portal hypertension. 
Economic barriers to the use of oral rehydration therapy. A case report Diarrheal dehydration is a highly prevalent condition among young children and is readily prevented and treated with oral rehydration therapy. We report a death due to hypernatremic dehydration caused by rotavirus diarrhea of a 9-month-old infant whose mother attempted to purchase oral glucose-electrolyte solution in a pharmacy but was unable to afford it. While efforts such as the National ORT Project should help to promote the proper at-home treatment of this condition, we conclude that oral rehydration therapy will not be used optimally by the parents of children living in poverty until the economic barriers to its use are removed. 
Gastric adaptive relaxation and symptoms after vagotomy. Gastric adaptive relaxation is reported to be impaired after vagotomy. This abnormality has been implicated in the pathogenesis of postvagotomy symptoms, but no association has previously been demonstrated between the two. Gastric adaptive relaxation was measured in 15 healthy volunteers and 33 patients more than 1 year after highly selective vagotomy or truncal vagotomy and drainage. Seventeen patients were asymptomatic. The remainder were symptomatic including seven patients with persistent diarrhoea. Fasted subjects were intubated with a Ryle's tube containing a pressure microtransducer within a flaccid (800 ml) plastic bag. Gastric corpus-fundus pressure was recorded during distension of the bag with air (15 ml/s) over 30 s. Pressure indices were derived from the areas under the pressure curves. Median (range) pressure indices were: healthy volunteers 12.7 (7.5-17.1) cmH2O, highly selective vagotomy 14.0 (9.8-15.9) cmH2O (n.s.), truncal vagotomy and drainage 14.5 (8.6-26.8) cmH2O (P = 0.04). All patients with diarrhoea had abnormally high pressure indices (P less than 0.001). Pressure indices in all other patient groups were within the normal range. We conclude that gastric adaptive relaxation remains abnormal in patients with postvagotomy diarrhoea but not in those who are asymptomatic or who have other symptoms. 
Should urologists wear spectacles for transurethral resection of the prostate? Contamination of the eyes by irrigation fluid during transurethral resection (TUR) of the prostate was assessed by measuring droplet splashes on to spectacles worn by 2 surgeons. During 30 consecutive operations, droplet splash contamination occurred during every procedure. The number of splashes increased with time. The use of spectacles during TUR will reduce the risks of eye contamination from droplet splashes and therefore the possibility of transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus from infected patients. 
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children. A serious hazard of undercooked beef. Hemolytic-uremic syndrome is the leading cause of acute renal failure in childhood. Its incidence in North America is increasing. Escherichia coli O157:H7 is the most common infectious trigger and is spread by contaminated beef products as well as from person to person. Antibiotics or antidiarrheal medications should not be used in the treatment of E coli hemorrhagic colitis or hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Mortality in children with the syndrome has fallen to less than 10% in North America, largely because of careful attention to nutrition, maintenance of a normal fluid and electrolyte balance, and careful monitoring. Education and emotional support of the family are important aspects of the treatment program. 
Bleeding gastroesophageal varices: gastric vein embolization after partial portal decompression. Shunts that decompress the portal vein are effective in the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. Use of large-caliber portacaval shunts, however, results in the complete decompression of the portal system and the risk of subsequent development of hepatic encephalopathy. Use of small-caliber portacaval shunts results in mild portal hypertension and less frequent hepatic encephalopathy but may increase the risk of recurrent bleeding. Thirty-three patients underwent angiography after partial decompression portacaval shunting (median trans-shunt pressures, 8 mm Hg). Embolization of residual varices, noted in 13 patients, was performed. Results included one complication with no sequelae and no bleeding a mean of 13 months after the procedure was performed. Trans-shunt embolization of esophageal varices effectively prevents bleeding varices after partial portal decompression. 
Intestinal obstruction by distension of a Foley jejunostomy catheter. Jejunostomies can be effective in permitting postoperative nutritional support, particularly in the patient with complicated gastrointestinal disease. In the case presented, however, distension of the Foley balloon catheter, used as the jejunostomy tube, led to intestinal obstruction which was not initially detected. Following radiographic identification of the problem, removal of the air from the Foley balloon allowed the patient to complete his convalescence from surgery. The possibility of obstruction from the Foley jejunostomy catheter should be recognized as a potential problem in the postoperative period. 
Plasma HDL cholesterol concentrations are correlated to bile cholesterol saturation index in the African green monkey. In an attempt to determine if plasma lipoprotein concentrations correlate with the bile cholesterol saturation index in the African green monkey, we have studied a group of adult male animals available from a long-term study investigating the effects of dietary fat and cholesterol on cholesterol metabolism and atherosclerosis. The animals were fed diets containing 0.8 mg cholesterol/kcal or 0.03 mg cholesterol/kcal for five years. Within each dietary cholesterol group, animals received 42% of dietary calories as fat, enriched with either saturated or polyunsaturated fat. Using stepwise multiple linear regression, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration was found to be the best plasma lipid predictor of the bile cholesterol saturation index. When the cholesterol saturation index of a fasting gallbladder bile specimen was compared to the plasma HDL cholesterol level for individual animals, a significant positive correlation was noted for animals fed polyunsaturated fat, (r = 0.68) and for animals fed saturated fat (r = 0.72). For any value of HDL cholesterol, however, the cholesterol saturation index was higher in animals fed polyunsaturated fat compared to saturated fat. Since plasma HDL cholesterol levels were positively correlated with the bile cholesterol saturation index in adult male African green monkeys, we conclude that a metabolic link exists between plasma HDL cholesterol concentrations and bile cholesterol saturation, perhaps due to enhanced delivery of cholesterol to the liver by HDL. 
Gastrointestinal dysfunction and disaccharide intolerance in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus. Because gastrointestinal dysfunction is a major problem in children with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, we utilized breath hydrogen measurements to determine the relationship between disaccharide malabsorption and gastrointestinal dysfunction in HIV-infected children. We found a strong association between lactose intolerance and persistent diarrheal disease in this population (p less than 0.007, Mann-Whitney U test). We also found evidence of sucrose malabsorption and persistent diarrheal disease in three of the children. Extensive microbiologic evaluations failed to reveal an etiologic agent related to the occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms. Our findings indicate that disaccharide intolerance is a common occurrence in HIV-infected children with persistent diarrheal disease. Careful attention to dietary intake may be required to ameliorate clinical symptoms and to maintain adequate nutrition. 
Endometriosis. An important condition in clinical gastroenterology. Endometriosis, a condition defined by the presence of ectopic endometrium, is a disorder of increasing incidence and a significant cause of gastroenterologic distress in young women. Although clinical manifestations vary considerably depending upon the anatomic extent of disease, characteristic abdominal complaints and typical physical findings continue to be associated with misdiagnosis and delayed recognition of gastrointestinal involvement. The authors of this paper review the medical literature concerning endometriosis of the digestive tract--emphasizing modes of presentation, risk factors, diagnostic testing, complications, and therapy. Greater familiarity with the disease and heightened awareness of its sequellae are needed and prerequisite to improved medical management. 
Sexually transmitted diseases of the colon, rectum, and anus. The challenge of the nineties. During the past two decades, an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred. Up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals. Chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men, and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus. In addition, a host of parasites, bacterial, viral, and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population. Furthermore, the global epidemic of AIDS has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations. Acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual AIDS population. Along with cryptosporidia and isospora, the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease. Other patients may present with colorectal Kaposi's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma, and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for HIV. However, in addition to these protean manifestations, one third of patients with AIDS consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata, anorectal sepsis, or proctitis before the diagnosis of HIV disease. Although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic HIV positive patients, the same procedures in AIDS (symptomatic HIV positive) patients will often be met with disastrous results. It is incumbent upon the surgeon, therefore, to recognize the manifestations of HIV disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly. 
The role of continued drinking in loss of portal perfusion after distal splenorenal shunt. Fifty percent of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who undergo distal splenorenal shunting for variceal bleeding lose portal perfusion within 1 year. Although it was previously considered that this loss of portal flow was irrevocable, the present study shows that with resolution of alcoholic hepatitis, portal perfusion can be restored. A 34-year-old patient with alcoholic liver disease and a distal splenorenal shunt lost portal perfusion 1 year after the operation. He had continued to drink alcohol and had high sinusoidal pressure. Following forced abstinence over the next 2 years, his sinusoidal pressure fell, liver volume decreased, results of liver biopsy improved, and portal perfusion was restored. Shunt patency was documented, and the same collaterals from the portal vein to the shunt could still be visualized as had been seen when portal flow was absent. Restoration of portal perfusion was attributed to decreased intrahepatic resistance secondary to abstinence from alcohol. A return to drinking in the next 9 months led to alcoholic hepatitis and once again loss of portal perfusion. This study places emphasis on increased intrahepatic resistance rather than the development of portal-to-shunt collaterals as important in the loss of portal flow in such patients. 
Piezoelectric lithotripsy and soft tissue injury. Safety limits in the experimental and clinical setting. Controversy surrounds the capacity of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy to cause soft tissue injury. This study examines the influence of different dosages of shock waves on the gall bladder in both humans and an animal model. Sixty one guinea pigs were divided into groups and subjected to different numbers of shock waves (6,000, 24,000, and 48,000) at different frequencies (2.5, 5.0, 10, 20 shock waves per second) and sacrificed at different intervals. Soft tissue damage after lithotripsy seemed to be related to the number of shock waves administered. In addition, repeated administration of low dose lithotripsy (at weekly intervals for six weeks) did not seem to produce a cumulative injury. Finally, in the animals sacrificed one month after receiving high dose lithotripsy, no soft tissue damage was evident, indicating satisfactory healing. Thirty patients were subjected to either high dose (36,000 shock waves) or low dose (6,000 shock waves) lithotripsy 24 hours before elective cholecystectomy. Both macroscopic and microscopic evidence of soft tissue injury were detected in a significantly higher percentage of patients who received a high dose in a single treatment (p less than 0.05). The group who received repeated low dose lithotripsy showed no evidence of cumulative injury. We conclude that low dose lithotripsy produces minimal soft tissue injury and is safe when repeated up to six times at weekly intervals. 
Twelve hour overnight oesophageal pH monitoring in patients with reflux symptoms. Results of continuous 12 hour overnight pH monitoring (duration of pH less than 4) were reviewed in 112 patients with heartburn or regurgitation, or both, and in 56 normal subjects. Patients had more reflux than normal subjects. Medically controlled patients (n = 51) had less acid reflux than patients who subsequently underwent reflux surgery (n = 61), but there was a considerable overlap between those two groups. Surgery was followed by a reduction in acid reflux to a value similar to that in normal subjects. Patients in whom surgery was deemed to have failed had more reflux after the operation than those in whom it was successful, but no difference could be found in the preoperative reflux values of these two subgroups. Monitoring pH is not of value in selecting candidates for surgery since the results are not a good predictor of outcome, but it is useful in the objective evaluation of surgical results. 
Assessment of the risk of bleeding from esophageal varices by continuous monitoring of portal pressure. Portal pressure was monitored by means of an indwelling hepatic vein balloon catheter in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and bleeding varices to determine the safety and feasibility of the technique and its value in predicting recurrence of bleeding. Forty patients were enrolled. Central venous access could not be achieved in 4 patients (10%). Hepatic vein catheterization was accomplished in the remaining 36 patients. Fourteen patients were either later found to have nonalcoholic liver disease or had already received treatment that excluded them from the protocol. The remaining 22 patients, who were treated with blood and fluid replacement, were monitored for up to 72 hours. Portal pressure was greater than 11 mm Hg in all patients (normal, less than 5 mm Hg) and did not change significantly over the 3 days of study. Portal pressure was significantly higher in the 9 patients who continued to bleed or rebled compared with the 13 patients who remained stable. The lowest pressure associated with continued bleeding or rebleeding was 16 mm Hg. Continuous monitoring of portal pressure in patients with bleeding esophageal varices due to alcoholic cirrhosis is safe and feasible and permits rapid stratification of the risk of continued bleeding or early rebleeding. 
Pyloric deformation from peptic disease. Radiographic evidence for incompetence rather than obstruction. We have used double-contrast radiographic techniques to clarify what changes in the configuration and movements of the gastroduodenal junction result when peptic lesions involve the distal gastric segment between the proximal (PPL) and the distal pyloric muscle loop (DPL). Among 50 cases of pyloric ulceration diagnosed during a four-year study period, 18 cases fulfilled all study criteria. Ulcers maintained a consistent location with regard to the muscular structures of the pylorus, and by affecting these structures, led to many strange deformations of the gastric outlet including permanent pseudodiverticula and reversal of pyloric angulation. The most common site for peptic lesions in the pyloric segment was the protuberance of the lesser curvature called the pyloric torus; many torus lesions extended into and destroyed the DPL. This led to widening of the gastric outlet and radiographic evidence of increased duodenogastric reflux. Pyloric closure was further impaired in this setting because the mucosa no longer prolapsed into the gastric outlet and did not occlude the pyloric lumen as it normally does. Less common lesions involved the greater curvature and the PPL. In one patient, scarring of the PPL led to an antral web and gastric hyperperistalsis. This was the only patient who required operation for chronic gastric outlet obstruction. One-third of the 18 patients had reflux esophagitis in addition to peptic pyloric disease. In most patients without additional ulcerogenic risk factors, treatment with antisecretory agents led to the healing of ulcer craters. We conclude that the morphologic and functional changes of the gastric outlet caused by peptic lesions depend, in part, on the effect the ulcer has on the underlying pyloric musculature. 
Distribution of cholesterol between vesicles and micelles in human gallbladder bile: influence of treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid. The present study aimed at determining the relative distribution of cholesterol between the vesicular and micellar phases in gallbladder bile of gallstone patients (n = 23) and gallstone-free subjects (n = 7). Nine of the gallstone patients were treated with chenodeoxycholic acid and seven were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid, 15 mg/kg/day, for 3 wk before cholecystectomy. The vesicular and micellar fractions in bile were separated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation, and a clear separation between the two phases was obtained. The vesicles were further identified by quasielastic light scattering spectroscopy and appeared to be of a uniform size with a mean hydrodynamic radius of 760 A. The proportion of cholesterol in the vesicular fraction was significantly higher in the untreated gallstone group (40% +/- 4%) compared with the gallstone-free (28% +/- 3%), ursodeoxycholic acid (28% +/- 3%) and chenodeoxycholic acid (18% +/- 4%) groups. Despite a low cholesterol saturation of bile in the latter three groups (88% +/- 12%, 51% +/- 9% and 65% +/- 5%, respectively), a considerable part of the biliary cholesterol was carried in the vesicular fraction. The cholesterol/phospholipid ratio in the vesicular fraction averaged between 0.49 and 0.58 in the gallstone, gallstone-free and chenodeoxycholic acid groups, whereas the ursodeoxycholic acid group had a significantly lower ratio of 0.24. The nucleation time of bile from the gallstone group was short (2 +/- 1 days) compared with the gallstone-free, chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid groups (23 +/- 3, 24 +/- 6 and 14 +/- 3 days, respectively. 
Combined radiologic and retrograde endoscopic and biliary interventions. Methods of treating complex biliary duct problems by a team composed of an endoscopist and interventional radiologist are described. These procedures are of two types: Those in which all manipulations are performed through the endoscope and those in which an antegrade transhepatic and a retrograde endoscopic approach are combined. 
Xipamide disposition in liver cirrhosis. The pharmacokinetics of the sulfonamide-type diuretic xipamide was studied in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites and compared with healthy control subjects. After oral administration of 40 mg xipamide, the diuretic was rapidly distributed in the blood and the ascites. The ratio of the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of plasma and ascitic fluid was 7:2, as was the protein content in the respective compartments. The AUC in plasma of cirrhotic patients was significantly greater than in control subjects (p less than 0.001). The most striking finding was the increase of the amount (Ae) of parent drug and main metabolite excreted into the urine (p less than 0.001). The renal clearance of xipamide was only moderately reduced in patients with liver cirrhosis. Both AUC and Ae were positively correlated to the plasma concentration of direct bilirubin of the patients (p less than 0.05). We concluded that nonrenal drug clearance in patients with liver cirrhosis was reduced as a result of the blockade of hepatobiliary excretion during cholestatic conditions. 
Effect of ulcerative colitis and smoking on rectal blood flow. Rectal blood flow was measured by laser doppler flowmetry over 60 minutes in eight patients with colitis in remission and eight healthy male non-smokers. Ten smokers were also examined on two occasions, one of which included smoking a cigarette. Plasma nicotine concentrations were measured in smokers. All subjects showed a pronounced fall in rectal blood flow in the first 30 minutes and patients with colitis had significantly higher values compared with smokers (p less than 0.002; p less than 0.04) and non-smokers (p less than 0.007; p less than 0.002) during the first and second 30 minutes respectively. Values in smokers and non-smokers were similar, but smoking a cigarette was associated with a significant fall in blood flow (p less than 0.04) and this change was inversely related to the rise in plasma nicotine concentration (r = -0.63; p less than 0.05). The findings may be relevant to the association between colitis and the smoking history. 
Isolation and characterization of cDNA encoding a human nuclear antigen predominantly recognized by autoantibodies from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Autoantibodies to a novel nuclear Ag, Sp100, have recently been described that recognize a nuclear protein with an apparent molecular mass of 95 to 100 kDa and a dot-like distribution within cell nuclei. By immunoscreening of a lambda gt11 cDNA expression library derived from HeLa cells with an anti-Sp100 autoimmune serum a 0.7-kb cDNA (Sp26) coding for a fragment of Sp100 was isolated. Expression of this cDNA and use of the recombinant protein in ELISA revealed that the fragment carries major Sp100 autoepitopes and that anti-Sp100 autoantibodies predominantly occur in patients suffering from primary biliary cirrhosis (50/184). The Sp26 cDNA was used as hybridization probe for isolation of longer cDNA from human liver- and placenta-derived lambda gt10 cDNA libraries. Overlapping fragments were assembled to generate a full length cDNA coding for a protein with a molecular mass of 53 kDa and an isoelectric point of 4.7. The Sp100 autoantigen expressed in vitro from this cDNA and authenticated by a capture immunoblot assay, comigrated in SDS-PAGE with the authentic HeLa autoantigen of 95 to 100 kDa and thus showed an aberrant electrophoretic mobility. Computer based protein sequence analysis of the Sp100 autoantigen revealed regions of striking sequence similarities to the alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of various human and non-human MHC class I Ag and to several transacting transcriptional regulatory proteins. 
Endoscopy versus x-ray studies of the gastrointestinal tract: future health care implications. I did esophagogastroduodenoscopy in 147 patients and colonoscopy in 59 patients who had had gastrointestinal x-ray studies. The endoscopic procedure was done within 7 days after the x-ray study and/or while the patient was still symptomatic. The barium swallow findings were confirmed in only 40%; in the other 60%, the x-ray findings could not be confirmed. These unconfirmed x-ray findings were false-positive in 37.4%, false-negative in 16.3%, and suboptimal or nondiagnostic in 6.2%. The barium enema findings were confirmed in 32%. In the other 68%, the x-ray findings were false-positive in 42.3%, false-negative in 22%, and suboptimal in 3.3%. We conclude that in clinical or private practice, relying on x-ray studies alone may be associated with a high margin of diagnostic errors. When all factors are considered, the initial cost advantage of the x-ray studies appears to be lost. In future recommendations on the continuing dilemma of x-ray studies versus endoscopy, consideration should be given to factors other than the initial lower price of the x-ray studies. 
Esophageal inflammation and stricture: complication of chronic granulomatous disease of childhood. Esophagitis in children with immunodeficiency is most commonly due to opportunistic infection. The authors describe three patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) of childhood who developed esophageal strictures that were believed to be complications of the primary disease. At radiologic examination, all three patients initially had a focal narrowing of the upper thoracic esophagus. Endoscopy showed no signs of opportunistic infection or Barrett esophagus. Biopsy of the strictures in two patients revealed findings consistent with CGD. In two of the three patients, inflammation extended to involve the middle and distal esophagus. Long-term response to balloon dilation was poor in the first two patients. The third patient was lost to follow-up after a partial clinical and radiographic response to dilation. 
24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin after omeprazole treatment and after proximal gastric vagotomy in duodenal ulcer patients The relationship between suppressed gastric acidity and the increase in plasma gastrin levels after pharmacological and surgical treatment of peptic ulcer disease were compared in this study. Eight patients with chronic duodenal ulcer and referred for proximal gastric vagotomy were studied. 24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin levels were investigated in the same patients on three consecutive occasions: preentry without any treatment; after 4 weeks of administration of 20 mg of omeprazole daily, and 4-6 months after proximal gastric vagotomy. Intragastric acidity was slightly more reduced by omeprazole (94%) than after proximal gastric vagotomy (78%), with no difference found during the day or night with either. Plasma gastrin levels increased slightly more after proximal gastric vagotomy [284% (median, 2120 pmol.h/L; range, 733-2831 pmol.h/L)] than after omeprazole administration [186% (median, 1586 pmol.h/L; range, 495-2573 pmol.h/L)]. There is strong evidence that the increased plasma gastrin concentration following omeprazole treatment is caused by the reduced intragastric acidity. The slight increase in plasma gastrin concentration following proximal gastric vagotomy despite a lesser reduction in intragastric acidity may be the result of additional effects on gastrin release by the vagotomy. Both treatments resulted in a modest increase in plasma levels of gastrin that were far below the gastrin levels observed in achlorhydric patients, e.g., patients with pernicious anemia. 
Extracellular matrix gene expression increases preferentially in rat lipocytes and sinusoidal endothelial cells during hepatic fibrosis in vivo. Whether parenchymal or nonparenchymal liver cells play a predominant role in the pathophysiology of hepatic fibrosis has not been firmly established in vivo. We have addressed this question by quantitating the relative abundance of specific mRNAs for collagen types I, III, and IV, and laminin in purified populations of hepatocytes, sinusoidal endothelial cells, and lipocytes from normal and fibrotic rat liver. In normal liver, type I collagen gene expression was minimal in all cell types; mRNA for types III and IV collagen were apparent in endothelial cells and lipocytes, but not in hepatocytes. Laminin mRNA was present in all cell types. Induction of fibrogenesis by either bile duct ligation or carbon tetrachloride administration was associated with a substantial increase in mRNA for types I and III collagen in nonparenchymal cells. Lipocytes from fibrotic animals exhibited a greater than 30-fold increase in type I collagen mRNA relative to normal lipocytes, and greater than 40-fold relative to hepatocytes. Type III collagen mRNA reached 5 times that in normal lipocytes and greater than 120 times that in hepatocytes. Endothelial cells exhibited an isolated increase in type I collagen mRNA, reaching five times that in normal liver. Type IV collagen and laminin gene expression were not significantly increased in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis; in fact, mRNA for type IV collagen and laminin decreased by up to 50% in endothelial cells. Despite the pronounced changes that occurred in matrix gene expression in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis, no change was noted in hepatocytes. We conclude that nonparenchymal liver cells, particularly lipocytes, are important effectors of hepatic fibrosis in vivo. 
Should safety concerns with available ulcer treatment influence drug selection? With the identification of the parietal cell receptors for gastric acid secretion coupled with the introduction of cimetidine in 1977, treatment of acid-peptic diseases was transformed from empiric therapy to an approach based on a clearer understanding of human physiology. Today, physicians are confronted with an array of antiulcer agents that differ within their drug class (e.g., the H2-receptor antagonists) as well as in their mechanisms of action (e.g., neutralize acid, alter mucosal defensive factors, or suppress acid secretion). With minor exceptions, the clinical efficacy of the available antiulcer drugs can be regarded as comparable. Thus, the safety profile becomes the next consideration when choosing among similarly effective drug products. Of the available antiulcer agents, the H2-receptor antagonists as a class have an excellent safety profile, as indicated by more than 25 years of cumulative clinical experience and postmarketing surveillance. Important safety issues with currently available antiulcer drugs, i.e., H2-receptor antagonists, sucralfate, prostaglandin E analogues, and the newest antiulcer agent, omeprazole, are reviewed to place them into perspective for the clinician. 
Training, credentialling, and granting of clinical privileges for laparoscopic general surgery. Despite the lack of scientific data comparing it with traditional open operations, laparoscopic surgery has gained rapid acceptance and implementation by general surgeons. Individual hospitals, which have the responsibility for developing their own privileging criteria, are searching for guidance as to the amount and type of additional training required to grant clinical privileges in laparoscopic general surgery. Laparoscopic surgery involves techniques different from those learned during general surgery residency training. Therefore, until such techniques are regularly included in general surgery residency programs, additional training for and granting of separate privileges in laparoscopic surgery are appropriate. Adequate training for surgeons already experienced in abdominal and biliary tract surgery can be acquired through a preceptorship in diagnostic laparoscopy, attending a course in laparoscopic surgery that includes both didactic instruction and live animal experience, assisting with the procedures in humans, and being proctored and certified as competent by an experienced general surgeon. 
Capillary refilling (skin turgor) in the assessment of dehydration. This study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of skin turgor or capillary refilling in estimating the degree of dehydration in infants with diarrhea. After initial standardization of the technique, capillary filling time was found to be more reproducible when measured in the fingernail bed after applying just the amount of pressure necessary to blanch the nail bed. Capillary refilling time in 30 normal infants 2 to 24 months of age was 0.81 +/- 0.31 seconds. Capillary filling time was then measured in 32 infants with diarrhea admitted to the hospital and correlated to the degree of dehydration as estimated from the difference in weight from the time of hospital admission to the weight after rehydration. A turgor time of 1.5 seconds or less was found to be indicative of a less than 50-mL/kg deficit or of a normal infant; 1.5 to 3.0 seconds suggests a deficit between 50 and 100 mL/kg, and more than 3 seconds suggests a deficit of more than 100 mL/kg. 
Water and electrolyte balance after ileoanal anastomosis. Water and electrolyte balance was studied in 30 patients with ileoanal anastomosis and J pouch, 10 patients with conventional ileostomy, and nine nonoperated patients with quiescent ulcerative colitis. Serum electrolyte concentrations, daily urinary volume, and daily losses of sodium, potassium, and chloride were measured in all patients. Daily fecal weight and daily losses of sodium and potassium were analyzed in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy. Serum chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) than in those with conventional ileostomy or in nonoperated patients. Daily urinary loss of sodium in nonoperated patients was significantly higher than in patients with ileoanal anastomosis (P less than 0.01) or conventional ileostomy (P less than 0.05). Daily urinary loss of chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) than in nonoperated patients. Daily fecal loss of potassium in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) than in those with conventional ileostomy. Daily urinary volume and fecal weight did not differ significantly in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy. The present study indicates that changes in water and sodium balance after ileoanal anastomosis are similar to those after conventional ileostomy but chloride balance is more altered after ileoanal anastomosis. 
Rationale and efficacy of conservative therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease. Major recent advances in the diagnosis and understanding of gastroesophageal reflux disease have afforded the practicing clinician a number of therapeutic options to treat the increasingly recognized affected patient population. With highly effective acid-suppressive therapies available, simple life-style modifications, such as selective food and medicine avoidance, weight loss, smoking cessation, elevation of the head of the bed, and the judicious use of antacids and alginate, have been relegated to a minor, if any, role in the management of these patients. The validity of these recommendations, however, remains consistent with our current understanding of the pathogenesis of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Although few well-designed placebo-controlled trials have been conducted, a review of the medical literature indicates an appreciable efficacy of these interventions, which are founded on well-studied physiologic determinants of gastroesophageal reflux. Most patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease can be managed by reassurance and simple life-style adjustments alone. The therapy for those with chronic or relapsing disease should always include the adjunctive reinforcement of these simple, efficacious, and cost-effective measures. 
Outbreak of diarrhoea due to Escherichia coli O111:B4 in schoolchildren and adults: association of Vi antigen-like reactivity. During six days in November, 1987, 611 pupils (age range 7-19 years) and 39 adults (23-57) at a school complex in southern Finland had diarrhoea due to Escherichia coli O111:B4. Diarrhoea developed in 137 other household members during the two weeks after the school outbreak. The source of the organism remains unknown. The outbreak strains, when incubated at 22 degrees C or exposed to ampicillin, lost the lipopolysaccharide O antigen and began to react with antisera against Salmonella typhi Vi antigen. The Vi antigen-like reactivity increased the adherence of the organisms to Hep-2 cells. These results indicate that E coli O111:B4, and possibly other enteropathogenic E coli strains, should be considered in the diagnosis of all diarrhoea cases and not only in infantile diarrhoea. Expression of Vi antigen in E coli may play a part in virulence by enhancing adherence to the intestinal epithelium. 
US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of gallbladder masses. Ultrasonically (US) guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy was performed in 88 patients who had gallbladder masses. All masses were less than 4.8 cm in diameter. A 22- or 23-gauge, Teflon-coated needle was placed into the mass with the transhepatic or transperitoneal route. By means of this technique, gallbladder malignancy was confirmed in 69 of the 78 cases of malignancy (88.5%). Ten of 10 benign lesions were properly categorized. One patient developed bile peritonitis following a single needle pass with the transperitoneal approach. Pain, a minor complication of the procedure, was noted in four cases. No instances of hemorrhage or vasovagal reactions occurred. From their experience in this large series, the authors conclude that US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of gallbladder masses is a safe, reliable, and accurate technique for the diagnosis of malignancy. 
Rupture of the oesophagus during cricoid pressure Rupture of the oesophagus occurred during the application of cricoid pressure at induction of anaesthesia when the patient vomited. The patient, who was bleeding from a gastric ulcer, was found to have a lower oesophageal tear which, although repaired at operation, resulted in a fatal mediastinitis. 
Neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies: a link between primary sclerosing cholangitis and ulcerative colitis. Whether serum autoantibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic components, previously found in ulcerative colitis, are also associated with primary sclerosing cholangitis was determined. In an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin G neutrophil antibodies, neutrophil binding by primary sclerosing cholangitis sera was significantly greater than that for primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic hepatitis B, and chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis. Similar differences were seen when sera from patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis without evidence for ulcerative colitis were compared with sera from liver disease controls. Perinuclear immunofluorescence staining of neutrophils was exhibited by the majority of ulcerative colitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis without ulcerative colitis sera. The combination of elevated immunoglobulin G neutrophil antibodies and a perinuclear pattern was 65% sensitive and 100% specific for primary sclerosing cholangitis compared with the liver disease control sera. It is concluded that neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosing cholangitis may be markers of shared underlying immunopathogenic mechanisms. Identification of the target antigen(s) may facilitate understanding of the underlying immune response and development of an improved disease marker assay. 
The response of human peritoneal macrophages to stimulation with bacteria isolated from episodes of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis-related peritonitis. The metabolism of arachidonic acid, by isolated peritoneal macrophages in response to stimulation with microorganisms isolated from continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients, is not specific to the individual strain but is determined by species. Isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (n = 7) and Staphylococcus epidermidis (n = 13) produced a significant increase in leukotriene B4 generation by peritoneal macrophages compared with unstimulated cells (P less than .001). The coincubation of peritoneal macrophages with gram-negative organisms (n = 3), however, did not result in an increase in leukotriene B4 synthesis. In contrast, all the organisms tested significantly inhibited the formation of prostaglandin E2 and thromboxane B2 but the degree of inhibition was species dependent. The above results were reproduced using bacteria-free supernatants, indicating that the interaction was dependent on a secreted bacterial product. Thus in response to certain bacterial species, the recruitment of neutrophils may be facilitated by the generation of leukotriene B4 from peritoneal macrophages. In addition, the reduction in synthesis of prostaglandin E2 may remove a regulatory effect that this metabolite has on the immune response. 
Primary hepatic malignancy: the role of liver transplantation. Between January 1982 and April 1989, 134 patients with a suspected liver neoplasm were referred to the liver unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham. In 105 (78 per cent), a primary hepatic neoplasm was histologically confirmed, and 47 patients (45 per cent) proved to have primary hepatocellular carcinoma. Twenty-nine orthotopic liver transplants were performed in 28 of these patients (27 per cent). Twenty patients (71 per cent) survived 30 days or longer (median 11.5 months; range 2-87 months), of whom nine are currently alive. We retrospectively analysed our data to determine the influence of preoperative evaluation, histological type and staging on outcome. Computed tomography proved to be superior to intraoperative assessment (86 versus 58 per cent) in diagnosing tumour positive nodes. Patients with tumour negative lymphadenopathy had a better prognosis. Postoperative stage I/II had a median survival of 16 months (range 3-87 months) compared with 7.5 months (range 2-20 months) for stage III. Non-cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had the best prognosis; cholangiocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients with hepatocelluar carcinoma had the worst outcome with no survivors beyond 1 year. Because of the advanced stage of disease at the time of presentation, the value of liver transplantation in primary liver cancer is limited. For those presenting with advanced disease confined to the liver (stage I/II) in whom conventional hepatic resection is not possible, significant benefit can be achieved in selected cases. 
Neuroendocrine design of the gut. The enteric nervous system (ENS) can be thought of as the third component of the autonomic nervous system. It is a vast network of neurons widely dispersed throughout the gut. The ENS is a dominant regulator of gut function through the action of peptide and non-peptide neurotransmitters. The most intensively studied roles of the ENS have been the regulation of secretory processes, such as gastric acid secretion, and motility. It is clear, however, that the ENS plays a broader role in the regulation of other gut functions, including mucosal defense, the gut immune response, and sphincter function. Alterations in the regulation of gut function by the ENS are likely or suspected in a number of conditions, including achalasia, Hirschsprung's disease, inflammatory bowel disease, Chagas' disease, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, biliary dyskinesia, tachygastria, and irritable bowel syndrome. Improved knowledge of the pathophysiology of these troublesome conditions makes effective therapy more likely in the future. 
Fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk protect suckling mice from heat-stabile enterotoxin of Escherichia coli. Human milk protects suckling mice from the diarrheagenic effects of heat-stabile enterotoxin of Escherichia coli (ST). To identify the human milk fraction responsible for this protection, pooled skimmed, deproteinated milk was passed through charcoal, whereupon lactose was separated from the oligosaccharides. The oligosaccharides contained ST-protective activity; the lactose did not. The neutral, but not the acidic, fraction exhibited protective activity against ST (22% vs. 57% mortality, respectively; P less than .001). The fucosylated, but not the nonfucosylated, subfractions of the neutral fraction contained the factor protective against ST (35% vs. 50% mortality, respectively; P less than .05). An oligosaccharide isolation scheme based on different principles produced confirmatory results. The commercially available neutral fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk did not significantly protect the mice from the effects of ST. Thus, the protective factor against ST seems to be a minor neutral fucosyloligosaccharide of human milk. 
Blunt intestinal injury. Keys to diagnosis and management. Fifty-six patients with blunt intestinal injury seen during 39 months were reviewed for keys to diagnosis and treatment. Motor vehicle accidents were involved in 80% of the cases and seat/lap belts were in use 69% of the time. Blunt intestinal injury was the only abdominal injury in 70% of the cases. There were 42 perforations and 20 devascularizations; multiple injuries were common (27%). Abdominal tenderness was present on admission in 43 of 44 patients in whom a reliable examination was possible. Peritoneal lavage was positive in 13 (93%) of 14 patients. Computed tomography was falsely negative in three of four instances in which it was used. Perforations were most common in the upper and lower ends of the small bowel and in the sigmoid colon; devascularizations were most common in the distal ileum and sigmoid colon. Resection/anastomosis was performed in 38% of small-bowel perforations and in all small-bowel devascularizations. Resection/diversion was required in most colonic perforations (five of six patients) and devascularizations (four of six patients). There were five deaths (9%), none due to intestinal injury. There were seven complications related to intestinal injury. Diagnostic delay occurred in two patients; both had resultant morbidity. Blunt intestinal injury is associated with physical findings in conscious patients. Peritoneal lavage should be used when tenderness cannot be evaluated. Timely operative intervention minimizes morbidity and hospital stay. 
Comparison of two ascitic fluid culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. The conventional method of ascitic fluid culture detects bacteria in only 50% of cirrhotic patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). We have prospectively compared two ascites culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis: 1) conventional (on chocolate agar, blood agar, Mac Conkay agar, and thioglycolate broth), and 2) modified [inoculation of 10 ml of ascites in a tryptic soy broth (TSB) blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside]. In a 21-month period, 70 episodes of SBP were diagnosed according to our criteria in 60 cirrhotic patients. Both culture methods were performed simultaneously. The conventional grew bacteria in 40 episodes (57%), whereas the modified grew bacteria in 54 episodes (77%), a significantly higher sensitivity (p = 0.0001). In 16 cases (23%), ascitic culture was negative by both methods. The mortality rate was higher among patients with culture-positive SBP than those with culture-negative SBP (46% vs 37%), but did not reach statistical significance. We conclude that ascitic fluid inoculated into a TSB blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside should be used routinely for ascites culture in cirrhotic patients. 
Antimony and glass pH electrodes can be used interchangeably in 24-hour studies of gastric acidity. Antimony and glass pH electrodes show almost identical experimental errors in continuously measuring buffer solutions at constant temperature over 24 hr. These errors are lower than the nominal quantization error of the instruments and are not properly described by the 24-hr drift determination. The addition of food particles to the solutions can induce severe reading artifacts. The longer response time reported in vitro of antimony electrodes when moving from pH 1 to pH 7 (3.4 sec vs 0.8 sec with glass electrodes) is irrelevant during in vivo pH-metry studies, because we found that the greatest absolute difference between raw fast acquired (4-6 sec) consecutive pH readings of two commonly used devices was 0.7 pH units in circadian profiles obtained from 413 subjects with various clinical conditions. In our in vivo studies, gastric acidity was monitored continuously with two side-by-side minielectrodes, which were variously combined (antimony-glass, A-G; antimony-antimony A1-A2; glass-glass, G1-G2) and applied on groups of 27 subjects matched for clinical condition. The 24-hr pH means and the 24-hr [H+] means calculated from the acidity profiles obtained with the three electrode combinations, lie on the identity line in each group. Using the Bland-Altman technique for assessing measurement agreement, the differences between the 24-hr pH means and the 24-hr [H+] means obtained with the three combined systems are similar (P = .903 and P = 0.824, respectively) and their 95% confidence limits are comprised within the range (+/-) of the reading error of the measuring systems (namely, +/- 0.3 pH units and +/- 12 mmol/liter in terms of [H+]). 
Development and application of an in vitro model for screening anti-hepatitis B virus therapeutics. The development of effective anti-hepatitis B virus agents has been hampered by the lack of reliable in vitro systems for the screening of new therapeutics. In an effort to circumvent this problem, we have developed an in vitro system for screening anti-hepatitis B virus drugs using hepatitis B virus DNA-transfected Hep G2 cells. The cell line designated 2.2.15 produces replicative viral DNA intermediates, mature Dane particles and high levels of viral antigens. Subconfluent 2.2.15 cells were treated with a variety of commonly used anti-hepatitis B virus therapeutics, and their efficacy was determined by analyzing changes in the replicative cellular or extracellular hepatitis B virus DNA content by Southern blotting or slot-blot hybridization. The slot-blot method was sensitive, reproducible and rapid and correlated well with Southern blotting. Analysis of the media for hepatitis B virus DNA was indicative of changes in intracellular, replicative hepatitis B virus DNA, permitting sampling of the media. Therefore 2.2.15 cells may provide a valuable method for identifying and monitoring effective anti-hepatitis B virus therapeutics. Using this system to test various agents, we confirm that 2'-deoxyguanosine strongly inhibited viral replication, whereas others tested were less effective. Correlation with in vivo systems is now needed. 
Circulating tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 concentrations in chronic alcoholic patients. Although altered cytokine homeostasis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease, the relationship between cytokines and metabolic consequences of alcoholic liver disease is unknown. We, therefore, sought to correlate circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 to clinical and biochemical parameters of liver disease in chronic alcoholic patients. We used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure plasma tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 and a bioassay to measure serum interleukin-6 in three groups of alcoholic men as follows: (a) actively drinking alcoholic men without evidence of chronic liver disease, (b) nondrinking alcoholic men with stable cirrhosis and (c) patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis. Mean cytokine concentrations were elevated in cirrhotic patients and alcoholic hepatitis patients compared with controls and alcoholic patients without liver disease. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha concentrations remained elevated for up to 6 mo after diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis, whereas interleukin-6 normalized in parallel with clinical recovery. Concentrations of all three cytokines were correlated with biochemical parameters of liver injury and hepatic protein synthesis plus serum immunoglobulin concentrations. We could not demonstrate a relationship between cytokine concentrations and peripheral endotoxemia. Percentages of peripheral blood monocytes that reacted with monoclonal antibodies to CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor) and human lymphocyte antigen-DR were similar for alcoholic patients and controls. These data suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha are related to some of the metabolic consequences of both acute and chronic alcohol-induced liver disease, whereas interleukin-6 is related to abnormalities seen in acute liver injury. 
Oral dissolution therapy for cholelithiasis: mix and match. The authors conducted a prospective, randomized trial of chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acid versus ursodeoxycholic acid alone in patients with cholelithiasis to determine their efficacy for dissolution of gallstones. One hundred and twenty patients with radiolucent gallstones, less than or equal to 15 mm and who had a functioning gallbladder were enrolled. The patients were divided into two groups based on the diameter of their largest stones. Seventy patients had stones larger than 5 mm but less than 15 mm, whereas 50 patients had stones that measured 5 mm or less. The patients were randomly assigned to treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid plus ursodeoxycholic acid (5 mm/kg of each) or ursodeoxycholic acid (10 mm/kg) alone. Oral cholecystography, plain abdominal x-rays, and ultrasonography of the gallbladder were done at 6, 12, and 24 months. Dissolution was deemed to be complete if not stones were visualized on two examinations. partial dissolution was defined as a 50% reduction in stone size and/or number. Stones that were not detected by cholecystography but still detected during ultrasonography were considered to be partially dissolved. Plasma triglycerides, serum cholesterol, HDL, and serologic liver function tests were determined at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. In a select group of patients, bile-rich duodenal aspirates were aspirated and analyzed for biliary lipid contents. In the group with small stones, defined as less than or equal to 5 mm, complete stone dissolution occurred significantly more often utilizing combination therapy at 6 months (52% vs 24%), and this trend persisted, although no longer significant, at 12 and 24 months. Combination therapy also achieved an improved rate of dissolution for large stones within 6 months; however, this did not persist at 12 and 24 months. Although not statistically significant, stone calcification occurred less often with combined therapy. All treatment regimens were well tolerated, with only minor changes in bowel habits and mild elevations in serum transaminase levels. Serum lipid levels did not change with either therapy. The authors concluded that the combination of chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid was the preferred therapy for gallstone dissolution, because it dissolves stones more rapidly, with a lower incidence of stone calcifications, and thus might reduce the long-term cost of treatment. 
Ogilvie's syndrome. Would you recognize it? Numerous conditions predispose to Ogilvie's syndrome, a process that mimics bowel obstruction. Characteristic radiographic findings of acute pseudo-obstruction include dilatation of the cecum and the remainder of the colon but not the small intestine. Treatment is individualized. Massive cecal dilatation carries the risk of cecal perforation and its attendant high mortality rate. Conservative therapies, such as nasogastric suction, gentle enemas, and use of a rectal tube, may be beneficial. Decompression by colonoscopy or other means may be necessary. 
The neglected medical history and therapeutic choices for abdominal pain. A nationwide study of 799 physicians and nurses. A random national sample of 501 physicians and 298 nurse practitioners was presented a case vignette describing a patient with epigastric pain and endoscopy showing diffuse gastritis. Respondents were encouraged to request further information and then were asked for recommendations. History available if requested included substantial use of aspirin, coffee, cigarettes, and alcohol, and severe psychosocial stress. More than one third of the physicians chose to initiate therapy without seeking a relevant history. Nearly half of all physicians indicated that a prescription would be the single most effective therapy; 65% recommended a histamine antagonist. By contrast, only 19% of nurse practitioners opted to treat without taking further history; the nurse sample asked an average of 2.6 questions vs 1.6 for physicians; only 20% of the nurses recommended a prescription medication. These findings raise concerns about the adequacy of basic history taking in this setting and the underuse of nonpharmacologic approaches in favor of excessive reliance on prescription drugs, even when not indicated by clinical circumstances. 
High mortality among patients with the leukemoid reaction and alcoholic hepatitis. We describe a patient with severe alcoholic hepatitis, markedly elevated white blood cell count, and high fever. After review of the English literature, we discovered reports of other cases similar to our case. The striking feature in all of these cases was a high short-term mortality rate, despite predictions of a favorable outcome. We therefore believe these patients represent a subgroup of patients with alcoholic hepatitis and that the leukemoid reaction is a poor prognostic sign in this disease. 
Evidence for the targeting by 2-oxo-dehydrogenase enzymes in the T cell response of primary biliary cirrhosis. Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease that includes the presence of lymphoid infiltrates in portal tracts, high titer autoantibodies against pyruvate dehydrogenase-E2 (PDH-E2) and branched chain ketoacid dehydrogenase-E2 (BCKD-E2), and biliary tract destruction. The mechanism by which the autoimmune response is induced, the specificity of damage to the biliary epithelium, and the role of T cells in PBC are still unknown. To address these issues, we have taken advantage of a mouse mAb, coined C355.1, and studied its reactivity against a panel of liver tissue from normal subjects as well as a panel of liver specimens from patients with PBC, progressive sclerosing cholangitis, and chronic active hepatitis (CAH). C355.1, much like human autoantibodies to PDH-E2, reacts exclusively by immunoblotting with PDH-E2, binds to the inner lipoyl domain of the protein, and inhibits PDH-E2 activity in vitro. In addition, we have also attempted to develop cloned T cell lines that react with PDH-E2 and/or BCKD-E2 using liver biopsies from patients with PBC, compared with CAH. Although monoclonal C355.1 produced typical mitochondrial fluorescence on sections of normal liver, pancreas, lung, heart, thyroid, and kidney, it produced a distinct and intense reactivity when used to stain the bile ducts of patients with PBC. Nine of 13 PBC liver biopsies studied herein contained bile ducts on light microscopy, all of which reacted intensely at a 1:100 culture supernatant dilution of monoclonal C355.1. In contrast, although bile ducts of liver specimens from normals, CAH, and progressive sclerosing cholangitis also reacted with C355.1, such reactivity was exclusively mitochondrial and readily detectable only at a dilution of 1:2. More importantly, we generated CD4+, CD8-, alpha beta TCR+ cloned T cell lines from patients with PBC, but not from CAH, that produced IL-2 specifically in response to PDH-E2 or BCKD-E2. 
Biliary tract disease in rats with experimental small bowel bacterial overgrowth. Small bowel bacterial overgrowth, which develops in surgically created jejunal self-filling blind loops, is associated with hepatic injury in susceptible rat strains. The histological findings are portal tract inflammation and bile duct proliferation and destruction. In this study, evidence of injury to the extrahepatic and intrahepatic bile ducts in susceptible and resistant inbred rats with self-filling blind loops was determined by bile flow rates, histological appearance of cross-sections of bile ducts and cholangiography. Lewis and Wistar rats with self-filling blind loops had thickening of the cross-sectional area of the extrahepatic bile ducts compared with controls and nonsusceptible Buffalo rats (p less than 0.001). Daily metronidazole therapy significantly reduced thickening of bile ducts in Lewis and Wistar rats with self-filling blind loops. Bile flow was increased in Lewis and Wistar rats with blind loops compared with controls (p less than 0.05). Cholangiograms of Lewis and Wistar rats with self-filling blind loops demonstrated extrahepatic ductal dilatation and ectasia with irregular, beaded, rapidly tapering and tortuous intrahepatic ducts. Blinded cholangiographical scores of susceptible rat strains with self-filling blind loops were higher (score = 5.9 +/- 2.3) than those of controls (1.2 +/- 0.4), rats with blind loops treated with metronidazole (0.8 +/- 1.3) and nonsusceptible Buffalo rats with blind loops (0.6 +/- 0.9) (p less than 0.01). Biliary histological and cholangiographical abnormalities found in this rat model resemble features of primary sclerosing cholangitis. This animal model will be useful in exploring mechanisms of the association of hepatobiliary inflammation with intestinal injury and investigating potential therapeutic agents. 
Prevalence of primary sclerosing cholangitis in patients with ulcerative colitis. All patients greater than or equal to 16 years old with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis were identified in five well-defined catchment areas, representing 12.7% of the Swedish population. Exactly 1500 patients were retrieved, giving a point prevalence of 170/10(5) inhabitants. It was possible to obtain liver function test results less than 2 years old in 94% of the patients and to obtain endoscopic retrograde cholangiographic results in 65 of the 72 patients with abnormal serum alkaline phosphatase values. Primary sclerosing cholangitis was diagnosed in 55 of the patients (3.7%). The prevalence of the disease was 5.5% in patients with substantial colitis and 0.5% in patients with distal colitis. There was a marked male predominance in cholangitis patients compared with colitis patients without cholangitis. Ninety-five percent of the patients with cholangitis had substantial colitis, which was more than the 62% of patients without cholangitis who had colitis. Female patients with cholangitis were older than male patients at the time of diagnosis of both cholangitis and colitis, which contrasted to the equal age at diagnosis of colitis in male and female patients without cholangitis. 
Prospective trial comparing a combination pH probe-nasogastric tube with aspirated gastric pH in intensive care unit patients. Upper GI bleeding related to stress ulcer syndrome is estimated to affect as much as 15% of patients in an ICU. Since the occurrence of bleeding after ICU admission may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality, many efforts have been directed at defining optimal therapy for stress ulcer prophylaxis. Titration of intragastric pH with antacids or iv doses of H2-receptor antagonists may prevent stress ulcer bleeding in high-risk ICU patients. We evaluated a recently developed pH probe incorporated into an NG tube and compared it with aspiration of gastric contents using pH paper as a means to monitor pH in 22 surgical ICU patients. Regression analysis comparing the intragastric probe pH values with the aspirated pH values showed a good correlation between the two methods (r = .71). This new technique for intragastric pH measurement appears technically simple and clinically applicable for use on patients at risk for stress ulcer bleeding. It may be more accurate than pH paper in patients receiving antacids. 
Effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination. The potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis. One hundred forty rats were divided into two groups. In the control group, gelatin capsules containing feces (10(7) bacteria per milliliter) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen; in the second experimental group, a solution of cryoprecipitate, thrombin, and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination. Fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations (0.01, 0.1, and 0.15 mL) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group. Heavy peritoneal contamination (0.25, 0.3, and 0.5 mL) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups, with 80% of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours. However, in the moderately contaminated rats (0.2 mL of fecal inoculate), fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80% to 10%. In all survivors in the fibrin-treated group, intraperitoneal abscesses developed. With intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10(6) organisms, early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late, localized, nonlethal abscess formation. Aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery. 
Adjuvant antibiotic therapy in duodenal ulcers treated with colloidal bismuth subcitrate. Persistence of Helicobacter pylori after duodenal ulcer healing is associated with high rates of ulcer relapse. We compared colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone with CBS combined with one of four antibiotic regimens in the treatment of duodenal ulcers. Endoscopy and antral biopsies were performed before treatment and four weeks afterwards. Biopsy specimens were examined for histological evidence of gastritis and by Gram stain and culture for H pylori infection. Altogether 141 patients were allocated to one of five treatment groups. Giving CBS and metronidazole (400 mg tid for 7 days) with and without amoxycillin (500 mg tid) achieved higher clearance rates of H pylori than treatment with CBS alone (p less than 0.01). These two combinations also achieved higher rates of antral gastritis healing than CBS alone (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 respectively). Susceptibility to metronidazole was tested in 29 isolates before and in seven isolates after treatment with metronidazole by disc diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration assay. Twenty seven (93%) of the isolates were sensitive before treatment while six of seven (86%) were resistant afterwards. Four of the six resistant strains had acquired resistance during treatment and one of these had acquired metronidazole resistance despite concomitant treatment with amoxycillin, to which it remained sensitive. CBS with adjuvant metronidazole at a dose of 400 mg tid for seven days significantly improves the eradication of H pylori compared with CBS alone. Acquired metronidazole resistance, however, seems to be an important cause of failure to eradicate H pylori. 
Pathogenesis of gallstones. The many developments in nonoperative methods for the treatment of gallstone disease underscore the importance of understanding the pathogenesis of these stones. Elucidation of the factors responsible for nucleation of crystals and the mechanism by which it occurs would appear to be the challenge if we are to define the cascade of events that results in gallstone formation. 
Cyclic pelvic pain. Cyclic pelvic pain is a common gynecologic problem caused by relatively few diseases, which usually can be diagnosed and remedied quickly. Some complaints reflect normal physiologic aspects of the menstrual cycle (mittelschmerz, menstrual awareness). Premenstrual syndrome can be diagnosed, but an effective and convenient treatment is lacking. Dysmenorrhea is the commonest source of cyclic pain, diagnosed by its characteristic history and rapid relief on administration of antiprostaglandin agents. Endometriosis is diagnosed surgically and best treated either surgically then, or medically by danazol or GnRH agonists. In contrast, adenomyosis is a problem commonly encountered in later life, and hysterectomy is usually needed for both definitive diagnosis and treatment. 
Percutaneous rotational contact biliary lithotripsy: initial clinical results with the Kensey Nash lithotrite. The percutaneous rotary lithotrite introduces a new concept to fragmentation and percutaneous removal of gallstones. A fluid vortex is generated, pulling calculi into a high-speed blade that fragments stones to predominantly under 500 microns. The results of treating the first 10 patients with this instrument reveal that large stone burdens as well as small stones (2-3 mm) of any composition can be removed if the gallbladder is of sufficient size to accommodate the six-pronged basket. Rotation times of 7-39 minutes were required. Nine of 10 procedures were completed; access was lost in one case. One major complication occurred. At repeat oral cholecystography, the gallbladder was visualized after 3-6 weeks in eight of the nine patients. Ursodeoxycholic acid was administered from 3 to 12 months to five patients with either residual stones or aggregates. The hospital stay ranged from 48 to 72 hours. All patients (except the patient who underwent surgery) resumed light activity in 3-4 days and strenuous activity and full diet within 3 weeks. 
Reevaluation of manometric criteria for vigorous achalasia. Is this a distinct clinical disorder? Clinical and manometric data from 97 consecutive patients with idiopathic achalasia were analyzed to see if a distinct subset with vigorous achalasia could be identified. Statistical analyses failed to detect a unique group of subjects based on the distribution of contraction wave amplitudes alone. Because of this, patients falling above the 95th percentile (N = 4, mean wave amplitude greater than 100 mm Hg for each) were compared with those having mean amplitudes above the conventional threshold for the diagnosis of vigorous achalasia (mean amplitude 60-100 mm Hg, N = 4), and with the remainder (N = 89, mean amplitude less than 60 mm Hg). Subjects with mean amplitudes less than 60 mm Hg and with mean amplitudes 60-100 mm Hg closely resembled each other in all measured clinical features, whereas subjects with mean amplitudes greater than 100 mm Hg were all male, were older (67 +/- 4 years vs 47 +/- 2 years; P less than 0.01), and appeared to have somewhat longer duration of symptoms when compared with the remainder (82 +/- 41 vs 44 +/- 10 months; P = 0.4). Chest pain and other esophageal symptoms, basal and residual lower sphincter pressures, and response to first treatment did not differ among the three groups. These data indicate that high-fidelity manometry techniques identify a rare subset of achalasia patients with mean contraction amplitudes exceeding 100 mm Hg that, although older and possibly with greater duration of symptoms, presents similarly to others with idiopathic achalasia. Outcome from conventional treatment is also similar for the "vigorous" and "nonvigorous" patients, making the distinction of questionable value. 
Annular pancreas as a cause of extrahepatic biliary obstruction. Annular pancreas is a rare congenital abnormality that is increasingly diagnosed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in the adult. In this population, it can present with duodenal or gastric ulceration, duodenal obstruction, pancreatitis, and, rarely, with associated congenital abnormalities. Although it has been suggested that biliary obstruction may result from associated pancreatitis, such cases have not been reported; primary extrahepatic biliary obstruction from a constricting annulus also has not been reported. We report such a case, and describe resolution of symptoms and a return to normal biochemical tests in a patient. The literature and embryology of annular pancreas are reviewed. We suggest that this entity be added to the differential diagnosis of extrahepatic biliary obstruction. 
Absorption and motility of the bypassed human ileum. The authors assessed absorption and motility of the human ileum after a prolonged period of disuse. In eight patients with ulcerative colitis, a manometric-catheter assembly was placed via the ileostomy into the unused portion of distal ileum two months after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and temporary diverting loop ileostomy. The distal ileum was perfused at 5 ml/min with an isosmotic solution of either sodium chloride or ileal chyme diluted with sodium chloride for three hours before and three hours after a meal on two consecutive days. Absorption was measured, single and clustered pressure waves were identified and quantitated with the aid of a computer program, and a motility index was calculated. Mean absorption +/- S.E.M. of both perfusates was poor on day 1 (-10 +/- 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min), and the meal induced no ileal motor response. By day 2, however, absorption of both perfusates was much improved (-1 +/- 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min; P less than 0.05), and the number of discrete clustered contractions and the motility index now clearly increased after the meal (2.6 +/- 0.6 vs. 7.2 +/- 1.0 clustered waves/hr; 7.5 +/- 0.5 vs. 9.7 +/- 0.2 motility units/30 min; P less than 0.05). The conclusion was that absorption and motility of the human ileum were impaired after two months of disuse, but that ileal absorption and motility improved one day after the introduction of isosmotic ileal perfusates. 
Appraisal of gut lavage in the study of intestinal humoral immunity. Direct investigation of intestinal humoral immunity requires collection of intestinal secretions or mucosal biopsy specimens, or both. A non-invasive technique of gut lavage, with a polyethyleneglycol electrolyte lavage solution as a means of collecting intestinal secretions for immunoglobulin and antibody studies, was evaluated. Fifty patients were studied--25 immunologically normal patients or volunteers, 15 patients with untreated coeliac disease, and 10 patients with active Crohn's disease. Protease inhibitors were added promptly to samples to prevent proteolysis of immunoglobulin content. Treated lavage samples were assayed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin and antibody content. Studies of serial lavage specimens showed that early, faecally contaminated specimens contained negligible quantities of immunoglobulin, but once the specimens became clear a steady state was reached, with little variation in immunoglobulin content between serial specimens and with a uniform dilution (around 20%) of the ingested polyethyleneglycol. Gut lavage fluid IgA was predominantly secretory, comprising 92%, 81.6%, and 76.7% respectively of the total IgA gut lavage fluid content in the control, coeliac, and Crohn's groups. High values of total IgM and IgA and IgM antigliadin antibodies were detected in the coeliac group, and high values of IgG in the Crohn's disease group. This method of gut lavage is not only an effective bowel cleanser, but also a noninvasive means of obtaining intestinal secretions for the study of humoral immunity in gastrointestinal disease. 
Alcoholics and liver transplantation. The Ethics and Social Impact Committee of the Transplant and Health Policy Center. Two arguments underlie a widespread unwillingness to consider patients with alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver as candidates for transplantation. First, alcoholics are morally blameworthy, their condition the result of their own misconduct; such blameworthiness disqualifies alcoholics in unavoidable competition for organs with others who are equally sick but blameless. Second, because of their habits, alcoholics will not exhibit satisfactory rates of survival after transplantation; good stewardship of a scarce lifesaving resource therefore requires that alcoholics not be considered for liver transplantation. These arguments are carefully analyzed and shown to be defective. There is not good moral or medical reason for categorically precluding alcoholics as candidates for liver transplantation. It would, in addition, be unjust to implement such a preclusion simply because others might respond negatively if we do not. 
Air in the fissure for the ligamentum teres: new sign of intraperitoneal air on plain radiographs. In each of four patients in whom an acute spontaneous pneumoperitoneum developed, a vertically directed area of hyperlucency in the right upper quadrant was seen on radiographs of the abdomen obtained with the patient supine. This finding, which appeared in the absence of other characteristic signs of free air on plain radiographs and which, to the authors' knowledge, has not been previously recognized, represented intraperitoneal gas confined to the fissure for the ligamentum teres (FLT). The location of the hyperlucent area was confirmed with computed tomography or laparotomy in each patient. The distinctive configuration of air in the FLT is a subtle but reliable indicator of pneumoperitoneum. 
Extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy for complicated bile duct stones. Today, common bile duct stones are extracted endoscopically. After endoscopic sphincterotomy, nearly 90% of all stones can be removed with a Dormia basket or a mechanical lithotripter. Problems are encountered if there are larger stones or a duct stenosis. New conservative therapies do serve as an alternative to surgical intervention for those few patients in whom endoscopic measures have failed. Stone fragmentation can be achieved by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, and remaining fragments can be removed endoscopically. So far, authors of most reports on the successful disintegration of common bile duct stones used the Dornier lithotripter. Stone localization is thus achieved with x-rays, and the shock waves are generated by an underwater spark discharge. We report on our experiences and results with extracorporeal piezoelectric shock wave lithotripsy (EPL) in 19 patients with complicated bile duct stones. With this lithotripter, stones are visualized by ultrasound, and shock waves are produced by a piezoelectric acoustic generator. Fragmentation was achieved in 84.2%, and complete stone removal in 78.9%. These results show that piezoelectric lithotripsy is also a useful method for the treatment of complicated bile duct stones, as has already been proved for the electrohydraulic- and electromagnetic-generated shock waves systems. However, the renunciation of general anesthesia and the need for analgesia or sedation in only 25% of the treatments render this lithotripter system attractive, especially for elderly and frail patients. 
Valproate metabolism during hepatotoxicity associated with the drug. Plasma concentrations of valproate and certain of its metabolites and their patterns of excretion in urine are described in three adults who developed hepatotoxicity during treatment of epilepsy with sodium valproate. One patient also developed a degree of reversible renal insufficiency, whilst another may have had associated infectious mononucleosis. All three cases showed evidence of impaired mitochondrial beta-oxidation of valproate. In one the impairment was at the stage catalysed by fatty acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, in another at the stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and in the third at the stage catalysed by enoyl-CoA hydratase and possibly also at the next stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase. The impaired beta-oxidation meant that valproate metabolism was diverted into various alternative pathways. Plasma concentrations of the suspected hepatotoxic metabolite 4-en-valproate were normal for the valproate-treated population in all cases. By analogy with certain spontaneous and acquired human disorders of branched chain amino acid metabolism, it is suggested that valproate-associated hepatotoxicity may represent the consequences of a valproate overload on a limited mitochondrial beta-oxidation capacity, causing accumulation of a toxic product of endogenous branched chain amino acid metabolism. 
Rectal prolapse in infants and children. Rectal prolapse that is intractable to the usual medical therapy was successfully managed without significant complications in 10 patients by simple subcutaneous encirclement of the anus with a heavy nonabsorbable suture, which was in place until the suture was removed or broke after 4 to 6 months. Four patients required two sutures and one needed a third insertion. Since this procedure is simple, has no serious complications, and controls rectal prolapse, it is recommended as the preferred initial surgical treatment of this condition. 
Experimental obliterative cholangitis. A model for the study of biliary atresia. Noninfectious obliterative cholangitis results from biliary tract inflammation in clinical conditions such as biliary atresia and sclerosing cholangitis. The purpose of this study was to develop an animal model of noninfectious biliary tract inflammation and fibrosis. An implantable osmotic pump was connected to a catheter placed into the gallbladder of hamsters. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) was infused into the biliary tract for periods of 6 hours to 28 days. After 7 days the animals developed neutrophil infiltration, cellular necrosis, and edema of the biliary ducts. After 14 days, the animals demonstrated intrahepatic cholestasis with bile duct fibrosis and acute and chronic inflammatory cell infiltration. By 28 days pronounced portal fibrosis was present, some of which created an early bridging cirrhosis pattern. In addition there was evidence of neocholangiogenesis. We conclude that long-term PMA infusion into the biliary tract generates an inflammatory response characterized by obliterative cholangitis and fibrosis, sharing many of the histologic features of human biliary atresia. This model may provide a relatively simple technique for investigating the process of nonpyogenic biliary tract inflammation. 
A field study of the safety and efficacy of two candidate rotavirus vaccines in a Native American population. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a rhesus rotavirus vaccine and RIT 4237, a bovine rotavirus vaccine, in a Navajo population. Infants aged 2-5 months were randomized to receive one dose of either 10(4) pfu of the rhesus rotavirus vaccine or 10(8) pfu of the RIT 4237 vaccine or placebo. Eleven (10.2%) of 108 infants in the rhesus vaccine group, 11 (10.4%) of 106 in the RIT 4237 group, and 9 (8.4%) of 107 in the placebo group experienced rotavirus diarrhea during the follow-up period of 17 months. Thus, in this population, neither vaccine was efficacious in preventing rotavirus diarrhea. 
Prophylactic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices: long-term results of a single-center trial. Survival after prophylactic sclerotherapy was assessed in a single-center study involving 99 cirrhotic (41 alcoholic) patients enrolled over 8-yr. The wedged hepatic vein pressure gradient was measured; those with pressure greater than or equal to 12 mm Hg were randomized to receive sclerotherapy or no treatment. The rest were not randomized. Patients in all three groups who bled were treated with emergency endoscopy and sclerotherapy. Stratification according to presence of ascites was also undertaken. Median follow-up was 61 mo (range = 14 to 107 mo). Survival among unrandomized patients was significantly longer than among randomized patients (p less than 0.006), but there was no significant difference between those treated by sclerotherapy and the controls (p = 0.27). Alcoholic cirrhotic patients undergoing sclerotherapy had better 2-yr survival than did the controls (80% vs. 43%; p = 0.09), but this benefit was not sustained at 5 yr. Survival in the nonalcoholic patient groups was identical. Only 10 of 50 deaths were caused by variceal bleeding. Forty-eight percent of patients with large varices bled, compared with 20% of patients with small varices. Wedged hepatic vein pressure less than 12 mm Hg accurately identified alcoholic patients at low risk of variceal bleeding but not nonalcoholic patients. Only four episodes of variceal bleeding were attributable to elective sclerotherapy. We conclude that in our population, prophylactic sclerotherapy alone does not improve survival. The discrepancy in survival between alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhotic patients suggests that factors other than variceal hemorrhage may be responsible for the difference. 
Short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in 'contaminated' lower gastrointestinal surgery. In a prospective, open, randomized controlled trial, 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially "contaminated" lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime (2 gm) with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm). Eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin. The groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis, procedure, type of anastomosis, and wound closure. The incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug (11.5 percent) was equivalent in the two groups. There was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group (22.2 percent) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group (25.7 percent). The incidence of wound infection (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 6.9 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 10 percent) and deep sepsis (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 15.3 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 15.7 percent) was similar. 
Reoperation versus alternatives in retained biliary calculi. Retained common bile duct stones can be treated by operation, dissolution, extraction, fragmentation, papillotomy, and reoperation. Each approach requires some expertise, and the likelihood of success of most depends on the composition and size of the stones. Good results often can be obtained nonoperatively, especially with a multidisciplinary team. Reoperation is rarely necessary. 
Decreasing the risk of human immunodeficiency virus or hepatitis B virus infection during endoscopic surgery. The risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus infection is small but finite. Urological surgeons are exposed through needle punctures in open surgery and splashes during endoscopic surgery. Safety glasses are difficult to use during endoscopic surgery and they do not offer complete protection. The Steri-Shield, a facial shield designed to be fixed to the endoscope, is described. 
The course of the HIV epidemic among intravenous drug users in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. To determine if behavioral changes in intravenous drug users in Amsterdam have retarded the HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) epidemic in this group in recent years, we report that: HIV-antibody seroprevalence in annual samples of injectors has been constant over the years 1986-89; HIV-antibody incidence in a cohort of injectors appears to have decreased from 1986 to 1987 and stabilized after that until 1989; acute hepatitis B incidence in all drug users in Amsterdam declined rapidly between 1985-89. It is concluded that changes in drug use behavior so far appear to have resulted in a stabilization of the epidemic among injectors, at a level with a still disturbingly high incidence rate of 5-6 per 100 person-years. 
Self-management of dietary compliance in coeliac disease by means of ELISA "home test" to detect gluten. To improve compliance with a gluten-free diet in coeliac disease a simple prototype test kit was developed to detect gluten in foods for use at home. The test is based on monoclonal antibodies to heat-stable gluten proteins which crossreact appropriately with barley and rye proteins. It is suitable for use with a wide range of raw or cooked foods. The food is extracted with dilute hydrochloric acid and 1 drop of the extract transferred to an antibody-coated tube; enzyme-labelled gluten detection antibody is added and after 3 min the tube is washed and colour developer is added. The reaction is stopped after 2 min, stabilising the blue colour. The home kit was compared with a quantitative laboratory kit, and the qualitative agreement was very good. The kit could distinguish foods with trace gluten contents (acceptable for a "gluten-free" diet) from those with a slightly higher but unacceptable gluten content. In a trial of the prototype kit by 47 coeliac disease patients of diverse ages and educational backgrounds, 93% of tests correctly identified foods as acceptable or unacceptable. 
Effects of milk, prostaglandin, and antacid on experimentally induced duodenitis in the rat. Use of myeloperoxidase as an index of inflammation. Ulcerogenesis of the duodenal mucosa frequently involves an inflammatory reaction with infiltration of leukocytes. Measurement of neutrophil myeloperoxidase activity might thus be a sensitive indicator of damage, before visible lesions occur. To test this possibility, a rat model for duodenal injury was used where fasted animals were treated with indomethacin and histamine-diHCl. Twenty-four hours after indomethacin treatment, duodenal tissues were collected for histochemical staining and biochemical assay for myeloperoxidase activity. Indomethacin- and histamine-challenged rats had significantly elevated myeloperoxidase activity compared to unchallenged controls (P less than 0.05) for both histochemistry and biochemistry. There was also a significant correlation between these two parameters (r = 0.68, P less than 0.001). The duodenal injury model then was used to test the effectiveness of known gastric protective agents. Results indicated that milk and buttermilk did not aggravate or protect against duodenal injury, while antacid and prostaglandin did significantly protect against inflammation (P less than 0.02). We concluded that measurement of myeloperoxidase activity is a sensitive and potentially useful estimate of duodenal injury that can be valuable in assessing ulcerogenesis and healing. 
Collagenous colitis: report of nine cases and review of the literature. Collagenous colitis is characterized clinically by chronic watery diarrhea and pathologically by a distinctive band of collagen deposited below the colonic epithelium and an inflammatory cell infiltrate of the lamina propria. Since 1976, more than 100 cases have been described. We report an additional nine cases occurring in five women and four men ranging in age from 18 to 80 years. Diarrhea was present before diagnosis for 2 to 4 months in four cases and for 1 to 25 years in another four cases. One patient did not have diarrhea. Results of radiologic and stool studies were normal in all cases. All patients had flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. Microscopic examination of biopsy material was interpreted as characteristic of collagenous colitis. Two cases resolved with psyllium mucilloid therapy alone. Of the five patients treated with azulfidine, three had marked improvement, one had partial response, and one had no change. 
Dynamic CT scanning of pancreatic duct after secretin provocation in pancreas divisum. Variations in pancreatic duct diameter at CT scanning and serum pancreatic amylase response following secretin administration were studied in 29 patients with pancreas divisum and unexplained upper abdominal pain. Eleven healthy individuals were used as controls. At endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP) six patients had signs of marked and six moderate pancreatitis, whereas there were no pancreatitis changes in 17 of the patients. At CT scanning patients with marked pancreatitis (ERP) had significantly increased pancreatic duct diameter as compared to patients without signs of pancreatitis. The duct was visualized in 52% of all patients before and 71% after secretin stimulation the corresponding figures for healthy controls, being 18% both before and after secretin. In patients without signs of pancreatitis, it was demonstrated in 5/17 (29%) before and 11/17 (65%) after secretin, whereas it was seen in 10/12 (83%) pancreatitis patients both before and after the hormonal provocation. In five of the nonpancreatitis patients in whom the duct was measurable before and at all study intervals (10, 20, and 50 min) after secretin, there was a significant duct dilation response both at 10 min and when comparing the maximal duct diameter after secretin to the initial values. In contrast secretin did not affect the duct caliber in pancreatitis patients. Serum pancreatic amylase increased significantly after secretin administration to healthy controls and nonpancreatitis patients but was uninfluenced in the marked and moderate pancreatitis groups, respectively. However, when all pancreatitis patients were grouped together, the amylase levels were significantly elevated by secretin. In conclusion, secretin provocation caused duct dilation at CT scanning in pancreas divisum patients without signs of pancreatitis at ERP. 
Case-control study of Cryptosporidium parvum infection in Peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea: possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection. A retrospective, hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish Cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-C. parvum-infected children with diarrhea. Ten percent (24 of 248) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at Cayetano Heredia University Hospital, Lima, Peru, were infected with C. parvum. The 24 patients infected with C. parvum (cases) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients (controls). C. parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection (P less than 0.05). Also nosocomial infection caused by C. parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients, two of whom died. No other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by C. parvum from other children with diarrhea. In children hospitalized for diarrhea C. parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children. 
Mycobacterium paratuberculosis and Crohn's disease. The possible aetiological role of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in Crohn's disease was investigated. The immunological response was studied using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry. The antibody response to two protoplasmic antigen preparations of M paratuberculosis in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease was measured by ELISA. IgG and IgM antibodies to these antigens were measured in serum samples from 52 patients with Crohn's disease, 15 patients with ulcerative colitis, and 41 control patients without inflammatory bowel disease. Although there was wide variation in the concentrations of antibody detected, patients with Crohn's disease had concentrations that were not significantly different from those of the other two groups. In addition, mycobacterial antigens were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the immune response to each antigen was then examined separately and assayed for IgG and IgM in 10 patients from each of the three groups. An indirect peroxidase test was also used to detect M paratuberculosis in sections of tissue from 18 patients with Crohn's disease and 10 with ulcerative colitis. The results were negative in all cases. This study does not support a role for M paratuberculosis in Crohn's disease. 
Congenital hepatic fibrosis in autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. Congenital hepatic fibrosis was found in four families with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. Congenital hepatic fibrosis is commonly though to be characteristic for autosomal-recessive polycystic kidney disease, but the reported families, show that it can also complicate autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. In three families close linkage between the mutation causing the disease and DNA markers on chromosome 16 was demonstrated. The clinical course of the congenital hepatic fibrosis differed considerably; in one family the children with congenital hepatic fibrosis died soon after birth, in the three other families an approximately 20 years follow-up showed no detectable progression of the liver disease. 
Cirrhosis and portal hypertension in a patient with adult Niemann-Pick disease. A woman with known Niemann-Pick disease, type B, presented at age 33 with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites, and peripheral edema. Evaluation showed massive hepatosplenomegaly, infiltration of the liver with Niemann-Pick cells, cirrhosis, and evidence of portal hypertension. Chronic gastrointestinal bleeding, thrombocyctopenia, and platelet dysfunction were treated successfully by splenectomy. Cirrhosis and portal hypertension have not been reported previously in adult Niemann-Pick disease in the absence of some other cause. 
Indocyanine green elimination in patients with liver disease and in normal subjects. 1. The validity of a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model for the estimation of the hepatic extraction ratio of Indocyanine Green was tested in six patients with cirrhosis of the liver. 2. No agreement was found between the value of the hepatic extraction ratio measured directly and that calculated using the two-compartment model. 3. To investigate the reasons for the failure of the model, an extended sampling period was used to define the time course of Indocyanine Green in plasma in six healthy subjects and in six patients with cirrhosis of the liver after a bolus injection of the dye. 4. Indocyanine Green was measurable in the plasma for up to 10 h after injection in healthy subjects, and up to 48 h after injection in the patients. The plasma elimination curve in both groups was best described by a triexponential function. 5. The clearance of Indocyanine Green calculated using data collected in the first 20 min after injection overestimated that calculated using data collected for as long as Indocyanine Green was measurable in the plasma. In the patients with cirrhosis the mean overestimate was 87%. 6. Thus, a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model was inappropriate for the description of the disposition of Indocyanine Green and estimates of the hepatic extraction ratio obtained using this model in patients with cirrhosis were inaccurate. 
Abnormal membrane physical properties of red cells in McLeod syndrome. McLeod red cells (RBCs) lack Kx antigens and have weak expression of the Kell antigens. Individuals who carry the McLeod phenotype have acanthocytic RBCs and a compensated hemolytic state. To elucidate the role of the protein on which the Kx antigens reside in maintaining membrane deformability, the rheologic properties of McLeod RBCs were determined by ektacytometry. RBCs were obtained from normal individuals and from four patients with McLeod syndrome. Osmotic gradient deformability profiles of McLeod RBCs showed decreased whole cell deformability. Resealed ghosts from McLeod RBCs also showed decreased deformability, partly because of the decreased cell surface area and partly because of an intrinsic membrane stiffness in this syndrome. For the measurement of membrane mechanical stability, resealed ghosts were subjected to constant high shear stress in the ektacytomer, and deformability was recorded continuously as the deformable ghosts fragmented into rigid spherical vesicles. Membranes from McLeod RBCs showed a noticeable increase in mechanical stability. Acquired causes of acanthocytosis, such as liver disease, did not cause the rheologic abnormalities observed in McLeod cells. Other abnormalities noted in McLeod RBCs were decreased RBC potassium content and an increased number of dense RBCs, as determined by centrifugation on a discontinuous density gradient. The data indicate that McLeod RBCs are rigid and have decreased surface area and that their membranes are intrinsically rigid with increased mechanical stability. These abnormalities may account for the reduced RBC survival observed in McLeod syndrome. The protein that carries the Kx surface antigen seems to be required for the maintenance of the normal physical function of RBC skeletal proteins. 
Effect of weight reduction on hepatic abnormalities in overweight patients. The effects of weight reduction on hepatic test results and physical findings related to the liver were retrospectively evaluated in 39 overweight patients screened to exclude other factors affecting the liver. An additional 11 overweight patients with primary liver disease were retrospectively evaluated to compare the effect of weight reduction in patients with liver disease with its effect in those without primary liver disease. This study showed that in overweight adults without primary liver disease, a weight reduction of greater than or equal to 10% corrected abnormal hepatic test results, decreased hepatosplenomegaly, and resolved some stigmata of liver disease. In similarly studied overweight patients with primary liver disease, some findings improved, but the changes did not correlate with a greater than or equal to 10% weight loss. Increased alanine aminotransferase activity was the most frequent hepatic enzyme abnormality in this population. For every 1% reduction in body weight, alanine aminotransferase activity improved by 8.1%. After other causes of liver disease are eliminated by clinical and biochemical parameters, weight reduction should be tried for overweight patients with abnormal hepatic test results in the absence of obvious primary liver disease as judged by clinical and biochemical parameters before extensive and expensive studies are undertaken. 
Giardiasis [published erratum appears in Prim Care 1991 Jun;18(2):following xii] Giardiasis represents a major protozoan infection for the 1990s. This article reviews this organism for the primary care physician, discussing the characteristics, clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment. Prevention and patient education needs are also presented. 
Enteroglucagon and peptide Y-Y response after construction of a pelvic reservoir in humans. The results of an investigation of plasma levels of gastrointestinal hormones in patients after the construction of a pelvic reservoir are reported. Enteroglucagon (EG) and peptide tyrosine-tyrosine (PYY), two hormones believed to play a relevant role in the adaptive response to bowel resection, were investigated using a specific radioimmunoassay in basal conditions and after a standard meal. Pouch patients showed a statistically significant increase in basal levels of both enteroglucagon and PYY compared with control subjects (P less than 0.02 and P less than 0.001, respectively). The response of enteroglucagon to food ingestion, evaluated by means of the total integrated response, was similar in patients and controls. Conversely, the response of PYY was significantly increased in pouch patients compared with control cases (P less than 0.02). Results of this investigation suggest that gut hormones may be involved in mediating the adaptive response of the intestine to pouch construction. Changes of gut peptides may explain, at least in part, the functional results observed after pouch construction. 
Inflammatory bowel disease induced by combined bacterial immunization and oral carrageenan in guinea pigs. Model development, histopathology, and effects of sulfasalazine. A model of experimentally induced inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) featuring colitis, originally devised by Onderdonk and co-workers in guinea pigs, was modified to establish the optimal conditions for ulcer development. Upon varying the time of subcutaneous immunization with Bacteroides vulgatus and concomitant oral administration of acid-degraded iota-carrageenan and viable B. vulgatus, it was found that the optimal times of administering these agents were one to two weeks and five to six days, respectively. Light microscopy of the colon and cecum of the guinea pigs given the optimized treatment for ulcer induction revealed pronounced edema, inflammation, and lesions of the mucosa. Transmission electron microscopy of the mucosa from these animals showed the presence of large numbers of leukocytes in the subepithelial region, the majority being polymorphonuclear neutrophils which possessed large electron-dense granules or rods. Oral administration of 300 mg/kg/day sulfasalazine (salicylazosulfapyridine) for 14 days to guinea pigs given the optimized treatment for ulcer induction failed to reduce the numbers of ulcers or the histopathology gradings and fine structural changes of the mucosal inflammatory changes, but did reduce the symptoms of diarrhea. 
Esophageal reflux before and after isolated myotomy for achalasia. Four patients with achalasia underwent 24-hour esophageal pH measurements as ambulatory patients before and after limited myotomy without fundoplication. Resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure was reduced from 24.3 +/- 1.3 mm Hg to 7.5 +/- 4.3 mm Hg. No significant differences (p greater than 0.05) were found before and after operation in the total 24-hour pH data distribution (pH 6.24 +/- 0.84 vs 5.75 +/- 1.03), the fraction of time below pH 4.0 (4.8% +/- 5.3% vs 8.0% +/- 6.9%), or the mean duration of reflux episodes greater than 5 minutes (22.8 +/- 18.8 minutes vs 23.0 +/- 10 minutes), all +/- SD. Effective relief of esophageal obstruction in achalasia is feasible by isolated limited myotomy without producing gastroesophageal reflux. 
Airway responsiveness to inhaled methacholine in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. We examined whether patients with irritable bowel syndrome have increased airway responsiveness by measuring forced expiratory volumes in 1 second (FEV1) after inhalation of increasing concentrations of methacholine. Responses obtained in 11 IBS patients were compared with those obtained in 11 normal subjects and in 11 subjects with organic disease of the gut or its related organs. All subjects were selected so that other factors that might contribute to increased airway responsiveness were excluded. The methacholine concentration that caused a 20% fall in the FEV1 (PC20), as well as the reduction in FEV1 induced by each methacholine concentration, were used to assess airway responsiveness. The geometric mean PC20 was 197.6 mg/mL (%SEM, 1.15) for normal subjects, 83.9 mg/mL (%SEM, 1.51) for subjects with organic bowel disease (P = 0.012), and only 12.8 mg/mL (%SEM, 1.74) for IBS patients (P less than 0.0001). The 22.5% +/- 2.5% decrease in FEV1 induced by 64 mg/mL of methacholine in IBS patients was significantly greater than that of 12.3% +/- 1.5% observed in healthy subjects (P = 0.003). In contrast, the 15.7% +/- 2.0% decrease in FEV1 observed in patients with organic disease was not different from that seen in normal subjects (P = 0.189). We conclude that IBS is associated with increased airway responsiveness following challenge with methacholine. 
Successful prophylaxis for fungal peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis: six years' experience [published erratum appears in Am J Kidney Dis 1991 Jun;17(6):726] Fungal peritonitis as a serious complication of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) is often associated with severe morbidity, CAPD "drop-out" and, occasionally, death. Most episodes of fungal peritonitis occur during or after a period of antibiotic treatment of various bacterial infections, usually bacterial peritonitis. From April 1979 to December 1982 (period I), 10 episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 415 patient-months, ie, 10.5% of all peritonitis episodes recorded in our CAPD program. After the introduction of oral prophylaxis with 3 x 500,000 IU [corrected] nystatin during every course of antibiotic treatment, only four episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 2,102 patient-months, ie, 3.1% of all peritonitis episodes from January 1983 to March 1989 (period II). This difference between the first and second periods is significant (P less than 0.05). Moreover, none of the four patients who contracted fungal peritonitis in the second period received nystatin prophylaxis. Thus, the simple measure of oral prophylaxis using this nonabsorbable antifungal agent in every case of an antibiotic treatment largely eliminates the risk of fungal peritonitis in patients on CAPD. 
Autoantibodies in primary biliary cirrhosis: analysis of reactivity against eukaryotic and prokaryotic 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes. Six components of the mammalian 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes have previously been identified as M2 autoantigens in primary biliary cirrhosis. In this report, we present data showing that both polypeptide-specific and cross-reacting antibodies are present in patients' sera. Antibodies reacting with E2 of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react with protein X but not with any other mammalian antigen. The main immunogenic region on protein X has been localized to within its single lipoyl domain. Polypeptide-specific antibodies bind to E1 alpha and E1 beta of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Antibodies reacting with the E2 polypeptides of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex and branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complex show some cross-reactivity but do not recognize any of the antigens of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Antibodies against the E2 component of the mammalian pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react effectively with the corresponding protein from yeast but not with E2 from Escherichia coli. Antibody titer against mammalian antigens is significantly higher than against the bacterial antigens, arguing against a bacterial origin for primary biliary cirrhosis. 
Orthotopic liver transplantation for patients with hepatitis B virus-related liver disease Fifty-nine patients with prior hepatitis B virus infection underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. During the first 2 mo, mortality was not significantly different in the hepatitis B virus-infected group (25.5%) vs. a hepatitis B virus-immune control group (21%). Beyond 2 mo, the mortality, rate of graft loss, need for retransplantation and incidence of abnormal liver function were significantly higher in the hepatitis B virus-infected group. Treatment of the hepatitis B virus infection was attempted with passive immunization, combined active and passive immunization, alpha-interferon or nothing. The clinical outcome was not significantly influenced by any of these therapies. However, of the patients who lived more than 60 days, 6 of 22 treated with active plus passive immunization were cleared of HBsAg, something achieved once in 16 patients treated with alpha-interferon, never in 3 patients with passive immunization only and once in 4 patients with no therapy. In patients with recurrent hepatitis B virus infection, the pace of hepatitis development in the graft appeared to be accelerated, and this was particularly striking in patients who underwent multiple retransplantations at progressively shorter intervals. None of the patients who became HBsAg-negative had HBeAg preoperatively. 
Morphological study of cholesterol hepatolithiasis. Report of three cases. Three cases of pure cholesterol intrahepatic stones are compared morphologically to those of calcium bilirubinate stones. Cholesterol stones were found in the intrahepatic bile duct of the left lateral lobe in two cases and in both the left lateral and the right posterior lobe in one. Although the chronic inflammatory reaction and fibrous thickening of bile duct wall were similar in both types of hepatolithiasis, the proliferation of intrahepatic periductal glands and the production of mucin were rather mild, compared to that is the liner containing calcium bilirubinate stones. Multiple intramural cholesterol calculi and cholesterin granulomas (cholesterin crystals surrounded by foreign-body giant cells) were found within the cystically dilated small bile duct branches and/or conduits of periductal glands. The calculi and granulomas were characteristic for cholesterol hepatolithiasis. These findings suggest that the formation of the cholesterol stones differs from that of calcium bilirubinate stones; the perturbation of factors influencing cholesterol nucleation in the hepatic bile may be related to the changed microenvironment of the intrahepatic bile ducts, which is followed by the formation of cholesterol stones. 
Biliary calcium and gallstone formation. The purpose of this paper is to present a brief overview of the current status of the field of biliary calcium and the role of calcium in the formation and maturation of gallstones. The study of free Ca+(+) ions in bile by electrochemical potentiometric measurements using Ca+(+)-selective ion-exchange electrodes is a relatively new field, but much progress has been made in the past few years. Using this powerful analytical tool, new concepts and findings have arisen in almost every aspect of biliary calcium. Although the current symposium is targeted primarily toward cholesterol gallstones, there are several areas in which understanding of biliary calcium may significantly contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of cholesterol, as well as "pigment" (calcium salt), gallstones. Five broad areas are considered in relation to biliary calcium: (a) physiology (calcium entry into bile), (b) biophysics (the regulation of biliary free [Ca+(+)] as related to Gibbs-Donnan equilibria, (c) physical chemistry (the physicochemical state of calcium in bile, (d) thermodynamics (calcium solubility in bile), and (e) kinetics (pronucleating and antinucleating factors and metastable states). With more specific reference to cholesterol stones, consideration is also made of (a) the calcium salt "seed" hypothesis in cholesterol stone pathogenesis; (b) the interactions of Ca+(+) with phospholipid-cholesterol vesicles, with consideration of possible structural requirements and (c) thermodynamic and kinetic factors as related to peripheral or "eggshell" calcification of existing cholesterol stones. 
Gallstone dissolution. Many methods are available for gallstone dissolution, including oral bile salts; cholesterol solvents such as mono-octanoin or methyl tert-butyl either; and calcium or pigment solvents such as EDTA and polysorbate. Which of these approaches will be appropriate for an individual patient depends on the type of stones; whether they are in the gallbladder or the bile ducts; whether access to the biliary tree is available; the patient's age and general medical condition; and the availability of necessary expertise. In the US, both chenodeoxycholate and ursodeoxycholate are now available. Ursodeoxycholate is more expensive but appears to produce fewer side effects and may be more efficacious. These agents are most effective in thin women with small floating, radiolucent cholesterol stones in a functioning gallbladder. Only about half of the small subset of patients will experience partial or complete dissolution of stones within a year. Stone recurrence and the potential toxicity of long-term therapy are problems with this approach. Therefore, for most patients, cholecystectomy, either in the traditional fashion or using a laparoscopic approach (see article later in this issue by Gadacz et al), is the most cost-effective and perhaps the safest option. Intragallbladder instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether probably will be applicable only to a small subset of patients, and treatment is likely to be followed by a high recurrence rate. In patients with retained common duct cholesterol stones and access to the biliary tree, mono-octanoin therapy is advantageous in that it can be initiated as soon as cholangiography demonstrates no extravasation. In properly selected patients, a 90% success rate with this technique can be expected within 7 days. 
Ablation of the cystic duct and the gallbladder. Experimental basis and initial clinical observations. Bipolar radiofrequency electrocoagulation of the cystic duct by catheter can be performed safely and reproducibly using fluoroscopic control and induces endoluminal scar formation. The scar within the cystic duct forms a reliable barrier between the gallbladder and the biliary system and avoids recanalization of the cystic duct at a later date. Sclerotherapy of the isolated gallbladder with 95% ethanol and 3% STS can be performed without toxic or otherwise adverse effects and is suitable to ablate the porcine gallbladder. Initial clinical trials with this new technique on a small number of patients are promising and have demonstrated that the protocol can be applied safely to humans. The electrocoagulation technique by catheter appears suitable to ablate the human cystic duct. Follow-up evaluation of our first patients is under way and must determine whether our regimen is appropriate to ablate the human gallbladder on a long-term basis. Further development of this new approach may eventually enable definitive nonoperative treatment of cholecystolithiasis in selected patients. 
Laparoscopic tubal sterilization. The potential for thermal bowel injury. One of the most severe complications of laparoscopic tubal sterilization is bowel burns, although they often go undetected at the time of laparoscopy. Controversy remains over whether these injuries are caused directly by operator error or indirectly from a hot oviduct's or instrument's inadvertently touching and burning the intestine. A study was performed to determine the potential for direct or indirect bowel burns using bipolar electrocoagulation in rabbits. The results indicate that neither a hot tube nor hot (recently used) forceps could cause injuries to the serosal surface of the intestine. That was true both of immediate injury and after one to five days of recovery. It was observed that the hot uterine tube caused significant bowel adhesions by five days after the procedure. Direct electrocoagulation of the bowel using 40 W for three seconds caused a minor, noticeable blanch on the bowel that was not detectable with gross or histologic means after one day of recovery. A direct bowel injury did result when 80 W was used for three seconds; the bowel became perforated after one day. These findings indicate that it is unlikely that one can produce a bowel burn indirectly from a hot uterine tube or instrument and that only a direct insult to the bowel appears to cause an injury. However, adhesions could be a complication of the procedure and should be considered. 
Glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis are not results of spontaneous or surgical portosystemic shunting. To assess if spontaneous portosystemic shunting from collaterals contributes to the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis, 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis underwent a 5-hour oral glucose tolerance test 1 day before and 10 days after an elective side-to-side portacaval shunt. The glucose, insulin, and C peptide responses to oral glucose post-shunt were exaggerated but comparable to preoperative values. Compared with preoperative values, the fasting molar ratio of C peptide to insulin postoperatively had increased 40% (6.0 +/- 1.2 versus 8.4 +/- 0.7), indicating improved hepatic function. These results suggest that extrahepatic portosystemic shunting secondary to spontaneous splanchnic collaterals plays little or no role in the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis. It appears that decreased hepatic degradation of insulin in these patients is secondary to hepatocellular dysfunction rather than a result of shunting of portal blood around the liver. 
Vascular responsiveness in obstructed gut. Multiorgan system failure due to hypotension and sepsis is an important cause of death in patients with bowel obstruction. We have investigated the pathophysiology of this entity in an animal model. After 5 days of bowel obstruction, blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery was measured with and without Pitressin and norepinephrine given in separate experiments. In controls, Pitressin in moderate dosages caused a substantial fall in gut blood flow, which was not seen in obstructed animals (blood flow reduction 52 percent vs. 11 percent in sham and obstructed animals respectively, P less than 0.01). Similarly, norepinephrine infusion had less of an effect on gut blood flow in obstructed animals (blood flow reduction 79 percent vs. 58 percent sham vs. obstructed animals (P less than 0.05). Thus, both agents had dose-related effects on gut blood flow, which was maintained at a higher level throughout the drug infusion periods in the bowel of obstructed animals, demonstrating that splanchnic flow is less responsive to vasoactive drug infusion under these experimental conditions. Because splanchnic vasoconstriction is an important feature of normal hemodynamic homeostasis, we suggest that these results may help explain some aspects of the pathophysiology of multiorgan failure caused or worsened by systemic hypotension seen in bowel obstruction. 
Calcium and calcium binding in human gallstone disease. Precipitation of calcium salts from bile is important in pigment gallstone formation and may serve as a nidus for cholesterol precipitation. We compared gallbladder bile from patients with symptomatic gallstone disease (40 with cholesterol gallstones and 12 with pigment gallstones) with bile from 10 patients undergoing surgery for non-biliary tract disease. Bile from patients with gallstone disease was less concentrated, with decreased sodium, bile salt, and phospholipid concentrations, but elevated biliary calcium concentrations were not observed. The relationship between free ionized calcium and total calcium was similar in all groups, indicating no difference in calcium binding by gallstone-containing bile. We cannot exclude elevated biliary calcium level as a factor in gallstone pathogenesis, as it could be a transient event. The importance of calcium precipitation was supported by our finding that more than half of the samples were saturated or supersaturated with at least one calcium salt, calcium carbonate. 
Minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in pancreas divisum. Until recently, pancreas divisum represented a major technical barrier to a complete evaluation of pancreatic ductal anatomy. Technical refinements have now made it possible to achieve minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in more than 90% of attempts. In 120 consecutive dorsal ductograms, structural pathology was demonstrated in 36 subjects (30%): chronic pancreatitis in 23, pancreatic stones in 10, pseudocyst(s) in 4, ductal "cut-off" in 7, pancreatic cancer in 3, and partial agenesis in 1 (some patients had more than one finding). For patients in whom alcohol abuse was excluded, ductal pathology was present in 25%. Abnormal ventral ductograms were present in only 8% of cases, demonstrating that dorsal ductography has an appreciable additional diagnostic yield. When the clinical situation indicates the need for pancreatography, minor papilla cannulation should be performed if major papilla cannulation fails or reveals only the ventral pancreatogram of pancreas divisum. 
Treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole. A case report. We describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin, clotrimazole, and ketoconazole. In vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well. The patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin B therapy, but this was associated with serious adverse effects, including transfusion-requiring anemia, azotemia, and severe thrombophlebitis. Despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin B therapy, the patient's highly symptomatic, recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued. The patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects. 
Blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff The incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in Cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in October 1989. A survey was also made of current Hepatitis B immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists. Blood from 35 (14%) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents. Twenty-eight (61%) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation. Five (8%) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands. There were nine incidents (4%) of skin contamination by saliva. Fifty-three (71%) anaesthetists were immunised against Hepatitis B. Only seven (9%) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation, six (8%) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae, 47 (63%) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 (89%) for insertion of central lines. All anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis. 
Pilot study of sandostatin (octreotide) therapy of refractory HIV-associated diarrhea. Seventeen AIDS patients were enrolled in a prospective open-label dose-finding study of octreotide (Sandostatin) therapy for refractory diarrhea. Five were nonevaluable due to progression of AIDS symptomatology, and one was excluded because of lack of confirmation of HIV infection. Five of 11 evaluable patients responded to therapy (45%); two each at 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms, and one at 250 micrograms thrice daily doses. A sixth patient demonstrated a moderate reduction in stool volume at 250 micrograms thrice daily, which, although deemed clinically relevant, did not meet the criteria for response. On discontinuation of therapy, diarrhea recurred in all patients within 1-12 days, and responded to reinitiation of octreotide in those five patients who resumed treatment. Only one of the three patients with concurrent cryptosporidial infection responded to treatment. The drug was well tolerated, with mild symptomatology in three patients. Long-term treatment at a stable dose was effective in three of five treated patients for periods for seven months in one (moderate responder) and one year in two. One patient required dose increases to control symptoms, but after one year of treatment developed severe nausea following injections, which required dose cessation. One patient had partial control of his diarrhea for only three months despite two dose increases. These data suggest that octreotide may be of useful therapeutic value in HIV-associated diarrhea and that further studies are indicated. 
Skeletal scintigraphy in coeliac disease. A patient with undiagnosed, long-standing coeliac disease had multiple hot spots on skeletal scintigraphy, similar to those observed in malignant disease metastatic to the skeleton. A gluten-free diet corrected the pathological laboratory values, and a repeat skeletal scintigram 15 months after the first one was normal. It is important to identify the secondary hyperparathyroidism of coeliac disease as a cause of multiple hot spots in skeletal scintigraphy--the finding resembles malignancy, but is due to a benign, curable condition. 
IgA triggers tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion by monocytes: a study in normal subjects and patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. Under endotoxin-free conditions, peripheral blood mononuclear cells and purified monocytes isolated from healthy control subjects and patients with alcoholic cirrhosis disclose elevated tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA level and produce tumor necrosis factor alpha in response to stimulation by either soluble polymeric IgA or monomeric IgA bound to the surface of culture dishes but not by soluble monomeric IgA. Polymeric IgA induces tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion in a dose-dependent fashion. These results suggest that cross-linking of Fc alpha receptors on human monocytes induces the messenger RNA accumulation and the secretion of the cytotoxic and immunoregulatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha. Furthermore, it is shown that lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion by peripheral blood mononuclear cells is synergistically enhanced in the presence of solid phase monomeric IgA but not in the presence of either soluble monomeric or polymeric IgA. Although increased lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha secretion is observed at baseline in alcoholic cirrhotic patients, this synergism is also expressed in this group of patients. These observations could be of pathophysiological relevance in alcoholic cirrhosis because monomeric IgA deposits along the liver sinusoids and increased serum levels of polymeric IgA are common even in the early stages of this disease. 
Amyloidosis of the small intestine: findings on double-contrast radiographs. The appearance of the small intestinal mucosa on double-contrast barium examinations was studied in 26 patients with proved intestinal amyloidosis. Findings included innumerable fine granular densities 1-3 mm in diameter (16 patients), multiple nodular densities 3-4 mm in diameter (four patients), multiple polypoid protrusions 4-10 mm in diameter (three patients), irregularities of Kerckring folds (12 patients), and multiple erosions (eight patients). The multiple nodular densities and erosions disappeared after the patients were treated with total parenteral nutrition. The other abnormalities remained unchanged on follow-up examinations. Our results indicate that double-contrast radiographic findings of the small intestine in patients with amyloidosis include mucosal abnormalities that vary according to the pathologic type of amyloid deposition. 
Glomerular IgA deposits in patients with celiac disease. Glomerular immunopathology was studied in 25 patients with newly diagnosed celiac disease. None had clinical signs of renal disease. Glomeruli were obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. The specimens were processed and studied by indirect immunofluorescence for immunoglobulins and complement. Mesangial IgA was found in 8 of the patients. It occurred occasionally together with slight IgG or IgM, but C3 was not seen in these patients. IgA-class circulating immune complexes (CIC), antireticulin antibodies (ARA), antigliadin antibodies (AGA), and rheumatoid factor (RF) occurred significantly more often in the patients with mesangial IgA than in the 17 patients having no mesangial IgA. The patients with mesangial IgA also had significantly higher mean levels of serum IgA, IgA-ARA and IgA-AGA than those without. The results suggest that glomerular mesangial deposits of IgA occur frequently in untreated celiac disease and that they are in some way associated with circulating IgA-class antibodies and immune complexes. In this situation IgA seems to be deposited without being able to induce clinically overt glomerulonephritis, a circumstance that may be related to the lack of complement in the deposits. 
Gynecomastia. A bothersome but readily treatable problem. Although breast enlargement in boys and men can cause both psychological and physical distress, the disorder is rarely serious and is readily treatable. Several factors can lead to the estrogenic excess that causes growth of breast tissue. Dr Jacobs describes a patient with gynecomastia related to cirrhosis of the liver who responded promptly to a brief course of tamoxifen citrate therapy. 
Disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid by olsalazine and three mesalazine preparations in patients with ulcerative colitis: comparison of intraluminal colonic concentrations, serum values, and urinary excretion. To compare the disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) and its acetylated metabolite during treatment with olsalazine and mesalazine, 14 patients with inactive ulcerative colitis were randomly assigned to olsalazine (1 g twice daily) and the mesalazines, Asacol (800 + 400 + 800 mg daily), Pentasa (750 + 500 + 750 mg daily), and Salofalk (750 + 500 + 750 mg daily) in a crossover design trial so that all received each drug for seven days. Intraluminal colonic concentrations of 5-ASA were estimated after five days by the method of equilibrium in vivo dialysis of faeces. A predose serum sample and a 24 hour urine collection were obtained on day seven. The 5-ASA and acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid (Ac-5-ASA) values were determined by high performance liquid chromatography. Olsalazine almost doubled the colonic concentrations (mean 23.7 (SEM) (1.9) mmol/l) of its therapeutically active ingredient (5-ASA) compared with equimolar doses of Pentasa (12.6 (2.2) mmol/l; p less than 0.0003) and Salofalk (15.0 (2.0) mmol/l; p less than 0.003). At the same time, olsalazine treatment was associated with lower serum concentrations and urinary excretions (p less than 0.05) of 5-ASA and Ac-5-ASA compared with the mesalazine preparations. The low systemic load of 5-ASA provided by olsalazine reduces the potential risk of nephrotoxicity during long term treatment. 