Infection during chronic epidural catheterization: diagnosis and treatment. A potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection. The early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted. Three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved; exit site and superficial catheter track infection, and epidural space infection. The authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients. All 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal. None of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression. Catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections. It was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate. The use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established. 
Cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. We report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma, using a retrospective review of 115 patients' records obtained from tumor registry files. Five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus. Twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis. One patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma. The last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and, in the course of a standard workup, he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. These findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. 
Ewing's sarcoma. Radiotherapy versus surgery for local control. Significant strides in the treatment of Ewing's sarcoma, the second most common bone tumor of childhood, have resulted in cure for approximately 50% of patients. Successful therapy requires systemic chemotherapy for the eradication of microscopic or overt metastatic disease and surgery or irradiation therapy for control of the primary lesion. The article debates the controversy over the extent to which surgical resection should play a role in the local management of this disease. 
Immunohistochemical detection of P-glycoprotein in endometrial adenocarcinoma. P-glycoprotein (Pgp) has emerged as the central mediator in classic multidrug resistance in model systems in vitro. High levels of Pgp also have been detected in many normal human tissues and tumors; and its role in clinical drug resistance is currently under investigation. Recently significant levels of Pgp were localized to gravid and secretory endometrium; and it was demonstrated that the combination of estrogen and progesterone is sufficient to induce high levels of both Pgp mRNA and Pgp in uterine secretory epithelium. These findings suggest that increased Pgp expression also may be present in hormone-responsive malignancies such as endometrial adenocarcinoma. To determine whether Pgp is expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma, 36 endometrial adenocarcinomas (grade I [n = 17]; grade II [n = 6]; grade III [n = 13]) were investigated retrospectively by the avidin-biotin-complex immunohistochemical procedure using three murine monoclonal antibodies (MAb) MAb C219, MAb C494, and MAb JSB-1, which recognize spatially distinct cytoplasmic epitopes of Pgp. Seventy-two percent of the tumors showed positive immunostaining with at least one MAb; 67% showed immunostaining with MAb C219, 50% with MAb C494, and 62% with MAb JSB-1. Forty-six percent of tumors were immunoreactive to two and 29% to all three antibodies. Membranous and Golgi/paranuclear type staining patterns were observed. Overall the intensity of immunostaining varied from one sample to another for a given tumor type, and considerable heterogeneity of expression was commonly seen within a given tumor. Strong to moderate immunoreactivity was seen in diffusely infiltrating, adenosquamous, and serous papillary carcinomas. In general, immunoreactivity to MAb C494 was weaker than MAb C219 or MAb JSB-1. Adenomatous and non-neoplastic endometrium adjacent to the tumors displayed strong membranous immunostaining with MAb JSB-1. Endometrial capillaries showed weak-to-moderate immunostaining to all three antibodies. It is concluded that Pgp is commonly expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma and may be a significant factor responsible for their drug-resistant nature subject to modulation by progesterone. 
Follicular thyroid cancer treated at the Mayo Clinic, 1946 through 1970: initial manifestations, pathologic findings, therapy, and outcome We retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the Mayo Clinic between 1946 and 1970. The diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens. The 57 female and 43 male patients (mean age, 53 years) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years (mean, 17.4 years). All patients were treated surgically, and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three. Only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant. At the conclusion of the study, 52 patients had died, thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19. On the basis of univariate survival analysis, age more than 50 years, tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm, higher tumor grade, presence of marked vascular invasion, adjacent tissue invasion, and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality. Multivariate analysis (by Cox proportional hazards model), however, identified only age greater than 50 years, marked vascular invasion, and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality. Patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk. These patients had 5- and 20-year survival rates of 47% and 8%, respectively; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99% at 5 years and 86% at 20 years. The identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer. 
Ki67 index and S-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas. Comparison and correlations with prognostic factors. In a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas, proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining (Ki67 index) with the use of the Ki67 monoclonal antibody, which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells, and by flow cytometry-derived S-phase fraction (SPF). Measurable Ki67 and SPF indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases, respectively, and in 96 cases by both methods. In aneuploid tumors, a significant but low (P less than 0.05, r = 0.3) relationship was observed between Ki67 index and SPF. When compared with clinical, pathologic, and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index. Additionally, correlations were observed between Ki67 index and node involvement (P less than 0.02) and between SPF and estrogen receptors (P = 0.002). These results show that (1) proliferative indices are obtained in 96% of surgical samples with Ki67 versus 67% with SPF and that (2) Ki67 index and SPF may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis. 
The mutation for medullary thyroid carcinoma with parathyroid tumors (MTC with PTs) is closely linked to the centromeric region of chromosome 10. Two new morphs (F and G) detected by the centromeric alpha satellite probe p alpha 10RP8 and D10Z1 in HinfI digests are linked to the PstI polymorphisms of D10Z1, confirming their chromosome 10 location. The F and G morphs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other but were in weak linkage disequilibrium with the A and B morphs defined in PstI digests. Data for haplotypes formed by using the A and F morphs improved the lod score for linkage between the disease locus for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) and D10Z1 (Z = 14.06 at theta = 0) in the six large families studied by Wu et al. Furthermore, the locus that codes for a distinct phenotype, medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) with parathyroid tumors (PTs) and no pheochromocytomas (PHEOs) (referred to as MTC with PTs), in one of the families was closely linked to two markers, D10Z1 and RBP3, with lodscores of 2.86 and 3.54, respectively, at theta = 0. A possible allelic association was noted between disease phenotypes and centromeric haplotypes. The phenotype MTC and PHEOs with and without PTs was associated with the same relatively common centromeric haplotype (A + B-F-G-) in the four families in which all four morphs could be determined, while the phenotype MTC with PTs was associated with the rare centromeric haplotype (A-B-F-G+) in one family. 
Modified anterior compartment resection. In the majority of patients with soft tissue sarcomas of the anterior compartment of the thigh, it is possible to preserve a small portion of the quadriceps with intact nerve supply without compromising on the radicality of the procedure or the local control rate. The distal one-third of the vastus medialis can usually be spared with a long, slender branch providing its innervation. Dissection of the femoral nerve below the inguinal ligament and its branch(es) to an uninvolved area of the quadricepts the farthest from the location of the tumor is essential. This modified anterior compartment resection improves dramatically the function of the extremity. 
Pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group: the prostate--an unusual location. Pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare, with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature. We present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery. 
Recombinative events of the T cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral T cell lymphomas. Recombinative events of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral T cell lymphoma (PTCL) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples. There were 22 cases of alpha beta, 5 cases of gamma delta, and 10 cases of silent TCR expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta TCR. 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus. The 22 cases of alpha beta PTCL displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions; a monoallelic V delta 1 J delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases. The 5 cases of gamma delta PTCL displayed biallelic rearrangements: the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to V delta 1J delta 1 joining in 3 cases and VJ delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of DNA hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the TCR delta-1, delta TCS-1, and anti-V delta 2 monoclonal antibodies. In the VJ delta 1 joining, the rearranged V segments were located between V delta 1 and V delta 2. Interestingly, in the third group of 10 cases of silent PTCL, 5 cases were found to have a TCR gene configuration identical to that in the TCR alpha beta PTCL, as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion. These 5 cases were CD3 positive. The 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1. Four of these cases were CD3 negative, which was consistent with an immature genotype the TCR commitent of which could not be ascertained. Finally, TCR gamma delta PTCL consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas TCR alpha beta and silent PTCL had a similar presentation. 
Heffalumps, jagulars, and cheshire cats. A commentary on cytokeratins and soft tissue sarcomas. Historically, antibodies to cytokeratin intermediate filaments have been models of target specificity. In most diagnostic settings, the utility of these antibodies was unquestioned; reactivity for cytokeratin was dogmatically equated with epithelial differentiation. Recently, however, the diagnostic importance of these antibodies has been challenged, prompted by the demonstration of cytokeratin reactivity in a variety of "nonepithelial" neoplasms. In this review, the evolving literature on this topic is explored, and the practical implications of these findings are discussed. 
Role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy. Percutaneous fine-needle aspiration (PFNA) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy, but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined. To help establish guidelines, we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent PFNA biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy. Biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72% (135/188) of the patients, but in 27% (50/188) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis, and in 2% (3/188) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis. Fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention, thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis. In patients with a diagnosis from PFNA biopsy, operation confirmed malignancy in 97% (37/38) and a specific cell type in 79% (30/38). In patients without a diagnosis after biopsy, a malignancy was found in 73% (11/15) at the time of operation. This suggests a high rate of accuracy when PFNA biopsy provides a diagnosis. However, it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of PFNA biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies. This implies that PFNA biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates. 
Intracranial tumor in infants: characteristics, management, and outcome of a contemporary series. Since 1980, 22 patients less than 2 years of age have been treated for intracranial tumors at our institution. The most common presentation was elevated intracranial pressure associated with ventriculomegaly (73%). The diagnosis was made by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and confirmed surgically in every case. In 68% of cases, the tumor involved midline structures in the central nervous system. Tumors were infratentorial in 29% of patients less than 1 year of age and in 60% of those more than 1 year of age. Most tumors were either primitive neuroectodermal tumors (41%, 7 of 9 located in midline posterior fossa structures) or astrocytomas (27%, 5 of 6 located in the hypothalamus, chiasm, or optic nerve). Twenty patients had gross or subtotal tumor resection. Surgical mortality and neurological morbidity were 10% and 5%, respectively. Of 5 patients who underwent a second operation for tumor recurrence, 3 demonstrated a change in the pathological features of the tumor from those of the original diagnosis. Of 10 surgical survivors with malignant tumors, 8 received chemotherapy and 5 radiation therapy. Radiation was not administered before 1 year of age. The overall 1-year survival was 70%, and 2-year survival was 58%. Two-year survival for benign and malignant tumors was not significantly different. We think that the interdisciplinary efforts directed toward the treatment of these tumors has improved survival and that all children should be offered entry to a research protocol and aggressive treatment. 
Intracerebral solitary plasmacytoma. We report a rare occurrence of intraparenchymal plasmacytoma and review the literature. The clonal nature of the neoplasm is demonstrated by immunohistochemical and molecular techniques. The importance of the latter techniques in ruling out other pathological entities is stressed. 
Prognostic value of c-myc proto-oncogene overexpression in early invasive carcinoma of the cervix. The prognostic effect of c-myc oncogene overexpression was assessed in a multivariate analysis of 93 patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix, stage Ib, IIa, and IIb proximal. The treatment was based on the association of brachytherapy-colpohysterectomy and lymphadenectomy. Analysis of c-myc gene expression was done using Northern and slot blot hybridization techniques. Overexpression of c-myc (ie, levels at least three times the mean observed in normal tissues) was present in 33% of the tumors. The proportion of carcinomas with c-myc overexpression significantly increased with the size of the primary tumor (P = .04). No relationship was found between c-myc overexpression and the other clinical and histologic parameters, including the nodal status. The relative risk of relapse (overall, pelvic failure, distant metastases) was analyzed in a Cox's proportional hazards model. Three factors were significantly related to the risk of overall relapse when the multivariate analysis was performed, namely, the tumor size, the nodal status, and c-myc expression. A combination of c-myc expression and the nodal status provided a very accurate indication of the risk of relapse. Indeed, patients with negative nodes had a 3-year disease-free survival rate of 93% (95% confidence interval [Cl], 79% to 98%) when c-myc was expressed at a normal level, whereas this rate was only 51% (95% Cl, 26% to 63%) when c-myc was overexpressed (log-rank test, P = .02). In addition, in the subgroup of patients with positive nodes, this rate was 44% (95% Cl, 25% to 77%) and 15% (95% Cl, 4% to 49%) when c-myc gene was expressed at normal level, or overexpressed, respectively. Finally, c-myc gene overexpression was, in the multivariate analysis, the first factor selected by the model regarding the risk of distant metastases. 
Intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. Autologous lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (rIL-2) were administered intraperitoneally (IP) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. Ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. All ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. Patients received IL-2 100,000 U/kg every 8 hours intravenously (IV) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. LAK cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in IL-2 for 7 days and were then administered IP daily for 5 days through a Tenckhoff catheter (Davol, Inc, Cranston, RI) together with IL-2 25,000 U/kg IP every 8 hours. All but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. Toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of IL-2. One patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. IP fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. Two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. We conclude that LAK cells and rIL-2 can be administered IP to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. Further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of IP fibrosis and with lower IP IL-2 doses is justified by these initial results. 
Removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths by the hysteroscopic resectoscope. Fifty-three patients underwent 55 procedures with a resectoscope for the removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths. The presenting complaint was menorrhagia, menometrorrhagia, or heavy postmenopausal bleeding in 38 patients; excessive menses plus infertility in 13 patients; and infertility alone in two patients. Forty-three patients had pedunculated or sessile submucous myomas and ten patients had large endometrial polyps. The long-term results are based on 45 patients followed for longer than 1 year. Excessive bleeding was controlled in 40 of the 43 women (93%). Failure to control abnormal bleeding was apparent within the first year. Seven of the 12 infertility patients (58%) delivered live-born infants. Five patients have undergone subsequent hysterectomies (9%). Two patients had repeat resectoscopic removal of myomas and two had subsequent non-resectoscope myomectomies. No major complications were encountered. 
Therapeutic dilemmas associated with antenatally detected ovarian cysts. Fifteen instances of ovarian cysts detected antenatally are reported. Seven cysts more than 5 centimeters in diameter were treated surgically because of clinical signs, such as palpable abdominal mass, vomiting and abdominal distension. Seven cysts less than 5 centimeters in diameter, and one cyst more than 5 centimeters in diameter began to regress spontaneously within six months after birth. Because the pathophysiologic nature of neonatal ovarian cysts has not been elucidated and because the borderline between physiologic and pathologic factors is still unclear, we propose a more conservative approach in the management of neonatal ovarian cysts to avoid unnecessary operations. 
Gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct: a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain. A 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct. Celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst. Internal drainage was curative. 
Primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. Effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival. The pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade, low stage tumors; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease. Kaplan-Meier survival curves with Cox-Mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival. No differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors. For low grade, low stage tumors, although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy, there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery. Finally, cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease. 
The oncologic risks of skin preservation at mastectomy when combined with immediate reconstruction of the breast. Most oncologic surgeons agree that removal of the nipple, the areola and any recent scar at the site of the biopsy is necessary during a mastectomy for treatment of carcinoma of the breast. There is less agreement about what should be done with the remaining uninvolved mammary skin. Its preservation facilitates the performance of immediate reconstruction of the breast and can lead to improved aesthetic results, but many oncologists fear that this practice could lead to an increased incidence of local tumor recurrence. To determine if that fear was justified, 87 patients who had undergone unilateral or bilateral mastectomy with immediate reconstruction for treatment of early carcinoma of the breast were studied. Preservation of uninvolved skin was used in all instances. All patients had a documented follow-up study of 12 months or more; the average follow-up time was 23.1 months. One peripheral local recurrence was observed. This 1.2 per cent rate of early local recurrence is lower than that reported from several series using modified radical mastectomy without skin preservation or immediate reconstruction, and suggests that skin preservation does not confer additional risks of local recurrence of carcinoma of the breast in properly selected patients. 
Reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma: report of two cases. Classification of ameloblastoma into solid, multicystic, unicystic, and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition. The unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma. It appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection. It is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible. The following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology, demographics, histology, and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma. 
Radical prostatectomy and adjuvant radioactive gold seed placement: results of treatment at 5 and 10 years for clinical stages A2, B1 and B2 cancer of the prostate. Between 1977 and 1988, 131 patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate underwent combined radical prostatectomy and intraoperative radioactive gold seed placement. Of these 131 patients 80 were clinically assessed as having stage A2 (12), B1 (43) or B2 (25) cancer and they are the subject of this review. The average dose of radioactivity administered to each patient was 96.6 mCi, and mean followup was 65 months (median 64 months). No patient in this series received any other form of adjuvant therapy until disease recurrence was demonstrated. Local recurrences were observed in 2 patients (2.5%) in this series while distant recurrences were observed in 10 (12.5%). Cancer specific survival free of disease at 5 years was 100% for clinical stage A2, 91% for B1 and 75% for B2 cancers. The 10-year survival free of disease was 100% for clinical stage A2, 82% for B1 and 68% for B2 cancers. Covariants of clinical stage and seminal vesicle involvement influenced survival free of disease in a statistically significant manner (p less than 0.05) while pathological stage and degree of tumor differentiation did not. Mild to severe complications were observed in 12 patients (15%). Intraoperative placement of radioactive gold seeds into unresected pelvic tissues surrounding the site of prostatectomy offers a theoretical advantage in treatment by delivering tumoricidal levels of irradiation to residual foci of cancer not appreciated at the time of surgery. Our results suggest that increases in cancer specific survival free of disease over that previously reported for prostatectomy alone may be achieved through this combined treatment regimen. Furthermore, it is our opinion that therapeutic gains can be achieved without the attendant increases in morbidity and treatment delay often associated with adjuvant external beam radiotherapy. 
Mesangial cell accessory functions: mediation by intercellular adhesion molecule-1. Mesangial cell (MC) proliferation is an early pathologic alteration characteristic of many forms of immune mediated glomerulonephritis. The intracapillary position, contractile capacity, and production of cytokines and other inflammatory molecules place MC in a pivotal position to initiate, mediate, and direct glomerular damage. We as well as others have noted increased levels of cytokines including IFN gamma, TNF, and IL-1 and the cell surface MHC class II and ICAM-1 molecules in the kidneys of mice with lupus nephritis. MHC class II and ICAM-1 molecules are central to the interaction of T cells with antigen presenting cells (APC). Since cytokines can increase both MHC class II and ICAM-1 molecules, we investigated whether mesangial cells could function as APC or accessory cells after cytokine stimulation. For these studies we established a permanent MC line through transformation with origin-deficient SV40 DNA. Surface expression of ICAM-1 was similar in untransformed MC as well as SV40 transformed MC from normal mice and in untransformed cells from mice with lupus nephritis. Basal expression of ICAM-1 was upregulated rapidly by IFN gamma, TNF, and IL-1. MHC class II expression could not be induced with TNF or IL-1 alone but required prolonged stimulation with IFN gamma. MC adhered and presented antigen to an antigen specific IaK restricted T cell hybridoma. Anti-ICAM-1 mAb decreased adhesion and antigen presentation of cytokine stimulated MC. By comparison, MHC class II mAb abrogated antigen presentation by MC bearing MHC class II but did not block adhesion. 
Percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. When pancreatography shows a stenosis of the main pancreatic duct in patients with normal or inconclusive ultrasound and computed tomography, the exact nature of such stenosis is sometimes difficult to precise before surgical exploration. In such cases, the authors systematically performed a percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of the stenosis under pancreatographic guidance. Fifteen patients were referred because of suspected pancreatic malignancy. The tumor markers, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA 19-9 were normal in 11 patients and elevated in one patient, whereas only CA 19-9 was elevated in three others. In 14 cases, both the ultrasound and computed tomography did not show any obvious pancreatic mass. The pancreatography was done through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) (12 patients) or percutaneously in case of failure at ERCP3 and showed a main pancreatic duct stenosis that underwent aspiration by percutaneous fine needle precisely positioned using biplane fluoroscopy. The aspirated material was then smeared on glass slides, air-dried, and stained by Giemsa. In nine of the 15 patients, cytologic study revealed adenocarcinoma. This was confirmed by surgery in five and by progressive deterioration followed by death in four. In six patients, cytologic study gave a nonmalignant result. Chronic pancreatitis was found in five of them, confirmed at surgery in three and based on uneventful follow-up of at least 12 months in two others. In one case, a pancreatic adenocarcinoma not detected by cytologic study was found at surgery. Thus, the sensitivity and specificity of this diagnostic approach were 90% and 100%, respectively. No serious complication was noticed. The authors conclude that when ultrasound and computed tomography are inconclusive, percutaneous fine-needle aspiration cytologic study of main pancreatic duct stenosis under pancreatographic guidance is a safe, simple, and helpful procedure in the investigation of patients with suspected pancreatic malignancy. 
Gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance, with recovery after treatment. A 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10(9) l-1, consisting of 10% segmented neutrophils, 50% monocytes and 40% lymphocytes. A bone marrow aspirate showed 20% promyelocytes and 10% blasts with monoblastic features, and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis. In cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears. The test for heparin-precipitable protein ('cryofibrinogen') was strongly positive. During the following year, these signs and symptoms persisted, and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region. Gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach, which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. After successful removal of the tumour, and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations, the patient recovered completely, and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared. 
Role of ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. In 170 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, ultrasound showed a high sensitivity in identifying focal liver lesions. Fine needle aspiration biopsy guided by ultrasound yielded a pathological diagnosis in the majority of cases. The advantages of this technique, its high diagnostic yield and low cost, render the older technique of blind percutaneous biopsy using a coarse needle obsolete. Laparoscopy retains its essential role in selected cases. Complementary use of fine needle aspiration biopsy under ultrasound guidance and laparoscopy assures the highest rate of diagnostic accuracy in hepatocellular carcinoma. We confirm the poor sensitivity of alpha fetoprotein. 
Biopsy of the breast for mammographically detected lesions. We prospectively studied 718 women who underwent biopsy of the breast for suspicious, mammographically detected mammary lesions in an attempt to identify key clinical risk factors, as well as roentgenographic characteristics associated with the appearance of early carcinoma of the breast. Patients with a benign outcome had an average age of 55 years versus 63 years for patients with carcinoma of the breast. Seventy-six per cent of these patients had no previous history of mammary problems, 20 per cent had a positive family history for carcinoma of the breast, 58 per cent were premenopausal and 21 per cent had used birth control pills. Except for age (p less than 0.001), the distribution of clinical risk factors was equal among patients with benign or malignant outcomes. Suspicious mammographic findings included mass lesions (53 per cent), calcifications (36 per cent) and the association of both (11 per cent). The predominant Wolfe pattern on mammography was P1 (36 per cent). No relationship was observed between Wolfe pattern and malignant conditions. In this group of patients, mammography was poorly specific; however, the positive predictive value increased with age and is related to the age-specific prevalence of carcinoma of the breast. Eight hundred and twenty-five lesions were removed. Twenty-five per cent (n = 203) of the specimens taken at biopsy contained carcinoma. Stellate mass lesions were highly suggestive of a malignant growth (p less than 0.0001). No relationship between the size of the suspicious mammographic mass and the malignant lesion was observed. A marked correlation (chi-square test with Yate's correction) was observed between malignant tumor and lesions with a linear or branching pattern, more than 15 calcifications, or small sized calcifications. The presence of a mass with calcifications was associated with carcinoma in 34 per cent. The incidence of invasive carcinoma was much higher for mass lesions (81 per cent) than for suspicious calcifications (56 per cent) (p less than 0.0001). 
Generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer. Lymphocytes from regional lymph nodes of patients with colon cancer were fused with a human lymphoblastoid cell line with or without in vitro immunization. The efficacy of these two protocols for the generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer was investigated. The hyperplastic lymph nodes adjacent to the tumor were the best source of B lymphocytes. Fusion frequency and the number of tumor-reactive clones were markedly increased when the in vitro immunization protocol was applied prior to fusion. As a stimulant in in vitro immunization, the supernatant of pokeweed mitogen-stimulated T lymphocytes was superior to the supernatant of mixed lymphocytes culture. Carcinoembryonic antigen at 20 micrograms/L seemed to be the optimal dose for in vitro immunization. The reactivities of human monoclonal antibodies thus generated were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by immunoperoxidase staining. Combining in vitro immunization with lymphocytes of cancer patients may lead to the successful production of clinically useful human monoclonal antibodies. 
Regional differences in the intranodal distribution of tumor cells. The intranodal distribution of tumor cells was examined in 103 mesenteric and 135 axillary nodes to determine the frequency of a circumferential type of distribution and its relationship, if any, to central necrosis. Eighteen percent of the mesenteric nodes removed at surgery from patients with colon cancer contained a circumferential rim of viable tumor cells in an area corresponding wholly or in part to the normal location of the marginal sinus. In each case this rim of tumor cells surrounded a large central area of necrosis. In contrast, only one of the 135 axillary nodes removed from patients with breast cancer demonstrated this pattern. These findings suggest that by interrupting blood and lymph vessels, the circumferential spread of tumor cells underlies development of central necrosis. Previously described structural dissimilarities between mesenteric and axillary nodes may explain the striking difference in incidence of this pattern in these nodes. 
Spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer. Fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to Hope Hospital, none being judged to be in a terminal condition. One patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief. There were three failures. Twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation. Of these, 20 had major recovery of neurological function. Patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had 'prophylactic' decompression at the time of stabilisation; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression. The results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation. Postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible, and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy, as indicated. 
Radiation therapy of early (stages I and II-A) seminoma of testis after initial orchiectomy. With initial orchiectomy and radiation therapy, the prognosis of the patients with early (Stages I and II-A) testicular seminoma is nearing almost 100 percent. Thirty-two patients with Stage I and 13 patients with Stage II-A seminoma of the testis were treated with initial orchiectomy. This was followed by estimation biochemical markers and radiologic investigations. All the patients with Stage I disease received radiotherapy to the ipsilateral pelvic and para-aortic nodes. The patients with Stage II-A disease also received radiation therapy to the supradiaphragmatic regions. The disease-free survival in both groups of patients was found to be 100 percent. 
High- versus standard-dose megestrol acetate in women with advanced breast cancer: a phase III trial of the Piedmont Oncology Association. One hundred seventy-two patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive oral standard-dose megestrol acetate (MA), 160 mg/d or high-dose MA, 800 mg/d. All but two patients had one prior trial of tamoxifen therapy for either metastatic disease (74%) or as adjuvant treatment (26%). Pretreatment characteristics were similar for both arms. High-dose MA resulted in a superior complete plus partial response rate (27% v 10%, P = .005), time to treatment failure (median, 8.0 v 3.2 months, P = .019), and survival (median, 22.4 v 16.5 months, P = .04) when compared with standard-dose therapy. These differences remained significant after adjustment for other covariates. Thirty-four patients were given high-dose MA after failure of standard-dose MA treatment, and none responded. Weight gain was the most distressing side effect, with 13% of standard-dose and 43% of high-dose patients gaining more than 20 lbs. Four major cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving high-dose treatment and one in patients given standard doses. Other toxicity was modest. High-dose MA may represent a significant improvement in secondary endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer patients refractory to initial endocrine treatment, but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until these results are confirmed by other clinical trials. 
Flow cytometric DNA index in the prognosis of colorectal cancer. The authors investigated the relationship between flow cytometric DNA index (DI, defined as the ratio of the DNA content of malignant cells to that of normal cells) and other prognostic factors (grade and stage, anatomical site, age and sex) with the survival of 115 patients with colorectal cancer. Multiple biopsy specimens from 62 patients were taken during colonoscopy before surgery. Additional samples from 53 patients were obtained from paraffin-embedded material. All patients were treated with surgery only. Fresh-frozen material gave higher incidence of DNA aneuploidy than paraffin-embedded material (79% versus 41%). The patients with DNA diploid tumors (DI = 1) had a better overall survival than those with DNA aneuploid tumors (DI = 1). Among DNA aneuploid tumors, those with DI greater than 1.2 (excluding DI = 2) were worse than those with DI = 1.2 (excluding DI = 1) and DI = 2. Cox's regression analysis showed that pathologic stage was more important for prognosis than DNA index, whereas age, sex, histologic grade, and anatomic site were removed from the analysis as not relevant for prognosis. Relative risk of death (RR), in reference to patients with DI = 1 and Stages A + B (RR = 1), were RR = 1.8 for patients with carcinomas with Stage C. RR = 2.7 for patients with carcinomas with DNA near-diploid and DNA tetraploid tumors. RR = 3.5 for those with DI greater than 1.2 (excluding DI = 2), and RR = 8.0 for those with Stage D. These data indicate that flow cytometrically evaluated DI values have a relevant independent power for predicting the clinical outcome of colorectal cancer patients. 
The expression of progesterone receptors coincides with an arrest of DNA synthesis in human breast cancer. Two main models to account for the heterogeneous expression of estrogen receptors (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR) in human breast cancer have been proposed: the clonal model and the stem cell model. The authors previously provided evidence supporting the stem cell model since it was found that most of the proliferating cells in ER-positive (ER+) human breast cancer lack ER and that the ER-negative (ER-) and ER+ subpopulations are interrelated. The authors have analyzed in eighteen ER+/PR+ primary breast tumors the simultaneous expression of ER or PR (by immunohistochemistry) and DNA synthesis (by autoradiography) after 30 minutes of 3H-thymidine incorporation. The authors demonstrated that: (1) the average numbers of ER+ and PR+ cells were similar (36.8 +/- 10.7% and 39.3 +/- 17.6%, respectively); (2) The thymidine-labeling indexes of the ER+, ER-, PR+, and PR- subpopulations were 0.53 +/- 0.69%, 0.74 +/- 0.49%, 0.21 +/- 0.21 and 0.94 +/- 0.54%, respectively; and (3) 75.2% of the DNA-synthesizing cells were ER-, and 88.8% of them were PR-. The authors conclude that the cellular subpopulations expressing ER and PR were not identical, and the expression of PR was associated with a lower rate of cellular proliferation than was ER expression. 
Measurement techniques for melanoma: a statistical comparison Inter- and intra-observer variation in measuring the depth of invasion of malignant melanomas was assessed using three different techniques: eye-piece graticule, stage Vernier, and projection image analysis. Significant variation was found for all methods but was least pronounced with the stage Vernier. It is recommended that this should be the preferred technique for routine use. 
Altered expression of the retinoblastoma gene product in human sarcomas. BACKGROUND. The retinoblastoma-susceptibility (Rb) gene is a prototype tumor-suppressor gene originally isolated from patients with heritable retinoblastoma. This gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein whose expression is altered in several types of human tumors. METHODS. We studied the expression of the Rb protein in 44 primary and 12 metastatic high-grade human sarcomas by means of immunohistochemical methods and Western blotting. Computerized image analysis was used to quantify the level of Rb gene product in individual tumor cells. The expression of the Rb gene was then correlated with clinical outcome in the patients with primary tumors. RESULTS. Of the 44 patients with primary sarcomas, 13 (30 percent) had tumors with normal, homogeneous expression of the Rb protein in essentially all tumor cells. Thirty-one patients with primary tumors (70 percent) had altered Rb expression; in 18 (40 percent) the Rb protein was heterogeneously expressed, and in 13 (30 percent) it was detected in fewer than 20 percent of the tumor cells. All 12 of the patients with metastatic sarcomas had altered expression of the Rb protein. When the findings in the patients with primary tumors were correlated with clinical outcome, survival was found to be significantly increased in the patients whose tumors had homogeneous Rb expression, as compared with those with either heterogeneous expression (P = 0.026) or no expression (P = 0.012). CONCLUSIONS. Tumors in which the expression of Rb gene product was decreased were more aggressive than tumors in which this protein was expressed by nearly all cells. The Rb gene product may be an important prognostic variable in patients with these tumors. 
Bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas. Report of a case with DNA flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses. A case study of bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas with DNA flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses is presented. Analysis of tumor cell nuclear DNA content by flow cytometry revealed aneuploid cell populations in both tumors. Standard cytogenetic analysis (Giemsa-banding technique used) of the right carotid body paraganglioma showed no evidence of numerical or structural abnormalities. We describe parameters currently used to "predict" biological behavior in these tumors. 
The value of push-type jejunal endoscopy in familial adenomatosis coli/Gardner's syndrome. Push-type jejunal endoscopy using a long forward-viewing duodenofiberscope was performed in 10 patients with familial adenomatosis coli/Gardner's syndrome. Jejunal polypoid lesions were detected in nine of the 10 patients (90%). The lesions appeared sessile, whitish, and measured 3 mm or less in diameter. Histologic findings of the biopsy specimens from these polypoid lesions revealed tubular adenoma in all nine patients. In addition, this method led to the detection of duodenal adenomas in one patient, in whom duodenofiberscopy with the side-viewing instrument revealed no polypoid lesions in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum. In view of these results, we recommend that push-type jejunal endoscopy, as well as side-viewing duodenofiberscopy, should be added to the usual preoperative examinations done in patients with this disease. 
Autologous antibodies eluted from membrane fragments in human ovarian epithelial neoplastic effusions. III. Cytotoxic potential in vitro and characterization of antigen(s). Cyst and ascites fluids from patients with ovarian epithelial neoplasms contain immunoglobulins with antitumor activity. Autologous antibodies bound to the cellular membrane fragments obtained from human ovarian neoplastic effusions react with cell-surface antigens on different human ovarian cell lines, surgical specimens of human ovarian adenocarcinoma, and human ovarian tumors grown in athymic Balb/c mice. The antibodies do not react with tissue preparations from normal human ovaries, other nonovarian normal or neoplastic tissues, and nonovarian human cell lines. These studies indicate that these antibodies are capable of complement-mediated lysis of human ovarian tumor cell lines in vitro. Preliminary characterization of the autologous ovarian tumor-associated antigen(s) indicates that it may be composed of three large-molecular-weight proteins of 182,000, 164,000, and 122,000 d. 
Immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma. Primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy. In 17 consecutive patients, the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens. All neoplasms were B-cell lymphomas. Pan B surface marker antigens were present in all patients. Levels of Ki-67, a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation, were greater than 45% in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma. All patients alive had Ki-67 levels of less than 30%. A lower proliferation index, as measured by Ki-67, appears to be associated with better prognosis. Ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications. Immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma. 
Questionable role of CNS radioprophylaxis in the therapeutic management of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma with meningeal extension. A series of 15 consecutive children with head and neck nonorbital rhabdomyosarcoma (RMSA) with meningeal extension were prospectively treated with chemotherapy consisting of Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratory, Columbus, OH) (ADM), vincristine (VCR), cyclophosphamide (CPM), and dactinomycin (DACT) followed by radiotherapy (60 Gy) to the primary tumor volume, along with intrathecal methotrexate (IT MTX). Thirteen of 15 responded to preradiation chemotherapy. Four of 13 relapsed. Relapse occurred at the level of the primary tumor in three of four. The 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) was 59%, similar to that achieved in a previous series treated with a comparable therapeutic approach that also included whole-brain radiotherapy as a prophylaxis of possible occult meningeal seeding. It is concluded that CNS prophylaxis with radiotherapy is questionable in the management of childhood RMSA with meningeal extension. 
Expression of beta 1 integrins in normal human keratinocytes. The majority of cell adhesive events to the extracellular matrix are mediated by cell surface receptors, beta 1 integrins. Keratinocytes express at least six different polypeptides of beta 1 integrin class, namely beta 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 5, and alpha 6 (alpha 6 is mainly associated with beta 4 polypeptide). These epithelial cells use alpha 2 beta 1 as a collagen receptor and alpha 3 beta 1 as a fibronectin receptor, while alpha 6 beta 4 is the major basement membrane receptor. Expression of alpha 5 beta 1 complex is low. Processing of beta 1 integrins is fast in keratinocytes; half-maximal maturation takes only 3 hours. In addition to their function in cell-matrix interactions, beta 1 integrins (alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1) have also a role in maintaining keratinocyte cell-cell interactions. It is possible that resting basal keratinocytes use beta 1 integrins as cell-cell adhesion receptors, and during activation, like in wound healing, these receptors relocalize to mediate events involving cell-matrix interactions. 
Cutaneous horn of the penis: its association with squamous cell carcinoma and HPV-16 infection. Cutaneous horns of the penis are rare. Including this case, only 19 cases have been reported in the English-language literature. In 37% of the reported cases a malignant tumor was found beneath the cutaneous horn. Our case is remarkable because a stage I squamous cell carcinoma developed on the shaft of the penis of a neonatally circumcised man. Human genital carcinoma resulting from a multifactorial process in which "promoting" papillomavirus is an integral element is being increasingly reported. We review the relationship of circumcision to genital human papillomavirus infection and their synergism in the development of squamous cell carcinoma. 
A palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax, head and neck: Bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. An unusual, persistent, corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy. This combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities: Bazex's syndrome and tripe palm. This paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor, the site of metastatic disease, and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor. In our patient, a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails. Recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor. The characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report. 
Possible etiologic heterogeneity of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. A correlation of pathologic characteristics with human papillomavirus detection by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. A correlated histopathologic and molecular virologic study of 30 cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia Grade 3 (VIN 3) and six associated invasive vulvar carcinomas was performed. Paraffin sections were examined for human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16, and 18 by in situ hybridization for viral transcripts and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for amplification of HPV and of the beta-globin gene. Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia Grade 3 was histologically subclassified into warty (bowenoid) (20 cases) and basaloid (undifferentiated) (ten cases) types. Warty VIN characteristically was composed of squamous cells displaying abnormal proliferation and maturation and an undulating or spiked surface creating a "condylomatous" appearance whereas basaloid VIN had a smooth surface and was composed of undifferentiated basaloid cells resembling carcinoma in situ of the cervix. Human papillomavirus-16 was the only type detected in 16 of 30 VIN 3 and in five of six invasive carcinomas. The HPV-positive women were younger than HPV-negative women (mean age at diagnosis, 49 versus 60 years), their lesions more frequently demonstrated koilocytotic atypia (94% versus 43%), and they were more likely to have warty compared with basaloid VIN lesions (65% versus 30%). These findings suggest that there are at least two different types of VIN which have differing clinical, pathologic, and viral profiles. 
Inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds. Previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer, bilateral breast cancer, or both. Proliferative breast disease (PBD) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion. PBD and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women. Physical examination, screening mammography, and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed. Cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed PBD in 35% of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13% of controls. Genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both PBD and breast cancer in these kindreds. This study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer, including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer. 
Stimulation of tumor cell growth by vasoactive intestinal peptide. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) stimulated the growth of murine Lewis lung carcinoma cells in culture. The growth promoting effect was dependent on the concentration of VIP. Exposure to VIP for 12 hours followed by removal of the peptide resulted in sustained growth promotion for 4 to 5 days in culture. Synthetic fragments of VIP, i.e., VIP (1-16) and VIP (22-28), and the unrelated peptide neurotensin failed to stimulate the growth of the Lewis lung carcinoma cells. The growth-promoting effect of VIP was also observed in a murine mammary tumor cell line and a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line. 
Antibodies to synthetic peptide (125-148) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis. We measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues Lys125-Thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in myasthenic sera. We detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52% (89/171) of the patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), but none in any of the healthy controls. Anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of MG, but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-AChR antibodies. 
The relationship of "high risk" mammographic patterns to histological risk factors for development of cancer in the human breast. In the UK Trial for the Early Detection of Breast Cancer in Nottingham, 119 women were identified as having fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma. Their mammograms were classified according to Wolfe's criteria and the corresponding histology for each patient was classified for degrees of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia and in situ neoplasia using Page's criteria. A control population of patients presenting for breast screening was used to represent the general population. No correlation was found between the four mammographic Wolfe patterns, N1, P1, P2 and DY and histological evidence of epithelial hyperplasia, atypia or in situ carcinoma. A further study was carried out to determine histological features of Wolfe pattern, using radiological examination of resected breast tissue. The variation in Wolfe pattern was related to the distribution of fibrous and adipose tissue in the breast interlobular stroma and appeared to have no relationship to epithelial parenchymal content. This information does not support the hypothesis that radiographic densities of P2 and DY patterns correspond to high risk epithelial proliferation. 
High-risk factors in metastatic gestational trophoblastic neoplasia. The patient with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia faces a number of risks; the greatest is the failure of current treatment to bring about remission. Based on a review of past experience, a number of risk factors associated with failure of single-agent chemotherapy were identified, and the subsequent utilization of combination chemotherapy led to an improved outcome. An analysis of more recent experience has identified factors associated with the failure of standard combination chemotherapy, and it is hoped that the development of new treatments will again improve the outcome. This review provides a perspective on known high-risk factors in light of contemporary treatment. 
A prospective study of double diagnosis of nonpalpable lesions of the breast. Approximately three-fourths of open biopsies of the breast performed for mammographically detected suspicious lesions are shown histologically to be benign. Under the narrow conditions described herein, stereotaxic fine-needle aspiration (FNA) can identify these lesions with an accuracy of more than 90 per cent and a false-negative rate of 5 per cent. In an effort to reduce this failure rate, the mammographic appearance and stereotaxic FNA results of these lesions each were given scores on a scale of zero (benign) to five (malignant), to derive an over-all risk score prospectively applied to 264 suspicious occult lesions of the breast prior to open, biopsy. While all 264 lesions could be assigned a mammographic score, adequate tissue for assignment of a cytologic score could be obtained from 150 lesions. Of the 150 evaluable lesions, 53 were malignant and 97 were benign, historically. With a total score of two as the threshold for open biopsy, 21 of 150 (14 per cent) were proved to be benign, with no false-negative findings. If the total threshold score mandating an open biopsy was raised to four, the comparable figures were 61 of 150 (40 per cent) benign lesions and two false-negative instances of carcinoma in situ. Provided adequate tissue is aspirated for cytologic examination, we conclude that this algorithm has practical value in the management of nonpalpable lesions of the breast in that it can reliably identify a fraction of the benign lesions and spare these patients an operation. 
Flow cytometry for clinical estimation of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation in cancer patients. Optimum methods of harvesting circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation to support myeloablative cancer therapy are still uncertain, mostly because of the lack of an assay for marrow-repopulating stem cells. The CFU-GM assay, the commonly used indirect indicator of the quality of the graft, is poorly standardized and provides results evaluable only retrospectively. Based on the knowledge that hematopoietic progenitors express CD34 and CD33 differentiation antigens, we developed a dual-color direct immunofluorescence flow cytometry assay with the aim of replacing the CFU-GM assay advantageously. For this purpose, we applied both assays to 157 blood samples obtained daily throughout 20 different recoveries from pancytopenia induced by high-dose cyclophosphamide or etoposide cancer therapy with or without recombinant human GM colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF). The appearance of CD34+ cells in the circulation indicated that hematopoietic progenitors had increased to more than 500 CFU-GM/mL, a level clinically adequate for large-scale harvest by leukapheresis. Total CD34+ cells correlated well with CFU-GM (r = .89), and data could be fitted by a linear regression line described by the equation y = 388.3 + 64.0x, where y = CFU-GM/mL and x = CD34+ cells per microliter. Moreover, in a series of six patients treated with myeloablative chemoradiotherapy, early hematopoietic recovery of marrow functions was predicted more accurately by the number of transplanted CD34+/CD33+ cells than by either total nucleated cells, CFU-GM, CD34+/CD33- cells, or CD34-/CD33+ cells. Data presented in this article favor clinical use of the CD34/CD33 flow cytometry assay to guide harvesting of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation and contribute to better understanding of the role played by circulating hematopoietic progenitor cell subsets in marrow recovery after myeloablative cancer therapy. 
Complications associated with limb salvage for extremity sarcomas and their management. A retrospective clinical review of 100 consecutive patients with extremity sarcomas managed by limb salvage operations was performed to evaluate local tumor control and morbidity. The mean follow-up period was 45.1 months. Overall survival was 86%. There were local recurrences in 3% of patients, and 26 complications in 22 patients. Wound necrosis was the most frequent complication. Failure of allogeneic bone graft operations occurred in 25 patients. Most of the complications were salvageable without loss of limb. Limb salvage is an acceptable surgical treatment of extremity sarcomas based on adequate local control and minimal morbidity. 
Corporate-sponsored breast cancer screening at the work site: results of a statewide program. Mobile screening mammography was offered to 3,627 employees of a large corporation in Pennsylvania and Delaware. The examination was available to women employees or employee spouses aged 35 years and older. Women were charged $30 for a standard two-view examination. They also received health education materials on mammography and breast self-examination. The remaining costs of the program were underwritten by the corporation. During this program, 3,627 mammographic studies were performed; 63 biopsies were recommended. Fifty-seven biopsies were performed, and nine cancers were diagnosed. Costs of this program are presented in detail. The authors conclude that mobile screening programs at the work site provide an inexpensive, convenient alternative to more traditional screening programs. The inherent advantages of this program are the low cost, the relative ease with which the examination can be performed, and the positive role that corporate medical personnel assume in encouraging individual and group participation. 
Male breast cancer. Male breast cancer is uncommon but important. The diagnosis is easily made by breast biopsy, and patients are presenting earlier in the course of the disease than in the past. Despite this, patients are often first seen with tumors that have metastasized to the axillary nodes, which markedly decreases the survival rate. Therapy of localized disease includes simple excision, modified radical mastectomy, and radical mastectomy, but there is no consensus for which operation is appropriate. Radiation therapy should be strongly considered in patients with metastases to the axillary nodes, but the role of adjuvant hormonal therapy or chemotherapy is unclear. For treatment of disseminated disease, tamoxifen seems to be replacing orchiectomy. The favorable response rate, especially in patients with estrogen-receptor-positive tumors, the lack of side effects, and the high level of patient acceptability make it an attractive therapeutic choice. 
The relationship of ABH(O) blood group antigen expression in intraepithelial dysplastic lesions to clinicopathologic properties of associated transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Paraffin-embedded, giant-step sections of 13 bladders with transitional cell carcinomas were stained with monoclonal anti-A or anti-B antibodies to investigate whether intraepithelial dysplastic lesions are related to obvious tumors. Normal and/or hyperplastic lesions were retained in only eight bladders; severe dysplasia and/or carcinoma in situ were found in all bladders except two. AB-antigen expression was retained in intraepithelial lesions of bladders with invasive carcinoma. Most intraepithelial lesions were AB-antigen negative in bladders with frequently recurrent tumors. In bladders with initially multiple tumors, AB-antigen expression was negative in almost one half of the intraepithelial lesions. Therefore, it appears likely that most multiple or recurrent bladder carcinomas arise from dysplastic cells in intraepithelial lesions which have acquired malignant potential; initially invasive tumors quickly develop from a limited lesion acquiring a high malignant potential without changes of cell phenotype in most intraepithelial lesions. 
Gastric juice ascorbic acid: effects of disease and implications for gastric carcinogenesis. N-nitroso compounds (NOC) are strongly implicated in the causation of cancer of the stomach and it has been suggested that ascorbic acid might reduce the risk of gastric cancer by preventing their formation within gastric juice. However, until recently there have been no measurements of gastric juice ascorbic acid concentrations. We have measured both gastric juice ascorbic and total vitamin C (ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid). Our findings suggest that ascorbic acid is secreted into the gastric lumen so that gastric juice concentrations are often greater than those in plasma. Gastric pathology affects this secretion, leading to values in gastric juice that are lower than plasma levels. Stimulation of gastric secretion does not raise vitamin C concentrations in individuals whose values are initially low. The role of ascorbic acid in preventing formation of NOC and protecting against gastric cancer is discussed in the light of these findings. 
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein secretion by breast carcinoma cell lines: correlation with estrogen receptor status. Breast tumor cell lines have been shown to secrete several distinct polypeptide growth factors, although conflicting results exist for the insulin-like growth factors (IGFs). In contrast a limited number of breast tumor cell lines have definitely been shown to secrete the high affinity IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) that modify IGF actions. To characterize the types of IGFBPs that are secreted by breast tumor cell lines, conditioned medium was collected from seven separate tumor cell lines, three of which were estrogen receptor (ER) negative, and four of which were ER positive. All three of the ER negative cell lines, MDA-231, MDA-330, and HS578T, secreted binding proteins of 49,000 and 43,000 Mr (IGFBP-3) as well as 29,000 (IGFBP-1) and 24,000 Mr. In contrast, all four ER positive cell lines secreted 34,000 (IGFBP-2) or 24,000 Mr forms, and none secreted the 49,000 and 43,000 or 29,000 Mr forms. BT-20, a cell line that is positive for ER messenger RNA (mRNA) but negative for ER protein, secreted predominantly a 34,000 Mr protein. The amount of total IGFBP activity released in 24 h ranged between 0.4 and 5.6 nM equivalents of IGFBP-1, and there was no significant difference between the ER positive and negative cell lines. The MCF-7 cells that produced predominantly 34,000 and 24,000 Mr forms showed a 1.8-fold increase in IGFBP secretion after estrogen stimulation. Immunoblotting and a specific RIA for IGFBP-1 showed that only the ER negative lines MDA-330, MDA-231, and HS578T secreted this form. Northern blotting analysis for the mRNA encoding this protein showed that both MDA-330 and MDA-231 contained a single 1.6 kilobase mRNA species that hybridized with an IGFBP-1 complementary DNA (cDNA) probe. Immunoblotting analysis of the other cell lines showed that only the 34,000 Mr form secreted by the ER positive cell lines reacted with IGFBP-2 antisera. Exposure of the conditioned media from the three ER negative cell lines to N-glycanase revealed that the 49,000 and 43,000 Mr forms of IGFBP were glycosylated and therefore probably represent IGFBP-3. We conclude that ER negative cell lines secrete three forms of IGFBPs, IGFBP-1, IGFBP-3, and a 24,000 Mr form. In contrast, the ER positive cell lines secrete predominantly IGFBP-2 and the 24,000 Mr form but do not secrete IGFBP-3 or 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Simultaneous presentation of adenocarcinoma of prostate and transitional cell carcinoma of bladder. Simultaneous presentation of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and adenocarcinoma of the prostate is not uncommon. Twenty-two patients were diagnosed as having simultaneous or concurrent presentation of prostate and bladder carcinomas between January 1970 and July 1986. The overall five-year survival was 40 percent, with patients presenting with prostate cancer doing better (50%) than those with bladder cancer (32%). Retrospective review of these cases suggests that primary therapy should be directed to the most advanced cancer. Incidental prostate cancer may be "cured" with a cystoprostatectomy and, when indicated, radiation therapy added postoperatively for the bladder cancer. Eleven patients presented with Stage A prostate cancer: 10 of the 11 were treated for their bladder cancer. Treatment was usually radical cystoprostatectomy with or without postoperative radiation. None died of prostate cancer. Patients presenting with advanced stage prostate cancer have had recurrence or have died of the cancer. 
Clinicopathological experience with pineocytomas: report of five surgically treated cases. The clinicopathological experience associated with five cases of pineocytoma is presented. All patients were treated by surgical removal without postoperative radiotherapy. In three individuals, 2000 cGy was administered to the tumor as a presurgical diagnostic test, with no evidence of response. All cases demonstrated histological features of pineocytoma, according to the criteria of Borit et al., and of the so-called "pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation," according to the criteria of Rubinstein. The experience obtained from the present series reveals that these tumors can occur in the initial decades of life, that a cystic appearance and the presence of calcifications are distinctive features of their radiological evaluation, and that they have a good prognosis after surgical removal, even when the histological data indicate local invasion. The convenience of reserving the term "pineocytoma" for these tumors, and of including the so-called "pineocytomas without further differentiation" within the group of pineoblastomas, is suggested in order to achieve a practical clinicopathological assessment of parenchymatous pineal tumors. 
Gene amplification in human lung cancer. The myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes. The development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes, e.g., 1, 3, 11, 13, and 17. These genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes (c-jun, ras, c-raf1) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes (p53). Some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer (L-myc, c-myb, c-scr, Rb gene) or non-small-cell lung cancer (c-erbB-2, c-sis, c-fes). These genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway. The c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo. This indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development. The uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines. These factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors. The products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes (c-sis, c-erbB-2) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor (PDGF) and a receptor (EGF) identified in lung cancer. The production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression. 
A diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions. The diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions (DESCL) was designed to discriminate colonic adenoma and adenocarcinoma from normal colonic tissue. Although it was originally developed for use in conjunction with a machine vision analytic system, the DESCL has evolved into a teaching tool and a model for conceptual machine learning. The expert system is table driven and consists of a shell and a knowledge base. The latter comprises a series of architectural and cytologic observations and a quantitative estimate of diagnostic importance relating these observations to diagnostic outcome. In a validation study of 100 colonic lesions, the expert system achieved a success rate of 98%. It has the flexibility to allow individual pathologists to "customize" the knowledge base to suit their diagnostic criteria. 
Pathological classification and follow-up of prostatic lesions initially diagnosed as "suspicious of malignancy". Sections from a series of prostatic specimens (n = 44) in which the initial diagnosis implied a suspicion of malignancy were reviewed and the patients followed up (group 1). The aim was to categorise the morphological appearances according to current criteria and to determine the natural history of any pre-malignant lesions within this group. A "control" series of patients (n = 40) in whom the primary diagnosis was benign were also reviewed and their course followed (group 2). The heterogeneity of the abnormalities in group 1 was striking. Of the 44 cases, pre-malignant lesions were seen in 8, microinvasive adenocarcinoma in 11 and lesions not now considered pre-malignant in the remaining 25. None of the 8 patients with pre-malignant lesions developed clinical evidence of carcinoma over a follow-up period of 8 to 12 years. In contrast, 3 of the 11 diagnosed on review as having microscopic invasive adenocarcinoma developed clinically evident tumour within 5 years of surgery. Of the 25 patients whose prostatic lesions were considered benign, 2 developed carcinoma 12 and 13 years after surgery. Only 1 of the 40 patients in group 2 had a pre-malignant lesion and he did not develop tumour within 10 years. However, adenocarcinoma was diagnosed incidentally in 1 patient 3 years after surgery. It was concluded that there is a need to standardise interpretation and reporting of pre-malignant lesions and microscopic foci of adenocarcinoma in the prostate. The limited results on the course of pre-malignant lesions diagnosed incidentally in patients over 60 years of age do not indicate that follow-up would have prompted the early diagnosis of invasive disease. 
Papillary endothelial hyperplasia in the thyroid following fine-needle aspiration. A 74-year-old woman was found to have exuberant papillary endothelial hyperplasia within her thyroid gland subsequent to multiple fine-needle aspiration biopsies of a Hurthle cell neoplasm. To our knowledge, this histologic alteration in the thyroid has not been previously reported. We describe this unusual complication following fine-needle aspiration, and we delineate the clinicopathologic and differential diagnostic features. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer. II. Relationship between receptor expression and response to epidermal growth factor. Previously we have shown that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for some, but not all, ovarian cancer cells in culture. In this study we examined the effect of epidermal growth factor on proliferation of normal human ovarian epithelial cells in monolayer culture. We found that epidermal growth factor stimulated twofold to fourfold increases in proliferation in epithelial cells from each of five normal ovaries (p less than 0.01). In addition, Scatchard analysis of binding of epidermal growth factor tagged with iodine 125 indicated the presence of high-affinity receptors in all of the ovarian epithelial cells and ovarian cancer cell lines. The number and affinity of receptors was similar in the normal epithelium and cancer cell lines, and there was no relationship between epidermal growth factor receptor number and responsiveness to epidermal growth factor. We conclude that human ovarian epithelial cells normally express epidermal growth factor receptors and that epidermal growth factor acts as a mitogen for these cells. Although the mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor often is attenuated in ovarian cancer cell lines, loss of responsiveness to epidermal growth factor does not appear to be due to decreased receptor expression. 
Clinical significance of hematologic parameters in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma at diagnosis. Three hundred seventeen patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (54 low grade, 180 intermediate grade, 76 high grade, and seven unclassified) treated with chemotherapy were evaluated for the presence of hematologic abnormalities at diagnostic staging. Anemia was present in 42%, leukopenia in 6%, thrombocytopenia in 13%, leukocytosis in 26%, and thrombocytosis in 14% at presentation. The presence of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was more likely to be associated with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia than the absence of bone marrow involvement. Although anemia was slightly more common in patients with bone marrow lymphoma than in those without marrow lymphoma, the difference was not statistically significant. Hematologic parameters were similar for patients with B-cell or T-cell lymphoma. Evidence of bone marrow failure with multiple cytopenias was present in 26 patients (8%). Leukoerythroblastosis was present in 2%. Circulating lymphoma was present in 9.5%. Anemic patients had a shorter survival time than nonanemic patients, whether bone marrow was involved by lymphoma or not. Survival was not affected by the presence of leukopenia or mild leukocytosis, but, in patients without marrow lymphoma, leukocytosis with a leukocyte count greater than 20 x 10(9)/l was associated with short survival length. Thrombocytopenia was associated with short survival time only in patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma. Patients with multiple cytopenias or leukoerythroblastosis had short survival times, but the presence of circulating lymphoma did not alter survival when compared with other patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma. These data suggest that hematologic evaluation at the time of diagnostic staging of NHL provides useful prognostic information that may have therapeutic implications. 
Histopathologic evidence of fibrovascular ingrowth four weeks after placement of the hydroxyapatite orbital implant. We studied the histopathologic findings after placement of an orbital hydroxyapatite implant in a patient. The implant was placed after enucleation for a choroidal melanoma and was removed four weeks later because histopathologic examination of the enucleated globe disclosed tumor invasion of the optic nerve that necessitated further orbital tissue removal. Our histopathologic findings confirm that there is significant ingrowth of fibrovascular tissue in these implants, even within weeks of implantation. 
Carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts. Thirty-seven patients with carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts (EHBD), diagnosed over 14 years from 1974 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. The most common presenting complaint was jaundice, followed by abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and weight loss. The majority of EHBD carcinomas were located at the middle third of the bile duct (43.2%), followed by upper third bile duct (37.8%), and lower third bile duct (18.9%). The resectability of the surgically managed group was 44.4%. The most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. The 30-day postoperative mortality was 30.6%. The mean overall survival of the patients with EHBD carcinoma was 11.2 months. Patients with distal third tumors had the best prognosis with a mean overall survival of 16.0 months. The mean overall survival of patients with upper-third and middle-third tumors were 10.9 months and 9.4 months. A high index of suspicion of the disease as well as earlier, aggressive surgery may improve patient survival. 
Correlation between estrogen receptor status and histological malignancy in human breast cancer. Sixty-two breast carcinoma patients underwent mastectomy and were analyzed for correlations between estrogen receptor (ER) status of the tumor and the histological findings of tumor, age, nodal status, and tumor size. An immunocytochemical assay for the detection of ER in breast carcinomas was used to evaluate the staining intensity index (SII) of the ER level of the tumors, which was calculated from the staining intensity of cancer cells and the percentage of ER-positive cancer cells. The histological differentiation of carcinomas showed a strong correlation with the SII. A statistically significant (F = 10.580, P less than 0.0005) negative correlation was found between the grade of malignancy and the SII. Patients under 50 years of age tended to have a lower SII, whereas patients over 49 years of age tended to have a higher SII. The tumor size, and nodal status showed no correlations with the SII in any of the patients. The histological differentiation of the tumor cells showed a strong correlation with the heterogeneity of the distribution of ER-positive cells in breast cancers. 
Hemicorporectomy: a collective review. Hemicorporectomy or translumbar amputation has been described as the most revolutionary of all operative procedures. Frederick E. Kredel, who first voiced the concept of the operation in 1950, referred to it as halfectomy. Demonstration of his cadaver studies established the feasibility of the operation. Amputation is effected through the lower lumbar area of the body. Necessary life functions are preserved in the upper torso. Kredel envisioned hemicorporectomy as a curative operation for locally advanced cancer, limited to the pelvis, not encompassable by standard operative intervention. Additional indications are intractable decubitus ulcers with malignant change, particularly in paraplegics; pelvic organs, and bone infection with nonhealing fistulae; and crushing trauma to the pelvis. The first hemicorporectomy operation was reported in 1960. Thirty-four operations have been recorded in the world literature. Two heretofore unreported cases are added, raising the total to 36. Review of these 36 cases confirms the conviction that hemicorporectomy is a humane and ethical alternative to the suffering encumbered by advancing, painful, malodorous malignant disease not treatable by conventional means. While cure rates are not substantial, the best results are reported in paraplegics with intractable decubitus ulcers with or without malignancy. Rehabilitation is prolonged and costly. Most survivors have been restored to preoperative occupations or other gainful employment. 
Dysgerminoma of the ovary: review of 27 cases. Twenty-seven patients with pure dysgerminoma were seen at the Tata Memorial Hospital, Bombay, between January 1980 and December 1984. Of the 10 patients in stage I, 2 patients underwent a unilateral salpingoophorectomy (USO) and were kept under observation without any adjuvant therapy, while the remaining patients received adjuvant treatment following surgery. All of the 6 patients in stage II and 4 of 7 in stage III had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (TAHBSO) followed by postoperative radiotherapy. One patient presented in stage IV and 3 patients presented with recurrence after previous definitive treatment undertaken at other institutions. The disease free, as well as the overall survival, at 108 months, for the 24 cases primarily treated at this institution, is 81% and 88% respectively, and, for patients in stages I and II, 100% (Kaplan-Meier estimation). The need for controlled clinical trials to devise optimal therapy in the early clinical stages and use of chemotherapy for advanced stages of this highly curable entity are stressed. 
Failure to detect human T-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood. We tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I)- or type II (HTLV-II)-related sequences. DNA from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs. Two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between HTLV-I and HTLV-II in either p24, gag protein, or in p21, env transmembrane protein. The third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between HTLV-I, HTLV-II, and the related bovine leukemia virus. The multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive. We conclude that viruses related to HTLV-I, HTLV-II, or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and, therefore, that HTLV-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. 
Vaccination against tumor cells expressing breast cancer epithelial tumor antigen. Ninety-one percent of breast tumors aberrantly express an epithelial tumor antigen (ETA) identified by monoclonal antibody H23. Vaccinia virus recombinants expressing tumor antigens have considerable promise in the active immunotherapy of cancer, and we have evaluated the potential of vaccinia recombinants expressing the secreted (S) and cell-associated (transmembrane, T) forms of H23 ETA to elicit immunity to tumor cells expressing ETA. Tumorigenic ras-transformed Fischer rat fibroblast lines FR-S and FR-T, expressing the S or T form of H23 ETA, respectively, were constructed for use in challenge experiments. Expression of H23 ETA in these lines was confirmed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. When challenged by subcutaneous seeding of tumor cells, 97% (FR-S) and 91% (FR-T) of syngeneic Fischer rats rapidly developed tumors that failed to regress. Vaccination with recombinant vaccinia virus expressing ETA-T prior to challenge prevented tumor development in 82% of animals seeded with FR-T cells but in only 61% of animals seeded with FR-S. The vaccinia recombinant expressing the S form was a less effective immunogen, and vaccination protected only 29-30% of animals from developing tumors upon challenge with either FR-S or -T cells. The increased immunogenicity of the recombinant expressing ETA-T was reflected in elevated levels of ETA-reactive antibody in vaccinated animals, confirming that secreted antigens expressed from vaccinia virus are less effective immunogens than their membrane-associated counterparts. 
Insulin secretion and action in patients with pancreatic cancer. The authors investigated insulin secretory capacity and insulin action in 11 preoperative patients with pancreatic carcinoma and 15 age-matched and weight-matched healthy subjects (C). Five patients were classified as diabetic (D), two as impaired glucose tolerant (IGT), and four as nondiabetic (ND). Postabsorptive serum insulin levels (mean +/- SE, in uU/ml) in D (12 +/- 2), IGT (17 +/- 7), and ND (10 +/- 2) were comparable. After administration of 100 g of oral glucose, peak insulin achieved in D (60 +/- 11) was lower than in IGT (101 +/- 26) and ND (83 +/- 20), whereas peak insulin levels in IGT and ND were significantly (P less than 0.05) higher than in C (45 +/- 6). Comparable insulin response to nonglucose stimuli was documented in all subjects using the slow arginine infusion test with mean serum insulin of 27 +/- 4 in D, 28 +/- 6 in IGT, 34 +/- 10 in ND, and 32 +/- 5 in C. In six patients (P) and six controls, insulin action was assessed by the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique, with glucose turnover rates estimated by [3-3H]glucose infusion. Steady-state plasma glucose concentrations were maintained at 92 +/- 3 (P) and 91 +/- 1 mg/dl (C). After insulin infusion at the rate of 1.0 mU/kg/min, comparable high physiologic insulin levels were observed in P (73 to 104 uU/ml) and in C (81 to 103 uU/ml). Postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance (Ra) were higher in P (2.86 to 3.02 mg/kg/min) than in C (1.50 to 2.80 mg/kg/min). At high physiologic insulin concentrations, negative Ra values were documented in all subjects, and complete suppression of Ra was assumed. Total body glucose use (M) was consistently lower in P (3.90 to 6.40 mg/kg/min) than in C (6.98 to 10.40 mg/kg/min), consistent with a state of insulin resistance. Patients with pancreatic cancer manifest insulin resistance by virtue of a decrease in total body glucose use (M) and decreased insulin response to glucose due to either inherent beta cell dysfunction or decreased islet cell mass. The latter is not identifiable by histologic morphology. 
Percutaneous aspiration of brain tumor cysts via the Ommaya reservoir system. We performed percutaneous aspiration of 21 brain tumor cysts in 20 patients using the Ommaya reservoir system. Ages ranged from 3 to 70 years, median 48. Sixteen were primary tumors (12 anaplastic glioma, 2 craniopharyngioma, 1 oligodendroglioma, 1 brainstem glioma) and 4 were metastatic. Fourteen had the CT appearance of a true cyst and 7 a pseudocyst. We placed 18 catheters through twist drill holes via CT stereotactic guidance and 3 through burr holes via CT guidance and effectively aspirated 3 to 50 ml cyst fluid from 1 to 18 times in each patient. Postaspiration CT showed complete or significant reduction in cyst size in all patients in whom it was performed (18 after initial aspiration and 9 after subsequent aspirations). Asymptomatic intracyst hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients after cyst wall biopsy and catheter placement. There have been no other complications at follow-up of 4 to 114 weeks. In our experience, tumor cyst aspiration by the Ommaya reservoir system is as effective as percutaneous needle aspiration, but after catheter placement aspiration can be performed with minimal technical skill, avoiding repeated CT guidance required for needle aspiration of recurrent deep-seated cysts. 
Patient perceptions. The cancer patient's perceptions about treatment, prognosis, and long-term care have emerged in the context of interaction with the changing healthcare system. A brief overview of cancer patients' perceptions regarding their disease and subsequent care is provided. The economic, organizational, and technological environment in which this care is provided and the patient's perceptions of that environment are discussed. In addition to economic pressures, the ever-increasing number of cancer patients, prolonged survival, and patients' perceptions have created changes in the healthcare system. These changes are mediated by important socioeconomic, cultural, and demographic characteristics of the cancer patient. Recommendations to address these changes are discussed. 
Inflammatory atypia on cervical smears. A diagnostic dilemma for the gynecologist. In light of the current controversy on the significance, follow-up and management of women with cervical smears showing "inflammatory atypia" (IA), a study was conducted to correlate the initial cytologic diagnosis of IA with the follow-up findings in colposcopically directed cervical biopsies and smears. From March 1988 through June 1989, 70 women had two consecutive smears reported as IA; all underwent colposcopy and cervical biopsy. In 58 patients (83%) the biopsies and smears obtained during colposcopy were negative for condyloma and/or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Ten patients (14%) had condylomas, and two (3%) had condylomas with CIN (one CIN I and one II). The initial IA smears from those 12 patients were reviewed retrospectively: 2 showed condylomas (they had been undercalled), 5 were "suggestive of condyloma" (the atypical cells were too few or poorly preserved for a definitive diagnosis), and 5 showed IA. None showed cytologic evidence of CIN, most probably because of sampling error. Our results suggest that colposcopy is warranted after two consecutive diagnoses of IA on cervical smears, considering that 17% of the patients in our study showed underlying intraepithelial lesions of the cervix. 
Tumor necrosis factor regulates the expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-3 receptors on human acute myeloid leukemia cells. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) acts as a potent enhancer of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)- and interleukin-3 (IL-3)-induced human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) growth in vitro. We have analyzed the effects of TNF alpha on the expression of GM-CSF and IL-3 receptors on AML cells. Incubation of blasts from seven patients with AML in serum-free medium with TNF (10(3) U/mL) and subsequent binding studies using 125I-GM-CSF and 125I-IL-3 show that TNF increases the specific binding of GM-CSF (30% to 280%) and IL-3 (40% to 600%) in all cases. From Scatchard plot analysis it appears that TNF upregulates (1) low-affinity GM-CSF binding sites, (2) common high-affinity IL-3/GM-CSF binding sites, and (3) unique (non-GM-CSF binding) IL-3 binding sites. The effect of TNF is dose dependent and is half maximal at a concentration of 100 U/mL, and becomes evident at 18 hours of incubation with TNF at 37 degrees C, but not at 0 degree C. The GM-CSF dose-response curve of AML-colony-forming units plateaus at a higher level in the presence of TNF, which indicates that additional numbers of cells become responsive to GM-CSF. Incubation of AML blasts with the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate or formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (protein kinase C activators) does not influence GM-CSF receptor expression, suggesting that receptor upregulation by TNF is not mediated through activation of protein kinase C. On the other hand, the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide abrogates receptor upregulation induced by TNF. In contrast to these findings in AML, TNF does not upregulate GM-CSF receptor numbers on blood granulocytes or monocytes. We conclude that TNF exerts positive effects on growth factor receptor expression of hematopoietic cells. 
Pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy, with review of the literature. We report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies. He developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations, nutrition being maintained intravenously. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst. He thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst, but repeat ERCP shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains. Pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed. A third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life. A search for the underlying cause should include an ERCP to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts. 
Palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction. Progressive dysphagia is common in patients with advanced esophageal carcinoma. Multiple nonsurgical techniques are available to provide palliation and improved nutrition. Simple dilatation is the oldest technique and newer methods may offer greater efficacy. Laser therapy now provides an excellent opportunity to treat obstructing tumors. Placement of an esophageal prosthesis may become particularly useful when dilatation must be performed too frequently or has become ineffective or in the patient with an esophageal-pulmonary fistula. Newer techniques including BICAP tumor probe, intracavitary radiotherapy, or absolute alcohol injection offer promise. This review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these different palliative techniques for patients with the extremely poor prognosis associated with esophageal cancer. 
Flow cytometric DNA-ploidy analysis of synchronously occurring multiple malignant tumors of the female genital tract. In this study the authors applied flow cytometric DNA-ploidy analysis to multiple female genital tract malignant tumors in 43 patients, most of whom (n = 37) had bilateral ovarian cancer. An algorithm was developed for calculation of the likelihood ratio of the probabilities that measured DNA index differences between multiple tumor localizations within the same patient could be attributed to measurement variation or to true biologic DNA content differences. The results of this statistical analysis show that in 72% of the cases (31 of 43) this probability ratio exceeded 1. Because the probability that two independent tumors will have a near-identical aneuploid DNA content is very low, this finding supports a metastatic process rather than the occurrence of multiple primary tumors in these patients. Thus, flow cytometric DNA-ploidy analysis can be helpful in the identification of metastatic disease in patients with multiple female genital tract malignant tumors. 
Acute T-cell leukemia/lymphoma mimicking Hodgkin's disease with secondary HTLV I seroconversion. The authors observed a pleiomorphic lymphoma mimicking Hodgkin's lymphoma in a French Guyana black woman lacking antibodies for human T-cell lymphoma/leukemia virus type I (HTLV I). After two courses of chemotherapy with either mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP) or doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincaleukoblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD), a typical acute T-cell leukemia/lymphoma developed with HTLV I seroconversion. Specific HTLV I DNA sequences were detected using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on a lymph node biopsy obtained before chemotherapy. The mechanisms of the seroconversion are discussed. 
Transcriptional regulation of ferritin messenger ribonucleic acid levels by insulin in cultured rat glioma cells. Recent data have shown that ferritin, a ubiquitous protein, has a role as a regulator of cellular differentiation. In the present study we have investigated the expression of ferritin mRNAs in cultured C6 cells, a rat glioma cell line, in response to insulin, which has an important role in cellular growth and differentiation. Insulin stimulated steady state levels of both ferritin heavy chain and ferritin light chain mRNAs. An increase in the level of ferritin heavy or light chain mRNA was detected after 2 h of incubation with insulin, and a plateau was reached after 48 h for heavy chain mRNA and after 72 h for light chain mRNA. The responses were dose-dependent and were maximal at 100 nM for both mRNAs. Treatment of cells with actinomycin-D showed that insulin had no effect on the posttranscriptional stability of these mRNAs. Actinomycin-D inhibited insulin-induced accumulation of both mRNAs, suggesting transcriptional stimulation of ferritin genes by insulin. A nuclear run-on assay showed that the insulin-induced increase in ferritin heavy chain mRNA was due to an increase in the rate of gene transcription. We also demonstrated that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) increased ferritin heavy and light chain mRNA levels in a dose-dependent fashion, and that the maximum effect was obtained at a concentration of 10 nM on both mRNA levels. IGF-I was not only 10-fold more potent, but the absolute level of maximum stimulation was also about 2-fold greater than that for insulin. The combination of insulin (100 nM) and IGF-I (10 nM) showed no additive effect. The results suggested that the ferritin heavy and light chain genes are transcriptionally regulated by insulin and influenced by IGF-I. 
Bone marrow findings after treatment with recombinant human interleukin-3. In a phase I/II study, bone marrow biopsy specimens and aspirates of 20 patients with malignant tumors but normal bone marrow (n = 6), bone marrow failure resulting from chemotherapy (n = 4), myelodysplastic syndrome (n = 5), and aplastic anemia (n = 5) were evaluated before and after patients were treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 (rhIL-3). This cytokine proved to be an effective hematopoietic growth factor with only mild side effects. The rhIL-3 treatment led to increased overall bone marrow cellularity with trilinear stimulation of hematopoietic cells, except in most patients with aplastic anemia. In all patients, significant eosinophilia and, in some instances, bone marrow fibrosis developed. In addition to the increase in the number of circulating neutrophilic granulocytes, platelets, and reticulocytes, an increase of peripheral blood monocytes and lymphocytes was observed. The histologic and cytologic findings support the concept that rhIL-3 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of pluripotent hematopoietic progenitor cells. It appears to be a safe and efficient therapeutic modality in patients with bone marrow failure. Additional clinical studies are needed to determine which patients will profit most from rhIL-3 treatment. 
Clonal origin of pituitary adenomas. As the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear, the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied. Clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the X-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns. Peripheral lymphocyte DNA was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma. Eleven patients were heterozygous for the BglI site on PGK, 4 for the BamHI site on HPRT, and 1 patient for both sites. Of these 16 patients, 3 had acromegaly, 4 had Cushing's disease, 7 had hyperprolactinemia, and 2 were clinically nonfunctional. After surgery, morphological study, including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens, allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type. Control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal. The following tumors were monoclonal: all 3 somatotroph adenomas, 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors, 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas, a gonadotroph adenoma, and a nonsecretory adenoma. A mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal, as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue. Functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs, corticotrophs, or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature, suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis. 
Psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial OBJECTIVES--To assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon's opinion or the patient's choice. To determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial. DESIGN--Prospective, multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer. SETTING--12 District general hospitals, three London teaching hospitals, and four private hospitals. PATIENTS--269 Women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage I or II breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons. INTERVENTIONS--Surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy, or both, depending on the individual surgeon's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks, three months, and 12 months after surgery. RESULTS--Of the 269 women, 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy, 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation, and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment. Sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery, and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery. The incidences of anxiety, depression, and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups. There were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy. A significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed, with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons (p = 0.06). There was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose. Most of the women (159/244) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast. The overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the Cancer Research Campaign breast conservation study. At 12 months 28% of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26% in the earlier study, and 27% of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31% in the earlier study. In both the present and earlier study 21% of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed, and 19% of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27% in the earlier study.) CONCLUSIONS--There is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy. Women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological, sexual, or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial. 
Mycosis fungoides-like lesions associated with phenytoin and carbamazepine therapy. We report the cases of four patients who were taking the anticonvulsant drugs phenytoin or carbamazepine and in whom skin lesions developed that showed histologic features suggestive of mycosis fungoides. Two patients had a solitary lesion on the trunk, whereas the other two patients had multiple plaques. In all four patients systemic signs were absent. 
Drug-induced DNA damage and tumor chemosensitivity. Cytotoxic drugs act principally by damaging tumor-cell DNA. Quantitative analysis of this interaction provides a basis for understanding the biology of therapeutic cell kill as well as a rational strategy for optimizing and predicting tumor response. Recent advances have made it possible to correlate assayed DNA lesions with cytotoxicity in tumor cell lines, in animal models, and in patients with malignant disease. In addition, many of the complex interrelationships between DNA damage, DNA repair, and alterations of gene expression in response to DNA damage have been defined. Techniques for modulating DNA damage and cytotoxicity using schedule-specific cytotoxic combinations, DNA repair inhibitors, cell-cycle manipulations, and adjunctive noncytotoxic drug therapy are being developed, and critical therapeutic targets have been identified within tumor-cell subpopulations and genomic DNA alike. Most importantly, methods for predicting clinical response to cytotoxic therapy using both in vitro markers of tumor-cell sensitivity and in vivo measurements of drug-induced DNA damage are now becoming a reality. These advances can be expected to provide a strong foundation for the development of innovative cytotoxic drug strategies over the next decade. 
Specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor I in the ovarian stroma of women with polycystic ovarian disease and stromal hyperthecosis. Women with polycystic ovarian disease and hyperthecosis have hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. It is possible that insulin in supraphysiologic concentration exerts its steroidogenic action on ovarian stromal cells through insulin-like growth factor I receptors. We undertook this study to investigate whether the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis has specific binding sites for insulin or insulin-like growth factor I. Ovarian stromal tissue was obtained from seven women with normal ovulatory cycles and from five women with hyperthecosis of the ovaries. Binding studies with insulin tagged with iodine 125 and insulin-like growth factor I tagged with iodine 125 revealed specific binding sites both for insulin and insulin-like growth factor I in the ovarian stroma. The binding of insulin tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (3.4% +/- 1.1% (+/- SE) per 100 micrograms protein) was significantly (p less than 0.04) lower than that observed in normal premenopausal women (8.3% +/- 1.6% per 100 micrograms protein). By contrast, the specific binding of insulin-like growth factor I tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis (7.1% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein) was higher than that observed in the ovarian stroma from normal women (4.5% +/- 1.7% per 100 micrograms protein), although the difference was not statistically significant. The affinity constants for these high-affinity receptors were similar (1.2 to 3.6 x 10(9) L/mol) in the two groups of women. These results indicate that (1) the ovarian stroma has specific binding sites both for insulin and for insulin-like growth factor I; (2) in women with hyperthecosis, the ovarian stroma has decreased binding sites for insulin but has normal concentrations of insulin-like growth factor I receptors; and (3) in women with hyperthecosis, stimulation of ovarian androgen synthesis by insulin may be mediated through the insulin-like growth factor I receptors. 
Nonseminomatous germ cell tumor with very high serum human chorionic gonadotropin. Most patients with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT) have an excellent prognosis with modern chemotherapy, although certain subgroups with a worse prognosis have been described. One such subgroup includes patients with high serum levels of the tumor marker, human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG). Sixteen patients of 104 treated for NSGCT at the CRC Wessex Medical Oncology Unit (Southampton, UK) presented with serum HCG greater than 25,000. Most of these patients exhibited features of the "choriocarcinoma syndrome" with bulky, rapidly progressive disease; frequent pulmonary, hepatic, and central nervous system complications; and a generally poorer response to standard NSGCT chemotherapy. Histologic identification of trophoblastic tumor was not made in all patients and is not essential for the diagnosis of the syndrome; indeed, closed biopsy may be contradicted in some circumstances because of the risk of hemorrhage. The NSGCT patients with poor prognosis, including patients with the choriocarcinoma syndrome, must be clearly identified in order to improve management and, eventually, cure rates. 
Function after amputation, arthrodesis, or arthroplasty for tumors about the knee. We studied the function of twenty-two patients who had had a malignant skeletal tumor adjacent to the knee. An above-the-knee amputation was done in seven; a resection arthrodesis, in nine; and a replacement arthroplasty, in six. The patients all walked at a similar speed (sixty-one to sixty-six meters per minute), which is slower than normal (eighty meters per minute). They all walked with comparable efficiency at three velocities: the mean consumption of oxygen was 0.210 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter at free velocity, 0.215 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 25 per cent faster, and 0.211 to 0.240 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 50 per cent faster. The three groups of patients and a normal control group consumed oxygen at similar rates. The patients who had had an amputation were very active, and they were the least worried about damaging the affected limb, but they had difficulty walking on steep, rough, or slippery surfaces. The patients who had had an arthrodesis had a more stable limb and performed the most demanding physical work and recreational activities, but they had difficulty sitting. The patients who had had an arthroplasty led sedentary lives and were the most protective of the limb, but they were the least self-conscious about the limb. 
Extramedullary blast crisis in a patient with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in complete cytogenetic remission. Treatment of Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with recombinant interferon-alpha (IFN-A) results in complete disappearance of the Ph chromosome in about 10% to 15% of patients in early chronic phase. This group has a long survival and very low incidence of blast crisis. The first known case is reported of extramedullary blastic transformation in a patient with medullary complete cytogenetic response (0% Ph-positive metaphases) to IFN-A. Four episodes of extramedullary blast crisis have occurred in this patient. The first three episodes were lymphoid by morphology and cytochemical stains. Molecular analysis confirmed breakpoint cluster region rearrangement. The most recent transformation was myeloid in nature and involved bone and pulmonary parenchyma. The patient is currently undergoing a second autologous transplantation with stored bone marrow that is Ph negative. The patient has survived more than 18 months since the first episode of blast crisis, and the bone marrow is normal. 
Extramedullary hematopoiesis in a bronchial carcinoid tumor. An unusual complication of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. A case of bronchial carcinoid tumor with foci of extramedullary hematopoiesis is presented. The patient had a 6-year history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly. All three hematopoietic cell lines were represented in different areas of the bronchial tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first case of extramedullary hematopoiesis described in a bronchial carcinoid and only the fourth report of hematopoietic cells in a neoplasm of otherwise unrelated origin. The pathogenesis of this uncommon finding is discussed and the literature is reviewed. 
Pharmacodynamics in cancer therapy. Our understanding of anticancer pharmacodynamics, and the relationships between pharmacologic measurements and clinical effects, has grown markedly in recent years due to advances in analytical and computational technology. Although methotrexate plasma levels have been empirically used to guide leucovorin dosing during high-dose methotrexate therapy, there has been no other standard use of therapeutic drug monitoring in oncology. More recently, investigators have attempted to titrate precisely the dose of antineoplastic agents based on previously derived models and real-time analysis of plasma drug or tissue concentrations. Studies have been completed or are in progress using hexamethylene bisacetamide, etoposide, teniposide, fluorouracil (FUra), and cytarabine (ara-C). Future studies will focus on optimal sampling strategies, analysis of intermediate biochemical end points, combination chemotherapy, modulation by colony-stimulating factors, and more sophisticated pharmacodynamic models. 
Cholangiocarcinoma. The diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma can now be made with greater rapidity and accuracy. In the clinical setting of obstructive jaundice, a CT scan or sonogram may suggest cholangiocarcinoma if dilated intrahepatic ducts are seen with a nondilated extrahepatic biliary tree. The diagnosis is confirmed by cholangiography, and the tumor is staged by the combination of cholangiography and angiography. If the tumor extensively involves both lobes of the liver or involves the main portal vein or hepatic artery, the lesion is considered unresectable. These patients are best palliated nonoperatively, but they should still have an attempt at a tissue diagnosis, as various other lesions can masquerade as cholangiocarcinoma. In comparison, if the tumor is confined to or is distal to the hepatic duct bifurcation, extends into only one lobe of the liver, or involves only the right or the left portal vein or hepatic artery, the lesion may be resectable, and exploration is indicated. As many as half of all patients explored with curative intent will have a successful resection. Various surgical options are appropriate for patients undergoing tumor resection, depending on the site and extent of the lesion. Similarly, several surgical options are possible for palliation in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma. The role of radiotherapy in the management of cholangiocarcinoma is uncertain. Our results, like those of many other retrospective analyses, suggest that radiotherapy prolongs survival after curative resection as well as after palliative stenting. However, further data from randomized studies are necessary to support or refute this impression. Further studies of adjuvant chemotherapy or hormonal therapy will also be necessary to improve patient survival. 
Management of patients with thyroid carcinoma: application of thallium-201 scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging Thyroid carcinoma has the ability to concentrate radioiodine, an attribute that can be used both for detection of thyroid cells and for treatment. Unfortunately, however, radioiodine uptake is not observed in all patients and a radioiodine scan requires that the patient be rendered hypothyroid for 4-6 wk. In the present study, we analyzed the utility of thallium-201 scanning and the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the detection of thyroid cancer. Nineteen patients with thyroid cancer had a total of 24 radioiodine scans, 33 thallium scans, and 10 MRI examinations. Of the 19 patients in the study, 17 had differentiated thyroid carcinoma. In these 17 cases, all paired studies were concordant for the presence (n = 7) or absence (n = 10) of disease. However, in one case (Patient 10), the 201Tl studies showed far more extensive disease than was observed on the 131I scan. Thyroid cancer was also detected on seven MRI studies. In summary, thallium and MRI scans are adjunctive techniques to radioiodine scanning that can either confirm the presence of neck bed activity, residual disease or metastatic cancer and may delineate tumor deposits not detected by radioiodine scanning. Thallium may be capable of detecting tumor deposits even while a patient remains euthyroid. 
Community lifestyle characteristics and risk of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in children. High rates of leukaemia in children and young people have been associated with features of community isolation and population growth. Incidence data collected by two specialist registries were used to compare incidence rates at ward level with relevant ward characteristics derived from routine census and Ordnance Survey data for England and Wales. An excess risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) was found for wards which are farthest from large urban centres. The excess was greatest for wards of higher socioeconomic status and for children aged 1-7 years (the childhood peak), for which a two-fold excess was seen. These findings in general support the hypothesis that childhood leukaemia has an infectious aetiology. 
A phase II trial of carboplatin and vinblastine in the treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Cisplatin-containing regimens are active in the treatment of esophageal cancer, with response rates of 25% to 35% in advanced disease. Carboplatin is less toxic than cisplatin; as a single agent, several responses were seen against esophageal tumors. To better define the role of carboplatin in esophageal cancer, the authors treated 19 chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus with carboplatin and vinblastine. Carboplatin (450 mg/m2 intravenously [IV] on days 1, 29, 57, and every 6 weeks thereafter) was given with vinblastine (5 mg/m2 IV on day 1 and then every 2 weeks). No major responses were seen. No significant renal toxicity and only mild gastrointestinal toxicity (emesis, diarrhea) were observed. Hematologic toxicity was more severe in patients with prior radiation therapy (RT), with three of six patients with prior RT exhibiting Grade 4 hematologic toxicity. Although generally less toxic than cisplatin-containing regimens, carboplatin and vinblastine is also less active in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Hematologic toxicity with this regimen was severe in patients who had received prior RT. 
Endoscopic ultrasonography in staging rectal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was used to stage rectal cancer by assessing depth of invasion through bowel wall layers and/or involvement of lymph nodes. EUS findings were correlated with histopathologic findings to discern the usefulness of this modality in predicting which patients could be candidates for sphinctersaving procedures and the avoidance of abdominoperineal resection. The Olympus EU-M3 endoscopic ultrasound system was used to assess depth of penetration through rectal wall layers and to identify lymph nodes. Comparison of EUS findings to histopathologic findings was possible in 13 patients. EUS agreed with histopathology in 9 of 13 cases (69.3%) ( p = 0.07, kappa statistic). EUS agreed with histopathology as the presence or absence of lymph nodes in 9 of 13 cases (69.3%) (p = 0.07). However, the presence of lymph nodes could not necessarily predict metastatic involvement of these nodes. In one patient, invasion of vaginal cuff was correctly predicted. In nine cases, computed tomographic analysis (CT) was available for comparison to EUS in detection of penetration beyond the bowel wall. CT agreed with histopathology in 3 of 9 (33%), whereas EUS agreed with histopathology in 7 of 9 (78%). 
Glossopharyngeal schwannoma: review of five cases and the literature. Glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8%-10% of intracranial tumors. There have been 23 reported cases in the literature. This report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors. The presentation, radiological workup, operation, and long-term postoperative results will be presented, along with a review of the literature. 
Detection, prevalence, and prognosis of asymptomatic carcinoma of the cervix. Between 1979-1986, 82 of 407 patients (20%) treated for infiltrative carcinoma of the cervix were asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. Sixteen (20%) of these 82 patients had stage IA, 60 (73%) had stage IB, and six (7%) had stage IIA disease. Asymptomatic patients represented 16 of 23 (70%) of stage IA, 60 of 196 (31%) of stage IB, and six of 77 (8%) of stage IIA. In the Netherlands, population screening for cervical carcinoma is conducted on women aged 35-55 years. To examine the prevalence of asymptomatic cervical carcinoma and the way in which it was detected in different age groups, we studied the patients referred to our department. Among the patients younger than 35 years with cervical carcinoma, 20 of 70 (29%) were asymptomatic with disease detected by incidental screening, whereas eight of 177 (5%) in the group 55 years or older had been detected by incidental screening. In the age category 35-55 years, 54 of 160 (34%) were asymptomatic. Patients aged 35-55 years had undergone population screening or incidental screening. In the patients 55 years or older, asymptomatic disease was significantly less prevalent than in younger patients. Only one of the 66 asymptomatic patients in stage IB or higher suffered tumor recurrence. Among symptomatic patients, 25 of 136 (18%) with stage IB and 17 of 71 (24%) with stage IIA had tumor recurrence. Despite the favorable prognosis of patients with asymptomatic carcinoma, asymptomatic presentation could not be shown to be a significant prognostic factor, as were tumor diameter and lymph node status. 
Surgical management of carcinoid heart disease Metastatic carcinoid tumor is often seen with flushing, diarrhea, and cardiac symptoms--the carcinoid syndrome. Cardiac failure is often associated with major morbidity and mortality in carcinoid disease. In this report, a case of successful cardiac valvar surgical intervention has resulted in prolonged alleviation of cardiac symptoms and survival. 
Treatment of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome-related Kaposi's sarcoma with bleomycin as a single agent. A nonrandomized trial was conducted to assess the efficiency and toxicity of bleomycin as a single agent in treatment of non-life-threatening AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Sixty patients were enrolled in this study. They all had a disseminated and progressive non-life-threatening AIDS-related KS associated with systemic symptoms and/or CD4 lymphocyte count less than 400/mm3. Thirty patients were treated with intramuscular bleomycin (5 mg/d for 3 days every 2 or 3 weeks) and 30 others with a slow continuous intravenous infusion of bleomycin (6 mg/m3/d for 4 days every 4 weeks). The mean duration of therapy was 5 months (range, 2 to 24 months). A partial response was observed in 29 patients (48.3%) and the disease was stabilized in 18 additional patients (30%). Bleomycin failed in 21.6% of patients. Therapy had to be discontinued in two patients because of side effects. Thus bleomycin as a single agent is a good alternative therapy for AIDS-related KS. 
The role of etoposide in the treatment of poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site. Patients with poorly differentiated carcinoma (PDC) or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (PDA) of unknown primary site comprise 25% to 35% of the patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site. Some of these patients have neoplasms that are highly responsive to combination chemotherapy, and a minority have potentially curable tumors. Between 1978 and 1982, 68 patients were treated with combination chemotherapy (most received cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin [PVB] with or without doxorubicin). Thirty-eight patients (56%) responded to treatment, with 15 (22%) complete responder (CR) and 9 (13%) long-term, disease-free survivors. Since that time, we have incorporated etoposide into the treatment of these patients because of its synergism with cisplatin and its great activity against several other neoplasms, including germ cell tumors. Seventeen patients with PDC of unknown primary site received salvage therapy with etoposide and cisplatin after failing PVB. Ten of these patients had partial responses (PR), with a median response duration of 5 months (range, 2 to 12 months). Thirty-two previously untreated patients with PDC received etoposide and cisplatin combinations as initial treatment. Eighteen of 30 evaluable patients (60%) responded to therapy, and 11 patients (37%) had CR. Seven patients remain disease-free 39 to 63 months after the completion of therapy. Etoposide is an active drug in the treatment of PDC of unknown primary site. Preliminary results indicate that initial treatment with etoposide and cisplatin combinations produces results equivalent to or superior to those achieved with PVB. 
Survival and quality of life among patients receiving unproven as compared with conventional cancer therapy. BACKGROUND. Cancer treatments without proved efficacy have achieved new levels of popularity, particularly among well-educated patients. The value of these therapies is vigorously debated. METHODS. We compared the length of survival and quality of life in patients who received treatment at a prominent unorthodox cancer clinic in addition to conventional treatment and in matched control patients from an academic cancer center who received only conventional treatment. All the patients had documented extensive malignant disease associated with a predicted median survival time of less than one year. The study sample consisted of 78 pairs of patients matched according to sex, race, age, diagnosis, and time from the diagnosis of metastatic or recurrent disease, who were enrolled over a period of 3 1/2 years. Periodic follow-up (approximately every two months) continued until death. RESULTS. There was no difference between the two patient groups in length of survival. Median survival for both groups was 15 months (P = 0.22; relative risk, 1.23; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.88 to 1.72). Quality-of-life scores were consistently better among conventionally treated patients from enrollment on. CONCLUSIONS. For this sample of patients with extensive disease and for this particular unorthodox treatment regimen, conventional and unorthodox treatments produced similar results. 
Evidence of heterogeneous mechanisms in lipoprotein lipid alterations in hyperandrogenic women. Fifty-one hyperandrogenic women had their lipoprotein lipid profiles determined. Free and albumin-bound testosterone was associated with triglycerides and with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels, percent ideal body weight, and waist/hip ratio. To gain insight into mechanisms of these lipid alterations, the women were subgrouped according to apparent source of androgen excess. Whereas all groups had low levels of high-density lipoprotein-2 cholesterol and high triglyceride concentrations, only in those with high luteinizing hormone-to-follicle-stimulating hormone ratios was free and albumin-bound testosterone associated with triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels. Relationships between percent ideal body weight and waist/hip ratios, free and albumin-bound testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin, fasting insulin and 2-hour insulin levels and blood pressure are not significant in all subgroups, suggesting differing endocrinological influences and differing mechanisms for lipoprotein lipid alterations. 
Platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine concentration in patients with pheochromocytoma. Platelet and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in 17 patients with surgically proven pheochromocytoma (mean age 42.3 years); in 31 patients with borderline hypertension (mean age 35.3 years) and in 9 healthy controls (mean age 39.3 years). Both platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine were significantly increased in patients with pheochromocytoma when compared with hypertensive and control groups (P less than .001). No correlation between platelet and plasma catecholamines was detected in all studied groups. The diagnostic accuracy of platelet catecholamine in pheochromocytoma is limited since increased platelet norepinephrine was found in 35.5% and increased platelet epinephrine was found in 19.4% of patients with essential hypertension. 
Flow cytometric analysis of DNA content in partial hydatidiform moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. Hydatidiform moles may be classified as partial or complete based on genetic and pathologic criteria. Between January 1979 and January 1990, 17 (5.5%) of 310 patients followed for partial mole developed persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. Tissues from 14 partial moles were available for flow cytometric analysis of DNA content. Eleven partial moles (85%) were triploid, two (15%) were diploid, and one DNA histogram was uninterpretable. All patients with triploid partial moles achieved complete remission with one course of single-agent chemotherapy. The two with diploid partial mole required multiple courses of chemotherapy to achieve gonadotropin remission. Although the DNA content of most partial moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor was triploid, diploid partial moles with persistent tumor were less sensitive to single-agent chemotherapy. 
Diet and female sex hormone concentrations: an intervention study for the type of fat consumed. A possible mechanism by which dietary fat may influence the development of breast cancer is by influencing the concentration of female sex hormones. This study investigated the effect of alteration in the type of fat consumed on concentrations of female sex hormones in serum. Female volunteers were randomly assigned to continue on their usual meat-eating diet, change to a vegetarian diet, or change to a diet that was predominantly vegetarian but where fish was consumed at least three times per week. Change to the vegetarian or fish diet had little effect on diet total hormone concentrations; however, the amount of estradiol was significantly decreased in the vegetarian group. When nutrient consumption was correlated with hormone concentrations, prolactin was directly associate with fat consumption, sex-hormone-binding globulin was inversely associated with fat consumption (particularly cholesterol consumption), and the proportion of nonprotein-bound estradiol was directly associated with complex carbohydrate consumption. 
Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis: clinico-pathological correlations. Three new cases of limbic encephalitis in association with malignancy are reported. The literature on this condition is reviewed and the clinical, laboratory and histopathological features of cases proven at necropsy are correlated. The possible pathogenic mechanism of this disorder is discussed. 
The immunoperoxidase localization of tumour markers in ovarian cancer: the value of CEA, EMA, cytokeratin and DD9. Primary tumours from 40 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, treated at St Thomas's Hospital over a 10-year period, were studied for the immunocytochemical expression of the following tumour markers in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded material: carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), cytokeratin (CAM 5.2), and DD9. An indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique was used. All of the tumours were positive for EMA and CAM 5.2, and 30% of them were positive for both CEA and DD9. The absence of CEA and DD9 may be of value in differentiating between metastatic abdominal adenocarcinomas of ovarian origin and those of gastrointestinal origin, but no indication of prognosis was obtained using these epithelial markers. The strong and widespread staining of all the tumours for EMA suggests that this may be a useful marker for detecting metastatic or recurrent disease by immunoscintigraphy. 
Single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography in cancer imaging. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) are now being used to improve the information available from radioisotopic imaging of patients with cancer. These nuclear medicine techniques offer the potential for studying regional function and biochemistry by using radiolabeled substrates. The chemical changes of malignancy precede anatomic changes, and PET and/or SPECT may detect these changes before anatomic changes have occurred. The superiority of SPECT compared with planar imaging has been demonstrated for cardiac and brain imaging. Radiopharmaceuticals containing technetium 99 m (99mTc) are best suited for SPECT imaging because large amounts of radioactivity are administered and the collimator-camera systems are optimized for the 140 keV photons of 99mTc. The current interest in imaging cancer with SPECT relates to the use of gallium 67 citrate and monoclonal antibodies labeled with iodine 123 or indium 111. SPECT can image these radioisotopes, but the advantages compared with planar imaging have not been clearly defined. Furthermore, the ability to quantitate the distribution of single photon emitters other than 99mTc has not been demonstrated. New SPECT systems with three heads or rings of detectors offer promise for improved, quantitative imaging. PET has the capability of imaging tracers with the biologically important elements C-11, N-13, O-15, and F-18 used for positron labeling. These radioisotopes have short half-lives and require a cyclotron close to the PET facility. The most prominently used radiopharmaceutical for PET is F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). PET studies with FDG in patients with primary brain tumors have demonstrated the ability to determine the degree of malignancy, to differentiate necrosis from recurrent tumor after radiation therapy or chemotherapy, and to predict prognosis. Other metabolic functions of cancer have been studied, including amino acid accumulation, thymidine uptake, oxygen utilization, intermediary metabolism, and receptor status. PET has the potential to make a major impact on the characterization of a malignancy and the effect of therapy. 
Posttranslational gastrin processing depends on tumor morphology. Extracellular matrices have recently been demonstrated to alter cell morphology in culture. Altered cell morphology has been associated with changes in gene transcription and translation, but it is not known whether it also affects posttranslational processing. Using tyrosine-O-sulfation as a marker of processing, we studied the effects of various substrates on biologically active gastrin (IRG) production and sulfation in gastrin-containing tumor cells (GT cells). Dispersed GT cells were plated onto different substrates and then incubated. Culture media from days 4, 7, and 28 were assayed with specific antibodies that recognize total IRG and nonsulfated IRG. Cells cultured on plastic and dried films of laminin, collagen, and Matrigel (Collaborative Research Inc., Lexington, Mass.) flattened and formed monolayers of GT cells. Cells cultured on a porous membrane and hydrated gels of collagen and Matrigel did not flatten but formed spheroids of GT cells. The monolayer cultures showed an increase in sulfation with time but a decrease in IRG production. The spheroid cultures maintained a constant level of sulfation over time and, with the exception of Matrigel (gel), also showed a decrease in IRG production. These results indicate that the level of sulfation was unchanged from that of the original tumor when cells were grown in spheroids but increased when cultured as monolayers. It appears that alteration of the cellular milieu alters colony morphology, which in turn alters gastrin processing. 
The value of nucleolar organizer regions in uveal melanoma. The Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study Group. Silver staining of nucleolar organizer regions is an objective method for evaluating the malignancy of a variety of tumors. We studied 126 ciliochoroidal melanomas, three coincidental nevi that occurred in eyes with melanomas, and one magnocellular nevus collected from the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study to determine the effectiveness of the silver-stained nucleolar organizer region technique in assessing the malignant potential of these tumors. Malignant lesions demonstrated higher mean silver-stained nucleolar organizer region counts (4.347) than benign nevi (1.855) (P less than or equal to .0001). Among malignant melanomas, mixed-cell melanomas had slightly higher counts than spindle-cell melanomas (P less than or equal to .0001), but this difference was not important clinically. Results were also compared to other histopathologic variables, which disclosed correlation of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions with mitoses and tumor size. Comparison with computerized cytomorphometric analyses of prognosis also disclosed significant correlation. This technique may prove to be a useful adjunct in the assessment of malignancy and treatment response of uveal melanomas. 
The changing face of dermatology out-patient referrals in the south-east of Scotland. A study of out-patient dermatological services (NHS and private) in the south-east of Scotland was carried out by medical staff in the Department of Dermatology in Edinburgh during the month of November 1988. The aim was to assess changes in referral patterns and workload compared with the findings of an identical investigation undertaken in November 1981. Of particular interest were the possible effects of recent publicity campaigns aimed at increasing public awareness about skin cancer. The medical complement of the dermatology department had changed minimally since 1981 and the population increase in the south-east of Scotland over the same period was 1.5%. During November 1988 1592 new patients and 2037 review patients were seen. This represented an increase of 29.2% and 28.3%, respectively, since 1981. The most striking changes in diagnostic groups were a 173% rise in new cases presenting with benign tumours (excluding viral warts) and a 106% increase in new patients with malignant tumours. Viral warts and eczema were, as in 1981, the second and third most common diagnostic categories amongst new patients. There was a 98% increase in the number of surgical procedures performed on new patients compared with 1981. We conclude that the substantial increase in numbers of both benign and malignant tumours and the consequent doubling in surgical treatments was due to increased public awareness and concern about skin cancer. 
Caseating hepatic granulomas in Hodgkin's lymphoma. A 68-year-old man presented with recurrent Hodgkin's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy. In addition to histological evidence of recurrent Hodgkin's disease, the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas. Cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. No antituberculous treatment was administered, and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma. Hodgkin's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver. 
Ovarian metastases are rare in stage I adenocarcinoma of the cervix. Over a 32-year period at the University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center, all cases of adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix were reviewed to determine the incidence of ovarian metastases in stage I disease. One of 25 patients (4.0%) who underwent an exploratory laparotomy and radical hysterectomy had a microscopic ovarian metastasis. A literature review identified nine additional patients who had ovarian metastases and stage I adenocarcinoma of the cervix. Including our series, the overall reported rate of ovarian metastases is 1.8%. All ten patients had at least one of the following additional characteristics: They were postmenopausal, they had adnexal pathology, or they had positive pelvic lymph nodes. Thus, ovarian preservation is warranted in premenopausal patients who do not have ovarian pathology or evidence of other metastatic disease at surgery. Bilateral oophorectomy may be performed if frozen-section examination of enlarged or suspicious nodes documents metastases. If the ovaries are left in the pelvis at the completion of the surgical procedure and microscopic spread to other pelvic tissues is documented, pelvic irradiation can be administered. 
Manometric evaluation of jejunal limb after total gastrectomy and Roux-Orr anastomosis for gastric cancer. Total gastrectomy with Roux-Orr anastomosis is frequently performed for gastric cancer. Since intestinal motility of the Roux limb has never been evaluated after this operation, pressure activity was investigated in the Roux limb of ten patients (aged 51-77 years) who had undergone total gastrectomy and Roux-Orr reconstruction. Investigations were carried out during a 6-h fast and 3 h after a 605 kcal mixed meal. During fasting only two patients had activity fronts and these were abnormal. All ten patients displayed non-propagating bursts of contractions and three had discrete clustered contractions and high amplitude jejunal contractions. The fed state was characterized by a severely reduced motor activity pattern and other abnormalities. Total gastrectomy with Roux-Orr anastomoses provokes a relatively severe disturbance in intestinal activity. 
Intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor causes a cutaneous eruption The intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor to three patients with leukemia who were receiving marrow aplasia-inducing chemotherapy resulted in the development of wide-spread erythematous macules and papules. The course of the eruption paralleled the time of infusion of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Skin biopsy specimens taken from two of the eruptions displayed characteristic changes consisting of a variable mixture of granulocytes and lymphocytes, increased number and size of dermal macrophages, mild to moderate epidermal exocytosis, intercellular edema, and rare dyskeratotic keratinocytes. Immunophenotypic analysis of one specimen was notable for keratinocyte intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression. Administration of the recombinant human cytokine in pharmacologic doses is postulated to induce changes in the immunologic status of the skin, resulting in the expression of a cutaneous eruption. 
An unusual epidural, vascular spinal lipoma in a 3-year-old child: a case report and review of the literature. Epidural lipomas are usually benign tumors affecting the spinal cord. We report the unusual presentation of a cervicothoracic spinal lipoma associated with a cervical dysraphism in a young boy. Diagnostic options using magnetic resonance imaging and gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid are discussed as a pathway to early diagnosis of these and other occult spinal lesions. 
Selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses: new catheter design. Catheters for selective catheterization of the right and left inferior petrosal sinuses have been developed to replace the complex tip-deflector catheter-guide-wire system currently used. The new catheters are easily formed from commonly available straight catheters with the use of steam. They have been successfully tested in 22 patients; the only complications were minor groin hematomas. 
Diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma by means of recombinant Epstein-Barr virus proteins. The immune response of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antigens is diagnostic of the tumour. Existing tests use EBV antigens produced in EBV-infected lymphoblastoid cells, but the virus replicates poorly in these cells. Serum samples from 18 patients diagnosed as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma were screened by western blot analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence tests for antibodies to the EBV-coded alkaline deoxyribonuclease (DNase), thymidine kinase, and membrane antigen (gp340/220) produced in recombinant baculovirus or bovine papillomavirus systems. Each protein was a useful diagnostic marker for nasopharyngeal carcinoma, although in the gp340/220 ELISAs there was substantial overlap for both IgG and IgA antibodies between serum samples from nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients and those from healthy donors seropositive for EBV. The EBV thymidine kinase was the most sensitive predictor of nasopharyngeal carcinoma; all such samples showed both IgG and IgA antibody responses to this protein and all gave clearly distinct titres from those of the EBV-seropositive donors in the IgA test. Each of the recombinant systems described is suitable for use in large-scale screening programmes for the early diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 
Family cancer syndrome: a study of the kindred of a man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible. Several familial cancer syndromes have been identified. The syndrome of sarcomas, breast cancer and other neoplasms, known as Li-Fraumeni syndrome, is characterized by several different neoplasms presenting at young ages with autosomal dominant transmission and a high incidence of second primaries. In this paper, we studied six generations (51 people) of the family of a 24-year-old man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible. Twelve malignancies in 11 people, including several rare tumors, were revealed. Mean age of presentation was 24 years old. Nine of the 11 patients died of disease. One developed a second primary. Two tumors presented in the head and neck. Transmission was autosomal dominant. The karyotypes of two family members were normal. Identification of Li-Fraumeni syndrome in a family is important in determining appropriate follow-up for the patient and family. Such families are models for studying carcinogenesis. 
Colon carcinoma associated with ureterosigmoidostomy. A patient developing a colonic adenoma 38 years following ureterosigmoidostomy is presented. The mechanisms of neoplastic transformation associated with ureterosigmoidostomy is now better understood. This knowledge is being applied to develop modifications both of the surgical technique and the management of patients with this form of urinary diversion, and is a subject of discussion. 
Adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung. Two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma. No other known precipitants were evident. The adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors. Tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases. 
Detection of colorectal liver metastases using intraoperative ultrasonography. Intraoperative ultrasonography of the liver has been carried out in 99 patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. Palpation of the liver, preoperative abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography scanning were also performed in all patients. Metastases were identified in 26 of the 99 patients (26 per cent). Intraoperative ultrasonography diagnosed more metastases than palpation, abdominal ultrasonography or CT scanning, identifying metastases in 24 of the 26 patients, including six patients in whom the metastases were not detected by any other technique. Identification and localization of impalpable liver metastases is therefore possible using intraoperative ultrasonography. 
Tumor angiogenesis and metastasis--correlation in invasive breast carcinoma. BACKGROUND. Experimental evidence suggests that the growth of a tumor beyond a certain size requires angiogenesis, which may also permit metastasis. To investigate how tumor angiogenesis correlates with metastases in breast carcinoma, we counted microvessels (capillaries and venules) and graded the density of microvessels within the initial invasive carcinomas of 49 patients (30 with metastases and 19 without). METHODS. Using light microscopy, we highlighted the vessels by staining their endothelial cells immunocytochemically for factor VIII. The microvessels were carefully counted (per 200x field), and their density was graded (1 to 4+), in the most active areas of neovascularization, without knowledge of the outcome in the patient, the presence or absence of metastases, or any other pertinent variable. RESULTS. Both microvessel counts and density grades correlated with metastatic disease. The mean (+/- SD) count and grade in the patients with metastases were 101 +/- 49.3 and 2.95 +/- 1.00 vessels, respectively. The corresponding values in the patients without metastases were significantly lower--45 +/- 21.1 and 1.38 +/- 0.82 (P = 0.003 and P less than or equal to 0.001, respectively). For each 10-microvessel increase in the count per 200x field, there was a 1.59-fold increase in the risk of metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.19 to 2.12; P = 0.003). The microvessel count and density grade also correlated with distant metastases. For each 10-microvessel increase in the vessel count per 200x field, there was a 1.17-fold increase in the risk of distant metastasis (95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.34; P = 0.029). CONCLUSIONS. The number of microvessels per 200x field in the areas of most intensive neovascularization in an invasive breast carcinoma may be an independent predictor of metastatic disease either in axillary lymph nodes or at distant sites (or both). Assessment of tumor angiogenesis may therefore prove valuable in selecting patients with early breast carcinoma for aggressive therapy. 
Central nervous system haemangioblastoma: a clinical and genetic study of 52 cases. Fifty two cases of haemangioblastoma were reviewed for their clinical, genetic and prognostic features. Of 34 patients with apparently isolated cerebellar lesions, postoperative outcome was good in 79%. Six isolated spinal lesions presented more insidiously and morbidity was related to incomplete resection. Twelve (23%) of the patients definitely had von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHLD). The true proportion may be higher as this diagnosis was not definitely excluded in many of the remainder; only ten patients with seemingly isolated cerebellar tumours were appropriately investigated and two had evidence of VHLD. Four out of 26 cases (15%) with apparently completely resected, isolated, cerebellar lesions later developed recurrent tumours. Brainstem and supratentorial haemangioblastomas were rare and were always associated with VHLD. The cerebellar or spinal haemangioblastomas due to VHLD had no distinctive clinical features compared with isolated tumours and there was considerable overlap in age of onset between the two groups of cases. All patients with an apparently isolated CNS haemangioblastoma should be investigated for evidence of von Hippel-Lindau disease. 
Use of a probe to repeat sequence of the Y chromosome for detection of host cells in peripheral blood of bone marrow transplant recipients. In situ hybridization for the Y chromosome (Y-ISH) was used to identify residual host cells in the peripheral blood of 51 recipients of sex-mismatched allogeneic marrow not depleted of T cells following conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation (TBI). One patient who rejected the graft showed rapid reappearance of host cells after transient donor marrow engraftment. Host cells were detected at low levels in 49 of the remaining 50 patients. Host peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) decreased with time and reached a plateau at 1.0 +/- 0.2% within four weeks after transplantation, while the percentage of host granulocytes (GRAN) reached a plateau at background level. The mean absolute numbers of host PBMC or GRAN were less than 0.015 x 10(9)/L and did not vary significantly over the period studied. Neither the percentages nor the absolute numbers of host PBMC or GRAN were significantly affected by HLA-matching, TBI dose-intensity, pretransplant remission status, subsequent development of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease or relapse after transplantation. The authors conclude that it is common to find a few residual host cells in the peripheral blood of allogeneic marrow transplant recipients, and the presence of these cells has no clinical significance. 
Abnormal growth patterns and adult short stature in 115 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia. Significant growth retardation was found in 115 survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who had completed their growth. These children were diagnosed before 12 years of age and treated on four protocols in a single institution; all received either cranial (n = 78) or craniospinal (n = 37) prophylactic irradiation. Patients' heights at diagnosis were within expected ranges, but final heights were greater than or equal to 1 SD below population means in 74% of cases and greater than or equal to 2 SD in 37%. Effects on growth were more pronounced for children who had received craniospinal irradiation, but decrements were also significant in the cranial irradiation group, with adult heights greater than or equal to 2 SD below population norms in 32%. Growth retardation was significantly greater (P less than .0001) in children who had earlier disease onset. Growth deceleration occurred not only during chemotherapy but during a later period that followed an interval of improved growth in many cases. Thus, late decrements in growth may be missed in studies that do not follow patients until they have attained final heights. These findings indicate that abnormally short stature among survivors of ALL merits further clinical and research attention. 
Scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research. Theoretical, conceptual, and methodologic issues in the investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress. This paper discusses the current status of scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research. The investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress serves as a model for illustrating and outlining some of the theoretical, conceptual, and methodologic issues and problems that exist in the area of childhood cancer psychosocial research. Specifically, issues related to the process of scientific inquiry, theoretical/conceptual modeling, measurement and assessment, and behavioral treatment strategies are discussed. Examples of how these issues have been addressed in our investigations of procedure-related distress are presented and recommendations for facilitating growth and development in the field of childhood cancer psychosocial research are offered. 
Removal of radiation-induced cataracts in patients treated for retinoblastoma. Experience with removal of radiation-induced cataract in patients treated for retinoblastoma is limited. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 38 patients with retinoblastoma (42 eyes) who underwent removal of radiation-induced cataract from 1973 to 1989. Nineteen eyes (45%) without macular tumors or severe radiation complications had final visual acuities in the range of 20/20 to 20/50. One eye (2.4%) developed a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and four eyes (9.5%) were noted to have amblyopia after cataract removal. Three eyes (7%) developed retinoblastoma recurrence, one with extension of retinoblastoma into the subconjunctival space through the previous sclerotomy. Exenteration was performed and the patient was alive after 8 years. Cataract removal can be visually beneficial in selected patients with radiation-induced cataracts. 
Adult T-cell leukemia-derived factor/thioredoxin, produced by both human T-lymphotropic virus type I- and Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphocytes, acts as an autocrine growth factor and synergizes with interleukin 1 and interleukin 2. Interleukin 1 (IL-1) has been obtained from the Epstein-Barr virus-infected B-lymphoblastoid cell line 3B6 and shown to be involved in autocrine growth of 3B6 B cells. Independently, adult T-cell leukemia-derived factor (ADF) was purified from human T-lymphotropic virus I-infected leukemic T-cell line (ATL-2) and reported as an interleukin 2 (IL-2) receptor-inducing factor. We have previously reported the same molecular mass, pI, and NH2-terminal amino acid sequence for both 3B6-derived IL-1 and ADF. cDNA cloning of ADF demonstrated high homology with the prokaryotic disulfide reducing enzyme thioredoxin. We show here that ADF and 3B6-derived IL-1 are identical. By RNA blot, 3B6 and ATL-2 cells were shown to contain high levels of 0.6-kilobase mRNA corresponding to ADF. Such message was not detected in resting peripheral blood lymphocytes but could be weakly induced by lymphocyte activation. Antibodies have been raised against synthetic peptides corresponding to the NH2 terminus and the COOH terminus of ADF. Immunoblotting and sequential immunoprecipitation with these antibodies revealed the same 13-kDa protein in 3B6 and ATL-2 cells. Recombinant ADF could sustain growth of 3B6 and ATL-2 cells at low cellular concentration without fetal calf serum; ADF, thus, appears involved in their autocrine growth. Similarly, recombinant ADF could enhance growth of other B-cell lines, including the Epstein-Barr virus-negative Burkitt lymphoma line BL41 and the lymphoblastoid cell lines CRAG8, CRB95, and 1G8. Finally, recombinant ADF exhibits marked synergism with other cytokines, such as IL-1 and IL-2, allowing virally infected lymphocytes to respond to suboptimal amounts of a variety of growth factors. 
Scanning acoustic microscopy of neoplastic and inflammatory cutaneous tissue specimens. Acoustic microscopy utilizes high frequency ultrasound to generate microscopic images. The current study was designed to examine representative disorders of the skin by use of a reflective scanning acoustic microscope (R-SAM), and to determine whether the obtainable resolution was sufficient to render a microscopic diagnosis. An Olympus UH3 Scanning Acoustic Microscope was utilized with lenses producing burst wave frequencies at 600 and 800 MHz (600 and 800 million cylces/sec). Cutaneous tissue specimens representing 12 different neoplastic and inflammatory disorders were examined. Acoustic images of unstained sections were compared with conventional light microscopic study of sections stained with hematoxylin-eosin. In most neoplasms examined, it was possible to make a specific diagnosis primarily from low magnification pattern analysis. Although individual cells could be visualized, cytologic atypia was poorly defined. In the inflammatory disorders, a specific diagnosis was possible in all but bullous pemphigoid and lichen planus, because the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate was difficult to determine. The advantages of the R-SAM include the capability of producing an acoustic profile of the tissue and the future possibility of in situ diagnosis. 
A rhesus monkey model for sexual transmission of a papillomavirus isolated from a squamous cell carcinoma. Recently we molecularly cloned and characterized a papillomavirus from a lymph node metastasis of a primary penile carcinoma found in a rhesus monkey; this virus species, rhesus papillomavirus type 1 (RhPV-1), is similar to oncogenic human papillomaviruses (HPVs), such as HPV-16 or HPV-18, in that the RhPV-1 DNA was found to be integrated in the tumor cell DNA. To compare the sexual transmission and oncogenic nature of RhPV-1 with these HPVs, we undertook an extensive retrospective study of a group of rhesus monkeys whose sexual mating and offspring histories were known. These animals had mated directly with the index male mentioned above or were secondarily exposed to this virus through intermediate sexual partners. This study combines cytological, histopathological, and several complementary hybridization and DNA amplification techniques on multiple tissue samples to demonstrate the sexually transmitted nature of RhPV-1. The oncogenic potential of RhPV-1 is suggested in several of the infected animals by the presence of various degrees of neoplasia including squamous cell cancer of the cervix. 
Characteristics of erythroleukemia cells selected for vincristine resistance that have accelerated inducer-mediated differentiation. The induction of murine erythroleukemia cells (MELC; DS19/Sc9) to terminal differentiation by hexamethylenebisacetamide (HMBA) is characterized by a latent period of 10-12 hr before onset of commitment to terminal-cell division and increased transcription of globin genes. MELC variants, derived from this parental cell line, selected for resistance to vincristine (VC), can be induced to differentiate with little or no latent period. This study shows that accelerated HMBA-induced commitment is characteristic of MELC with a low level (2- to 5-fold) of VC resistance in four independently derived cell lines. Both resistance to VC and accelerated differentiation are stable phenotypes for at least 50 passages (approximately 5 months) in the absence of VC. Low-level VC-resistant MELC do not display increased levels of P-glycoprotein or mdr1, mdr2, and mdr3 mRNAs, nor do they exhibit cross-resistance to colchicine or doxorubicin. These cells do show (i) increased level of protein kinase C activity, (ii) reduced accumulation of [3H]VC, and (iii) restoration of VC sensitivity in the presence of verapamil. MELC selected for higher levels of VC resistance (approximately 500-fold) do express high levels of P-glycoprotein and the mdr3 gene. During HMBA-induced differentiation, DS19/Sc9 decrease [3H]VC accumulation, but P-glycoprotein content does not change. A VC-transport-associated protein, also critical for the process of induced differentiation, may be constitutively present in VC-resistant MELC, accounting for their enhanced sensitivity to inducer. This protein accumulates by exposure of VC-sensitive cells to HMBA, contributing to their differentiation and decreased level of VC accumulation. 
Thymic carcinoma. A clinicopathologic study of 60 cases. The clinicopathologic features of 60 patients with thymic carcinoma were studied. Patients ranged in age from 10 to 76 years (mean, 46), of whom 24 were females and 36 were males. Overall survival at 1, 3, and 5 years was 56.6%, 40%, and 33.3%, respectively. The following morphologic features were correlated with survival: type of tumor margins; presence or absence of a lobular growth pattern; nuclear atypia; necrosis; mitotic activity; and histologic tumor type and grade. Eighty eight percent of patients with poorly circumscribed/infiltrating neoplasms died of their tumors as compared with 16.6% of patients with well-circumscribed neoplasms (P less than 0.0000). Of patients whose tumors had mitotic counts exceeding 10/10 high-power fields (HPF), 84.3% died, as compared with 21.4% of patients with lower mitotic counts (P less than 0.0000). Of patients whose tumors showed lack of lobular growth pattern, 91.6% died, as compared with 29% of those whose tumors had a lobular growth pattern (P less than 0.0000). Finally, 84.6% of patients whose tumors displayed a high-grade histology (lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma, small cell/neuroendocrine carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma, sarcomatid carcinoma, and anaplastic/undifferentiated carcinoma) died of tumor, as compared with 0% of patients whose tumors were of low-grade histology (well-differentiated squamous carcinoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma, and basaloid carcinoma) (P less than 0.0000). Evaluation of the various treatment modalities used to treat these patients did not yield any statistically significant correlations with survival. Two clinically distinct groups of patients were identified: one after a relatively favorable clinical course with long survival, and one after a rapidly fatal outcome. The morphologic features of the tumors in these patients correlated well with their clinical behavior; histologic type (and the grade to which it was assigned) constituted the most reliable and important predictor of prognosis. 
How American oncologists treat breast cancer: an assessment of the influence of clinical trials. The present study was designed to assess the preferred methods of treatment of breast cancer by American oncologists, and the impact of clinical trials on their practice. We mailed 465 questionnaires to surgical, radiation, or medical oncologists. The questionnaire described five hypothetic patients with breast cancer, and respondents were asked to select their preferred treatment for each patient. For primary breast cancer, most physicians would offer the choice of local excision followed by radiation therapy or modified radical mastectomy. About 80% of physicians would prescribe adjuvant chemotherapy for a premenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative, axillary node negative breast cancer, and for a postmenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative, node-positive disease. This policy was favored by male and female physicians of each specialty. Almost all respondents would treat a young woman with inflammatory breast cancer with initial chemotherapy followed by radiation and/or surgery, and about 60% would recommend chemotherapy to a postmenopausal patient with estrogen receptor-negative disease and minimally symptomatic bone metastases. Clinical trials have compared treatment strategies that could be applied to patients described in our questionnaire. Preferred treatments for primary breast cancer, and for inflammatory breast cancer are supported by the results of clinical trials. Recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer is not based on a consistent demonstration of improvement in survival, although randomized trials with short follow-up have shown delay to recurrence. Recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for a postmenopausal woman with node-positive breast cancer is contrary to the results of large randomized controlled trials (and to a meta-analysis), which have shown that this policy does not lead to improved survival. Our report suggests that even large randomized clinical trials may have a minimal impact on practice if their results run counter to belief in the value of the treatment. 
Idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated T-cell lymphoma. The authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) terminated as a T-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl. The clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema, persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia, organomegaly, interstitial lung change, and pericarditis. Postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated T-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node, liver, lung, and kidney. The findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic HES per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma, and it may represent a transition of idiopathic HES into a T-cell lymphoma. Other possible sequences are discussed. The development of T-cell malignancy in idiopathic HES in a girl is quite an unusual presentation. 
Dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer with emphasis on the lateral ligament. Surgical experience with carcinomas of the uterus and rectum has provided new insights into the surgical anatomy of a lamina, which separates the paravesical space from the pararectal space. It has been proved that each of the lamina consists of the cardinal and lateral ligaments and pelvic splanchnic nerves, descending in the following order. The cardinal and lateral ligaments, as a connective stalk, insert into the lateral walls of the uterus and rectum extending from the inner aspect of the pelvic wall. Clarification of this structural relationship led to the development of a new procedure for the dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy, while still preserving the lateral ligament. This facilitated systematic dissection of the cardinal and uterosacral ligaments with posterior manipulation, leading to a reduction in blood loss and to prevention of brisk bleeding from the venous plexuses. 
Active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma. A clinical trial with mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibodies elicited with syngeneic anti-high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen monoclonal antibodies [published erratum appears in J Clin Invest 1991 Feb;87(2):757] In two clinical trials the mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibody (MAb) MF11-30, which bears the internal image of human high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen (HMW-MAA) was administered by subcutaneous route without adjuvants to patients with stage IV malignant melanoma on day 0, 7, and 28. Additional injections were administered if anti-antiidiotypic antibodies were not found or their titer decreased. In the first phase I trial with 16 patients the initial dose was 0.5 mg per injection and escalated to 4 mg per injection. Neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed despite the development of anti-mouse Ig antibodies. Minor responses were observed in three patients. In a second clinical trial MAb MF11-30 was administered to 21 patients at a dose of 2 mg per injection, since this dose had been shown in the initial study to be effective in inducing anti-antiidiotypic antibodies. Two patients were inevaluable; in the remaining 19 patients, the average duration of treatment was 34 wk. In this trial as well, neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed. 17 of the 19 immunized patients increased the levels of anti-mouse Ig antibodies and 16 developed antibodies that inhibit the binding of antiidiotypic MAb MF11-30 to the immunizing anti-HMW-MAA MAb 225.28. One patient increased the level of anti-HMW-MAA antibodies. One patient achieved a complete remission with disappearance of multiple abdominal lymph nodes for a duration of 95 wk. Minor responses were observed in three patients. These results suggest that mouse antiidiotypic MAb that bear the internal image of HMW-MAA may be useful reagents to implement active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma. 
Immunohistologic localization of alpha, mu, and pi class glutathione S-transferases in human tissues. Human alpha, pi, and mu class glutathione S-transferases (GSH S-T) have been localized immunohistologically in a variety of organs. Alpha GSH S-T are found principally in hepatocytes, proximal convoluted tubules of kidney, the deep reticular layer of the adrenal gland, interstitial cells of the testis, and oxyntic cells of the stomach. The pi GSH S-T are present in relative abundance in ductular, as opposed to parenchymal cells in the liver, pancreas, salivary glands, and kidney. The presence of mu GSH S-T in the tissues of certain patients and its absence in the same tissues from other patients has been demonstrated. The pi GSH S-T seems to be most persistently and strongly expressed in tumors but alpha GSH S-T are also found in some neoplasms whereas the mu GSH S-T are occasionally present when the other two transferases are weak or absent. 
Coexpression of two fibronectin receptors, VLA-4 and VLA-5, by immature human erythroblastic precursor cells. Human erythroblastic precursor cells adhere to fibronectin (Fn) but the exact nature of the receptors mediating this interaction has not been characterized. In this study, we report data showing that immature human erythroblasts express the integrins VLA-4 and VLA-5 and that both these molecules act as fibronectin receptors on these cells. We have recently demonstrated that adhesion to Fn of purified human CFU-E and their immediate progeny preproerythroblasts was inhibited by antibodies directed against the human fibronectin receptor (VLA-5). Here we have extended those results and characterized by immunoprecipitation with specific antibodies the integrins expressed on surface-labeled normal human immature erythroblasts. A polyclonal antibody recognizing the common VLA beta 1 subunit yielded two polypeptides of 120 and 160 kD. Our data further demonstrate that the polypeptide of 160 kD contains alpha subunits corresponding to both alpha 4 and alpha 5. Thus, erythroblast lysates prepared in 0.3% CHAPS and immunoprecipitated with antibodies which specifically recognize the alpha 4 subunit showed a heterodimer with peptides of 120 (beta 1) and 160 kD (alpha 4) and the additional peptides of 70 and 80 kD which usually coprecipitate with the alpha 4 chain. On the other hand, specific anti-alpha 5 antibodies immunoprecipitated an alpha 5/beta 1 complex with peptides of 120 and 160 kD which under reducing conditions migrated as a single band of 130 kD. Similar experiments performed with an erythroleukemic cell line (KU 812) showed that these cells also coexpress both the VLA-4 and VLA-5 members of the integrin family. Furthermore, monoclonal antibodies recognizing the VLA alpha 4 chain blocked the adhesion of immature erythroblasts to Fn-coated surfaces, thus demonstrating that, as VLA-5, VLA-4 is also a functional Fn receptor on these cells. 
Rationalisation of follow-up in patients with non-invasive bladder tumours. A preliminary report. The risk of recurrence and progression in 170 patients presenting with pTa urothelial tumours of the bladder has been estimated so that follow-up can be rationalised. Patients were followed up for between 1 and 15 years, the original pathology reviewed and those with carcinoma in situ (CIS) or dysplasia of the background urothelium excluded. Only 5 patients progressed over the whole follow-up period, giving an overall progression rate of 3%. Solitary tumours had an annual initial recurrence risk (AIR) of 0.23 in the first year; after the first year the AIR fell to approximately 0.1 but did not fall significantly in subsequent years up to 8 years. Of the 45 patients with multiple tumours, 32 suffered recurrences within the first year (AIR 0.71). Tumour grade did not influence either recurrence or progression. The results indicate that for solitary pTa tumours, less frequent endoscopic follow-up is justified but some continued surveillance after 5 disease-free years is necessary. The estimated risk of recurrence is a useful factor to consider when planning follow-up. 
Expression of the human nephron differentiation molecules in renal cell carcinomas. The authors tested frozen sections from 28 renal cell carcinomas (RCC)--21 clear, 1 eosinophilic, 4 basophilic, and 2 spindle-shaped cell type--with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) reacting against cytokeratin, vimentin, CD24, CALLA/CD10, villin, CD26, and HLA class I and class II molecules. These molecules are markers of specific segments of the mature kidney, and their loss or acquisition reflects the different steps of human nephrogenesis. KI67 MAb was used to evaluate cell-proliferating activity. All RCC cases expressed cytokeratin. Coexpression of vimentin was observed in 21 of 28 cases. Whether of clear or chromophilic type, all tumoral cells strongly expressed CD24 molecule, present on primitive blastema cells. All clear-type RCCs expressed CALLA/CD10 and 60% were also villin positive; some were faintly positive for CD26. CALLA, villin, and CD26 were not detected in basophilic cell type. HLA class I molecules were variably expressed in almost all cases, but HLA class II were never detected on tumoral cells. Except for the spindle-shaped population, cell-proliferating activity was low. These results favor the hypothesis that RCCs derive from cells that have 'recovered' the different options of metanephric differentiation. Clear cells show evidence of maturation toward proximal type, while basophilic cells do not. It would be of interest to evaluate the usefulness of serum measurements of villin and/or CALLA as markers in clear cell-type RCC. 
Insulinoma after streptozotocin therapy for metastatic gastrinoma: natural history or iatrogenic complication? Islet cell carcinoma frequently produces more than one chemical product, although its clinical expression is usually restricted to a single hormone. We describe an unusual patient who presented with full-blown metastasizing gastrinoma. He was treated with cimetidine for five years and then streptozotocin therapy, which resulted in a regression in hepatomegaly and a fall in serum gastrin levels. Following one year's therapy with streptozotocin, he was admitted in hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic stupor. This appears to be the first reported case of a "shift" from clinical gastrinoma to insulinoma possibly related to prolonged streptozotocin therapy. 
Locally recurrent endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the prostate after radical prostatectomy. Endometrioid carcinoma of the prostate is considered a variant of classical prostatic ductal carcinoma. Endometrioid carcinoma variant often has the unique clinical presentation of gross hematuria. The propensity of this tumor to spread within the urothelium makes local failure of curative therapy commonplace. We present 2 representative cases with a review of followup surveillance procedures and treatment options for the local recurrence once identified. 
Effectiveness of high-dose MCNU therapy and hematopoietic stem cell autografts treatment of childhood acute leukemia/lymphoma with high-risk features. Clinical and pharmacokinetic studies were performed regarding the toxicity of methyl 6-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-6-deoxy-alpha-D-glucopyranoside (MCNU) with other drugs, in conjunction with a peripheral blood stem cell autograft (PBSCT), for treating 26 children with acute leukemia or lymphoma associated with high-risk features. In the early phase of the study, MCNU (300 to 500 mg/m2) was administered with cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) (1.6 to 16 g/m2), etoposide (VP-16) (0.8 to 1.6 g/m2), cyclophosphamide (CY) (100 to 200 mg/kg), or busulfan (16 mg/kg). No acute toxicity was noticed after this high-dose therapy. The dose-limiting factor of the regimens was significant but reversible interstitial pneumonitis (IP). In a subsequent trial with an MCNU/VP-16/Ara-C/CY (MCVAC) regimen in which the dose of MCNU was reduced, the risk of IP diminished. This study is still in progress, but the clinical response has so far been encouraging. Fifteen of 26 children are alive and well in unmaintained complete remission (CR) with a median follow-up period of 11 months (range, 3 to 34 months) after transplantation. This MCNU-based regimen without total body irradiation (TBI) is especially important in children to avoid the serious sequelae of irradiation. Our results justify a broader clinical trial to evaluate the effects of the MCVAC regimen followed by PBSCT. 
Differentiated thyroid carcinomas in children and adolescents. An analysis of differentiated thyroid carcinomas in children and adolescents revealed that the incidence was 3.05% of total number of patients with differentiated thyroid cancers in all age groups. There was a female preponderance. The incidence of papillary, follicular and papillary with follicular elements was equal. There were no papillary carcinomas observed in children younger than 10 years. The predominant mode of presentation was a solitary nodule of thyroid and some of them had associated cervical adenopathy. A considerable number presented with only cervical adenopathy. The incidence of nodal metastases was 50% at time of presentation and lung involvement was present in 15% of children at the time of diagnosis. Radioiodine treatment was given in 70% of children. Ablation was achieved in 86% of patients given two doses of radioiodine (200 millicuries). The more resistant cases were those with lung and nodal metastases. There was complete ablation in 100% with only residual thyroid tissue, 83% in those with associated nodal metastases, and 57% in those with lung involvement. Average duration of follow-up was 10.3 years (range, 2 to 19 years). Recurrence rate or relapse was observed in 8.5% and was in the regional nodes. There was no recorded mortality due to the disease. 
Randomized phase II evaluation of carboplatin and CHIP in advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium. The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. A total of 83 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma who had previously received no systemic therapy entered a randomized phase II evaluation of carboplatin and cis-dichloro-transdihydroxy-bis-isopropylamine platinum IV (CHIP), administered respectively at 400 and 270 mg./m.2 every 28 days. Among evaluable patients with measurable disease response rates were 3 of 22 (14%, 95% confidence interval 5 to 35%) for carboplatin and 4 of 25 (16%, 95% confidence interval 5 to 36%) for CHIP. Among 17 patients with evaluable but not measurable metastases (10 carboplatin and 7 CHIP recipients) there were no responses. Median survival for 64 evaluable patients was 4.8 months (5.0 months for carboplatin and 4.3 months for CHIP recipients). Independent factors prognostic for survival (p less than 0.01) were performance status (0 or 1 versus 2 or 3), liver metastases, prior radiation therapy and recent weight loss (p = 0.02). Multivariate analysis confirmed that a performance status of 2 or 3 and liver metastases were predictive of shorter survival. A total of 31% of the patients treated with carboplatin and 34% of those who received CHIP experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression. While the response rates with carboplatin and CHIP are modest, we believe that the characteristics of these agents indicate that they should be evaluated further. 
Effect of prostaglandin E in multiple experimental models: V. Effect on tumor/host interaction. Prostaglandin E (PGE) has long been incriminated as a cause of the immunosuppression seen in cancer patients and for the increased rates of tumor growth due to the impairment of the immunologic response to the tumor. We have investigated the effect of PGE on tumor-host interaction by utilizing a parenterally administered long-acting PGE derivative, 16,16-dimethyl-prostaglandin E (dPGE). Administration of dPGE was found to decrease the rate of tumor growth but at a cost of decreasing tumor-free body mass. The dPGE did not alter resting metabolic rates but did alter some parts of brain dopamine metabolism and significantly decreased the serum level of multiple amino acids. In conclusion, elevated PGE levels may significantly alter metabolism in tumor patients. 
Intravesical condyloma acuminatum with progression to verrucous carcinoma. Condyloma acuminatum is a common form of venereal disease. Most patients with condylomata acuminata suffer from only the local cosmetic and irritative effects of the lesions. Few patients have progression to aggressive, regionally distributed lesions that can be life-threatening. We describe a forty-three-year-old white woman who had a seventeen-year history of scleroderma with extravesical and intravesical condylomata acuminata. During two years of conservative management with transurethral excision, electrocoagulation, and intravesical chemotherapy, the disease progressed to involve the entire bladder and resulted in obstructive renal insufficiency that required anterior exenteration and urinary diversion. The natural history of the disease is described, and the relevant literature is reviewed. 
Terminal cancer care and patients' preference for place of death: a prospective study. OBJECTIVE--To assess the preference of terminally ill patients with cancer for their place of final care. DESIGN--Prospective study of randomly selected patients with cancer from hospital and the community who were expected to die within a year. Patients expected to live less than two months were interviewed at two week intervals; otherwise patients were interviewed monthly. Their main carer was interviewed three months after the patient's death. SETTING--District general hospital, hospices, and patients' homes. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Stated preferred place of final care; actual place of death; reason for final hospital admission for those in hospital; community care provision required for home care. RESULTS--Of 98 patients approached, 84 (86%) agreed to be interviewed, of whom 70 (83%) died during the study and 59 (84%) stated a preferred place of final care: 34 (58%) wished to die at home given existing circumstances, 12 (20%) in hospital, 12 (20%) in a hospice, and one (2%) elsewhere. Their own home was the preferred place of care for 17 (94%) of the patients who died there, whereas of the 32 patients who died in hospital 22 (69%) had stated a preference to die elsewhere. Had circumstances been more favourable 67% (41) of patients would have preferred to die at home, 16% (10) in hospital, and 15% (9) in hospice. CONCLUSION--With a limited increase in community care 50% more patients with cancer could be supported to die at home, as they and their carers would prefer. 
Early diagnosis of breast cancer. Universal screening is essential. Breast cancer strikes 1 in 10 women in the United States. Early diagnosis of breast cancer improves chances of survival. With universal screening and expert evaluation of early clinical signs and symptoms of breast cancer, mortality rates can be reduced by 30% to 40%. Physicians can help achieve this goal by taking an active role in patient education and promoting the availability of affordable screening mammography. 
New primary basal cell carcinomas arising in skin flaps following Mohs micrographic surgery for primary and recurrent basal cell carcinoma. Two patients developed new primary basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) in skin flaps used to reconstruct wounds that followed an earlier primary BCC and a recurrent BCC treated by Mohs micrographic surgery. Criteria for distinguishing a new primary BCC arising in a skin flap or full-thickness skin graft at a previous treatment site for BCC from a truly recurrent BCC are presented. The distinction between a new primary BCC and true tumor recurrence is important for accurate clinical assessment and may have a dramatic impact on the type of subsequent treatment. In addition, there may be less medicolegal liability in the case of a new primary BCC arising at the site of a previously treated BCC than for a BCC that is determined to be recurrent. 
Collagen metabolism in gynecologic patients: changes in the concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in serum. We have previously found the serum concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen, an indicator of collagen metabolism, to be increased in advanced ovarian cancer. In this study we measured the serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen concentration in healthy women during the menstrual cycle and in patients with salpingo-oophoritis, leiomyomas, endometriosis, and benign ovarian tumors. The concentration was higher in the luteal phase than that in the follicular phase, suggesting an association of collagen metabolism with ovarian steroid hormones. Severe salpingo-oophoritis increased the serum level of the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen with a decrease to normal during recovery. Elevated values were occasionally seen in endometriosis and leiomyomas. These findings indicate that the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen is a relatively unspecific indicator of ovarian carcinoma. 
Pharyngeal adenocarcinoma with intestinal features. A high grade adenocarcinoma arising primarily in the pharynx of a 67-year-old man is presented. A CT-scan revealed a tumour mass growing in the pharynx, largely affecting parapharyngeal soft tissues. Lymph node metastases were found at clinical presentation. Both morphological and immunohistochemical studies displayed similar features to those of intestinal origin. To our knowledge, no previous examples of such neoplasm have been reported at this site. Its possible histogenetical origin is discussed. 
Normal and abnormal pituitary glands: gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging. Dynamic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with a 1.5-T superconductive unit was used in the evaluation of nine normal pituitary glands and 10 pituitary adenomas, including four microadenomas and six macroadenomas. Seven to 10 images were obtained every 20-30 seconds with use of the spin-echo technique after rapid injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine. The earliest contrast material enhancement of normal structures was seen in the infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary gland at 20 seconds, followed by gradual contrast material enhancement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland from the junction of the infundibulum to the peripheral portion of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland within 80 seconds after gadopentetate dimeglumine injection. The peak enhancement of pituitary adenomas occurred at 60-200 seconds, usually after the most marked enhancement of the normal pituitary gland. Microadenomas are best visualized at earlier phases of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced dynamic imaging, with signal intensity lower than that seen on images of normal pituitary glands. 
Occupational exposure and head and neck carcinoma. An epidemiological case-control study was conducted to investigate occupational risk factors in cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive tract. Cases were men with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx (667), hypopharynx (348), glottis (246), supraglottis (219), epilarynx (204), and 4 subsites of the oral cavity (787). Controls were healthy patients or patients with cancer of another site or another histological type (147 men). Past occupational exposures of cases and controls were compared. The analysis was performed independently for each site of cancer, controlling for age, amount and type of alcohol and tobacco consumption, and state of dentition. Results showed that cancer of the supraglottis was associated with exposure to oil and grease (odds ratio = 2.4; 95% confidence interval 1.0-5.8), and with exposure to cement (odds ratio = 4.2; 95% confidence interval = 1.1-16.4). Cancer of the glottis was also associated with exposure to dye (odds ratio = 6.4; 95% confidence interval = 0.7-56.6). Exposure to flour occurred more frequently among controls than among patients with pharyngeal or oral cancer. This might reflect an association between this occupational exposure and some particular types of cancer included in the control group. 
Spinal cord decompression via a modified costotransversectomy approach combined with posterior instrumentation for management of metastatic neoplasms of the thoracic spine. Fifteen patients with thoracic spinal cord compression from metastatic neoplastic processes were managed by spinal canal decompression via a modified costotransversectomy approach. Ten of the patients also underwent sequential posterior stabilization with Luque or Harrington instrumentation based upon proximity of the lesion to the thoracolumbar junction, prognosis for regaining or maintaining ambulatory ability, and additional spinal stability considerations. A modified lateral decubitus position with the scapula falling away from the side of exposure was used for T1-5 segment lesions, and a prone position was used for the (T-6)-(T-12) segment. Adequate decompression of the spinal canal was achieved in all cases. All patients who were ambulating preoperatively maintained ambulatory ability, and pain and/or further neurological improvement as well occurred in 75%. 
Effect of gastric mucus on the uptake of the carcinogen MNNG by gastric mucosal DNA. In prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-, pirenzepine-, and indomethacin-administered rats, the incorporation of N-[methyl-3H]-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine ([methyl-3H]MNNG) into gastric mucosal DNA was measured quantitatively by liquid scintillation counting after intragastric instillation of [methyl-3H]MNNG. The amount of incorporation was 25.4 +/- 5.9 pmol/mg DNA in control rats, 11.7 +/- 3.8 pmol/mg DNA in PGE2-administered rats, 6.2 +/- 5.6 pmol/mg DNA in pirenzepine-administered rats, and 42.9 +/- 14.4 pmol/mg DNA in indomethacin-administered rats. PGE2 and pirenzepine significantly decreased the incorporation as compared with the control group. In contrast, indomethacin increased the incorporation. In addition, gastric mucosa of these drug-treated rats was studied histochemically. PGE2 and pirenzepine increased secretion of gastric mucus whereas indomethacin decreased it. It is possible that gastric mucus has a protective effect not only against ulcerogenic agents but also against carcinogens. It is considered that gastric mucus plays an important role in the defense mechanism against carcinogenesis. 
The reliability of frozen sections in the evaluation of surgical margins for melanoma. As the width of surgical margins declines, histologic evaluation of the margins is needed to assess the completeness of excision of a malignant melanoma. We studied 221 specimens in 59 patients and compared the interpretations of frozen and paraffin sections from the same block. Frozen sections had a sensitivity of 100% in detecting melanoma when present and a specificity of 90%. 
Performing cytogenetic studies on ascitic, amniotic and hygroma fluid. The importance of obtaining cytogenetic studies on antenatally diagnosed structural malformations is well recognized. In two cases, three fetal compartments were sampled, each resulting in successful cytogenetic studies. Fluid was obtained under ultrasound guidance from amniotic fluid, fetal ascites and cystic hygroma fluid. Fluid from the hygroma itself may be the easiest compartment to analyze. 
Allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients positive for hepatitis B surface antigen. Twenty patients who were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) underwent allogeneic marrow transplant for malignancy or other underlying hematologic disease between 1975 and 1986. After transplant, one patient had serologic evidence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation whereas three patients had evidence of an immune response to HBV. Among four patients with serologic follow-up of 1 year or more, three remained positive for HBsAg and one became HBsAg negative. Six patients (30%) developed clinical evidence of venocclusive disease and seven patients (35%) developed acute graft-versus-host disease involving the liver, but the incidence of these complications was similar to that expected among patients who are not carriers of HBsAg. Three patients died with hepatorenal failure, but all three had venocclusive disease and the contribution of HBV infection to liver failure was unclear. Available liver specimens obtained at autopsy (six patients) or biopsy (two patients) all showed either HBsAg (one specimen) or hepatitis B core antigen (four specimens) or both (three specimens) by immunoperoxidase staining. Although HBV reactivation leading to hepatic failure has been reported among allogeneic marrow transplant recipients as well as other immunocompromised patients, we did not observe an increase in the incidence of severe liver disease after transplant among these 20 patients positive for HBsAg at the time of transplant, and do not consider positivity for HBsAg to be a contraindication to allogeneic marrow transplantation. 
Fetal ovarian cysts: prenatal ultrasonographic detection and postnatal evaluation and treatment. Ovarian cysts were diagnosed by antenatal ultrasonographic examination in 15 fetuses between 19 and 37 weeks' gestation. In six cases there was ultrasonographic evidence of torsion. Intracystic flocculation, which typically was deposited on the sloping part of the cyst, gave a characteristic liquid interface that was regarded as ultrasonographic evidence of torsion. All cases with evidence of torsion were managed surgically post partum, and in all patients this complication was confirmed. The remaining nine cases were followed up by repeated ultrasonograms, and in all patients disappearance of the cyst was documented within the first 6 months of life. The mean size of cysts with evidence of torsion was 5.41 +/- 0.25 cm, and the mean size of those without torsion was 4.33 +/- 0.3 cm (p less than 0.01). Histologic examination of the surgical specimen in the cases with evidence of torsion revealed follicular cysts in three cases and necrotic ovarian cysts with no specific epithelial findings in the remaining three. We recommend continuous ultrasonographic assessment of antenatally diagnosed cysts and believe that the choice of treatment depends on the appearance of the cyst and its evolution throughout pregnancy. 
Hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas: clinicopathological features and surgical treatment. Forty-five (9.9%) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between January 1973 and November 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery: 24 had a blood collection, 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis, and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis. Thirteen patients (28.9%) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy, whereas another 32 had an "asymptomatic" hemorrhage, that is, the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma. Nineteen tumors (42.2%) showed marked suprasellar extension, 8 (17.8%) showed moderate extension, and 11 (24.5%) showed slight extension; another 2 (4.4%) were laterosellar and 5 (11.1%) were intrasellar. Invasive behavior was present in 32 cases (71.1%) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage. The incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive; therefore, we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor. Two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery, whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route. It proved advantageous to operate as early as possible, even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy. The transsphenoidal approach gave the best results, but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary, namely, postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients, bromocriptine in 12, and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all. In an average follow-up period of 6.2 years, 5 (11.1%) symptomatic recurrences were observed. 
Effect of 17 beta-estradiol on the growth of an estrogen receptor-positive human esophageal carcinoma cell line. Receptors for estrogen and for androgen in the nucleus and cytosol (ERn, ERc, ARn, and ARc, respectively) were studied on two newly established human esophageal carcinoma cell lines, ES-25C and ES-8C. ES-25C was ERn+ (the binding content 4.0 fmol/mg protein, Kd 0.09 nM), ERc-, ARn-, and ARc-. No receptors were found in ES-8C. Various doses of 17 beta-estradiol (E2) were added in vitro to investigate its effect on the growth of these cell lines. No effect of E2 was observed on ER--ES-8C cell line. The growth of ES-25C cell was significantly inhibited at the doses of 10(-10) and 10(-12) mol/l E2 compared with the control. The doubling time of 10(-12) mol/l E2-treated cells was 32 hours whereas that of control was 20 hours. This slower growth was reflected in the deduction of cells in S-phase utilizing 5-bromo 2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling. The current results strongly suggest that the growth inhibition of ER+ esophageal cancer cell by E2 is mediated by signal transduction induced by the estrogen-estrogen receptor system. 
Mechlorethamine, vincristine, and procarbazine chemotherapy for recurrent high-grade glioma in adults: a phase II study. We undertook a phase II study of combination chemotherapy with mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard) 6 mg/m2 intravenously day 1 and day 8, vincristine 2 mg intravenously day 1 and day 8, and procarbazine 100 mg/m2 orally days 1 through 14 (MOP) in adults with recurrent high-grade glioma. There were 31 patients entered and 27 patients assessable for response. The median age was 49 years old. All patients had prior maximal radiotherapy, and eight had previous chemotherapy. Responses were determined based on clinical and computed tomographic (CT) scan/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) criteria. The response rate (partial response [PR] plus objective qualitative response [OQR] plus complete response [CR]) was 52% with one CR. The response rate was higher in patients with anaplastic astrocytoma as compared with glioblastoma multiforme (P less than .05). The median duration of response was 42 weeks. Median survival for all assessable patients was 30 weeks, and for responders, it was 60 weeks. Response was correlated with ability to decrease dexamethasone doses and improved performance status. Toxicity was mainly hematologic with leukopenia being common. There was one treatment-related death from listeria meningitis, and two patients developed Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. There were three episodes of neutropenic fever. We conclude that MOP is active and merits further investigation in adult high-grade glioma. 
The prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease. This case report describes the use of octreotide, a long-acting somatostatin analogue, in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease. This patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication. Anaesthesia was induced with midazolam, fentanyl, and vecuronium, and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium. However, we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively, and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery. 
Quality-of-life-adjusted survival for comparing cancer treatments. A commentary on TWiST and Q-TWiST. In chronic disease situations where treatment comparisons favor no particular therapy, or where definitive outcome requires a considerable follow-up period, it is useful to have additional and perhaps intermediate endpoints of relevant clinical significance to compare treatments. One such endpoint is Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity (TWiST) which, together with Q-TWiST, attempts to address the quality of life of patients receiving the competing regimens. This paper provides a commentary on these techniques with an emphasis on the problems inherent in implementing Q-TWiST, a measure that attempts to incorporate patient value preferences into TWiST. It is argued that while Q-TWiST is intuitively appealing in the clinical setting, there are formidable design and psychometric hurdles that must be overcome to fully operationalize the concept. 
Molecular structure of a major insulin/mitogen-activated 70-kDa S6 protein kinase. The molecular structure of a rat hepatoma 70-kDa insulin/mitogen-stimulated S6 protein kinase, obtained by molecular cloning, is compared to that of a rat homolog of the 85-kDa Xenopus S6 protein kinase alpha; both kinases were cloned from H4 hepatoma cDNA libraries. The 70-kDa S6 kinase (calculated molecular mass of 59,186 Da) exhibits a single catalytic domain that is most closely related in amino acid sequence (56% identity) to the amino-terminal, kinase C-like domain of the rat p85 S6 kinase (calculated molecular mass of 82,695 Da); strong similarity extends through a further 67 residues carboxyl-terminal to the catalytic domain (40% identity), corresponding to a region also conserved among the kinase C family. Outside of this segment of approximately 330 amino acids, the structures of the p70 and p85 S6 kinases diverge substantially. The p70 S6 kinase is known to be activated through serine/threonine phosphorylation by unidentified insulin/mitogen-activated protein kinases. A model for the regulation of p70 S6 protein kinase activity is proposed wherein the low activity of the unphosphorylated enzyme results from the binding of a basic, inhibitory pseudosubstrate site (located carboxyl-terminal to the extended catalytic domain) to an acidic substrate binding region (located amino-terminal to the catalytic domain); substrate binding is thereby prevented. S6 kinase activation requires displacement of this inhibitory segment, which is proposed to occur consequent to its multiple phosphorylation. The putative autoinhibitory segment contains several serine and threonine residues, each followed directly by a proline residue. This motif may prevent autophosphorylation but permit transphosphorylation; two of these serine residues reside in a maturation promoting factor (MPF)/cdc-2 consensus motif. Thus, hormonal regulation of S6 kinase may involve the action of MPF/cdc-2 or protein kinases with related substrate specificity. 
Clustering of cancer in families of patients with primary lung cancer. We have previously shown that patients with a positive family history of lung cancer did not exhibit characteristics expected if the familial association was a surrogate for a genetic mechanism which was absent in those without such a history. In this study, we examine the incidence of cancer (all sites) in two groups of families: (a) those ascertained through a patient with primary lung cancer (n = 359 families) and (b) through a community control subject (n = 234). The index subjects were excluded from all incidence data analyses. Most families (62 vs 57%) reported at least one member with a history of neoplastic disease. Patients' families were more likely to have 2 or more affected members (p less than 0.05), to exhibit a multigenerational pattern (33 vs 24%) and to have a higher risk of multiple tumours (OR = 1.5) in the same individual. However, most of the sites with the highest odds ratios (males, vocal cord/esophagus 8.3; colon/rectum 2.3; lung 1.96; females, pancreas 4.8; vocal/cord esophagus 4.1; lung 1.8) are smoking associated although these were not necessarily the most frequently affected sites. In conclusion, these data support an ecogenetic etiology of cancer within families. 
Suggestive evidence that pelvic endometriosis is a progressive disease, whereas deeply infiltrating endometriosis is associated with pelvic pain. In a 3-year prospective study of 643 consecutive laparoscopies for infertility, pelvic pain, or infertility and pain, the pelvic area, the depth of infiltration, and the volume of endometriotic lesions were evaluated. The incidence, area, and volume of subtle lesions decreased with age, whereas for typical lesions these parameters and the depth of infiltration increased with age. Deeply infiltrating endometriosis was strongly associated with pelvic pain, women with pain having larger and deeper lesions. Because deep endometriosis has little emphasis in the revised American Fertility Society classification and after analyzing the diagnoses made in each class, considerations for a simplifying revision with inclusion of deep lesions are suggested. In conclusion, suggestive evidence is presented to support the concept that endometriosis is a progressive disorder, and it is demonstrated that deep endometriosis is strongly associated with pelvic pain. 
Primary renal lymphoma. Lymphoma arising in the kidney is rare. Although 31 cases have been reported in the literature, it is likely that most of these neoplasms do not arise in the kidney. This report describes two cases of primary renal lymphoma and compares their clinical presentation, diagnostic modalities, treatment, and survival with the previously reported patients who satisfied our criteria for the diagnosis of primary renal lymphoma. 
Recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in Wilms' tumor. A 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a Wilms' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma. She was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence. The recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable Wilms' tumor elements. The child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy. Pathologic, immunoperoxidase, and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented. 
Selective G to T mutations of p53 gene in hepatocellular carcinoma from southern Africa Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a prevalent cancer in sub-Saharan Africa and eastern Asia. Hepatitis B virus and aflatoxins are risk factors for HCC, but the molecular mechanism of human hepatocellular carcinogenesis is largely unknown. Abnormalities in the structure and expression of the tumour-suppressor gene p53 are frequent in HCC cell lines, and allelic losses from chromosome 17p have been found in HCCs from China and Japan. Here we report on allelic deletions from chromosome 17p and mutations of the p53 gene found in 50% of primary HCCs from southern Africa. Four of five mutations detected were G----T substitutions, with clustering at codon 249. This mutation specificity could reflect exposure to a specific carcinogen, one candidate being aflatoxin B1 (ref. 7), a food contaminant in Africa, which is both a mutagen that induces G to T substitution and a liver-specific carcinogen. 
Protective role of vitamin E in biological systems. Vitamin E is well accepted as nature's most effective lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidant, protecting cell membranes from peroxidative damage. Free-radical-mediated pathology has been implicated in the development over time of degenerative diseases and conditions. This paper reviews the current research on the protective role and requirements for vitamin E and the other antioxidants in preventing or minimizing free-radical damage associated with specific diseases and lifestyle patterns and processes, including cancer, aging, circulatory conditions, arthritis, cataract, pollution, and strenuous exercise. While awaiting results of further human studies, research evidence suggests that an adequate intake of vitamin E and the other antioxidants can provide protection from the increasingly high free-radical concentrations caused by air pollutants and current lifestyle patterns. 
Giant enterocystoma within an infant's tongue. A rare developmental cyst within the tongue and submandibular triangle of a male infant containing heterotopic gastric and intestinal epithelium (enterocystoma) is described and its derivation discussed. This cyst was of such a size as to cause feeding difficulties and partial airway obstruction during sleep. Following C.T. scanning, total obstruction necessitated an emergency tracheostomy. Successful enucleation via a median labiomandibulotomy was performed without further complication and two years later there is no sign of recurrence. 
Neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis: MRI, CT, and ultrasound correlation. We describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor, diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. We compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor. 
Campylobacter pylori interactions with gastric cell tissue culture. Many investigators have reported that gastric mucosal biopsies of patients with chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer disease show the presence of Campylobacter pylori in a large majority of cases. Histologic examinations of such tissues indicate a close approximation of C. pylori with gastric surface epithelial cells. A recent report has described both adherence and cell invasion of gastric cells by C. pylori. Using a transmission electron microscope, we have examined the interaction between C. pylori, C. jejuni, and E. coli in vitro with a gastric cancer cell line, Kato III. Our results indicate marked toxicity of E. coli and moderate toxicity of C. jejuni for Kato III cells. C. pylori had only a minor effect on tissue culture viability. C. pylori was found to have a strong association with the Kato III cell membranes and evidence of occasional cell invasion. Both C. jejuni and E. coli showed no attachment or association with the Kato III cells. We interpret these findings as indicating that C. pylori may have a specific adhesion for gastric cells. 
Protection from chemotherapy-induced alopecia in a rat model. Alopecia (hair loss) is among the most distressing side effects of cancer chemotherapy. Little progress has been made, however, in its prevention or treatment, partly because of the lack of suitable experimental model. In recent work on the treatment of myelogenous leukemia in the rat, the following observations were made: (i) treatment of 8-day-old rats with cytosine arabinoside consistently produced alopecia, and (ii) ImuVert, a biologic response modifier derived from the bacterium Serratia marcescens, uniformly produced complete protection against the alopecia. In subsequent experiments, both cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin also produced alopecia in this model, and the doxorubicin-induced alopecia was prevented by treatment with ImuVert. The potential relevance of these observations to chemotherapy-induced alopecia in the clinical setting should be examined. 
Rhabdomyosarcoma. From the laboratory to the clinic. The prospect of identifying and developing new agents for treatment of rhabdomyosarcomas is discussed in the light of current prognosis for children with advanced stage disease. Preliminary attempts to identify tumor-specific agents using in vitro cell culture show potential promise, but as yet remain unproven. The more complex system of identifying therapeutically active agents using human tumor xenografts has demonstrated usefulness. The potential problems associated with this system are discussed. 
Posterior nuchal cystic hygroma [published erratum appears in Clin Perinatol 1990 Dec;17(4):viii] When cystic hygroma is detected antenatally, the prognosis is usually poor, and intrauterine or neonatal death are common. This seems especially true for Turner syndrome (the largest etiologic group associated with cystic hygroma) and the lethal multiple pterygium syndromes. However, some fetuses with Turner syndrome, and also with certain other diagnoses, had a good outcome, and further study of these conditions is required before more definite prognostic indicators and risk figures will be available. Increasing numbers of syndromes are being reported in association with fetal cystic hygroma, and lymphedema may be a common element in their pathogenesis. Mild, short-lived, or otherwise uncomplicated jugular lymphatic obstruction may be a cause of the neck webbing seen in the Noonan, familial pterygium colli, and distichiasis-lymphedema syndromes. With earlier and more widespread fetal ultrasonography, and more sensitive techniques, a greater number of resolving fetal cases may be reported. This may clarify the natural history and provide prospective criteria for the conditions that have better prognoses. The associated conditions include autosomal dominant and recessive genetic traits. Careful ultrasound study for other malformations, polyhydramnios and fetal growth parameters, a fetal karyotype, and, if appropriate, pathologic examination are required to determine the etiology and recurrence risk. The parents should be asked about exposure to alcohol or other agents and should be examined for signs of pterygium colli or Noonan syndrome. If the decision is made to continue the pregnancy, and there is doubt about the natural history and prognosis, multi-disciplinary supervision should include social services, neonatology, pediatric surgery, cardiology, and genetics specialties when indicated. 
Rural-urban differences in stage at diagnosis. Possible relationship to cancer screening. Stage at diagnosis was examined for various malignancies identifiable through screening to determine whether rural-urban differences exist in Georgia. Data were obtained from a population-based cancer registry which registers all incident cancers among residents of metropolitan Atlanta and ten neighboring rural counties. Black and white patients with a first primary invasive malignancy newly diagnosed between 1978 and 1985 were included in this study. Residents of the rural area were twice as likely to have unstaged cancers (18.3%) as were urban residents (9.6%). Among patients with known stage at diagnosis, rural patients tended to have more advanced disease than urban patients. The relative excess of nonlocalized malignancies in rural Georgia was 21% for whites and 37% for blacks. The rural excess of nonlocalized prostate cancer among blacks was especially pronounced. Differences in access to or utilization of early detection methods may contribute to the rural-urban differential in the extent of disease at diagnosis. 
Diagnostic relevance of clonal cytogenetic aberrations in malignant soft-tissue tumors. BACKGROUND. Malignant soft-tissue tumors often present substantial diagnostic challenges. Chromosome aberrations that might be diagnostic have been identified in some types of soft-tissue tumors, but the overall frequency and diagnostic relevance of these aberrations have not been established. METHODS. We attempted to determine the karyotypes of a series of 62 consecutive, unselected malignant spindle-cell or small round-cell soft-tissue tumors (from 46 adults and 16 children) after direct harvesting of cells or short-term culture. All tumors were examined independently by immunohistochemical staining in addition to routine light-microscopical evaluation, and all but two tumors were examined by electron microscopy. RESULTS. Metaphases were obtained from 61 of the 62 tumors, and clonal chromosome aberrations were identified in 55 (89 percent). In the six tumors that yielded metaphases but lacked apparent clonal aberrations, the normal metaphases were found to originate from non-neoplastic stromal elements within the tumor specimens. Thus, all tumors in which karyotyping was successful contained clonal chromosome aberrations. Forty of 62 tumors (65 percent) contained clonal chromosome aberrations that either suggested or confirmed a specific diagnosis; in 15 of these tumors (24 percent of all tumors), the aberrations were important in establishing the final diagnosis. Cytogenetic analyses were particularly informative about small round-cell tumors from children: 8 of 14 round-cell tumors contained diagnostically important chromosome aberrations. Using the combined approaches of light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and cytogenetics, we established an unambiguous diagnosis for 60 of 62 tumors. CONCLUSIONS. Cytogenetic analyses reveal clonal chromosome aberrations in virtually all malignant soft-tissue tumors. These clonal chromosome aberrations, particularly in small round-cell tumors in children, often have diagnostic relevance. 
Ethanol causes accelerated G1 arrest in differentiating HL-60 cells. The effects of clinically relevant ethanol concentrations on myeloid differentiation in the HL-60 cell promyelocytic leukemia line have been studied. The exposure of noninduced stem cells to 60 mM ethanol results in an increase in G1 cells, but there is no increase in superoxide production or expression of the Mo1 antigen. When HL-60 cells are induced to differentiate along the myeloid line with dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or retinoic acid (RA), there is a shift to smaller cell size, an increase in G1 cells and acquisition of the ability to produce superoxide as reported previously by several authors. When ethanol is present during differentiation, there are further increases in G1 cells, and increases in the percentage of cells which produce superoxide and express Mo1, and decreases in mean cell size and total growth during the incubation period. Regrowth experiments after periods of differentiation indicate that the increased G1 arrest seen in the presence of ethanol represents terminal commitment if inducer is present, but in the absence of inducer the increased G1 percentage is readily reversible. Examination of RNA content by flow cytometry reveals a decrease in both the peak and mean G1 RNA content during DMSO or RA induced differentiation. These decreases are accentuated by the presence of ethanol, resulting in a higher G1A/G1B ratio than in nonexposed cells. These findings indicate that ethanol enhances G1 growth arrest in HL-60 cells exposed to myeloid inducers. Partial differentiation occurs during this process, resulting in terminally arrested cells, some of which have undergone fewer postinduction cell divisions than normal and may not be fully competent. 
Management of subglottic stenosis in the adult. Twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment. Patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting. Seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated. Success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient. There was a significantly better outcome (p less than .05) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis. 
Value of retesting subjects with a positive Hemoccult in screening for colorectal cancer. Within a prospective randomized screening study for early detection of colorectal cancer with rehydrated Hemoccult II test, the possibility of increasing the specificity of the test by retesting patients with an initially positive Hemoccult II test was investigated. Of those offered the test 3561 (62.6 per cent) returned it and it was positive in 210 cases (5.9 per cent). The repeat test was performed by 184 patients and was positive in 68 (1.9 per cent). All those with a positive initial test had rectosigmoidoscopy to 60 cm and a double contrast enema. A carcinoma was found in one in seven patients with a positive retest but in only one in 100 patients with a negative retest (P less than 0.001). The specificity of the test was, therefore, increased from 95 per cent to 98 per cent and the sensitivity was unchanged. Rescreening was offered at a later date and increased numbers were available: 7147 patients returned the test and 369 (5.2 per cent) were positive. The test was repeated in 360 patients and 118 (1.7 per cent) were positive. A colorectal neoplasm was found in one in three of those with a positive repeat test, compared with one in seven of those with a negative repeat test. In conclusion, screening for early detection of colorectal cancer with a rehydrated Hemoccult II test may be followed by investigation of only those patients with a positive retest. Such a procedure will reduce the work-load by 60 per cent without reducing sensitivity. 
Benign lymphangioendothelioma. We have studied eight cases of an acquired lymphatic endothelial lesion for which we propose the name "benign lymphangioendothelioma." The lesions developed as solitary, slowly extending, erythematous macules and plaques, usually occurring on the extremities or the shoulders in adolescents or adults. The characteristic histopathologic feature is permeation of the dermal collagen by flattened, endothelium-lined channels and spaces. Hemorrhage, iron deposition, and inflammation were not part of the lesion. Ulex europaeus agglutinin I labeled the lesional endothelial cells consistently, but factor VIII-related antigen labeling was negative. This histologic pattern and the special studies suggested a lymphatic lesion. Surgical excision, performed in six patients, was not followed by recurrence. 
Clostridial bacteremia in cancer patients. A 12-year experience. Over 12 years, 136 episodes of bacteremia caused by clostridial species were documented. Eighty-three were monomicrobial, and 53 were polymicrobial. Gastrointestinal, genitourinary carcinomas, and acute leukemia were the most common underlying malignancies. Septic shock occurred in 29% of monomicrobial bacteremias and 45% of polymicrobial bacteremias and was associated with a high mortality rate. Acute hemolysis, gas gangrene, and diffuse spreading cellulitis occurred infrequently but were associated with a 100% fatality rate. Many infections caused by Clostridium perfringens and C. septicum were associated with abdominal disease. The most commonly isolated organism was C. perfringens, followed by C. septicum and C. sporogenes. Overall survival was 58%, but it was 66% for monomicrobial episodes and 45% for polymicrobial infections. All of the patients with bacteremia due to an aerobic gram-negative bacillus in addition to the clostridial species died of their infection. The most effective antibiotics were clindamycin, penicillin, metronidazole, and moxalactam. Surgical drainage of abscesses was an important component of therapy. 
A seromuscular stripping method to create a nipple valve without metal stapling for continent urinary reservoir. Urinary continence with a Kock or Mainz pouch is achieved by a nipple valve of the invaginated ileum which is usually fixed with metal staples. However, metal staples can cause various complications as a foreign body. The seromuscular stripping method, a new technique to create a nipple valve, was applied to 17 patients with bladder cancer in the construction of a continent urinary reservoir by the ileocolonic pouch (Mainz pouch). Metal staples were not used. The results were satisfactory except for 2 patients who became incontinent because of prolapse of the nipple in one and insufficient valve function due to ischemic change of the nipple valve in the other. Histology of the nipple valve from an autopsy case showed a good double layer nipple valve that functioned well to preserve continence. 
Diagnosis of abdominal masses with percutaneous biopsy guided by ultrasound OBJECTIVE--To assess the accuracy and safety of percutaneous biopsy of abdominal masses guided by ultrasound. DESIGN--Prospective study. SETTING--Combined gastroenterology service, Scarborough Hospital. PATIENTS--108 Consecutive patients identified as having a discrete mass on diagnostic ultrasound examination of the abdomen. INTERVENTION--A sample of tissue was obtained with an aseptic technique under local anaesthesia: an 18 steel wire gauge needle (Tru-Cut) was mounted in a spring loaded firing device (Biopty gun) that was advanced under simultaneous ultrasound scanning, permitting precise localisation of the target organ. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Results of histological examination of tissue specimens. RESULTS--Biopsy failed in four patients. Adequate histological specimens were obtained in 104 patients with masses in the liver (31), pancreas (37), kidney (10), and adrenal glands (six) and in 20 undiagnosed abdominal and retroperitoneal masses. Follow up was until death or confirmation of the diagnosis. Three complications but no deaths occurred. Malignancy was suspected in 84 patients before biopsy. This was confirmed in 70 patients, in 26 of whom confirmation of dissemination obviated the need for further investigation. In 10 patients biopsy indicated a previously unsuspected primary tumour, and in 12 it showed only a benign lesion. Among 24 patients considered to have benign disease biopsy showed an unsuspected neoplasm in seven. Use of biopsy thus had a major effect on clinical management in 55 patients. Four false negative but no false positive diagnoses resulted from the procedure. CONCLUSION--Percutaneous biopsy of abdominal and retroperitoneal masses under ultrasound guidance is a safe and accurate method of obtaining a histological diagnosis. The results obtained have a considerable effect on clinical management. 
Spitz nevi in black children. Four black children with Spitz nevi are presented. The initial clinical diagnosis was pyogenic granuloma for three patients. One child had two Spitz nevi. Histologic examination revealed melanocytic dendritic hyperplasia in all cases. 
Cancer in the families of children with soft tissue sarcoma. The cancer experience among 754 first-degree relatives (mothers, fathers, and siblings) of a population-based series of 177 children with soft tissue sarcoma is reported. The current study represents an extension of our earlier work in which the authors found an excess of breast cancer in the mothers of 143 of these children. There were 40 cancers among all first-degree relatives, compared with 24.82 expected (relative risk [RR] 1.61, P = 0.006). There was no excess in fathers, but an excess of borderline significance was seen in mothers (RR 1.67, P = 0.0545), and a significant excess in siblings (RR 4.55, P = 0.0002), mainly due to carcinoma of the breast and pediatric tumors. Results of a step forward Cox multivariate analysis identified three variables in the index child which were independently associated with high cancer risk in relatives, as follows: age younger than 24 months at diagnosis; histologic type, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma or other and unspecified soft tissue sarcoma; and male sex. It was possible, therefore, to identify a subgroup of children whose relatives are at high risk of early onset cancer (RR in this group 10.14). The pattern of cancers is consistent with the Li-Fraumeni syndrome. The authors conclude that a marked proportion of childhood soft tissue sarcoma has a genetic basis. 
Lateral temporal bone resections. Eighteen consecutive patients underwent a lateral temporal bone resection for the treatment of tumors originating in the auricle, the external auditory canal, the periauricular skin, or the parotid and were retrospectively analyzed. The different lateral temporal bone resections performed have been categorized into four types. The type I resection consists of the removal of the tympanic bone and the external auditory canal lateral to the tympanic membrane. The type II resection consists of the removal of the entire tympanic bone, the tympanic membrane, the incus, and the malleus, preserving the facial nerve and the inner ear. Type III resections remove, in addition to the those structures removed in type II resections, the distal facial nerve and fallopian canal, the mastoid tip, the styloid process, and the stylomastoid foramen. The type IV resection consists of the removal of only the mastoid tip and the inferior portion of the tympanic bone. When the techniques of lateral temporal bone resection are used appropriately, adequate surgical treatment of patients with selected advanced and recurrent malignant tumors of the external ear, the periauricular skin, and the parotid is possible with low morbidity and a high probability of local regional control. 
Greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer. In 1985, as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism (PE), we established a policy of placing Greenfield filters (GFs) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation. Since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with DVT and/or PE, and we have placed a GF in each of these patients. This represented 34% (18/53) of the filters placed during that same period. Over the same 4-year period, 11 patients with cancer and DVT and/or PE underwent anticoagulation therapy. The purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus GF insertion in these two groups of patients. A significantly higher number of major complications (n = 4) occurred in the anticoagulation group (p less than 0.05, Fisher's exact test) than in the GF group (n = 0). The four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes (tumor bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, and hip hematoma) and one PE, despite adequate anticoagulation. Two patients died as a direct result of these complications (PE and gastrointestinal bleeding). The three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood. All four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease (pancreatic carcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, prostate carcinoma, and uterine carcinoma). Although this is a small, nonrandomized, nonprospective study, the data seem to indicate that GF placement is safer than anticoagulation for DVT or PE in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease. We conclude that GF insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation. 
The significance of gastrinomas found in peripancreatic lymph nodes. A patient with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) was found to have a solitary, extrapancreatic, extraintestinal gastrinoma in a peripancreatic lymph node. Preoperative studies did not show the location of the tumor. After excision of the gastrinoma the patient's fasting serum gastrin level dropped from preoperative levels of 596 pg/ml to 120 pg/ml (normal, less than 200 pg/ml). Fasting and stimulated gastrin levels have remained within the normal range at 18 months follow-up. This patient had previously undergone antrectomy, so it could not be determined if this tumor represented a primary lymph node gastrinoma or metastasis from an unrecognized tumor that may have been present in the resected stomach or duodenum. The outcome of this case confirms the previous reports that ZES can be controlled after resection of gastrinomas that were contained within abdominal lymph nodes, even if a primary enteropancreatic tumor is not found. Our results also support the use of an aggressive operative search aimed at eradication of the tumor in patients with ZES even if preoperative localization studies fail to identify the site of the gastrinoma. 
Is urethral sparing at cystectomy a safe procedure? Urethrectomy is performed with cystectomy when the neoplasm is multifocal, at the bladder neck, or associated with carcinoma in situ (CIS). The records of the most recent 20 patients treated by radical cystectomy at our institution were reviewed. In 50 percent of the cases, the extent of disease within the bladder was found to have been underestimated to the point that a urethral sparing operation (i.e., to maintain urinary continence with an intestinal segment and an intact urethra) might have been dangerous. 
Muscle fibre type and habitual snoring. Although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder. Since habitual snoring is the initial stage of OSA, the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles (medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [MPCM]) from 13 men (9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers) were studied. MPCM fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles, with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types. Compared with limb muscles, MPCM had a smaller proportion of type IIb fibres and a higher proportion of types I and IIa fibres. MPCM in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types (low percentage of type I and type IIb fibres and high percentage of type IIa fibres) compared with non-snorers (p less than 0.001) and the type IIa fibres were hypertrophic. No myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen. Two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers. First, a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type IIb to type IIa fibres and a hypertrophy of type IIa fibres; or, second, motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and, hence, of activation, and modify fibre-type distribution of MPCM as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring. 
Improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction. In previous studies, we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ([99mTc]IDA) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis, except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree. In this study, we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction (HEF) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [99mTc]IDA. Our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone, but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease (IHD). The purpose of this study was to compare the HEF in patients with profound cholestasis (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl) due to either IHD or common bile duct obstruction (CBDO). Normal subjects (N = 13) had an HEF of 100%. Patients with CBDO (N = 13) had slightly reduced HEF values (92.8 +/- 3.2%) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia (6.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dl). Patients with IHD (N = 23) had a markedly reduced HEF (43.1 +/- 4.1%) which was significantly lower than patients with CBDO and normal subjects (P less than 0.001). We conclude that the determination of the HEF during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl). 
Endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer. Thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation. In 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures, the success rate of intubation was 91%, and 82% were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored. The mean survival rate was 4.4 months. In 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas, 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months. This low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis. The overall morbidity rate was 28.1% (18.8% perforation, 6.3% hemorrhage, and 3.1% tracheal obstruction). The overall mortality rate was 18.8%. Although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors, endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6% of patients with relief of symptoms, nutritional improvement, and a mean survival time of 4.5 months. 
Tissue distribution of 2-3 and 2-6 sialyl Lewis A antigens and significance of the ratio of two antigens for the differential diagnosis of malignant and benign disorders of the digestive tract. The authors investigated the tissue distribution of two kinds of sialylated derivatives of Lewis A (Le(a)) antigen in patients with cancers of the digestive system using specific monoclonal antibodies, and evaluated the significance of determining the 2-3 and 2-6 sialylated Le(a) antigen levels for the diagnosis of cancer. In most specimens from patients with cancers of the pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon, the 2-3 sialylated Le(a) antigen was strongly expressed in cancer cells. However, 2-6 sialylated Le(a) antigen was less frequently expressed in cancer cells. The former is therefore more specific to cancer than the latter. Also, the serum level of the 2-3 sialylated Le(a) antigen was significantly higher than that of the 2-6 counterpart in patients with cancers of pancreas, biliary tract, stomach, and colon. The resulting ratio of serum 2-3/2-6 sialylated Le(a) antigens was frequently high in patients with malignancy and was low in patients with benign disorders of these digestive organs. Therefore, the 2-3/2-6 sialylated Le(a) antigen ratio is a useful for the differential diagnosis of malignant disorders in these organs. However, liver disorders were found to be exceptional in that both antigens were mostly absent in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells in immunohistologic examination, as well as in nonmalignant parenchymal liver cells. Only the epithelial cells of the intrahepatic bile ducts expressed the 2-6 sialylated Le(a) antigen strongly, and expressed the 2-3 sialylated Le(a) antigen moderately. The levels of both antigens were sometimes high in patients with liver disorders, but the ratio always remained low in patients with HCC as well as benign liver disorders such as cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis. The sialylated Le(a) antigens, which sometimes accumulate in the sera of patients with HCC, were concluded to originate from the epithelial cells of the proliferating small bile ducts, and those serum antigens cannot be considered as evidence for the presence of liver cancer cells. 
Rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue. The peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of 'sporangium and 'spores' of rhinosporidiosis. The occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto. Some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed. 
Lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass. A case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung. The development of paresthesia, with or without other oral symptoms, requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy. A thorough head and neck examination in all patients, especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary. 
Continuous muscle fiber activity, peripheral neuropathy, and thymoma. Two patients, one of them with myasthenia gravis, presented symptoms of continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome before discovery of a thymoma. Peripheral neuropathy was present in both patients, with axonal and demyelinating lesions in sural nerve biopsy. The syndrome remained unchanged or worse after thymectomy. Both patients died of associated complications. 
Lymphocyte subset distribution after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix. Possible prognostic implications and correlation with disease course. An analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations was done in patients with cancer of the uterine cervix before and at different intervals after the commencement of radiation therapy. A common feature was a duration of T-cell and B-cell lymphopenia after therapy. The findings relating to the T-cell subsets were interesting. Although the CD4/CD8 ratio remained unchanged in Stages I/IIA for 24 months after treatment, patients with Stages IIB and III showed a lowering of the ratio immediately after treatment. Distinctive patterns of lymphocyte subset distribution were seen in a comparison between patients who were disease-free and those with recurrent disease. The CD4+ cell counts and CD4/CD8 ratio differed between the two groups, with consistent lowered values during the follow-up associated with recurrent disease. This study demonstrates the effects of radiation therapy in altering lymphocyte subset distribution, resulting in characteristic patterns which could be used as clinical and prognostic indicators. 
Structural and ultrastructural study of the ovary in childhood leukemia after successful treatment. Ovarian biopsy specimens from ten girls (three postmenarcheal) who had undergone antiblastic treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and were in complete remission were examined by light microscope. The biopsy specimens from four of these patients (three postmenarcheal) were also observed by electron microscope. The structural and ultrastructural analysis showed a reduction in the number of follicles which were otherwise normal. No follicles were found in the thin sections from two of the three postmenarcheal girls, whereas normal follicles were observed in the third. The cortical stroma showed moderate to severe signs of fibrosis and changes of capillaries. All of these alterations were more evident in patients where ALL was diagnosed at an older age and this finding suggests that they are at a higher risk for low fertility or early menopause. 
Pancreatic carcinoma in an elderly woman with an organic affective disorder and AIDS delusion. An elderly woman with symptoms of depression and an AIDS delusion was found also to have pancreatic carcinoma. I have discussed her case in conjunction with organic affective disorder, the evaluation of depression in the elderly, and suicide in the elderly. 
Evaluation of a simple line width test involving magnetic resonance spectroscopy of plasma in carcinoma of the ovary. Magnetic resonance spectroscopic (MRS) measurement of human plasma has been reported as a generally applicable marker for malignancy: patients with malignancy had a MRS line width significantly different from patients with benign diseases or healthy controls. The authors investigated the value of this test in 213 women with ovarian carcinoma, benign pelvic masses, benign nongynecologic diseases, and healthy controls. The MRS measurements were performed on plasma samples at 21 degrees C or 27 degrees C. The line width parameters were obtained by averaging the width at half the height of the methyl and methylene peaks on the resonance spectra. At 27 degrees C using 33 Hz as the threshold for an abnormal result, there was a significant correlation between the result of the test and the presence or absence of malignancy. However, the study demonstrates that the specificity (0.44) and positive predictive value (0.42) are too low for the test to be useful in the management of patients with carcinoma of the ovary. At 21 degrees C no correlation between the results of the test and the clinical status of women with carcinoma of the ovary were observed. In 47 patients the test did not predict preoperatively the benign or malignant nature of a pelvic mass. 
Extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators. A technique for extradural deafferentation of the S2 to S5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described, and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported. Nine patients use their implants for micturition, and seven are fully continent. The advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed. 
A predominantly adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. A 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes, nausea, weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline, with a small amount of N-methyladrenaline. There was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion. She was normotensive, and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine. These features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma, but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. We conclude that it is important to identify such patients, so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs. 
A,B blood group antigens in tissues of AB heterozygotes. Emphasis on normal and neoplastic urothelium. The tissue distribution of the A and B blood group antigens was studied in 41 individuals with the heterozygous AB red blood cell (RBC) phenotype. A total of 134 biopsies from a variety of normal tissues (94 from urothelium and 40 from other tissues) were examined. In addition, changes in the expression of these antigens associated with neoplastic transformation were evaluated in 70 biopsies from transitional cell carcinomas of 19 AB heterozygous patients. There was heterogeneity in the distribution of tissue A and B antigens, depending on the cell type, as well as among cells of the same type. Ninety-one percent of AB heterozygotes expressed both A and B antigens in normal epithelial cells, with a mosaic distribution clearly apparent in 50% of these individuals. In 21% of these subjects, the A antigen was undetectable in the vascular endothelial cells in all biopsies from several organs. In most (79%) transitional cell neoplasms, only one of the two antigens was consistently expressed. The results of this study may have implications for the clonal or specific gene deletion theories of neoplasia. They also demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of AB individuals in whom the A antigen is absent specifically from the vascular endothelium. 
Molteno implants and operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxicity. A clinicopathologic report. The right eye of a 75-year-old man with a history of cataract extraction, three penetrating keratoplasties, laser trabeculoplasty, two Molteno implants, and an operating microscope-induced retinal phototoxic lesion was studied post mortem. Histopathologic examination of the anterior segment showed evidence of penetrating keratoplasty, cataract surgery, and two Molteno implants with minimal associated tissue response. Ultrastructural examination showed a loose collagenous matrix surrounding the Molteno reservoirs, suggesting aqueous percolation from the reservoirs into the conjunctiva. Posteriorly, in the area of the phototoxic operating microscope-induced lesion, a nodule of retinal pigment epithelial hyperplasia with overlying atrophy of the photoreceptor cell layer of the neurosensory retina was noted. The retina also contained cystoid macular edema and an extensive preretinal membrane that was clinically unexpected. 
SPECT quantitation of iodine-131 concentration in phantoms and human tumors. The validity of SPECT measurement of iodine-131 (131I) concentration was tested in vitro in phantoms and in vivo by measuring bladder urine concentrations. Phantom studies comparing known and SPECT measured concentrations showed a good correlation for 131I (r = 0.98, s.e.e. = 20.94 counts/voxel) for phantoms of 25 to 127 cc and concentrations of 0.13 to 9.5 microCi/cc. The in vivo, in vitro correlation of 131I concentrations in the urine was also good (r = 0.98, s.e.e. = 0.677 microCi/cc). Quantitative SPECT was used to calculate the effective half-life and dosimetry of radioiodine in 12 sites of thyroid carcinoma in seven patients. SPECT was also used to determine the dosimetry of [131I]MIBG (metaiodobenzylguanidine) in two patients with carcinoid, two with neuroblastoma, and one with pheochromocytoma. The radiation dose for thyroid carcinoma metastases varied between 6.3 and 276.9 rad/mCi. The dose from MIBG varied between 13.4 and 57.8 rad/mCi. These results indicate the validity of quantitative SPECT for in vivo measurement of 131I and the need to measure the concentration of 131I in individual human tumor sites. 
Bladder perforation resulting from the use of the neodymium:YAG laser. Complications resulting from the use of the neodymium:YAG (Nd:YAG) laser to treat superficial bladder cancer are uncommon and are usually associated with abnormally high laser power outputs. We report a case of bladder perforation in a human attributed to the Nd:YAG laser used at a low power setting and comment on those factors that contributed to this complication. 
Visual disturbance in patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk. Visual disturbance in 11 patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk was analyzed. Goldmann visual field examination showed enlargement of Mariotte's blind spot in 7 of 10 patients (70%) and visual field defect or depression in 7 patients (70%). In 6 of the 7 patients with visual field defect of depression (86%), the portion of visual field damage corresponded with the location of the tumor and retinal nerve fiber bundle defect. In 1 patient, sudden loss of visual acuity occurred, presumably due to anterior ischemic optic neuropathy induced by melanocytoma. 
Prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly. To determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population, we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly. No sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads. However, 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ. Thus, the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8% (95% confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2%). This frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the Danish male population. The median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm., respectively. This difference was statistically significant (p = 0.00003). Thus, our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis. The median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm. lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine. However, this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.17). Microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83% of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis, including late spermatids in all tubules. In the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes, such as spermatogenic arrest, the Sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization. 
Nerve growth factor stimulates protein tyrosine phosphorylation in PC-12 pheochromocytoma cells. The cellular actions of nerve growth factor (NGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) may be mediated by changes in protein phosphorylation. The tyrosine phosphorylation of two predominant proteins of molecular mass 40 and 42 kDa is seen in PC-12 cells treated with NGF or EGF, correlating with activation of a previously identified serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates microtubule-associated protein (MAP). Stimulation of phosphoprotein (pp) 40 and 42 phosphorylation and MAP kinase activity by NGF but not EGF is selectively attenuated by staurosporine and K-252A. Moreover, the time courses of pp40/42 phosphorylation and MAP kinase activation produced by NGF or EGF are identical. Chromatography of lysates from growth factor-treated cells on ion-exchange or hydrophobic-interaction HPLC resolves MAP kinase into two peaks, neither of which precisely coelutes with pp40 or pp42. One of these peaks (II) exhibits no detectable phosphotyrosine. The other peak (I) has some overlap with pp40. However, the activity residing in both peaks is almost completely inhibited after treatment with alkaline phosphatase, suggesting that, at least, serine/threonine phosphorylation is required for the activity of these enzymes. These data indicate that while tyrosine phosphorylation appears to be a critical early event in NGF action, the role of this modification in activation of MAP kinases remains unclear. 
Multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses. The purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called Exserohilum rostratum. Exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis, a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi. This class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious, progressive pansinusitis. To our knowledge, this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to E rostratum. The diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens. A craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles. Aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described. 
Prospective study of alcohol intake and large bowel cancer. The alcohol intake of a cohort of Japanese men in Hawaii is directly and significantly related to the risk of developing rectal cancer, whether assessed on the basis of amount consumed or as a percent of total calories. Wine and whiskey are directly related to rectal cancer, but beer is the only alcoholic beverage that displays a statistically significant dose-response (P = 0.008). Colon cancer risk also is related directly to alcohol intake, but the association is statistically significant only when measured as a percent of energy intake. This suggests that alcohol might displace cancer inhibitors from the diet. Calcium, vitamin C, and dietary fiber are inversely related to colon cancer risk in this cohort, and each of these micronutrients displays statistically significant negative correlation with alcohol intake. A possible positive association between alcohol and lung cancer was ruled out after adjusting for cigarette smoking. Cancers of the prostate and stomach were unrelated to alcohol intake, but the risk of acquiring cancer at all other sites combined was strongly related to alcohol intake. 
Shear stress induces not only platelet aggregation but also platelet-tumor cell interaction. To investigate the interaction between platelets and tumor cells under well-defined flow conditions, the effect of tumor cells on platelet aggregation induced by shear stress was studied using a cone and plate viscometer adapted for measuring transmitted light intensity. Aggregation was markedly enhanced by HMV-1 cells in a cell number-dependent fashion under shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2. Enhancement was not observed at a high shear stress of 108 dyne/cm2. A monoclonal antibody against GPIIb/IIIa, 7E3 completely abolished enhancement of aggregation by HMV-1. Apyrase had similar inhibitory effects. Scanning electronmicroscopy showed that direct contacts of platelets with HMV-1 cells could be demonstrated when platelet-platelet interaction was inhibited by 7E3 or apyrase. These results may indicate that, at a shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2, direct contacts of platelets and HMV-1 cells may trigger enhancement of platelet aggregation. 
Ampullary carcinoma in patients under 50 years of age with a poor prognosis. Clinicopathologic features of 145 Japanese patients with ampullary carcinoma were compared among three age groups. The 145 patients were divided into three groups by the patient's age at the time of operation; there were 24 patients in group I (younger) aged less than or equal to 50 years, 99 in group II (ordinary) aged 51-69, and 22 in group III (elderly) aged greater than or equal to 70. The three groups showed no significant difference in sex, icterus, duration of icterus, size of the tumor, year of operation, macroscopic type, histopathologic type, tumor margin, lymphatic permeation, venous invasion, or pancreatic invasion. The survival curve of group I was worse than those of groups II and III. Multivariate regression analysis using 11 prognostic variables failed to reveal that the age of the patient at the time of operation was an independent factor. The younger patients aged less than or equal to 50 fared worse than the elderly patients aged greater than or equal to 70, because the group I tumors included a significantly greater number of advanced ampullary carcinoma with more frequent perineural invasion than did the group III tumors. 
Adjuvant cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil in patients with axillary node-positive breast cancer: an update of the Guy's/Manchester trial. Between 1976 and 1985, 391 patients (202 premenopausal, 189 postmenopausal) with operable breast cancer and positive axillary lymph nodes were randomized after total mastectomy and axillary clearance to receive cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) (n = 193) or no adjuvant therapy (n = 198). After a median follow-up of 8 years, both relapse-free survival (RFS) and survival (S) were significantly prolonged in premenopausal patients receiving CMF (RFS, P less than .001; S, P = .003). Treatment with CMF resulted in a significant improvement in RFS in premenopausal patients both with steroid receptor-positive and steroid receptor-negative tumors and also in subgroups of premenopausal patients defined by the number of axillary nodes involved. Premenopausal patients who developed permanent amenorrhea following CMF had a significantly better RFS than those who continued to menstruate. Induction of amenorrhea following CMF was related to age, with almost all patients over 40 years becoming amenorrheic. For patients less than or equal to 40 years, development of amenorrhea following CMF did not influence outcome. No difference was detected between control and CMF groups (RFS, P = .9; S, P = .9) in postmenopausal patients nor in any subgroup of these patients. The results of this trial of the efficacy of CMF for improving RFS and S have strengthened with longer follow-up. 
Toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy. A Pediatric Oncology Group study. Experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (HDAC) in pediatric solid tumors is limited. Sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) study that required the administration of HDAC at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses. There were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma, two cases of fibrosarcoma, four cases of neuroblastoma, and one case each of germ cell tumor, Wilm's tumor, retinoblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, Ewing's sarcoma, and Burkitt's lymphoma. All eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy. Thirteen patients received one course of HDAC and three patients received two courses of HDAC. Due to prior treatments, patients had less than normal marrow reserves. Short-term toxicity included nausea, vomiting, suppression of hemopoiesis, drug fever, and increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, and liver enzymes. All evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities. There were no drug-related deaths. None of the patients had neurologic problems, including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull. With the above schedule, HDAC appears to have manageable toxicity. 
Hemiparesis and ischemic changes of the white matter after intrathecal therapy for children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. Three children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) developed delayed-onset transient hemiparesis and facial palsy after intrathecal (IT) administration of methotrexate (MTX) alone or as part of triple intrathecal chemotherapy for central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis. The hemiparesis developed 10 to 14 days after IT therapy. Two of three children also experienced transient, profound expressive dysarthria. These episodes occurred during maintenance treatment after multiple IT administrations and without previous CNS toxicity. Two of three children received intermediate-dose MTX, 1 g/m2, not less than 5 weeks before events. These patients had not received cranial irradiation and had no evidence of CNS leukemia before or after these episodes. Ischemic changes on computerized tomographic scan or magnetic resonance imaging studies were documented in all three cases. Such changes are unusual manifestations of neurotoxicity in children after intrathecal therapy. 
The effect of age on treatment choice and survival in elderly breast cancer patients. To investigate the effect of age on treatment choice and survival in patients with breast cancer, data from the cancer registry of the Netherlands Cancer Institute (NKI, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) on 611 women have been analyzed. All patients 55 years and older admitted to the NKI for primary treatment of breast cancer between 1981 and 1986 were selected. For women 75 years and older, physicians were less likely to use treatment of adjuvant radiation therapy after a mastectomy and more often employed primary hormonal therapy only for local stage disease than for younger patients. Life-table analysis showed that disease-specific survival at 7 years for patients 65 through 74 years of age was significantly better (65%) than that of the youngest (55%) and the oldest age group (50%). In multivariate regression analysis (Cox), age older than 74 years was significantly and independently associated with a shorter disease-specific survival as compared with patients younger than 75 years. This difference in survival, however, does not seem to be the result of the difference in treatment between the age groups, but suggests an influence of age-related factors such as comorbid diseases and weak physical condition, which manifest themselves most strongly in the oldest age category and make the older woman more vulnerable to the course of malignant disease. 
Extramedullary plasmacytoma of the urethra: a case report. Extramedullary plasmacytomas are uncommon manifestations of plasma cell neoplasms, which occur rarely in the urinary tract. We report to our knowledge the third case of primary IgA plasmacytoma of the urethra. Diagnosis, therapy and followup with magnetic resonance imaging are presented. 
Primary lymphoma of the central nervous system in two children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Postmortem examination disclosed central nervous system non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in two children who died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) at 6 and 14 months of age, respectively. Systemic signs of lymphoma were not present. The B-cell origin and clonality of the neoplastic cells were established by immunohistochemistry in one case and by molecular analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the other. Moreover, in the latter case the neoplastic cells were characterized by the presence of a single episomal EBV genome. According to these data, the monoclonal B-cell proliferation occurred after EBV infection, thus suggesting a possible pathogenetic role of EBV in the early stages of lymphomagenesis. 
Aneuploidy in pancreatic insulinomas does not predict malignancy. Nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) ploidy studies with paraffin embedded archival material from 14 pancreatic insulinomas were performed by flow cytometry. Clinical follow-up (2 to 17 years; mean, 8 years) was obtained for all patients. Half of the tumors had a normal DNA histogram and half exhibited an abnormal DNA profile consistent with DNA aneuploidy. Six of the seven patients with aneuploid tumors are alive and disease free (2 to 5 years postresection), and one is alive with metastatic disease. Of the seven patients with tumors showing normal DNA profiles, five are alive and disease free, one is dead of disease, and one is alive with metastatic disease. These data suggest that DNA ploidy analysis is unlikely to provide useful prognostic information for patients with insulinomas. 
Marker profile of different phases in the transition of normal human ovarian epithelium to ovarian carcinomas. To investigate whether early changes in the transformation of normal ovarian epithelial cells into tumor cells can be detected with monoclonal antibodies, a comparative immunohistochemical study was performed on normal human ovarian mesothelial cells, cystomas, cystadenomas, ovarian carcinomas, as well as granulosa cell tumor. Using monoclonal antibodies against different keratin subtypes, it was shown that mesothelial cells, ovarian cysts, cystadenomas, and carcinomas all reacted positively with broad-spectrum anti-keratin monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), as well as with MAbs to keratins 7, 8, 18, and 19. Keratins 4 and 13 were not found in mesothelial cells, but positive groups of cells were identified in several cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas. While mesothelial cells did not react with the pan-epithelial marker BW495/36, invaginating metaplastic mesothelial cells, inclusion cysts, cystomas, adenomas, and carcinomas showed an increasing reactivity with BW495/36, with an increasing degree of malignancy. The reactivity of MAbs against ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens (OV-TL 3, OC 125, MOv 18, and OV-TL 10) was limited to weak staining reaction in some mesothelial cells but were found to be positive on more than 50% of the ovarian cystadenomas and more than 90% of the ovarian carcinomas. Thecal and granulosa cells of primordial, primary, and secondary follicles all reacted positively with antibodies to the broad-spectrum keratins OV-TL 12/5 and RCK 102, and to keratins 8 and 18, but not with keratins 4, 7, 13, and 19. These keratins decreased or disappeared in granulosa cells of mature follicles (Graafian follicles), whereas granulosa cell tumors did not react with anti-keratin antibodies. The reactivity of BW 495/36 was negative or limited to traces in some granulosa cells. Ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens were not expressed in granulosa cells or granulosa cell tumors. The data indicate that mesothelial cells undergoing metaplastic changes finally resulting in ovarian cystadenomas (and carcinomas) initiate the synthesis of a 200-kd glycoprotein recognized by MAb (BW 495/36), the production of ovarian carcinoma associated antigens, in addition to focal production of keratin 4 and/or 13, as seen in several samples. The granulosa cell tumors decrease or switch off their keratin production and remain negative for the 200-kd glycoprotein and the ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens. 
Ganglioglioma: a clinical study with long-term follow-up. Gangliogliomas are uncommon tumors of mixed neoplastic glial and neuronal elements. Because of their low incidence, few large series exist that fully describe the clinical characteristics of patients afflicted with this tumor. We have reviewed the medical records of 20 patients at Duke University Medical Center with histologically proven gangliogliomas. These patients typically presented within the first three decades of life and their most common presenting symptom was seizures. Therapies included surgical resection, either partial or total, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy. Long-term follow-up was achieved by chart review and by telephone interview. Patients who underwent gross total resection alone seemed to fare the best when comparing all treatment groups, and we therefore recommend this as the main form of treatment. 
Dexamethasone-nonsuppressible cortisol in two cases with aldosterone-producing adenoma. Forty-one patients with aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) were subjected to a dexamethasone suppression test (DST) before surgery. Serum cortisol and urinary excretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids were suppressed by dexamethasone in 39 patients [DST(+)]. In two patients (cases A and B), they were not suppressed [DST(-)]. Clinical manifestations of the two DST(-) patients were similar to those of DST(+) patients. Hypertension, hypokalemia, high serum aldosterone levels, and suppressed PRA were found in all of the patients. The cut surfaces of the adenomas from all of the patients, including cases A and B, were golden yellow, which is typical of APA. However, atrophies of the adjacent normal tissues were evident exclusively in the two DST(-) patients. After removal of the affected adrenals, the serum cortisol level was suppressed by dexamethasone in one of the DST(-) patients (case B). These findings suggested autonomous cortisol production by APA. To evaluate whether cortisol could be produced from the adenoma tissue, the presence of several steroidogenic enzymes was studied by immunohistochemistry and mRNA analysis in the adenomas and the adjacent nonneoplastic adrenals from the 2 DST(-) and 5 DST(+) patients. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that steroidogenic enzymes were expressed in APA tumor tissues from both DST(-) and DST(+) patients. In both groups, mRNAs coding steroidogenic enzymes were present not only in the nonneoplastic but also in the tumor tissues. Quantitative analysis of the mRNA levels revealed that in the adrenals from DST(+) patients, the mRNAs were more abundant in nonneoplastic tissue than in tumor tissue. However, in those from DST(-) cases, the mRNAs were much more abundant in the tumor tissues than in the nonneoplastic tissues. These results indicate that tumor cells of the two DST(-) patients autonomously synthesized not only aldosterone but also cortisol. The diameters of the tumors from the two DST(-) patients exceeded 3 cm, while those from other DST(+) patients were smaller. In patients with large APA, adrenal insufficiency should be anticipated upon removal of the tumor. 
Histopathologic study of otitis media in individuals with head and neck tumors. Five temporal bones, each including the eustachian tube, were obtained from five adults with advanced malignant tumors of the head and neck. The specimens were from the side on which the tumor had occurred. Otitis media had been detected clinically in two cases, and was detected histopathologically in the other three. We discuss the possibility that otitis media might have been caused by tumor invasion of the paratubal area, by postoperative inflammation in the nasopharynx, or by an inflammatory reaction of tubal structures to radiotherapy, or that these conditions may have coexisted. 
Doxorubicin for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. A prospective study on the addition of verapamil. A prospective study was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of the addition of oral verapamil to intravenous Adriamycin (doxorubicin) for the management of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). All 28 patients studied had histologically verified disease, and cirrhosis was present in 20 of the 21 patients with adequate tissue sampling. The overall median survival was 57 days. Chemotherapy was terminated in seven patients after one course of treatment. Partial response and complete response were noted in four patients (19%) and one patient (4.8%), respectively, among the 21 patients evaluated. Side effects related to the chemotherapy were present in all patients studied. Death from fulminating sepsis occurred in three of the 13 patients with leukopenia. Symptomatic myocardial dysfunction developed in one patient. The addition of verapamil apparently did not potentiate the tumoricidal effect of systemic Adriamycin on HCC but probably did increase its complications. 
Overexpression of normal and mutated forms of HRAS induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma. Recent studies have shown that orthotopic (transurethral) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host. Thus, such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer, the vast majority of which are curable, to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease. Since 5-10% of transitional cell carcinomas (TCCs) have been shown to contain a mutated HRAS gene, and protein expression levels of all forms of HRAS have been correlated with TCC progression, we chose to study the contribution of the HRAS oncogene in bladder tumor progression. We evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated HRAS genes into a human TCC, called RT-4, that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice. We found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated HRAS genes converted RT-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas. These results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated RAS genes in human bladder carcinoma progression, and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression. 
Lung cancer in patients younger than 40 years of age. The records of 52 patients younger than 40 years of age who had bronchogenic carcinoma diagnosed between 1965 and 1985 were reviewed. The preponderance of adenocarcinoma (54%), the lower male-female ratio in this age group compared with patients age 40 or older (2:1), the importance of cigarette smoking as a causative factor (80% of patients), the long mean duration of symptoms (5 months), and the high incidence of advanced stage at diagnosis (77% Stages III and IV) in these patients are findings similar to those reported in other published series. There was no significant difference in resectability (23% versus 19%), median survival length (5.3 months versus 6.9 months), median survival length of patients who had surgical resection (10.5 months versus 10.8 months), and 5-year survival rate (11.5% versus 6.3%) in these patients compared with a randomly selected group of 260 patients with lung cancer who were age 40 or older. 
Endoprosthetic reconstruction after bone tumor resections of the proximal tibia. The advent of successful adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy protocols for primary malignant tumors and the development of custom-designed metallic endoprostheses has now made possible a successful limb salvage procedure for malignancies of the proximal tibia. Use of the transposed medial gastrocnemius flap, as proposed by Dr. Jean Duboussett of Paris, has been critical to the soft-tissue reconstruction that routinely permits an excellent active and passive range of motion for these patients. This article describes the operative techniques and technical considerations necessary for a successful proximal tibial endoprosthesis reconstruction. 
Participation of serotonergic mechanisms in the pathophysiology of experimental neoplastic spinal cord compression. We evaluated the role of serotonin (5-HT) in neoplastic cord compression in paraplegic rats harboring a thoracolumbar epidural tumor. We measured serotonin and its major metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA), in the C-1 to C-7, T-1 to T-6, T-7 to T-12, and T-13 to L-3 spinal segments of tumor-free and tumor-bearing rats. In normal controls, a consistent rostral-to-caudal gradient for 5-HT and 5-HIAA was evident, but the 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio remained constant. In paralyzed rats, 5-HT levels were unchanged, but the 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio was elevated, especially in the compressed segments. Treatment with either dexamethasone or indomethacin delayed onset of paraplegia but had no effect on 5-HT metabolism. Blocking 5-HT receptors by cyproheptadine, evaluated 30 hours after onset of paralysis and treatment, resulted in a reduction in the high water content, vascular permeability, and prostaglandin E2 synthesis in the compressed cord. Early administration of cyproheptadine effectively delayed the onset of paraplegia. These data indicate that receptor-activated serotonergic mechanisms participate in the disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier and that these effects can be manipulated pharmacologically. 
The World Health Organization's histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors. A commentary on the second edition. The World Health Organization's (WHO) histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors has been revised. Although the general basis of classification and the overall outline remain similar to the first edition, advances in the last decade justified changes in classifying certain entities; among them were malignant lymphomas, endocrine tumors, and dysplasias. Several newly recognized entities have also been added. 
Chondrosarcoma of bone in children. Chondrosarcoma of bone rarely occurs in children. This report analyzes the clinicopathologic features in a series of 47 patients with conventional chondrosarcoma who were less than 17 years of age. Of the 47 cases, 14 were from the Mayo Clinic files, and 33 were from our consultation files. Most of the lesions occurred in the trunk and upper ends of the long bones, with the humerus being the most frequent skeletal site. Twelve of the 47 tumors were secondary. The radiographic findings were the same as those seen in adult chondrosarcoma. Pathologically, the tumors were low grade. En bloc resection is the treatment of choice because of the high incidence of local recurrence with lesser surgical margins. Prognosis in childhood chondrosarcoma is no different from that in adult chondrosarcoma. None of the patients with follow-up data had metastasis. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy. Three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging. The affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement. The magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence. 
Glucocorticoids locally disrupt an array of positioned nucleosomes on the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter in hepatoma cells. Transcriptional activation by steroid hormones is often associated with the appearance of a DNase I hypersensitive site resulting from a local alteration of the nucleoprotein structure of the promoter. For the mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat, a viral promoter under glucocorticoid control, a model has been proposed: the appearance of the hormonodependent DNase I hypersensitive site reflects the displacement of a single precisely positioned nucleosome associated with the glucocorticoid responsive elements. To determine if such a mechanism is of general relevance in transcriptional activation by steroid hormones, we have investigated the nucleosomal organization of the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter over a 1-kilobase region that contains the glucocorticoid regulatory target. This region displays a hormonodependent DNase I hypersensitive site. In the absence of hormone, micrococcal nuclease digestion of nuclei demonstrates the presence of positioned nucleosomes, with cutting sites centered around positions -3080, -2900, -2700, -2800, -2255, and -2040. Treatment of the cells with dexamethasone induces a disruption of the chromatin structure over a relatively short stretch of DNA (approximately positions -2400 to -2650) that overlaps two nucleosomes. These observations suggest a strong similarity in the role of chromatin structure in glucocorticoid-dependent transcriptional activation of mouse mammary tumor virus and tyrosine aminotransferase promoters. 
Peritumoral blood flow in intracranial meningiomas. Blood flow was measured in intratumoral tissue, the cerebral hemispheres and particularly in the peritumoral area of 12 patients with intracranial meningiomas using the stable xenon-enhanced computed tomographic scan. Tumor blood flow frequently showed a heterogeneous pattern of enhancement with high flow at the tumor periphery and a central area of hypoperfusion. Blood flow values were on average 28% lower in the peritumoral area than in the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere. In individual cases, blood flow values in the peritumoral edematous area were very low. These findings suggest that the hypodense area surrounding meningiomas does not solely represent vasogenic edema, but may actually represent tumor pressure ischemia. 
Anti-tumor X anti-lymphocyte heteroconjugates augment colon tumor cell lysis in vitro and prevent tumor growth in vivo. Cross-linking an anti-tumor antibody, specific for tumor cell surface antigens, and an anti-lymphocyte antibody, specific for the T lymphocyte receptor complex (TCR/CD3), produces a heteroconjugate that can direct T cells to lyse tumor cells. We tested the ability of anti-tumor X anti-lymphocyte (CD3) heteroconjugates to redirect human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) to lyse human colon cancer cells in cytotoxicity assays and in a murine colon tumor model. We demonstrated in vitro, that cultured human PBLs alone produced low levels of tumor lysis, but PBLs treated with anti-tumor X anti-CD3 heteroconjugates produced significantly greater tumor cell lysis (P less than 0.0025). Similarly, nude mice injected with LS174T human colon cancer cells and treated with cultured human PBLs and anti-tumor X anti-CD3 heteroconjugates survived significantly longer than saline control mice (P less than 0.01), or mice treated with PBLs alone (P less than 0.01), or heteroconjugates alone (P less than 0.05). F(ab')2 heteroconjugates were equally as effective in prolonging animal survival, but irrelevant heteroconjugates and monoclonal anti-tumor antibodies showed no therapeutic benefit. Anti-tumor X anti-CD3 heteroconjugates may represent an effective approach to tumor-specific cellular immunotherapy. 
Combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap for the repair of wide defects of the lower leg. The tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap has great advantages for reconstruction of the abdominal wall, but the medial border of its territory is limited to the thigh. In order to expand the territory, a combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap was devised. This flap was successfully used to resurface a large defect in the lower leg as a distally based musculocutaneous flap. The advantages of this flap are its extremely large territory, the fact that total necrosis of the flap cannot occur, and that as a proximally or distally pedicled flap it is suitable for large defects in the abdominal wall, lower leg, and gluteal region. 
Presence of identical mitochondrial proteins in unstimulated constitutive steroid-producing R2C rat Leydig tumor and stimulated nonconstitutive steroid-producing MA-10 mouse Leydig tumor cells. The acute regulation of steroidogenesis in steroidogenic tissues requires de novo protein synthesis. It is believed that these newly synthesized proteins are instrumental in the delivery of the substrate, cholesterol, to the inner mitochondrial membrane where the cholesterol side-chain cleavage complex converts cholesterol to pregnenolone. A number of studies have attempted to characterize the protein(s) synthesized in response to hormone stimulation and, hence, function in the delivery of cholesterol to the cholesterol side-chain cleavage complex. While a number of potential protein candidates have been described, there is at present no unequivocal evidence which indicates that they are involved in steroidogenic regulation. We and others have described proteins that are induced in a variety of steroidogenic tissues in response to hormone stimulation and are localized in the mitochondria of these tissues. In an attempt to determine whether these induced proteins may be involved in steroidogenesis, we compared mitochondrial protein profiles in two separate Leydig tumor cell line. One cell line, the MA-10 mouse Leydig tumor cell line, has a very low basal steroid production, but synthesizes large amounts of progesterone in response to both tropic hormone and cAMP analog. The other cell line, the R2C rat Leydig tumor cell line, produces constitutively large amounts of progesterone, which cannot be increased further with hormone stimulation. Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis profiles of newly synthesized mitochondrial proteins demonstrated that four 30-kDa proteins are induced in response to hormonal stimulation in MA-10 cells. Further, it was shown that proteins identical to these induced proteins are present constitutively in the mitochondria of R2C cells and cannot be further increased with hormone stimulation. These results strongly suggest that the 30-kDa mitochondrial proteins shown to be induced in several steroidogenic tissues are involved in the acute regulation of steroid production. 
Renal cell carcinoma vs. renal oncocytoma. Report of a case with overlap features and review of the literature Although the salient features of renal oncocytomas and renal cell carcinomas have been discussed in the recent literature, renal masses with features of both entities will present diagnostic difficulty, especially when the cells are diffusely eosinophilic on microscopic examination. A case of a firm, tan, rounded mass replacing the lower pole of the kidney is discussed. The final diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma, granular cell type, was made after multiple sections of the tumor were examined, and after electron microscopy was performed. A thorough search by light microscopy should be made for clear cell foci, necrosis, mitotic activity, and vascular or capsular invasion, features generally accepted as pathognomonic for renal cell carcinoma. Cellular and especially nuclear pleomorphism is typically focal or mild in renal oncocytomas. True oncocytic tumors will be packed with mitochondria on electron microscopy; however, granular renal cell carcinomas will contain mitochondria as well as other cellular organelles, lipid, and glycogen. Electron microscopy should be performed on tumors suspected of being oncocytomas because eosinophilia on hematoxylin and eosin stain, as demonstrated by this case, is not a predictable measure of mitochondria content. Immunoperoxidase staining for vimentin in oncocytomas has recently been shown to be negative, and may offer a method of ruling out oncocytoma in vimentin-positive tumors, pending further studies. 
Simple technique for long term central venous access in the patient with thrombocytopenic carcinoma. A technique for the insertion of a central venous access device in the patient with thrombocytopenia is described. Using the Seldinger technique, a wire is placed into the internal jugular vein. A catheter tunneled from the anterior part of the chest is inserted through a peel-away sheath into the central venous system. The incision is then closed. 
Mortality among workers at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Evidence of radiation effects in follow-up through 1984 [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Aug 7;266(5):657] White men hired at the Oak Ridge (Tenn) National Laboratory between 1943 and 1972 were followed up for vital status through 1984 (N = 8318, 1524 deaths). Relatively low mortality compared with that in US white men was observed for most causes of death, but leukemia mortality was elevated in the total cohort (63% higher, 28 deaths) and in workers who had at some time been monitored for internal radionuclide contamination (123% higher, 16 deaths). Median cumulative dose of external penetrating radiation was 1.4 mSv; 638 workers had cumulative doses above 50 mSv (5 rem). After accounting for age, birth cohort, a measure of socioeconomic status, and active worker status, external radiation with a 20-year exposure lag was related to all causes of death (2.68% increase per 10 mSv) primarily due to an association with cancer mortality (4.94% per 10 mSv). Studies of this population through 1977 did not find radiation-cancer mortality associations, and identical analyses using the shorter follow-up showed that associations with radiation did not appear until after 1977. The radiation-cancer dose response is 10 times higher than estimates from the follow-up of survivors of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, but similar to one previous occupational study. Dose-response estimates are subject to uncertainties due to potential problems, including measurement of radiation doses and cancer outcomes. Longer-term follow-up of this and other populations with good measurement of protracted low-level exposures will be critical to evaluating the generalizability of the results reported herein. 
Management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps. Our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection, either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, is presented. A total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection. All wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap. Fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing, eight of whom had no complications. Only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients, with only one patient failing to heal. Our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem. 
Acinic cell carcinoma. Clinicopathologic review. The authors reviewed 90 cases of acinic cell carcinoma treated at the Mayo Clinic to assess long-term follow-up and to study features predictive of disease progression. Sixty-three patients (55 females and 35 males) were seen for primary treatment; 27 had recurrent disease when first evaluated. Histologically, these tumors were composed of serous acinar cells and intercalated duct-type cells. Morphologic patterns included solid, microcystic, follicular, and papillary-cystic. All patients were followed for at least 10 years or until death. Of the primary treatment group, 44% had local recurrence, 19% had metastasis, and 25% died of disease. Disease first recurred locally up to 30 years after presentation and resulted in death after as many as 38 years. Poor prognostic features include pain or fixation; gross invasion; microscopic features of desmoplasia, atypia, or increased mitotic activity; and excision as initial treatment. Neither morphologic pattern nor cell composition was a predictive feature. 
Fibrosarcoma of the head and neck. The UCLA experience. Between 1955 and 1987, twenty-nine patients with the diagnosis of fibrosarcoma of the head and neck were seen at the UCLA Medical Center. Follow-up ranged from 15 to 192 months, with a median of 66 months. Absolute 5-year survival was 62% (13/21). Five of 17 patients treated initially with surgery alone achieved local control and long-term survival. All five had low-grade lesions. Five patients received postoperative radiation therapy because of positive surgical margins. Three were rendered disease free, and all had low-grade lesions. Radiation therapy was used as primary treatment in six patients, four of whom received additional chemotherapy. Of these six, two are disease free with longer than 5-year follow-up. Surgery with and without adjuvant therapy successfully salvaged 42% (5/12) of the patients with local recurrence. Eighty percent (12/15) of the patients with low-grade lesions were ultimately rendered disease free vs only 8% (1/12) of the patients with high-grade histologic features. Seventy-two percent (13/18) of the patients with local recurrence were known to have positive surgical margins. Sixty-eight percent (13/19) of the patients with recurrent disease had high-grade lesions and/or tumor size larger than 5 cm. Tumor grade is the most important prognostic factor followed by tumor size and surgical margin status. Patients with low-grade lesions and adequate surgical margins are treated well with surgery alone. Patients with high-grade lesions or positive surgical margins should receive adjuvant treatment. 
Dexamethasone inhibits the induction of monocyte chemotactic-activating factor production by IL-1 or tumor necrosis factor. Recently purified and molecularly cloned monocyte chemotactic and activating factor (MCAF) may play a major role in recruiting and activating monocytes in the inflammatory process. We examined the effects of a potent anti-inflammatory agent, dexamethasone (DXS), on the production of this factor. Over a wide range of concentrations (10(-5) to 10(-8) M), DXS inhibited the production of MCAF at the mRNA and protein level in a human fibrosarcoma cell line, which was stimulated with either IL-1 or TNF-alpha. We examined the turn-over of synthesized MCAF mRNA that showed DXS decreased the stability of MCAF mRNA. Furthermore, the addition of actinomycin D and cycloheximide abolished this effect of DXS, indicating that de novo mRNA and protein synthesis were required for this process. In addition, a nuclear run-off analysis revealed that DXS also inhibited the transcription of IL-1- or TNF-activated MCAF genes. Therefore, both the destabilization of MCAF mRNA and the inhibition of transcription of the gene contribute to the decrease in the MCAF mRNA steady state level by DXS. 
E1a-dependent expression of adenovirus genes in OTF963 embryonal carcinoma cells: role of E1a-induced differentiation. Some undifferentiated F9 embryonal carcinoma cells allow adenovirus genes to be expressed independently of the E1a oncogene normally required for their activation; this has been attributed to a cellular equivalent of E1a in F9 cells. However, transcription of all early genes was low in undifferentiated OTF963 embryonic carcinoma cells during the first 48 hr after infection with adenovirus type 5 (Ad5). Transcription then increased to about the level seen 16 hr after infection of cells induced to differentiate by retinoic acid (RA) (referred to as RA-dF9 cells), but this increase did not occur in cells infected by the E1a deletion mutant dl312. Addition of E1a in trans, or of RA, had no immediate effect on viral transcription in OTF963 cells, but viral transcription increased about 48 hr after these additions. Ad5 induced transcription of several differentiation-specific genes in OTF963 cells with about the same kinetics as their induction by RA. These genes were superinduced in RA-dF9 cells by cAMP or infection by adenovirus. We suggest the small amount of E1a produced early in infection of OTF963 cells activates cellular genes, some of which are differentiation specific and required for efficient transcription of viral genes, so that E1a both induces and is induced by differentiation. The simple hypothesis of a cellular equivalent to E1a does not adequately explain the complex interactions between viral and cellular genes in OTF963 embryonic carcinoma cells. 
Prognosticators of second-look laparotomy findings in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. Prognosticators of outcome at second-look laparotomy (SLL) were evaluated in 49 patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma undergoing SLL. Residual tumor volume was found to be the most significant prognosticator of outcome, with initial tumor stage being of secondary importance. Grade of tumor played no role in outcome at SLL. The results of the study led us to the conclusion that the second-look procedure may be safely omitted in stage I patients. The importance of optimal cytoreduction during primary surgery was stressed. 
Renal cell metastases versus liver hemangioma. We present the case of a man with presumed metastatic renal cell carcinoma based on radiologic examination and weight loss, who refused treatment of any kind for one year. A surgical exploration to control hematuria revealed a Stage I tumor. 
Localization and peptide content of endocrine pancreatic tumors. Endocrine pancreatic tumors contain and frequently secret neurohormonal peptides. This phenomenon can be used as a diagnostic and classifying tool. This study analyzes 31 patients operated on because of an endocrine pancreatic tumor, including the diagnostic procedures and the localization methods. In 15 insulinoma cases only 6 patients had a positive arteriography, while all 11 selective pancreatic vein samplings were positive. The immunoreactivity showed that, besides insulin, most tumors also contained other peptides. Of four gastrinoma cases the arteriography was positive in three, but the selective vein sampling localized the tumor in all. The tumor's content of peptides showed mixed patterns. In the four glucagonomas, the arteriography was positive in all and the venous sampling performed in three of the cases also was positive. In five pancreatic polypeptide-containing tumors (PP-omas) the arteriography was positive in four and sampling performed in two was positive in both. In the PP-omas the peptide pattern showed that these tumors frequently contain several peptides. We used selective pancreatic vein sampling in 21 cases with positive result in all. In the cases in which arteriography was negative, the sampling results helped the surgeon to find the tumor. The peptide pattern in the tumors varied greatly and most tumors were multihormonal. 
A three-dimensional system for long-term culture of human colorectal adenomas. Studies of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence in the colon and rectum have been limited by the paucity of experimental models of adenoma growth and progression. Progress recently was reported in the development of monolayer culture systems. The principal objective of this study was to develop a primary culture system for colorectal adenomas that would simulate three-dimensional in vivo growth. We used a calcium alginate encapsulation technique that was previously described for established tumor cell lines. Briefly, fresh resected specimens were washed, minced into small multicellular particles called microadenomas, and encapsulated in 1% calcium alginate pellets. The pellets were maintained in minimum essential medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum at 37 degrees C in humidified atmosphere of 95% air, 5% CO2. Ten of eleven adenomas, including six tubular, three tubulovillous, and one villous have been successfully cultured for 34 to 162 days. Cell viability was confirmed histologically by light and electron microscopy. The cells were characterized as epithelial by morphologic features and ultrastructural studies, which showed a high degree of cellular differentiation, including villous brush borders and many desmosomes. Both tubular and villuslike structures have been observed in vitro, correlating in some cases with the histology of the parent adenoma. Measurements of proliferative activity by [3H]thymidine autoradiography or immunohistochemical staining with the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 demonstrated growth fractions of 9% to 25%. A simple, highly efficient primary culture system was developed for the long-term maintenance of adenomas that promotes three-dimensional growth patterns and growth rates analogous to those seen in vivo. This model provides an opportunity to develop an experimental system for longitudinal studies of pathologic and molecular parameters in adenoma progression to carcinoma. 
Clinicopathologic and flow cytometric DNA study of medullary thyroid carcinoma. Sixty-one patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma were investigated to establish relationships between the neoplasm's DNA content, other clinicopathologic factors, and patient survival (at least 5 years' follow-up). There were 26 (42.6%) familial and 35 (57.4%) sporadic carcinomas. Forty-two neoplasms (68.8%) were diploid and 19 (31.2%) were aneuploid by flow cytometric assessment. In univariate analysis, age, hereditary background, DNA content, calcitonin immunoreactivity, and type of surgery were strong predictors of clinical outcomes. In multivariate regression analysis, none of these factors was an independent prognosticator. Patients' gender, clinical stage, histologic subtype, and amyloid content of the tumor did not influence survival. 
Mixed glioblastoma multiforme and sarcoma. A clinicopathologic study of 26 radiation therapy oncology group cases. Twenty-six cases are reported of gliosarcoma (GS) retrieved from a series of 1479 glioblastomas (GBM) that were part of five consecutive, randomized Phase II or III malignant glioma protocols initiated by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group between 1974 and 1983. The clinicopathologic features of these 26 cases, including actuarial survival times, were compared with the remaining 1453 GBM. The minimal qualitative and quantitative histologic criteria required to diagnose GS are presented. In most cases the sarcomatous component was a malignant fibrous histiocytoma; a minority were fibrosarcoma. No significant differences between GS and GBM were found with regard to age, sex, pretreatment Karnofsky performance status, tumor location, size, median survival (8.3 and 9.6 months, respectively), and actuarial survival. None of the treatment regimens, which included various combinations of radiation therapy and chemotherapy, improved the survival of GS over GBM. Selective involvement of the temporal lobe by GS was not found, and the frequency of GS was determined to be only 1.8% of all GBM. 
Clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the t(4;11)(q21;q23): a collaborative study of 40 cases. The t(4;11)(q21;q23) chromosomal abnormality was identified in 40 (2%) of 1,986 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). This translocation was associated with female sex (63%), age less than 1 year (60%), hyperleukocytosis (median leukocyte count, 156.5 x 10(9)/L), CD10-/CD19+ B-precursor cell immunophenotype, and myeloid-associated antigen (CD15) expression (63%). Nearly all cases had at least some CD24- blast cells. The CD10-/CD15%/CD19+/CD24/+ phenotype was found in 20 of the 32 t(4;11) cases tested. None of the 40 cases had the cytogenetic finding of hyperdiploidy greater than 50, which is a favorable prognostic feature. For clinical comparison, the t(4;11) cases were divided into three groups according to age at diagnosis: less than 1 year (n = 24), 1 to 9 years (n = 8), and greater than or equal to 10 years (n = 8). Compared with older patients, infants were more likely to have initial central nervous system leukemia (P = .05) and less likely to have pre-B-cell ALL (P = .05). Complete continuous remission has been maintained in only 7 of 24 infants and 2 of 8 patients aged greater than or equal to 10 years, in contrast to 7 of 8 children in the intermediate age group (P = .048). These findings suggest that the t(4;11) is an adverse prognostic feature in these two age groups. 
Effects of radiation therapy on skeletal growth in childhood. Ionizing radiation was used to treat childhood cancer long before the advent of chemotherapy, and it took little time for physicians to appreciate the deleterious effects it had on skeletal growth. The cause of this complication results predominantly from alteration of chondroblastic activity. This may stem directly from irradiation at the epiphyseal plate or indirectly from irradiation of glands that secrete growth-mediating hormones. The complication can go far beyond the obvious physical afflictions and extend into the psychologic domain, rendering deeper, more permanent scars. Presently, many of these effects are predictable, reducible, and treatable without compromising the cure that so often depends on the use of irradiation. Because of the complexities of childhood cancer therapy, strategies aimed at diminishing these effects are challenging. It is imperative that these effects be understood so that they can be reduced in current patients and prevented in future patients. 
Continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs for filling and lining the post-exenteration pelvis. Pelvic exenteration has a high complication rate due, in large part, to the extensive raw surfaces and dead space it creates. Numerous techniques have been used to control this space and line these surfaces, but none, to date, has proven to be a reliable solution. We investigated the use of continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs as a new "flap" to fill and line the pelvis in 17 patients, and found that our historical complication rate of 44% for pelvic exenteration was reduced to 18%. These reservoirs appear to be an improved method of managing the post-exenteration pelvis. 
Small cell lung cancer: staging with MR imaging. Small cell lung cancer is an aggressive neoplasm; metastases are detected in two-thirds of patients at diagnosis with use of conventional staging, which includes bilateral bone marrow biopsy, bone scintigraphy, and computed tomography (CT) of the head and abdomen. In 25 patients, small cell lung cancer was staged prospectively with both conventional staging and a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging protocol that included 1.5-T MR imaging of the pelvis, abdomen, spine, and brain. According to conventional staging, 14 patients had extensive disease and 11 patients had limited disease; according to staging with MR, 19 patients had extensive disease and six had limited disease. All metastatic disease sites seen with conventional staging were identified on MR images. MR images showed additional metastatic involvement in bone (four patients) and liver (three patients) not detected at conventional staging. A low-attenuation hepatic lesion on a CT scan was identified as a hemangioma on MR images. These preliminary data suggest that small cell lung cancer may be accurately staged with use of a single MR imaging study. 
The use of cytochemical procedures in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic myeloid leukemia. The use of Wright-Giemsa-stained smears alone for the classification of acute leukemias often proves unsatisfactory. Some cases of M1, M5a, M7, and L2 are morphologically similar. In such cases, cytochemical stains can provide an inexpensive and available diagnostic tool. M1 is positive for SBB and MPO. M5a is usually NSE positive, whereas SBB and MPO are negative. M7 usually is ANA esterase, PAS, and AP reactive, and do not stain with SBB, MPO, and ANB esterases. The megakaryocytic lineage usually is confirmed by ultrastructural cytochemistry for PPO or immunocytochemistry for platelet glycoproteins and von Willebrand factor. PAS block positivity and AP dotlike reactivity are suggestive of lymphoid lineage. NSE stains are useful in differentiating M2 from M4. Morphologic and cytochemical techniques also can suggest the presence of certain chromosomal abnormalities such as t(8;21) and inv(16), which may have an influence on prognosis. Because not all cases of acute leukemia are easily subtyped by morphology and cytochemistry, immunophenotyping, karyotyping, and molecular analysis of DNA and RNA of leukemia cells also may be required to define cell lineage. 
Familial occurrence of gastric cancer in the 2-year experience of a population-based registry. The authors studied the familial occurrence of tumors in 154 individuals with gastric cancer by reviewing the clinical data and the genealogical tree of all patients registered in 1986 through 1987 in the Local Health Care District of Modena, Italy, for cancer of the stomach. Crude and age-adjusted (world population) incidence rates of gastric cancer were 34.0 and 21.4 new cases/100,000/year, respectively, in men, and 24.5 and 10.9 in women, respectively. Among first-degree relatives of the registered patients there were 30 cases of gastric carcinoma versus 15 cases in a control group matched for age and sex (Mantel-Haenszel odds ratio [M-H OR] 3.14, P less than 0.01). This excess of gastric neoplasms was observed in siblings (17 versus 7, M-H OR 4.33, P less than 0.02) but not in parents (13 versus 8, not significant). Besides gastric cancer, there was no significant excess of other type of tumors in case families. The familial occurrence of gastric cancer tended to be more frequent in patients with "diffuse" carcinoma (52%) than in subjects with "intestinal" cancer (33%), although the difference was not statistically significant. In conclusion, the current investigation suggests that a "family history" for gastric neoplasms is usually observed in approximately 10% to 15% of the registered cases. As already described for other common malignancies, therefore, the familial occurrence of gastric carcinoma suggests the existence of a genetic susceptibility to cancer of the stomach, at least in a fraction of these patients. 
Extrathoracic metastatic malignant thymoma. Diagnosis by aspiration cytology. A fine-needle aspirate from a hepatic mass in a 65-year-old white man was examined. The patient had a history of histologically confirmed thymoma with metastases in multiple thoracic sites. The smears showed a dimorphic population of epithelial cells and lymphocytes, characteristic of thymoma. The resemblance of the cytologic pattern to the primary neoplasm and positive reactivity with various immunohistochemical agents peculiar to thymomas confirmed the diagnosis. Aspiration cytology has been described in the diagnosis of primary thymoma. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case of a cytologic diagnosis of metastatic thymoma and the first one with immunohistochemical studies. 
Invasive lobular carcinoma: mammographic findings in a 10-year experience From January 1, 1976 to December 30, 1985, 1,966 cases of breast carcinoma were diagnosed and treated at Malmo General Hospital, Malmo, Sweden. Of these cases, 185 (9.4%) involved invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). Mammography in 137 cases demonstrated the following findings: spiculated opacity (53%), architectural distortion (16%), poorly defined opacity (7%), normal or benign findings (16%), and parenchymal asymmetry (4%). Radiographic definition of the ILC lesion varied greatly with projection: The craniocaudal view demonstrated significant findings more frequently than either the oblique or lateral views. Secondary radiographic findings were present in 31%, microcalcifications were rare, and physical findings were present in 89%. Because of its diffuse growth pattern and tendency to form lesions with opacity equal to or less than that of the parenchyma, ILC can be extremely difficult to detect mammographically. Therefore, the radiologist must be alert for subtle mammographic signs of malignancy and highly suspicious of any abnormal physical findings regardless of the mammographic appearance. 
Bactericidal effect of doxycycline associated with lysosomotropic agents on Coxiella burnetii in P388D1 cells. There is no consistently reliable treatment for endocarditis resulting from chronic Coxiella burnetii infection, the causative agent of Q fever. Although certain antibiotics are recommended on the basis of their in vitro bactericidal activities, results of therapy with these antibiotics are often disappointing. To evaluate whether the currently recommended antibiotic susceptibility tests for C. burnetii give misleading results because of continued division of uninfected cells, thereby resulting in the dilution of infected cells and, hence, a false picture of antibiotic efficacy, we blocked cell division during antibiotic susceptibility testing with cycloheximide. Using this new method, we found that the currently recommended antibiotics for the treatment of Q fever, doxycycline, pefloxacin, and rifampin, did not reduce the ratio of infected to noninfected cells (either L929 or P388D1) by 9 days postinfection. To test the hypothesis that this lack of antibacterial activity is due to antibiotic inactivation by the low pH of the phagolysosomes in which C. burnetii is found, we used alkalinizing lysosomotropic agents (chloroquine or amantadine) concurrently with doxycycline. This resulted in the sterilization of C. burnetii infection in P388D1 cells. This finding seems to confirm our suspicion that the acidic conditions of the phagolysosomes in which C. burnetii is located inhibit antibiotic activity. This inhibition can be reversed in vitro when lysosomotropic alkalinizing agents are used. 
The pathology of heart allograft rejection. The pathologist plays an important role in the care of cardiac transplant recipients. Day-to-day management of immunosuppression is largely dependent on the diagnosis and grading of acute rejection. While noninvasive methods have been tried experimentally, the endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard in monitoring the rejection status of the heart allograft. The diagnosis of rejection, however, is complicated by a variety of other histologic findings, which may be procedural or processing related, due to sampling, or specifically related to transplantation. Failed allografts, whether from autopsy or explantation, provide the opportunity to study short- and long-term changes in the transplanted heart. Allograft arteriopathy, or graft atherosclerosis, is the major limiting factor in long-term recipient survival. While the morphological features of graft arteriopathy have been well described, the mechanism and factors contributing to its development remain unclear. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia. A patient with inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia (M4) is reported. He had spiking fever, epigastralgia, and elevated levels of serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Ultrasonography showed a hypoechoic mass in the liver, and ultrasonically guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of the mass revealed that it was composed of fibrous connective tissue infiltrated with plasma cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils. Accordingly, a diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver was made. Marked reduction in the size of the lesion and a decrease of the levels of the CRP and ALP occurred without specific treatment. We emphasize the importance of ultrasonically guided aspiration biopsy in diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver without the need for surgery. 
Mohs micrographic surgery fixed-tissue technique for melanoma of the nose. Mohs micrographic surgery, fixed-tissue technique, for excision of nasal melanoma provides three important benefits: 1) assurance of eradication of the main mass along with its "silent" contiguous outgrowths, 2) safe management of non-contiguous satellites too small to be visible initially, and 3) safe sparing of maximal amounts of surrounding normal tissues. These benefits are achieved because all incisions are through chemically fixed (killed) tissue, eliminating the danger of disseminating the highly transplantable melanoma cells and permitting the excision of successive layers for microscopic scanning of their undersurfaces by the systematic use of frozen sections. The process is continued to the termination of each ramification. There is no need to remove a wide margin of normal tissue as is customary with conventional surgery. Clinically invisible satellites are not moved or disturbed and can be removed safely by the same method if they appear. The reliability of the method is manifested by the 62.5% 5-year cure in a series of 10 consecutive patients, all of whom had no local recurrence after micrographic surgery. 
Radical prostatectomy for clinical stage T1-2N0M0 prostatic adenocarcinoma: long-term results. A total of 441 stage T1-2N0M0 and 11 stage T1-2N0M0 cancer patients with an elevated acid phosphatase level only, and 18 stage T1-2N+M0 cancer patients underwent radical prostatectomy. Analysis of the 441 stage T1-2N0M0 cancer patients demonstrated that failure and survival were a function of the disease being organ-confined, specimen-confined or margin-positive, with 10-year failure rates of 12, 30 and 60%, respectively. Of the patients with positive margins 44 were and 79 were not irradiated postoperatively. Postoperative radiation produced no survival advantage. No difference in interval to failure or of survival could be identified between 105 patients whose disease was diagnosed by transurethral resection and 328 who had a palpable abnormality. Eleven patients had negative bone and node findings but they had an elevated acid phosphatase level. All 8 patients not treated with immediate androgen deprivation failed within 36 months. 
Treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with continuous intraventricular infusion of recombinant interleukin-2. A 42-year-old man developed leptomeningeal carcinomatosis 6 years after treatment of a malignant melanoma. He was treated with two courses of recombinant interleukin-2, administered as a continuous intraventricular infusion (6 X 10E5 U/24 h) during 5 days. During the first day of the first course he also received 5 X 10E9 lymphokine-activated killer cells intraventricularly. This gave rise to a severe elevation of intracranial pressure, with headaches and meningismus. During the second course no LAK cells were administered. This course was tolerated much better. The neurological status did not change during the treatment. Recombinant interleukin-2 levels were maintained at about 300 U/mL during both courses. 
Fast and effective treatment of malignant hypercalcemia. Combination of suppositories of calcitonin and a single infusion of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate. Seventeen patients with malignant hypercalcemia were treated with a combination of a single dose of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate (APD [also known as AHPrBP or palmidronate disodium]) and salmon calcitonin given as suppositories for 3 days. To assess whether such a combined short treatment has a significant benefit leading to earlier normalization of the plasma calcium level than does APD alone, 17 additional patients matched for the type of tumor, initial plasma calcium level, urinary hydroxyproline level, and the dose of APD served as controls. All patients receiving the combination of calcitonin and APD achieved normalization of the plasma calcium level within 9 days, with a decrease from 3.22 +/- 0.90 mmol/L (mean +/- SEM) to 2.29 +/- 0.03 mmol/L. In the group receiving APD alone, the plasma calcium level normalized in only 14 of 17 patients by day 9. In the group receiving calcitonin and APD, the drop in the plasma calcium level occurred more rapidly, and the plasma calcium values were lower from days 2 to 4. This advantage was explained by the calciuric effect of calcitonin, as reflected by a significant decrease in the notional setting of renal reabsorption of calcium, reaching 2.16 +/- 0.06 mmol/L compared with 2.34 +/- 0.06 mmol/L in the group receiving APD alone. There were no side effects of both treatments, in particular neither flushing nor nausea induced by the suppositories of calcitonin. Clinical Improvement occurred after 2 days in the group receiving the combined treatment. In conclusion, the combined treatment is rapidly effective and safe in the treatment of patients with hypercalcemia, particularly when the notional setting of renal tubular reabsorption of calcium is increased and a rapid correction of the plasma calcium level is needed. 
Intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst: case report. A cervical intramedullary spinal ependymal cyst in a 39-year-old man is reported. Diagnosis was made through magnetic resonance imaging. Total enucleation was possible. This is the sixth such reported case. 
Carcinoma of the cervix: value of MR imaging in detecting parametrial involvement. In patients with cervical carcinoma, precise knowledge of parametrial tumor extension affects the therapeutic decision between surgery and radiation therapy. The purpose of this prospective study was to determine the efficacy of MR imaging in detecting the presence or absence of parametrial invasion in patients with cervical cancer thought clinically to be confined to the cervix. Twenty-five consecutive patients were included in the study. All patients underwent radical hysterectomy or total abdominal hysterectomy and had detailed histologic evaluation of the parametrium. Ten had pathologic evidence of parametrial invasion; in the remaining 15, no parametrial invasion was identified pathologically. MR findings were compared with pathologic findings in all cases. For determining parametrial involvement, MR imaging had an accuracy of 88%, a sensitivity of 100%, and a specificity of 80%. Our results suggest that MR imaging is a reliable means of assessing parametrial invasion by cervical cancer. 
Extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas: technique and results in 37 patients. Although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulas, this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy, anosmia, and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas. Extracranial repair, on the other hand, produces no central nervous system morbidity, preserves olfaction, and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence. Although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of CSF fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists, this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature. We report here our experience with 37 patients with CSF rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair. The etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22, traumatic in 6, and spontaneous in 9. The fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques: external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients, transmastoid in 9, transseptosphenoid in 7, and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3. In 32 of the 37 patients (86%) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure. Of the 5 patients requiring a second operation, the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97%. Complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis. The authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas, extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of CSF rhinorrhea and otorrhea. 
Novel antigens characteristic of neuroendocrine malignancies. The authors describe the immunochemical detection, biochemical characterization, and tissue distribution of neuroendocrine antigens recognized by three newly developed monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) obtained after immunization of mice with the variant small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cell line NCI-H82. RNL-1 was reactive with neuroendocrine tissues similar to the SCLC cluster-1 MoAb, known to recognize N-CAM. Antibodies RNL-2 and RNL-3 are directed against different epitopes on the same proteinaceous complex. Both MoAb recognize an intracellularly located, water-soluble antigen which has a subunit composition with a protein triplet ranging in molecular weight between 44 and 45 kilodaltons (kD) next to a component of approximately 30 kD. The antibodies RNL-2 and RNL-3 reacted with a subset of neuroendocrine tissues and neuroendocrine neoplasms. In lung cancer both antibodies reacted only with some SCLC and carcinoids and not with nonneuroendocrine lung carcinomas. The potential diagnostic applicability of antibodies RNL-1, RNL-2, and RNL-3 is discussed. 
Thyroglobulin level as a predictive factor of tumoral recurrence in differentiated thyroid cancer. Ninety-eight patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma were studied. Actuarial methods were used to investigate the 10-yr probability of survival (pS) and disease-free survival (pDFS). Our results show that the pDFS is a function of: (1) clinicopathologic stage: Stages I-II, pDFS = 90.9% +/- 5.0% versus Stages III-IV, pDFS = 55.9% +/- 17.8% (p less than 0.005); (2) age: Age less than 45 yr, pDFS = 87.2% +/- 10.0% versus age greater than or equal to 45 yr, pDFS = 66.6% +/- 12.0% (p less than 0.002); and (3) plasma thyroglobulin (Tg) levels: Tg less than or equal to 23 ng/ml, pDFS = 100% versus Tg greater than 23 ng/ml, pDFS = 68.3% +/- 10.6% (p less than 0.005). Using the multivariate analysis of proportional risk, the regression coefficients obtained (Stage: beta = 0.7615; Age: beta = 1.6398, and Tg: beta = 1.7607) allowed us to establish two different groups of risk of relapse on the basis of a prognostic index. 
Potential value of hormone receptor assay in carcinoma in situ of breast. The estrogen receptor (ER) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against ER. Relatively few studies have attempted to characterize ER pattern in breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) and in other premalignant lesions. In the current study, the authors investigated the pattern of ER expression in 62 cases of breast CIS, 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer, and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia. Paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment to expose nuclear antigenic sites as previously described. Breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies (Abbott Laboratory, Chicago, IL). The cases were evaluated for heterogeneity, intensity of staining, and percentage of ER-positive cells. An attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of ER expression, nuclear pleomorphism, and type of CIS. The results of ER immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for ER in 75% of the CIS, 73% of CIS with invasive cancer, and 100% of atypical hyperplasias. ER expression in CIS agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases. This study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative ER expression than the other types of CIS, particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism. There was no significant difference in ER tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions. 
A prospective, randomized evaluation of the treatment of colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver. Over a 4-year period (1982 to 1986), 91 patients with solitary or multiple metastases from colorectal cancer were stratified, based on findings at laparotomy, to one of three groups and then prospectively randomized to one of two treatment arms within each group. Group A patients had solitary resectable metastases, group B patients had multiple, resectable metastases, and group C patients had multiple, unresectable metastases. Patients were randomized to one of two treatment arms within a group: group A-arm A1: resection only, arm A2: resection and continuous hepatic artery infusion (CHAI) of fluorodeoxyuridine (FUdR); group B-arm B1: resection and CHAI, arm B2: CHAI only; group C-arm C1: CHAI, arm C2: systemic fluorouracil followed by CHAI. Median time to failure (TTF) was 31.8, 11.1, and 8.8 months for groups A, B, and C, respectively. Arm A2 had an improved TTF when compared with arm A1 (P = .03). Median survival correlated with extent of disease and was 37.3, 22.4, and 13.8 months for groups A, B, and C, respectively. Survival was not changed by treatment variation (arms) within each group. Two- and 5-year cumulative survivals for groups A, B, and C were 72.7% and 45.4%; 45.8% and 16.7%; and 31.7% and 3.2%, respectively. In patients with multiple metastases (groups B and C), those patients whose original tumor was a Dukes' B had a significantly improved TTF and survival over those patients whose tumor was a Dukes' C (P less than or equal to .02). 
Bone metastases: pathophysiology and management policy. The pathophysiology and options for management of bone metastases as well as criteria for determining response to therapy are reviewed. Bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer patients. In the majority of patients, the primary tumor is in the breast, prostate, or lungs. Although almost all patients will die of their disease, a proportion of the patients will survive for several years. Treatment is primarily palliative: the intention is to relieve pain, prevent fractures, maintain activity and mobility, and, if possible, to prolong survival. Therapeutic options include local treatment with radiotherapy and/or surgery, and systemic treatment using chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, radioisotopes, agents such as diphosphonates, which inhibit resorption of bone, as well as analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs. The mechanisms by which pain is relieved by several of these therapies remain unclear but actions beyond a simple tumoricidal effect appear to be important. There have been few randomized trials comparing the therapeutic options, and the criteria for assessing response to therapy have, in general, been poorly defined. There is a need for rigorous clinical investigations that assess the efficacy of the various therapeutic possibilities by using well-defined and validated criteria of response. 
Chondrolipoangioma. A cartilage-containing benign mesenchymoma of soft tissue. The clinical and pathologic features of four cases of benign mesenchymoma in which mature cartilage represented the predominant component are reported. The distinctive histologic feature in all four cases was a lobular proliferation of cartilaginous tissue exhibiting a spectrum of hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage, myxoid cartilage, and cartilage with ossification and even bone marrow formation, intimately associated with mature adipose tissue and vascular elements. The localization of these tumors was in the proximity of a bone, but not attached to the periosteum or in continuity with a joint. Because these lesions may be mistaken for other cartilaginous neoplasms of soft tissue, recognition of this entity has potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic implications in that mutilating surgery may be avoided. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma as second malignant neoplasms in successfully treated Wilms' tumor patients. A National Wilms' Tumor Study report. Although rare, second malignant neoplasms (SMN) after treatment for Wilms' tumor are deadly. A recent National Wilms' Tumor Study (NWTS) report identified 15 patients with second malignancies discovered over 14,381 person-years of observation. This report described four patients with secondary hepatocellular carcinoma in greater detail. These patients were strikingly similar in that all had right-sided tumors and each one had received right upper-quadrant irradiation. All patients died shortly after diagnosis of the SMN. 
Insulin-like growth factor-I supports proliferation of autocrine thymic lymphoma cells with a pre-T cell phenotype. We have studied the phenotypic characteristics and growth properties of murine T lymphoma cell lines derived from primary x-ray-induced thymic lymphomas at the earliest stage at which they can be detected, and well before spreading to other organs has occurred. These cell lines serve as model systems for the earliest events in T cell lymphoma induction, before tumor cell progression and spreading to other organs. We find that primary x-ray-induced T cell lymphoma lines have phenotypic characteristics of thymic pre-T cells and show no proliferative response to any of the IL tested nor to other hematopoietic growth factors. However, they do proliferate in response to insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and to a small autocrine peptide distinct from IGF-I, which we term lymphoma growth factor. One of the earliest lesions in T cell lymphoma induction may therefore be an inhibition of differentiation at one of several specific points. In its early stages, T lymphoma cell growth may be restricted to an environment where local concentrations of specific growth factors such as IGF-I or lymphoma growth factor are sufficiently high. 
Subdural hematoma associated with metastatic neoplasms. Two cases of subdural hematoma, one acute and the other chronic, associated with cancer metastatic to the dura are reported. Various mechanisms of the association of hematomas with cancer are reviewed. 
Imaging of a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma. Radioimmunoscintigraphy (SPECT) with indium-111-labeled anti-CEA antibody, and comparison to digital subtraction angiography, computed tomography, and immunohistochemistry. A 27-year-old male patient with a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma was investigated radiologically with orthopantomography, computed tomography, and digital subtraction angiography before the operation. Because a malignancy was suspected, the patient was imaged with gamma camera using radiolabeled monoclonal anticarcinoembryonal antigen antibody including single photon emission computed tomography. The radioantibody accumulated strongly into the neoplasm. Tumor to background ratio was 2.2. Samples of the excised tumor were stained immunohistochemically for desmin, vimentin, muscle actin, cytokeratin, CEA (carcinoembryonic antigen), and factor VIII. They showed that the antibody uptake was of unspecific nature and not due to CEA expression in the tumor. 
Merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testis. Tumor metastases to the testes are rare and are usually found incidentally at autopsy or after orchiectomy for prostatic carcinoma. It is even more unusual for testicular metastases to be clinically detected or symptomatic. The authors report two cases of clinically detected testicular metastases from Merkel cell carcinoma of the skin. Merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testes has not been reported previously. The two tumors, to some degree, resembled testicular lymphomas and the interstitial type of seminoma. 
Flow cytometric DNA analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma: preliminary report. Flow cytometric DNA analysis was performed in 50 paraffin-embedded specimens of clinical hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after hepatic resections. The DNA distribution pattern was classified in two types, diploid and aneuploid, according to the degree of dispersion on the DNA histogram. The major DNA pattern of HCC in this report proved to be aneuploid (78%), although 22% of tumors revealed a diploid pattern. The serum alpha-fetoprotein level exceeded 40 ng/ml in 86.1% of the aneuploid tumors and in 13.9% of the diploid tumors (p less than 0.05). We found no correlation between DNA distribution and hepatitis B surface antigen positivity, the presence of liver cirrhosis or tumor size. Additionally we noted no significant correlation between the DNA pattern and survival rates in patients with HCC who underwent hepatic resection. 
Elective diagnostic laparoscopy. Laparoscopy developed as a science at the turn of the century, and many scientists assisted in the evolution of this technique. However, it was many years before the multiple trocar system was developed that allowed internal organs to be moved and biopsies to be obtained. This has led to the development of numerous indications for elective diagnostic laparoscopy. Adequate preparation and attention to instrumentation ensure the safety of this operation. Elective diagnostic laparoscopy is a useful adjunct to many other diagnostic modalities such as, for instance, the assessment of abdominal pain, abdominal masses, fever of unknown origin, and gastrointestinal bleeding. In many other circumstances, such as the assessment of oncology cases, this modality is superior to conventional radiology because biopsy specimens may be obtained. If the procedure is correctly performed, the diagnostic yield is extremely high and the morbidity and mortality are low. The role of this important technique should not be underestimated by today's practicing surgeon. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of intra-abdominal lymph nodes manifesting as recurrent fever of unknown origin: a case report. A 27-year-old man presented with a 7-month history of debilitating recurrent fever and weight loss. Extensive clinical evaluation led to the discovery of splenomegaly and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy. The patient underwent splenectomy as well as liver and lymph node biopsy. Histologic examination of the lymph nodes, but not the liver and spleen, revealed inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes. The patient has remained asymptomatic for more than 3 years following the surgical procedure despite the absence of further intervention. Inflammatory pseudotumor of lymph nodes should be considered in the differential evaluation of prolonged or relapsing fever of unknown etiology. 
Characterization of a newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain: IOMM-Lee. A permanent malignant meningioma (MM) cell line of the human brain designated "IOMM-Lee" is reported. This cell line was successfully established from the tumor of a 61-year-old Chinese man with repeated recurrent primary intraosseous malignant meningioma of the skull. It has been subcultured for more than 60 passages during the past 30 months. The doubling time of cultured cells is approximately 62 hours. Tumorigenicity in athymic nude mice (Balb/c-nu/nu) who develop multiple pulmonary metastases was observed; the doubling time of tumor volume in vivo is approximately 5 days. Karyotypic analysis revealed this cell line to be of human origin and near-diploid, with a modal chromosome number of 49. The mesenchymal tumor marker vimentin and intracytoplasmic microfilaments were identified in the cytoplasm of tumor cells by indirect immunohistochemical peroxidase-anti-peroxidase assays and immunogold ultrastructural localization by transmission electron microscopy, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy of cultured cells and xenografted tumors revealed ellipsoidal or carrot-shaped tumor cells presenting a wrinkled surface with short sparse microvilli. Potential proliferating activity was determined by Ki-67 monoclonal antibody; the Ki-67 labeling index of cultured cells and xenografted tumors was approximately 36% and 30%, respectively. This newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain may prove useful as a research model. 
Surgical treatment of extramammary Paget's disease. A report of six cases and a reexamination of Mohs micrographic surgery compared with conventional surgical excision. Extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD) is a rare cutaneous malignancy, usually on the genitalia, that almost always extends beyond clinically apparent margins. Recurrences after standard methods of surgical excision are notoriously frequent; effective treatment with Mohs micrographic surgery was first reported in 1979. It has since been suggested this malignancy may be multifocal, and reports of recurrences after resection with micrographic surgery have appeared. The authors report six cases treated with Mohs surgery, two of which recurred. They also present data on 42 additional cases obtained from a written survey of members of the American College of Mohs Micrographic Surgery and comparison cases selected from the literature. The recurrence rate after micrographic surgery appears to be at least as low as that after conventional surgical excision with vertical frozen section or paraffin section margin control. Mohs micrographic surgery allows for maximal tissue sparing of critical anatomic structures and is performed under local anesthesia as an outpatient; because of this, it may be superior to conventional surgical excision. A scheme for management of this malignancy is presented. Surgeons should be aware radical excision is not needed for most cases of extramammary Paget's disease and very long-term patient follow-up is required. 
Alcohol consumption in patients with colorectal adenomatous polyps. The risk of developing colorectal adenomatous polyps is probably increased by a variety of dietary and environmental factors. We found an association with current alcohol and cigarette consumption. The risk of polyps was increased three times in drinkers who did not smoke and two times in smokers who did not drink, with those who both drank and smoked having 12 times the risk of total abstainers. Since colonic adenomatous polyps are generally regarded as premalignant lesions, these results lend support to the view that alcohol consumption may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia, thus reinforcing the proposed polyp/carcinoma sequence in colorectal carcinogenesis. The role of smoking, however, is less clear particularly since the lack of association of colorectal carcinoma and smoking has been reported in many other studies. 
Strabismus caused by melanoma metastatic to an extraocular muscle. Nonocular melanoma rarely metastasizes to the orbit. We report the case of a melanoma presumably arising from an axillary lymph node sinus that metastasized to the left medial rectus muscle causing proptosis, diplopia, and reduced saccadic velocity measurements. Clinical, radiographic, and histopathologic data are presented and discussed. 
Effective surgical adjuvant therapy for high-risk rectal carcinoma BACKGROUND. Radiation therapy as an adjunct to surgery for rectal cancer has been shown to reduce local recurrence but has not improved survival. In a previous study, combined radiation and chemotherapy improved survival significantly as compared with surgery alone, but not as compared with adjuvant radiation, which many regard as standard therapy. We designed a combination regimen to optimize the contribution of chemotherapy, decrease recurrence, and improve survival as compared with adjuvant radiation alone. METHODS. Two hundred four patients with rectal carcinoma that was either deeply invasive or metastatic to regional lymph nodes were randomly assigned to postoperative radiation alone (4500 to 5040 cGy) or to radiation plus fluorouracil, which was both preceded and followed by a cycle of systemic therapy with fluorouracil plus semustine (methyl-CCNU). RESULTS. After a median follow-up of more than seven years, the combined therapy had reduced the recurrence of rectal cancer by 34 percent (P = 0.0016; 95 percent confidence interval, 12 to 50 percent). Initial local recurrence was reduced by 46 percent (P = 0.036; 95 percent confidence interval, 2 to 70 percent), and distant metastasis by 37 percent (P = 0.011; 95 percent confidence interval, 9 to 57 percent). In addition, combined therapy reduced the rate of cancer-related deaths by 36 percent (P = 0.0071; 95 percent confidence interval, 14 to 53 percent) and the overall death rate by 29 percent (P = 0.025; 95 percent confidence interval, 7 to 45 percent). Its acute toxic effects included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia. These effects were seldom severe. Severe, delayed treatment-related reactions, usually small-bowel obstruction requiring surgery, occurred in 6.7 percent of all patients receiving radiation, and the frequencies of these complications were comparable in both treatment groups. CONCLUSIONS. The combination of postoperative local therapy with radiation plus fluorouracil and systemic therapy with a fluorouracil-based regimen significantly and substantively improves the results of therapy for rectal carcinoma with a poor prognosis, as compared with postoperative radiation alone. 
Giant hemangioma of the liver with pain, fever, and abnormal liver tests. Report of two cases. In conclusion, we report the cases of two patients with large hemangiomas of the liver, abdominal pain, increased ESR and fibrinogen, increased serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase activity, and normal white blood cell counts. Clinical and biochemical abnormalities disappeared after surgical resection. Increased ESR and fibrinogen are probably related to thrombosis within the tumor. This mode of presentation may suggest a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Ability of circular extrachromosomal DNA molecules to carry amplified MYCN proto-oncogenes in human neuroblastomas in vivo. Amplification of the proto-oncogene MYCN (also known as N-myc) in neuroblastomas has been shown to correlate with both disease stage and prognosis, yet little is known about the DNA structures that carry amplified MYCN genes in neuroblastomas in vivo. We have used DNA irradiation and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis to analyze MYCN amplification structures in eight neuroblastomas from separate patients (four primary tumors and four metastatic lesions exhibiting MYCN amplification). Six of the eight neuroblastomas (three primary tumors and three metastatic lesions) exhibited MYCN DNA irradiation profiles consistent with the presence of circular extrachromosomal DNA amplification structures. Five neuroblastomas possessed amplification structures within the size range of double minute chromosomes, and one contained smaller DNA circles. Two neuroblastomas exhibited MYCN DNA irradiation patterns consistent with larger (presumably chromosomal) amplification structures. Multiple sizes of DNA circles were observed in the neuroblastomas of four different patients, implying in vivo multimerization of amplification structures. The presence of circular MYCN amplification structures in six of eight neuroblastomas examined suggests that circular DNA molecules are important structures in in vivo gene amplification. 
Primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder. We treated 11 patients with primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder. The typical patient is a woman more than 50 years old who presents with urgency and frequency of micturition, and occasionally gross hematuria. Hydronephrosis is present in half of the patients and cystoscopy usually reveals a solid tumor. Partial cystectomy, when feasible, with or without radiotherapy and chemotherapy is the usual treatment modality. When localized to the bladder, malignant lymphoma has an over-all favorable prognosis. 
Prostate cancer: transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison. A preliminary study of outer gland (peripheral and central zones) and inner gland (transition zone) cancer. A study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer. In 96% (111 of 116), transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer; seven patients had known Stage A cancer; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound. Cancers in the outer gland (peripheral and central zones) were compared with cancers in the inner gland (transition zone) by both ultrasound and pathology. Forty-eight percent (52 of 108) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension (Stage C disease). The primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule (38%), anterior fibromuscular stroma (5%), seminal vesicle (18%), the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle (21%), and the apex (31%). Twenty-two percent (17 of 54) of cancers originating in the inner gland (transition zone) showed extraprostatic extension (Stage C disease). The primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma (6%) and apex (11%). Both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled. Gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers, with mean scores of 6.2 +/- 1.6 and 7.4 +/- 0.9, respectively. An odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer. Outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature. The difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options. Use of other diagnostic parameters, such as DNA ploidy, may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland. Strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known. Thus, transrectal ultrasound may be our "window of observation" through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers. 
Hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies. OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: ICU. PATIENTS: Forty-three consecutive patients. METHODS: Prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate (stepwise regression) methods. RESULTS: Fifteen (35%) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 (28%) were discharged from the ICU. The prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies. Only one patient survived in the former group (n = 26) and 11 in the latter group (n = 17); p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis. When accompanied by associated respiratory failure, mortality rate was higher (93% vs. 33%; p less than .0001). The Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly (p less than .001) related to mortality when the SAPS was greater than or equal to 13. The presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis. Tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good, and complications were rare. 
Breast cancer during pregnancy and lactation. Breast cancer is the most frequently seen cancer in pregnancy and lactation, but the incidence is low, the disease being seen in approximately 0.03% of pregnancies. Only 1% to 2% of breast cancer overall is diagnosed during pregnancy or lactation. There is no evidence to implicate pregnancy or lactation in either the etiology or the progression of breast cancer. Careful breast examination early in the pregnancy is very important to find solid masses that require biopsy before breast engorgement hides them. Therapeutic options vary, depending on the stage of disease and the stage of the pregnancy. Operable disease in the first 6 to 7 months of the pregnancy should be treated by mastectomy, as irradiation is contraindicated. Late in the pregnancy, a lumpectomy and axillary dissection can be done, with irradiation being delayed until after delivery. General anesthesia is safe if the usual precautions are taken to compensate for the physiologic changes induced by pregnancy. Unfortunately, delay in diagnosis is common, and 70% to 89% of patients with operable primary lesions have positive axillary lymph nodes. Late stage appears to be the only reason for the generally worse prognosis in these patients, as stage for stage, they have a course similar to that of nonpregnant patients. Adjuvant chemotherapy can be considered late in the pregnancy but should usually be delayed until after delivery. In patients with locally advanced or metastatic cancer diagnosed early in the pregnancy, for whom both chemotherapy and radiation therapy would normally be recommended, consideration must be given to termination of the pregnancy. There is no evidence that termination of pregnancy improves the outlook for the patients, but it does permit standard aggressive therapy in advanced disease. 
Intraoperative ultrasonography and the detection of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer. A total of 213 patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum were examined to detect liver metastases. The study compared preoperative ultrasonography and inspection and palpation of the liver during surgery with intraoperative ultrasonography. Preoperative ultrasonography, inspection and palpation identified 238 metastases in 42 patients. Intraoperative ultrasonography detected 116 previously unrecognized metastatic tumours during 40 surgical procedures (P less than 0.01). High resolution intraoperative ultrasonography is safe and more accurate than preoperative imaging and surgical exploratory methods. The examination is simple to perform and success appears to be related to careful attention to detail. 
Deficient counterregulatory hormone responses during hypoglycemia in a patient with insulinoma. Counterregulatory hormone responses were evaluated in a 37-yr-old woman before and after removal of a benign insulin-producing islet cell tumor. Counterregulatory hormone concentrations were measured during a glucose clamp with graded reductions of plasma glucose from 5.2 to 2.6 mmol/L. In the study before surgery, the increase in plasma epinephrine concentration was markedly blunted (by greater than 90%) compared to that in the study after surgery. The peak plasma norepinephrine concentration was similarly reduced by 71%, and plasma cortisol by 63%. In addition, the glycemic thresholds for secretion of the counterregulatory hormones were lower before removal of the tumor. Peak plasma GH responses were equivalent before and after surgery, but the threshold for GH secretion was 21% lower in the first hypoglycemia study. We conclude 1) that there is evidence for abnormal glucose counterregulatory hormone secretion in this patient, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypoglycemia seen in patients with insulinoma; 2) the reversal of reduced counterregulatory hormone secretion after tumor resection suggests that these defective hormonal responses may be related to recurrent hypoglycemia, persistent hyperinsulinemia, or both; and 3) that abnormal glucose counterregulation may exist in the absence of type 1 diabetes. 
Primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands. Sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare. This article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland (eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years; mean age, 42 years). The 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows: three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas, rhabdomyosarcomas, fibrosarcomas, and osteosarcomas. Four patients experienced disease recurrences, and seven patients developed metastases. Seven patients died of their sarcomas, with a mean survival time of 30 months. Four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years (one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma, embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and neurosarcoma). Prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm, type of sarcoma, and histologic grade. In this respect, salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts. 
Intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction. Case report. A case of an intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction is reported in a 37-year-old man. The classification of these rare lesions is discussed. 
Tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesions of the head and neck. The term 'tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion' has been used to describe a fibrosclerosing disorder which has a locally destructive nature but is characterized by a benign histological appearance. We report five patients, over a five year period, with such a lesion. The clinical behaviour and surgical findings suggest the lesion to be an invasive malignancy. However, the histological appearance of an admixture of chronic inflammatory cells and fibrosis is consistent with a benign condition. We recommend surgical excision of the lesion as the mainstay of treatment; other studies report the use of steroids and radiotherapy. 
Total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in the elderly. Of 1070 patients with gastric cancers, 292 patients underwent total gastrectomy during 13 years. Sixty patients were more than 70 years of age and 232 were under 69 years. The incidence of well-differentiated carcinomas and poorly differentiated carcinomas was the same in the elderly patients, whereas the latter was dominant in the young patients. However, there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding location, size, macroscopic patterns, extent of lymph metastases, or stage classification. The rates of preoperative surgical risk factors were significantly different between the two groups (p less than 0.01): 90.0% for the elderly and 34.9% for the young patients. However, the rates of postoperative morbidity and mortality were 31.7% and 3.3% for the elderly and 24.1% and 1.3% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. The 5- and 10-year survival rates after curative total gastrectomy were 48.6% and 23.2% for the elderly compared with 49.4% and 33.6% for the young patients, respectively, with no significant difference. A 5-year survival rate after noncurative operation was 0% for the elderly and 6.4% for the young patients. These results indicate that, when performed for cure, total gastrectomy with systematic lymphadenectomy can provide good long-term results for elderly, as well as young, patients. 
Carcinosarcoma and spindle cell carcinoma of the lung. Clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical studies. We examined pulmonary carcinomas with prominent sarcoma-like lesions both clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. Grossly, two tumors had predominantly endobronchial growths, four bulky parenchymal growths, and two endobronchial, parenchymally mixed growths. In these eight patients, six tumors were completely resected, one patient was given irradiation only, and one patient died in the early postoperative period. On the basis of specific differentiation of the sarcoma-like lesions, the tumors were separated into three groups: two with "true" sarcoma differentiated into soft tissues such as striated muscle or osteoid tissue; three with a fibromatous sarcoma resembling atypical pseudosarcomatous stroma; and three with spindle cell carcinoma with evidence of epithelial differentiation. The prognosis was poor, and tumors with specific differentiation into rhabdomyosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, or spindle cell carcinoma progressed more rapidly than did those with a fibromatous sarcoma. Because the fibromatous sarcoma-like lesions were found to relate to a longer survival time for the patients, we wish to emphasize that a distinction of sarcomatous components should be made with regard to assessing the prognosis of pulmonary carcinoma with sarcoma-like lesions. 
Frequency and clinical implications of monoclonal antibody detection of tumor-associated antigens in serum of patients with lung cancer. We previously showed that a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MAb) (5E8, 5C7, and 1F10) that detect serum tumor-associated antigens (TAA) could distinguish patients with lung cancer from those without to a highly significant degree. However, among patients with lung cancer, the frequency and clinical importance of serum TAA expression were not established. Therefore, we analyzed the serum and initial clinical characteristics of 52 Philadelphia VA patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer seen over a 13-month period. A modified semiquantitative ELISA was employed to determine MAb reactivity. Our cohort was characterized by a mean age of 65 +/- 9 year (SD) and mean Karnovsky score of 74 +/- 10; marked weight loss was present in 28 subjects, and 39 presented with either Stage III or IV disease. The panel detected TAAs in 38 of 52 cases (sensitivity 73%; 95% Cl, 60-83%), including 13 of 22 squamous cell, 9 of 12 adenocarcinoma, 10 of 11 undifferentiated, and 6 of 7 small cell carcinomas. No significant differences were found between the reactive and nonreactive patients in terms of age, stage at presentation, histologic subtype, performance status, or weight loss. However, 1F10 and 5C7 were each associated with a greater risk of early death by Cox proportional hazard analysis (p = 0.017 and 0.006, respectively) even when other prognostic variables are accounted for. We conclude that specific serum TAA can be detected in the majority of lung cancer patients with all major histologic subtypes in a cohort with advanced tumors and poor prognostic indices. 
Endoscopic ventricular fenestration using a "saline torch". The fiberoptic endoscope has never gained popularity among neurosurgeons although it is ideally suited for navigating within the cerebral ventricles. Recent advances in optics and miniaturization make the application of endoscopy in neurosurgery more practical. The authors report eight children who underwent ventriculoscopic fenestration of symptomatic loculated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collections. These CSF collections were either isolated ventricular cysts or trapped lateral ventricles secondary to obstruction at the foramen of Monro. Cyst wall dissection was carried out with a "saline torch" dissector which was introduced through a working channel in the ventriculoscope. The torch was used to coagulate vessels and to sculpt large windows in cyst walls or in the septum pellucidum. Ventriculoscope-guided cyst fenestration can be performed safely and easily under direct vision. The technique may permit simplification of shunt systems in some patients and elimination of shunts in others. 
Colonic lipoma as a source of massive hemorrhage. Report of a case. Colonic lipomas are a rare source of massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring operative intervention. A case of massive hemorrhage from cecal lipomatosis is presented. The methods of preoperative diagnosis and treatment are discussed. 
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the patient with cancer. The records of 114 cancer patients suffering cardiopulmonary arrests (CPA) during a 3-year period at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) were retrospectively reviewed to identify variables predicting final outcome in these patients. Although 65.7% of the patients were successfully resuscitated, only 12 (10.5%) were discharged alive from the hospital. Median survival after discharge was 150 days. By univariate and multivariate analysis, the only variable predicting the likelihood of a patient's being discharged alive after a CPA was the performance status of the patient at the time of admission to the hospital. Thus, a patient spending more than 50% of the time in bed at the time of admission had only a 2.3% chance of being discharged alive after CPA. A thorough discussion of these findings between physicians and patients and their families is strongly recommended at the time of admission to spare cancer patients unnecessary invasive resuscitative procedures. 
Renal function after tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney. Whether extensive ablation of renal mass in humans leads to progressive glomerulosclerosis, proteinuria, and hypertension, as it does in animal models, is a matter of controversy. We have studied kidney function in six patients who underwent enucleation of a renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney. Four patients had previously had a nephrectomy. The two others each had one atrophic, nonfunctioning kidney. Serum creatinine levels before surgery were within the normal range (mean, 99.9 mumol/L [1.13 mg/dL]). Two weeks after tumor enucleation, creatinine levels were significantly higher than the preoperative values (mean, 124.6 mumol/L [1.41 mg/dL]). The follow-up period varied from 10 to 23 months. In all patients, kidney function improved during the following months. Serum creatinine levels nearly reached preoperative values in all patients (mean, 105.2 mumol/L [1.19 mg/dL]). None of the patients showed a progressive deterioration in renal function or proteinuria. We found a modest increase in blood pressure in two patients who had been normotensive before surgery. In conclusion, tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney did not cause significant renal injury to the remnant kidneys in our patients, at least in the short term. 
Cancer mortality in a higher-income black population in New York State. Comparison with rates in the United States as a whole. In the 1980 Census the median family income among blacks in Suffolk County, New York (i.e., $19,604) was much higher than that for American blacks as a whole (i.e., $12,618) and 94.1% of that for American whites (i.e., $20,840), but the proportion below the poverty level was still higher for Suffolk County blacks than for American whites. Observed numbers of deaths from 1979 to 1985 for total cancers and most cancer sites in Suffolk County black men and women were not lower than expected on the basis of age-specific and gender-specific death rates for blacks in the US. Although numbers of deaths from cervical cancer and prostate cancer were slightly lower than expected in Suffolk County blacks versus American blacks, these numbers were still significantly greater than expected on the basis of death rates among American whites. Age-specific death rates for age groups 25 to 44 years to 55 to 64 years tended to be lower in Suffolk County for lung cancers in black men but not for breast cancer in black women. Specific cancer sites, which differ in the direction of the association between incidence and socioeconomic status, age, and gender must be considered in comparisons of cancer mortality by race and socioeconomic level. Implications of the comparisons were discussed with regard to the goal of reducing racial differences in cancer death rates. 
Intraperitoneal cisplatin and cytarabine in the treatment of refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma Preclinical evaluation has suggested impressive concentration-dependent cytotoxic synergy between cisplatin and cytarabine in ovarian carcinoma. To further evaluate the clinical relevance of these observations, 39 patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma were entered onto a phase II trial of intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin (100 to 105 mg/m2 per course) plus cytarabine (600 to 900 mg per course). Treatment was administered over 2 or 3 days for a maximum of five monthly courses, followed by surgical reevaluation in patients without clinical evidence of disease. The 3-day regimen was discontinued secondary to the development of severe thrombocytopenia (five of 12 courses platelets decreased to less than 50,000/mm3). Additional toxicities included abdominal pain (moderate to severe at some time during therapy in 46% of patients), fever without evidence of infection (44%), and bacterial peritonitis (10%). Three patients declined surgical reassessment. Fourteen of 36 (39%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 23% to 55%) assessable patients demonstrated surgically defined responses, including 12 of 23 (52%; 95% CI, 32% to 72%) patients with tumor nodules less than 1 cm in diameter and only two of 13 (15%; 95% CI, 0% to 34%) patients with any lesion greater than 1 cm. There were seven (30%; 95% CI, 11% to 49%) surgically defined complete responses (CRs) in patients with less than 1 cm disease and none in patients with larger tumor nodules. IP cisplatin/cytarabine results in a high surgically defined response rate in patients with minimal residual ovarian carcinoma, but activity is low in patients with bulky intraabdominal disease. 
Upper gastrointestinal pathology in familial adenomatous polyposis: results from a prospective study of 102 patients. Multiple gastric and duodenal biopsy specimens from 102 asymptomatic patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, taken during a prospective endoscopic screening programme were examined. One hundred patients had microscopic gastroduodenal pathology, often in the absence of macroscopic lesions. Adenomas were found in 94 patients in the duodenum, in the second and third parts. Hyperplasia of villous and crypt epithelium was also seen, sometimes in the absence of adenomas: this may be a precursor of neoplastic change. In the stomach fundic gland polyps were the commonest abnormality, seen microscopically in 44 patients. Chronic antral gastritis was common in patients without fundic polyps. Gastric adenomas were present in six patients, all of whom also had duodenal adenomas. If duodenal adenomas in familial adenomatous polyposis have a similar malignant potential to those in the colorectum sequential endoscopy and biopsy are necessary to detect cancer in these patients. 
Carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. Optimal treatment for unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas remains controversial. This study was done to examine the relationship between perioperative jaundice and postoperative morbidity, and type of palliative biliary bypass and postoperative morbidity and jaundice clearance. Seventy-six patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied. Forty-nine patients underwent one of four different types of palliative bypass: 1, cholecystojejunostomy (n = 22); 2, choledochojejunostomy (n = 11); 3, choledochoduodenostomy (n = 9), and 4, cholecystoduodenostomy (n = 7). Age, sex and preoperative health status were similar for all operative groups, as well as for those with and without postoperative morbidity. The postoperative complication rate was 33 per cent and there was one postoperative death. Length of preoperative jaundice and peak preoperative bilirubin levels were independent of morbidity. Postoperative morbidity was similar for each type of bypass used and no significant difference was found when cholecystoenteric (1 and 4) and choledochoenteric (2 and 3) bypass were compared. The results of this study support the view that postoperative morbidity is not directly related to the presence of jaundice preoperatively. Furthermore, the rate of jaundice clearance and the occurrence of postoperative complications are not dependent on the type of bypass used. 
Race, nutritional status, and survival from breast cancer. The effects of nutritional status on differences in the survival of black and white women with breast cancer were studied in a cohort of 1,960 Georgia women diagnosed during 1975-1979. After data were adjusted for stage of disease, socioeconomic status, and other prognostic factors, poorer survival rates were shown in black women. Within each stage classification, lower levels of serum albumin and hemoglobin and higher relative body weight were more common among blacks and were independently associated with poorer survival. Among women with stage 3 disease, adjustment for these variables substantially reduced the excess mortality rate among blacks, suggesting that racial differences in survival may be partly explained by differences in nutritional status or extent of disease within stage. 
Oncogenes and suppressor genes: their involvement in colon cancer [editorial] Abnormalities in oncogenes, which are broadly classified into viral and cellular oncogenes, and suppressor genes appear critical for the development of colon cancer. Cellular oncogenes contribute to malignant transformation when they become activated by point mutation, translocation, amplification, or loss of regulator sequences. The properties of the oncoproteins, the proteins encoded by oncogenes which are essential for carcinogenesis, are unclear. Suppressor genes normally suppress the tumorigenic phenotype by keeping the growth of cells in check; it is their inactivation that contributes to malignant transformation. Development of colon cancer appears to take place by stepwise accumulation of multiple genetic alterations during the progression from normal colon to adenoma and carcinoma. Activation of ras, an early event in this sequence, is found in 50% of colon cancers; overexpression of c-myc is found in approximately 80%. Inactivation of suppressor genes, which occurs during later stages, is noted in greater than 70% of tumors. A current model of colonic tumorigenesis is presented. 
Intraoperative pancreatic fine needle aspiration biopsy. Results in 166 patients. Intraoperative fine needle aspiration biopsy (NAB) of undiagnosed pancreatic masses was studied in 166 patients over a 17-year period. The cytologic diagnoses were correlated with histologic specimens, autopsy results, or clinical follow-up (benign disease was documented if the patient was alive without malignancy at least 2 years after laparotomy). Aspirates were interpreted as benign, suspicious, malignant, or unsatisfactory. Malignant disease was the final diagnosis in 109 patients; the cytology was concordant in 101 and was interpreted as suspicious in four. Four patients with benign cytology later proved to have malignant disease--a false-negative rate of 2.5 per cent. A total of 57 patients had benign disease; 51 of these had benign cytology. The remaining patients had "unsatisfactory" cytology reports. A 93 per cent sensitivity, 100 per cent specificity, and 0 per cent complication rate are reported. There were no false-positive cytology reports. Complications are rare and represent case reports, thus, additional sampling is at minimal risk. Intraoperative pancreatic NAB is a safe, easy, more accurate biopsy technique than historical wedge or core needle biopsies. It is the biopsy method of choice for pancreatic masses found at laparotomy. 
Effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. Experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta (IL-1 beta) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems. Intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant IL-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation (experimental metastases) by the human A375 melanoma variants, the human HT-29M colon carcinoma, the SN12-K1 renal carcinoma in nude mice, the murine B16 melanoma variants, and the murine UV-2237M fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients. The same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma (HCC-P2988) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma (M5076), both of which are not metastatic to the lung. Spontaneous metastases were studied in C57BL/6 mice bearing the B16-BL6 melanoma (metastatic to the lung) in their footpad and the M5076 reticulum cell sarcoma (metastatic to the liver) subcutaneously. Daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of IL-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases. These findings indicate that treatment of mice with IL-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ. 
Differential effects of sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide on growth and secretion of cultured human endocrine tumor cells. Advanced gastrointestinal endocrine tumors respond poorly to conventional chemotherapy. In this study we examined the effects of two agents that promote cellular differentiation, sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide, on the in vitro growth and secretory responses of a human pancreatic carcinoid (BON) and human gastrinoma (PT-2 and PT-SM) cell lines that have been established in our laboratory. We found that both sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide strongly inhibited growth of BON, PT-2, and PT-SM cells. With continuous exposure of BON cells to sodium butyrate (2 mmol/L), the doubling time was prolonged, from 60 hours in controls to 156 hours, and saturation density was reduced to 28% that of controls. Hexamethylene bisacetamide (4 mmol/L) reduced saturation density to 37% that of controls in BON cells and prolonged the doubling time, from 60 hours to 103 hours. Antiproliferative effects of similar magnitudes were observed in the gastrinoma cell lines. In contrast, differential effects were produced on amine biosynthesis in BON cells; sodium butyrate stimulated levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the cells, whereas hexamethylene bisacetamide caused a profound dose-dependent inhibition of amine biosynthesis. The significant antiproliferative activity of sodium butyrate and hexamethylene bisacetamide and the inhibitory effects of hexamethylene bisacetamide on amine biosynthesis warrant evaluation of these agents or analogues for treatment of metastatic carcinoid and gastrinoma. 
Phase I study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy. Twenty-six patients were treated in this phase I study with the combination of interleukin-2 (IL2) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a (IFN alpha-2a) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting. The maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10(6) U/m2 days 1 to 5 of IL2 and 9 x 10(6) U/m2 days 1, 3, and 5 of IFN alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks. A 2- to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment. Fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity, and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study. Patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors. Twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations. Of these 12 patients, three exhibited complete tumor regression, three have had partial objective regression, and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease. This therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer. 
Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in malignant mesothelioma of tunica vaginalis testis. A case of metastatic mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis testis in a 57-year-old man is reported. Clinicopathological findings and treatment options are reviewed. 
Molecular analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 17. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL; FAB M3) is characterized by a predominance of malignant promyelocytes that carry a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17, t(15;17) (q22;q11.2-q12). This translocation has become diagnostic for APL, as it is present in almost 100 percent of cases. A Not I linking clone was used to detect this translocation initially on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and subsequently with conventional Southern (DNA) analysis. The breakpoints in ten APL cases examined were shown to cluster in a 12-kb region of chromosome 17, containing two CpG-rich islands. The region is the first intron of the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene (RARA). 
Chondrosarcoma of the larynx. Diagnosis with magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography. Chondrosarcomas are the most common sarcomas of the larynx. They are generally slow-growing lesions with insidious onset of symptoms. We are presenting a case of chondrosarcoma that recurred 10 years after excision of a presumed chondroma. Computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were performed. Both studies delineated the lesion nicely. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on MRI characteristics of chondrosarcoma of the larynx. A review of the literature regarding the use of computed tomography in the management of chondrosarcoma is presented. The MRI characteristics are discussed and the two scanning modalities are compared. Computed tomography is an excellent study in its ability to demonstrate the extent of the lesion within the laryngeal skeleton. Furthermore, it is more highly sensitive than plain roentgenograms in the detection of calcifications that are highly suggestive of chondrosarcoma. Alternatively, MRI can also demonstrate the lesion within the larynx but it has the added advantage of superior contrast resolution of the tumor and paralaryngeal tissues. When the three-dimensional imaging capacity of MRI is considered as well, MRI seems to be the superior study. 
In situ hybridization for the detection of Epstein-Barr virus in central nervous system lymphomas. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been implicated in the development of lymphomas in immunocompromised patients. To test this hypothesis, 26 lymphomas involving the central nervous system (CNS) (11 primary, 15 systemic) were studied for the presence of EBV. In situ hybridization (ISH) was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue using a sulfur 35 (35S)-labeled EBV probe (EBV BAMH1-W). The results were interpreted without knowledge of the patients' immunologic status. The EBV sequences were detected in 11 lymphomas, nine of which were mixed or large cell subtypes. Review of the clinical information revealed that nine of the 26 lymphomas occurred in immunocompromised patients secondary to renal transplantation, human immunodeficiency virus infection, leukemia, and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. The EBV sequences were detected in all nine lymphomas occurring in immunocompromised patients, whereas two of the 17 lymphomas occurring in immunocompetent patients expressed EBV sequences. The authors conclude that the presence of EBV sequences in CNS lymphomas is highly correlated with a history of compromised immune status supporting a pathogenetic role of EBV in the development of CNS lymphomas in immunocompromised patients. 
Comparison of a new immunoassay for determining serum pancreatic isoamylase with two standard techniques. A method has recently been developed for measuring serum pancreatic (P) isoamylase, using two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary isoamylase. We performed this test on 67 healthy controls and 133 patients: 15 with acute pancreatitis, 53 with chronic pancreatitis (20 during painful relapse and 33 in clinical remission), 18 with pancreatic cancer, 41 with nonpancreatic disease with abdominal pain, five with macroamylasemia, and one with total pancreatectomy. Results were compared with those of a wheat germ inhibition method and with electrophoresis on cellulose acetate. A close correlation was found between the results of immunoinhibition assay and those of the other two tests. All patients with acute pancreatitis had abnormally high values in all three tests. In the group with chronic pancreatitis studied during painful relapse, 16 had an increase in P-isoamylase, as determined with the immunoinhibition assay, 13 with the wheat germ inhibition test, and 15 with electrophoresis. In the group with chronic pancreatitis in clinical remission, we found low values in one patient, by immunoinhibition assay, but found low values in 17 and 19 patients by wheat germ inhibition and electrophoresis, respectively. Low P-isoamylase values corresponded to a severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. In the group with pancreatic cancer, the three tests showed similar results, and the majority of the patients had normal values. In the patients with nonpancreatic diseases, abnormally high levels were found in five, by immunoassay, in four by electrophoresis, and in three by the wheat germ inhibition method. In the five cases with macroamylasemia, both inhibition assays erroneously demonstrated an abnormal P-isoamylase elevation. The results show that the three tests are equally useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, or chronic pancreatitis during an acute relapse. In these diseases, the immunoinhibition test would be the preferred assay because it is simple and rapidly performed. 
Epidermal nevus syndrome: a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly, gyral malformation, mental retardation, seizures, and facial hemihypertrophy. The epidermal nevus syndrome (ENS) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems. From among over 60 patients with ENS presenting with neurologic manifestations, we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies. Associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12, mental retardation in 13 of 14, seizures in 16 of 17 (including 9 with infantile spasms), and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12. All had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head, and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy. We concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ENS that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement. Several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts, atrophy, porencephaly, and calcifications, which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage. Given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ENS patients, we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions. The same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ENS patients without hemimegalencephaly. While the cause of ENS remains unknown, several observations suggest a somatic mutation. 
The use of in situ hybridization to show human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid in metastatic cancer cells within lymph nodes. Southern blot hybridization has been used to identify human papillomavirus types in both primary tumors and lymph node metastases. However, this technique requires fresh-frozen tissue and is incapable of localizing deoxyribonucleic acid sequences to specific cell types in the tumor sample. In contrast, in situ hybridization precisely locates viral sequences within tumor cells while preserving cellular architecture. Further, in situ hybridization requires only small samples of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues. Five lymph nodes (from four patients) containing metastatic cervical squamous tumor cells (identified with hematoxylin and eosinophil staining) were analyzed with in situ hybridization techniques with human papillomavirus type 16 deoxyribonucleic acid probes labeled with sulfur 35. The primary cervical cancer from all four patients had been shown to contain human papillomavirus type 16 sequences by Southern blot. Three specimens from two patients clearly showed the presence of human papillomavirus type 16 sequences within the nuclei of metastatic tumor cells, whereas two specimens were nondiagnostic most likely as a result of the small volume of cancer relative to the size of the lymph node. This information indicates that it is the tumor cells themselves that contain viral deoxyribonucleic acid and provides additional evidence linking human papillomavirus with cervical carcinogenesis. 
Comparison of characteristics of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma associated with head and neck cancer and those with gastric cancer. In ongoing reviews of 339 patients with surgically treated primary squamous cell carcinoma, there were 19 (5.6%) with concurrent gastric cancer and 11 (3.2%) with head and neck cancer. The incidences of intra-esophageal multiple occurrence of esophageal cancer are 27.3% and 26.3% in those with associated head and neck cancer and gastric cancer, respectively, and higher than 7.1% in those without such a concurrent cancer. There was no difference in the clinicopathological characteristics of those with concurrent head and neck and gastric cancers, except for the higher incidence of metachronous occurrence in the former. These findings suggest that, in cases of esophageal cancer associated with concurrent head and neck cancer and gastric cancer, intraesophageal multiplicity of the esophageal carcinoma is frequent and that preoperative serial evaluations is most important to design treatment and estimate the prognosis. 
In vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy of human uveal melanomas and other intraocular tumors. We studied the feasibility of using the surface coil probe technique for the noninvasive in vivo study of ocular tumors by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The characteristic organophosphate metabolites of suspected uveal melanomas before proton beam irradiation were determined qualitatively by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in vivo using a three-turn surface coil. Spectra of choroidal hemangioma, osteoma, and metastasis were also obtained in vivo and compared with those of uveal melanomas. Analysis of spectra performed at 1.5 T showed significant peaks of phosphomonoesters, inorganic phosphate, phosphodiesters, phosphocreatine, and adenosine 5'-triphosphates. The unusually high concentration of phosphodiesters may be considered as a marker for uveal melanomas and other choroidal tumors. By analyzing the ratio of phosphocreatine to phosphodiesters spectral area values, we interpreted qualitatively spectra of intraocular tumors to differentiate malignant tumors from benign lesions. Nevertheless, the main limitation of interpreting the spectra was their contamination by signals from surrounding tissues. 
DNA image cytometry. A prognostic tool in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus? In 45 patients who underwent an esophagus resection due to a squamous cell carcinoma, in addition to the TNM classification and usual morphologic criteria, the paraffin-embedded material underwent deparaffinization, was rehydrated, and was mechanically and enzymatically processed into a single-cell solution. For evaluating the DNA histogram this was analyzed with the help of automatic single-cell cytophotometric study. The method, contrary to that of flow cytometric study, allows for the selective analysis of tumor cells due to the electronically, previously given selection criteria, whereas artifacts, stroma, and infection cells remain excluded from analysis. The multivariate analysis shows that the prognosis is only correlated with DNA content of the tumor cells. Patients with diploid tumors had a median survival time of 32 months as compared with the 22 months of patients with hypotriploid tumors, and 6.5 months with hypertriploid tumors. DNA cytometric analysis should be included when diagnosing patients with esophagus carcinoma. 
A modified rhombic transposition flap and its application in dermatology. A modified rhombic transposition flap based around a circular primary defect is described. We have found it to be a versatile design that produces good cosmetic results with a low incidence of postoperative complications. It has become the most frequently used transposition flap in our dermatologic practice. 
Histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms: II. Acinic cell carcinomas. Acinic cell carcinomas display varied cytoarchitectural patterns of growth that should allow for formulation of histopathologic grading. Grading of these carcinomas may serve to identify subsets whose biologic behavior is more aggressive than the usually accepted low-grade behavior of acinic cell carcinomas as a group. To that end, a three-level histopathologic grading scheme is presented. 
A human CD5+ B cell clone that secretes an idiotype-specific high affinity IgM monoclonal antibody. We previously demonstrated the occurrence of a naturally arisen human anti-idiotypic B cell clone, that we transformed with EBV (EBV383). We show evidence that EBV383 not only expresses the CD5 surface Ag, but also contains the 2.7-kb mRNA transcript encoding this protein. In addition, we show the presence of the 3.6-kb mRNA precursor. Most Ig produced by CD5+ B cells are polyreactive natural IgM antibodies encoded by unmutated copies of germline VH genes. However, in this study we present data demonstrating the monoreactive high affinity character of the anti-idiotypic antibody (mAb383) produced by EBV383. These data are in agreement with our previous observations, showing that the VH chain of mAb383 is encoded by an extensive somatically mutated VHV gene in a way that is consistent with an Ag-driven immune response. A possible role for this remarkable anti-idiotypic antibody in the maintenance of B cell memory is discussed. 
How district health authorities organise cervical screening [published erratum appears in BMJ 1990 Nov 24;301(6762):1209] OBJECTIVES--To examine how district health authorities organised cervical screening with respect to Department of Health guidelines and to determine their assessment of the problems encountered. DESIGN--Postal questionnaire sent to all 190 district health authorities in England in 1989. PARTICIPANTS--190 District health authorities in England. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Population coverage of screening, quality of smear testing, and follow up of abdominal test results in comparison with national guidelines for district cervical screening services, and problems encountered by districts. RESULTS--Replies were received from 178 (94%) of districts, in 143 of which the person named as responsible for cervical screening contributed. All districts implemented a computer managed scheme, 150 by the target date of 31 March 1988, but not all of these conformed with the guidelines. At the time of the survey only just over half called women in the target age group of 20-64 and only 70% expected to meet the target date of 13 March 1993 for completing the call. Considerable variation was evident among the schemes with regard to how they dealt with issues related to population coverage, quality of testing, and follow up of abnormal results. The problems most commonly identified by the districts (n = 174) were laboratory workload (107, 61%), computer software (104, 60%), availability of resources (78, 45%), non-attendance (77, 44%), rate of opportunistic screening (62, 36%), and investigation and treatment (60, 34%). CONCLUSIONS--Current practice in running cervical screening schemes needs to be examined to determine the extent to which it contributes to the goal of reducing mortality from cervical cancer. 
Epithelial cells immortalized by human papillomaviruses have premalignant characteristics in organotypic culture. Three HPV-16--and four HPV-18--immortalized human foreskin keratinocyte cell lines were analyzed on organotypic epidermal raft cultures at various passage levels. This culture system allowed normal cultured keratinocytes to stratify and differentiate in a manner similar to normal epidermis. All seven HPV-immortalized cell lines displayed epidermal morphologies on organotypic cultures, which were clearly abnormal and resembled premalignant lesions in vivo. Features of premalignant lesions that were shared by all of the HPV-immortalized cell lines included disorganized tissue architecture, mitotic cells present throughout the living layers of the epidermal sheet, abnormal mitoses, enlarged nuclei, and variable cell size and shape. Most HPV-immortalized cell lines were stable in terms of epidermal morphology with long-term passage in culture. Two of the HPV-18--immortalized cell lines, however, lost all morphologically apparent terminal squamous differentiation potential after long-term passage in monolayer culture. These results strongly support the idea that immortalization of squamous epithelial cells in culture by HPV-transforming genes generates a morphologically premalignant cell. 
Dioxin-inducible, Ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro. We have developed a homologous in vitro transcription system that requires (i) 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (called TCDD or dioxin), (ii) the Ah receptor, and (iii) a dioxin-responsive enhancer for activity. Unfractionated nuclear extracts from mouse hepatoma cells contain an inhibitor and fail to direct transcription in vitro. However, following phosphocellulose chromatography and reconstitution, the fractionated nuclear extract directs accurate transcription in vitro, using as a template the promoter/enhancer region from the mouse cytochrome P1-450 gene (Cyp1a1) linked to a "G-free cassette" (which generates a transcript with no guanosine residues). Extracts from TCDD-treated cells exhibit higher activity than extracts from untreated cells when transcribing a template containing both the promoter and enhancer but not when transcribing a template containing the promoter alone. Extracts from Ah receptor-defective cells fail to direct in vitro transcription in a TCDD-inducible fashion. A regulatory element that contains two binding sites for the liganded Ah receptor plus a truncated Cyp1a1 promoter suffices to direct TCDD-inducible, Ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro. The inducible, receptor-dependent, enhancer-dependent properties of this system make it appropriate for analyzing in vitro the mechanism of dioxin action and the function of the Ah receptor. 
Mapping the site of interaction between murine IgE and its high affinity receptor with chimeric Ig. We have investigated the interaction of mouse (m) IgE with its Fc epsilon RI on rat basophilic leukemia cells using a set of chimeric Ig that were constructed by exchanging homologous H chain C domains between human (hu) IgG1 and mIgE. Binding affinities were examined with equilibrium and kinetic measurements, and we found that epsilon/C gamma 3 (mIgE with C epsilon 4 replaced by C gamma 3) was indistinguishable from mIgE. The huIgG1 and the other chimeric Ig, which did not contain both C epsilon 2 and C epsilon 3, did not bind detectably to rat basophilic leukemia cells (Ka less than 10(6) M-1). The ability of these chimeric Ig to stimulate a cellular response (degranulation) in the presence of multivalent Ag was also tested. The epsilon/C gamma 3 was indistinguishable from mIgE in eliciting a high level of degranulation, whereas the other chimeric Ig stimulated no response even when they were preaggregated to enhance their binding avidity. These results demonstrate that C epsilon 4 may be replaced by C gamma 3 without affecting the binding and cell activating properties of mIgE. The lack of binding by the other chimeric Ig indicates that both C epsilon 2 and C epsilon 3 are necessary for the binding interaction. 
Clinical significance of colonic fermentation. Recent evidence of the potential benefits of short chain fatty acids has prompted renewed interest in the area of human colonic fermentation. This paper reviews the clinical and metabolic consequences of colonic fermentation. 
Vulvar condylomas and squamous vestibular micropapilloma. Differences in appearance and response to treatment. A study of 37 women with typical condylomas and so-called squamous micropapilloma was undertaken to determine their response to systemic interferon and/or podophyllin treatment. Thirty lesions were classified as condylomas and 9 as squamous micropapillomas; two women had both lesions. Twenty-six (87%) of 30 condylomas responded, whereas only 1 (11%) of the 9 cases of micropapillomatosis showed a partial response (P less than .001) to podophyllin and/or interferon. Twenty-six biopsies from condylomas in which sufficient DNA was available for analysis contained human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA sequences that hybridized to an HPV 6 + 16 probe mix under nonstringent conditions. In contrast, HPV DNA sequences could not be detected in any of the nine cases of micropapillomatosis. Immunoperoxidase studies performed on these lesions failed to demonstrate viral capsid antigen. Thus, despite certain similarities in the clinical presentation and microscopic features of condylomas and squamous micropapillomas, it is not clear at present whether micropapillomas are HPV-related lesions. 
Surgical treatment of brain metastases in malignant melanoma. The authors report the results of a retrospective review of 13 patients who underwent 19 craniotomies for resection of metastatic malignant melanoma at the University of Colorado (Denver, CO) between 1983 and 1989. There was preoperative evidence of extracranial disease in 11 patients. Eight patients had more than one intracranial metastasis at operation. Intraoperative ultrasound was used in 18 of the 19 craniotomies to minimize surgical trauma to the brain. The 30-day mortality was zero. The 30-day morbidity was minimal. No patient acquired a new neurologic deficit as a result of surgery. All patients regained at least their preoperative level of functioning. Six of the patients who were living at the time of review have been followed for 4 to 25 months (median, 7.5 months). The seven patients who were dead at the time of review survived 4 to 18 months (median, 10 months). These results compare favorably with the survival of untreated patients with metastatic melanoma to the brain (median, 1 month), patients treated with radiation therapy alone (median, 2-4 months), and those treated with chemotherapy alone (median, 2-4 months). The excision of metastatic melanoma from the brain, although not curative, may increase survival in patients with this problem with little morbidity and mortality even in the presence of other metastases. 
Demonstration of Lipiodol in paraffin sections using a modified silver impregnation technique. To demonstrate postangiographic Lipiodol (LIP) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in paraffin sections, direct impregnation of formalin-fixed tissue blocks with silver nitrate (AgNO3) was followed by routine processing. LIP appeared as black globules in the sinusoids. Ninety-four tissue blocks from 13 postangiographic LIP HCCs and 69 from 8 non-LIP HCCs and 4 fatty livers were studied. Seventy-two of 73 negative controls and all positive blocks as seen on soft tissue radiographs (STRs) were correctly coded (specificity 98.6%, sensitivity 100%). Twenty-six of the 44 LIP-negative areas on STRs from LIP cases contained scanty globules of less than 10 microns in diameter. Fatty change gave no positive readings. Thus, modified AgNO3 impregnation is a simple, accurate means of detecting LIP in high-quality paraffin sections suitable for tumor diagnosis and, if applied to postangiographic LIP, ultrasonographically guided liver biopsy, can verify that a biopsy has reached a suspected tumor focus. 
Myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive T cells. We compared T-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and to purified protein derivative (PPD) (of tuberculin) of hyperplastic thymus, thymoma, and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). Hyperplastic MG thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to AChR than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells, whereas responses to PPD showed an opposite trend. Thus there was a preferential localization of AChR-reactive T cells in the hyperplastic MG thymus. Furthermore, there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to PPD (but not to AChR), arguing that the hyperplastic MG thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral T cells. By contrast, both AChR- and PPD-responsive T cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients, which is evidently much less receptive to circulating T cells. Cells from MG thymomas showed the highest stimulations by AChR but did not consistently react to PPD. However, the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above. Our interpretation is that AChR-specific T cells are initially sensitized in the MG thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere. 
Coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma. Thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas. We report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis. The clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature. 
Extraoral application of osseointegrated implants. The use of osseointegrated implants to provide support for craniofacial prostheses has provided the clinician with another approach to the treatment of complex craniofacial reconstructive problems. The surgical technique is reviewed and the Mayo Clinic experience is presented. 
Antigen-presenting activity of draining lymph node cells from mice painted with a contact allergen during ultraviolet carcinogenesis. The induction of skin cancers in mice by chronic UV irradiation is accompanied by a decrease in the numbers of Ia+ and Thy-1+ dendritic cells in the epidermis early in the course of UV irradiation. Subsequently, the number of Ia+ cells, but not Thy-1+ cells, increases until the time of tumor development. To assess the functional significance of these changes in cutaneous immune cells, and to help define the role these cells may play in immune surveillance against skin cancers, we tested the afferent immunologic capability of the skin during the development of UV-B radiation-induced skin cancers. Afferent immune function was measured by testing the Ag-presenting capacity of draining lymph node (DLN) cells from mice sensitized epicutaneously with dinitrofluorobenzene. A reduced contact hypersensitivity response was induced in mice immunized with DLN cells from UV-irradiated mice that had been sensitized with hapten on UV-irradiated skin. This decreased reactivity was present during the entire latent period of tumor development. However, in tumor-bearing mice, the DLN cells from UV-irradiated, sensitized animals exhibited normal Ag-presenting activity. DLN cells from UV-irradiated mice sensitized on ventral, unirradiated skin exhibited normal Ag-presenting activity. The lowest amount of Ag-presenting activity in the draining lymph nodes of UV-irradiated mice correlated temporally with the lowest number of Ia+, adenosine triphosphatase+ dendritic epidermal cells in the UV-irradiated skin. At least during the early part of the tumor latent period, an increase in the number of these cells was paralleled by an increase in the Ag-presenting activity of the DLN cells. In contrast, the number of Thy-1+ dendritic epidermal cells in UV-irradiated skin did not correlate with the Ag-presenting activity. Thus, the decrease in the number of identifiable epidermal Langerhans cells early in the course of chronic UV irradiation correlated with a decrease in Ag-presenting activity after sensitization through the UV-irradiated skin. These studies demonstrate that the afferent arm of the cutaneous immune response is impaired in the site of tumor development throughout the latent period of UV carcinogenesis. 
Screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic average-risk persons with negative fecal occult blood tests. Colonoscopy was performed on 210 asymptomatic average-risk persons, aged 50-75 years, who had negative fecal occult blood test results. Colonoscopy was complete to the cecum in 209 subjects. Fifty-three subjects (25%) had adenomas and two had cancer. All of the adenomas greater than or equal to 1 cm in size and both cancers occurred in subjects aged greater than or equal to 60 years. Fifty-one percent of subjects with adenomas and one with cancer had no neoplasms distal to the sigmoid-descending colon junction. One subject had a major postpolypectomy hemorrhage that stopped spontaneously. Screening colonoscopy, therefore, has a high yield for detection of neoplasms in asymptomatic average-risk persons aged greater than or equal to 60 years with negative fecal occult blood test results. The yield is low in persons aged 50-54 years and intermediate in persons aged 55-59 years. 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia associated with profound lymphopenia and abnormal T-lymphocyte subset ratios during treatment for early-stage breast carcinoma. Two women with Stage II breast carcinoma treated with lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation and adjuvant chemotherapy developed Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. Neither woman had evidence of immunosuppression before therapy. They both had profound lymphopenia, reversed CD4/CD8 ratios, and normal peripheral blood total leukocyte counts at the time of their infections. Both women were seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and had no risk factors for such an infection. The patients' CD4 lymphocyte counts increased after chemotherapy for breast carcinoma was discontinued. Thus, it appears that the therapy they received may have caused severe T-lymphocyte mediated immunosuppression. 
Endoscopic screening of early esophageal cancer with the Lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers. The poor prognosis for esophageal cancer could be improved if lesions were detected at an early stage. To detect early esophageal cancer, endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the Lugol dye method was performed in patients with head and neck cancers who were asymptomatic but regarded as being at high risk for synchronous or metachronous esophageal cancer. Of 178 patients screened, 9 had esophageal cancer (5.1%). Eight of these patients (89%) were at early stages with no lymph node metastasis. Most of the lesions (9 of 13 lesions) were not detectable by barium studies or ordinary endoscopic study. The epidemiologic statistical analysis of the patients confirmed that they had a significantly high observed and expected number (O/E) ratio (39.7; P less than 0.001). These results demonstrate the value of endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the Lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers and imply that endoscopic screening with the Lugol dye method may be useful for detecting early esophageal cancer in individuals at risk for other causes. 
Unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. The authors report 14 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus in adults. Headache was the most common presenting symptom. Unilateral hydrocephalus was documented in each patient with computed tomography scans; magnetic resonance imaging was also used in seven patients in the latter part of the series. Unilateral hydrocephalus was caused by tumor (seven patients), venous angioma (one patient), ependymal cyst (one patient), postinflammatory gliosis (one patient), and was idiopathic in four patients. The primary surgical treatment was craniotomy with fenestration of the septum pellucidum, which relieved symptoms in eight of nine patients for whom long-term follow-up data were available. 
Absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients. We investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mV and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine, glycine, or gamma-aminobutyric acid. In concentrations of up to 10(-3) M, none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current. This suggests (1) that there are no acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) or other products of the AChR gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells, and (2) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no AChR-like ion-channel property. These results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-AChR autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the AChR. Myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis. 
Thallium-201 scintigraphy in differentiated thyroid cancer: comparison with radioiodine scintigraphy and serum thyroglobulin determinations. The role of thallium-201 (201TI) scintigraphy in the follow-up evaluation of differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) is controversial. Desirable characteristics of 201TI scintigraphy including the potential for no thyroid hormone withdrawal, immediate imaging postinjection, and low radiation burden relative to iodine-131 (131I) suggests it is logistically superior to 131I scintigraphy. Fifty-two patients with DTC were evaluated with 201TI and 131I neck and chest images, and serum thyroglobulin measurements. In post-thyroidectomy and pre-131I ablation therapy patients, very little 201TI accumulation was noted within the thyroid bed, with discordantly increased 131I activity and normal serum thyroglobulin measurements. Twenty-nine percent of patients evaluated after 131I ablative therapy had elevated serum thyroglobulin levels and localized neck and chest abnormalities on 201TI scan that were not seen on 131I studies. Our data suggest that 201TI is more sensitive than 131I diagnostic (5 mCi) studies for detection of DTC, while 131I is more sensitive in detecting normal residual thyroid tissue postoperatively. 
Fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients. A multiparameter approach. Forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic, immunocytochemical, flow cytometric (FCM), cytogenetic, and molecular studies. There were 29 lymphomas (15 small non-cleaved cell [SNCL], 11 large cell [LCL], one small lymphocytic, and two Hodgkin's), 14 reactive hyperplasias, and three "atypical lymphoid proliferations." The reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations; six of seven were diploid on FCM, the seventh was hypodiploid. Higher proliferative indices (mean, 11.6%) and higher RNA indices (mean, 1.2) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without HIV positivity. Aspirates of SNCL showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred. Nine of 13 SNCL aspirates showed light chain restriction. JH rearrangement revealed B-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for Kappa, lambda, B1, and Leu-4. Nine of 12 SNCL were diploid; the mean proliferative index was 25.6% and the mean RNA index 2.3. Chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven SNCL aspirates karyotyped. Five of eight LCL showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype. Large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0% and mean RNA index of 2.2. One of two LCL aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation. Despite the multiparameter approach, a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates. 
Evaluation of the serum level of immunosuppressive substance in oral cancer patients. The serum level of immunosuppressive substance (IS) was studied in 40 patients with primary oral cancer and in 79 patients without cancer. Its usefulness was evaluated as a parameter for monitoring therapy as well as recurrence of the tumors. Mean values for serum IS in patients with cancer and patients without were 687 +/- 284 micrograms/mL and 464 +/- 153 micrograms/mL, respectively. Normal healthy controls had a mean value of 431 +/- 105 micrograms/mL, with the cutoff value set at 641 micrograms/mL (mean +2 SD). Patients without cancer who had a severe infectious disease showed conspicuously high serum IS levels, and these values were closely correlated with their C-reactive protein values. The positive rate of IS increased in all patients with oral cancer was 58%. The mean level of serum IS in cancer patients was significantly higher than that of the controls (P less than .01), and the level was found to be more elevated as the stage of the disease advanced (stage I to III, 48%; stage IV, 68%). Histologic analysis of the tumor cells in patients with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) showed that the mean serum IS level of those who had poorly differentiated SCC was much higher (937 +/- 181 micrograms/mL) than that of patients with well-differentiated SCC (616 +/- 159 micrograms/mL). Patients who had recurrent or metastatic cancer, or those who died from the cancer exhibited marked elevation of the serum IS levels, whereas patients who remained free of cancer in the follow-up period showed significantly lower serum IS levels. The rise and fall of the serum IS level was closely correlated with the disease progression and/or remission. These data strongly suggest that serum IS is a useful parameter for monitoring the disease stage as well as the effect of therapy on patients with oral cancer. 
Shared idiotype expression by chronic lymphocytic leukemia and B-cell lymphoma. Antiidiotype (Id) antibodies identify unique determinants within the surface immunoglobulin (Ig) that are present on B-cell tumors. Anti-Ids have been used for diagnosis and therapy of B-cell lymphoma and leukemia. A panel of 29 anti-Id monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) that recognize shared idiotypes (SIds) on B-cell lymphomas was tested for reactivity with both B-cell leukemias and lymphomas. Ten of 40 (25%) cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) reacted with at least one of the 29 anti-SId MoAbs. Three cases reacted with more than one anti-SId MoAb, but there was no repetitive pattern of a single anti-SId MoAb reacting with a large proportion of CLL cases. In contrast, for B-cell lymphoma, in which 11 of 31 (36%) cases reacted, one anti-SId (B4-1) reacted with five of the positive cases; all were diffuse histology. Restricted anti-SId reactivity may lead to important insights into the etiology of certain B-cell lymphomas. In addition, these anti-SIds may obviate the need to develop "tailor-made" antibodies for individual patients. 
A hepatoblastoma originating in the caudate lobe radically resected with the inferior vena cava. Complete resection of a rare hepatoblastoma in the caudate lobe, involving the inferior vena cava (IVC), is reported. After systemic chemotherapy, a 5-year-old child underwent exploratory laparotomy at another hospital, but resection was not attempted because the tumor in the caudate lobe had extensively invaded the retrohepatic IVC. However, because not only the lack of distant metastases but also the establishment of extrahepatic collaterals were confirmed by imaging, we thought it was possible to radically resect the tumor. We successfully performed an extended left hepatic lobectomy including total excision of the caudate lobe and the involved portion of the IVC. Although we did not reconstruct the IVC, no clinical manifestations arising from caval congestion were seen. The serum alpha-fetoprotein value declined below the normal limit. Our experience with this case has introduced a radical resectability for hepatic malignancy in the caudate lobe, even if it has extended into the IVC. 
Cutaneous vasculitis associated with pheochromocytoma. We describe a patient who presented with constitutional symptoms, severe hypertension, and purpuric lesions over the knees, thighs, and penis. The patient was eventually diagnosed as having multiple endocrine neoplasia type II, with cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. The cutaneous vasculitis persisted despite treatment with high-dose systemic corticosteroids, but rapidly resolved after the removal of bilateral pheochromocytomas. This case demonstrates cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis in association with pheochromocytoma. 
Extended neck dissection. From the time Crile described radical neck dissection in 1906, this surgical procedure became popular in the management of metastatic cancer in the neck. Over the past two decades, the modified neck dissection has been effectively utilized for conservation of function and cosmesis while achieving the same oncologic goals. However, there are several instances where the above standard procedures are not adequate for resection of malignant tumors. Although there is a definite trend toward conservation procedures, extended neck dissection is often necessary especially in patients with N2 and N3 disease. Apart from the standard structures removed in radical neck dissection, the other structures removed in extended neck dissection include skin, the digastric muscle, hypoglossal nerve, vagus nerve, sympathetic chain, ramus mandibularis, carotid artery, tracheo-esophageal nodes, etc. Over the past seven years, we have performed 40 extended neck dissections. All the patients had N2 or N3 disease in the neck. Nine patients had unknown primaries. Thirteen patients had their primary tumors in the oral cavity and 11 in the laryngopharynx. Five patients had primary tumor in the salivary glands and two patients had metastatic melanoma. Patients who underwent extensive skin excision had pectoralis myocutaneous flap reconstruction. All patients received postoperative radiation therapy. One patient died of cardiac problems 4 weeks after operation. Local control was achieved in 70%. The most difficult region for local control was the disease behind the mastoid process, and the most difficult problems were patients with involvement of the subdermal lymphatics. Our data suggests that there are definite situations where extended neck dissection is indicated with satisfactory local control of the nodal disease. 
Coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone in human pituitary and pituitary adenomas. Galanin is a neuropeptide that regulates the secretion of several pituitary hormones, including prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone (GH). Galaninlike immunoreactivity (Gal-IR) and galanin mRNA in the rat anterior pituitary is cell lineage specific, with predominant expression in lactotrophs and somatotrophs. The authors examined the cellular distribution of human Gal-IR in seven normal postmortem pituitaries and 62 pituitary tumors by immunoperoxidase staining. In contrast to the rat, Gal-IR in human anterior pituitaries was present in corticotrophs scattered throughout the gland, but not in lactotrophs, somatotrophs, thyrotrophs, or gonadotrophs. Distinct Gal-IR also was present in hyperplastic and neoplastic corticotrophs in 19 of 22 patients with Cushing's disease. In noncorticotroph cell tumors, unequivocal Gal-IR was present in 5 of 11 GH-secreting tumors associated with clinical acromegaly, 9 of 18 nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas, and 2 of 14 prolactinomas. Of these galanin-positive tumors, four of the five GH-secreting adenomas, six of the nine nonfunctioning adenomas, and both of the prolactinomas also contained adrenocorticotropic hormone immunoreactivity (ACTH-IR). Immunostaining and in situ hybridization on adjacent sections using an 35S-labeled probe complementary to human galanin mRNA demonstrated predominant galanin expression in normal corticotrophs. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the presence of Gal-IR in pituitary cells characteristic of corticotrophs in both normal and neoplastic pituitaries. Thus, as in the rat, galanin gene expression in the human pituitary is cell-type specific. Unlike the rat, however, human galanin gene expression is restricted to the corticotroph lineage. Studies of tumors confirmed the observed coexpression of galanin and adrenocorticotropic hormone. The divergent cell type specificity of galanin production in human and rat pituitaries reflects different patterns of gene activation in these two species. In addition, these results suggest that galanin in the human pituitary may participate locally in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. 
Lewis system alterations in gastric carcinogenesis. Alterations in the expression of type 1 blood group-related antigens (Lewis a and b) were examined immunohistochemically in 371 consecutives gastric biopsy and 80 surgical specimens from patients of gastric carcinoma. The ABH and Lewis phenotype and secretor status of the patients were correlated with histologic findings. An anomalous expression of Lewis a antigen was found in 88 of 249 gastric biopsy specimens of Lewis (a-b+) phenotype patients. The prevalence of this anomaly increased with the evolution of the premalignant process, in agreement with the commonly accepted model of gastric carcinogenesis. Thus, anomalous Lewis a antigen appeared in 66.6% of gastric dysplasia cases, in 64.6% of intestinal metaplasia, in 15.4% of atrophic gastritis, and in 7.4% of superficial gastritis. No alterations were found in subjects with normal gastric mucosa. Forty-seven of the 49 Lewis (a-b+) phenotype gastric carcinoma patients showed antigenic alterations in tumor cells (anomalous Lewis a antigen in 36 and loss of Lewis antigens in 11). In 26 of these gastric specimens an anomalous Lewis a antigen was present in areas of intestinal metaplasia and/or dysplasia away from the area of neoplastic transformation. The expression of Lewis a antigen in Lewis (a-b+) phenotype patients is a frequent phenomenon in gastric neoplastic cells and could result from the blocked synthesis of Lewis b antigen with accumulation of its precursors. These findings suggest that, during gastric carcinogenesis, antigenic alterations may precede neoplastic transformation. An anomalous Lewis a antigen could constitute a significant index of severity of the histologic lesion and contribute to identifying high-risk individuals. 
Pigmented spindle cell naevus. We report 22 cases of pigmented spindle cell naevus (PSCN). The usual appearance of these naevi is that of a heavily pigmented papule found mostly on the legs of young patients. Histologically, PSCN was characterized by symmetrical proliferation of spindle-shaped pigmented melanocytes grouped in large junctional nests. Pagetoid spread of single cells in the overlying epidermis was frequently found. In our opinion, PSCN is a distinctive benign acquired melanocytic naevus that in the past has been frequently misdiagnosed as atypical Spitz naevi or malignant melanoma. 
A case of cecocolic intussusception with complete invagination and intussusception of the appendix with villous adenoma. Villous adenoma of the appendix is a rare neoplasm and intussusception of the appendix is a rare pathologic condition. A very rare case seen in a 35-year-old male with pain in the right lateral abdomen is reported. In this patient, the appendix along with the villous adenoma intussuscepted and invaginated into the cecal lumen, and presented as cecocolic intussusception. A polypoid lesion was diagnosed in the cecum by fiberoptic colonoscopy. Unlike polypoid lesions at other sites in the large intestine, polypoid lesions of the cecum may accompany intussusception and invagination of the appendix. Consequently, caution is required in performing endoscopic polypectomy in cases of polypoid lesions of the cecum. 
A 170-kDa membrane-bound protease is associated with the expression of invasiveness by human malignant melanoma cells. Malignant spreading of cancer cells requires cell surface proteases that cleave the crosslinked collagenous matrix of connective tissues. From correlating the morphologically defined invasiveness of tumor cells with the presence of specific membrane-associated proteases, we have identified a malignant human melanoma cell line, LOX, that invades crosslinked gelatin films in vitro and contains uniquely a neutral 170-kDa gelatinase in the cell membrane. A similar gelatinase was found in membranes recovered from culture media conditioned with LOX. The 170-kDa gelatinase is a wheat germ agglutinin-binding protein. The proteolytic activity is maximal at neutral pH, enhanced by EDTA and dithiothreitol, inhibited by the cysteine protease inhibitors N-ethylmaleimide, HgCl2, and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and can bind to an organomercurial adsorbent, suggesting that it is a neutral sulfhydryl-sensitive protease. This 170-kDa gelatinase of LOX cells was not found in a control melanoma cell line, SK-MEL28, or in 32 other tumor cell lines that did not show extracellular gelatin degradation. Thus, we have identified a large membrane-bound protease that may be a specific marker molecule for melanoma cell invasiveness. 
The management of malignant bone tumors in children and adolescents. A series of 205 pediatric patients affected by osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone were treated from 1978 to 1988. Ninety-eight percent of the patients received chemotherapy and 63% had a surgical resection. Sixty-five percent of all patients were alive at 30 months and were considered disease free. The functional results after surgery were evaluated according to the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society score. In all diaphyseal resections and resections of the upper extremity and pelvis, the results were excellent or good in 60% of the cases. In resections of the proximal femur, distal femur, or proximal tibia and reconstruction with nonexpansible prostheses, the results were excellent or good in 75%. On the other hand, when arthrodeses of the lower extremity were used, only 14% of cases had a good result. This correlates with the resulting lack of articulation and serious limb shortening seen with progression of skeletal growth. 
Genetics of common diseases of adulthood. Implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis. Genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality. Prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention. Although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders (e.g., hypertension), this approach would be expensive and impractical for others (e.g., colon cancer). The family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood. Family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members, if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage, and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease. For many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease. The prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components. By reviewing the family history, key family members can be identified and investigated, in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis. At-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly. The screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder, our understanding of its physiology and etiology, and our current technology. The disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors, especially when they appear in younger adults. Atherosclerosis, colon cancer, and diabetes are complex phenotypes. Each can be caused by single-gene defects, but commonly the genetics are more complex. Empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases. In all three examples, early detection should lead to treatment, which can prevent more serious sequelae: by treating the dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease can be prevented; by removing the benign polyp, malignant cancer can be avoided; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected, diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications. The complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in Table 1 and their families can be a complicated task. Referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Cloning of the cDNA for human 12-lipoxygenase. A full-length cDNA clone encoding 12-lipoxygenase (arachidonate:oxygen 12-oxidoreductase, EC 1.13.11.31) was isolated from a human platelet cDNA library by using a cDNA for human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase as probe for the initial screening. The cDNA had an open reading frame encoding 662 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 75,590. Three independent clones revealed minor heterogeneities in their DNA sequences. Thus, in three positions of the deduced amino acid sequence, there is a choice between two different amino acids. The deduced sequence from the clone plT3 showed 65% identity with human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase and 42% identity with human leukocyte 5-lipoxygenase. The 12-lipoxygenase cDNA recognized a 3.0-kilobase mRNA species in platelets and human erythroleukemia cells (HEL cells). Phorbol 12-tetradecanoyl 13-acetate induced megakaryocytic differentiation of HEL cells and 12-lipoxygenase activity and increased mRNA for 12-lipoxygenase. The identity of the cloned 12-lipoxygenase was assured by expression in a mammalian cell line (COS cells). Human platelet 12-lipoxygenase has been difficult to purify to homogeneity. The cloning of this cDNA will increase the possibilities to elucidate the structure and function of this enzyme. 
Tenascin expression in hyperproliferative skin diseases. The expression of tenascin, a recently discovered extracellular matrix glycoprotein, was studied by immunohistochemistry in normal human skin and in a number of skin diseases with epidermal hyperproliferation such as psoriasis, basal cell carcinoma, Bowen's disease and solar keratosis. Tenascin expression in the upper dermis of normal skin was found to vary from almost absent to patchy along the basal membrane. Staining was continuous and intense around blood vessels, hair follicles and eccrine sweat ducts. In basal cell carcinoma a marked expression of tenascin was found in the tumour stroma, especially adjacent to the basal membrane surrounding the tumour cell nests. In Bowen's disease and solar keratosis, tenascin expression was found in the dermis next to the keratinocytes. In psoriasis the dermal papillae of clinically involved skin were intensely stained and a continuous band of tenascin was present in the upper dermis along the basal membrane. The distribution of tenascin differed from other known extracellular matrix components. 
Myeloproliferative disorders. Classification and diagnostic features with special emphasis on chronic myelogenous leukemia and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. Leukocytosis, mild anemia, thrombocytosis, and panhyperplasia in the marrow characterize the early stages of most of the CMPD, whereas extramedullary hematopoiesis (such as in the spleen or liver), peripheral cytopenias (anemia, leukopenia, or thrombocytopenia), and myelofibrosis, with or without osteosclerosis, reflect the changes seen in the later stages. Transitions among the different CMPD and termination in acute leukemia or marrow failure also are common. CML often is characterized by leukocytosis and the presence of the entire spectrum of granulocytes (mature and immature) in the blood and marrow, reduced LAP, hypercellularity with prominent granulocytic hyperplasia in the marrow, Ph chromosome, and bcr-abl gene rearrangement. Typical features of AMM include leukoerythroblastosis, teardrop poikilocytosis, anemia, increased or normal LAP, prominent megakaryocytic hyperplasia in the marrow, dyshematopoiesis, and hyperplastic or fibrotic/sclerotic marrow. 
Mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland. A rare tumor not easily classifiable among published histologic categories for salivary gland tumors is reported. The neoplasm developed within the submandibular gland of a 78-year-old woman with invasion of the mandible and metastasis to regional lymph nodes. Histopathologically, cuboidal cells possessing clear cytoplasm and displaced round nuclei proliferated and exhibited an adenomatous pattern. Many cystic spaces surrounded by tumor cell strands were seen, mucus substance filled in the cystic spaces, and the tumor cells seemed mucus-secreting, but neither epidermoid cells nor papillary appearance could be observed. Electromicroscopically, numerous mucous droplets of low electron density were prominent in the cytoplasm, and the tumor cells had sparse irregular microvilli on the luminal surface. Mucin histochemistry, including paradoxical concanavalin A staining, revealed that the tumor cells contained neutral and acid mucins, and these were identified as class II and III mucosubstances. No other neoplastic lesion, except recurrent metastatic neck nodes, has been detected 6 years after the first examination, and it seems that the tumor is a rare primary mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland. 
Multiple spinal epidural metastases; an unexpectedly frequent finding. In a prospective study, patients with known malignant disease who were suspected of having a spinal epidural metastasis, had myelography which was not confined to the clinically suspected site, but included at least the whole lumbar and thoracic spinal canal. Fifty four of the 106 myelograms revealed at least one epidural metastasis. Twelve of these 54 myelograms showed two separate lesions, and four myelograms showed three separate lesions. In all 16 cases with multiple lesions at least one of the lesions was asymptomatic at the time of the diagnosis. It is concluded that multiple spinal epidural metastases are of common occurrence and occur in about one third of the cases. This finding may have important clinical implications. Examination of the spinal canal for epidural metastases should not be confined to the clinically suspected site, but should include as extensive an area as possible of the spinal canal, whatever technique is to be used. 
Strong association between diabetes and displacement of mouse anti-rat insulinoma cell monoclonal antibody by human serum in vitro. In an attempt to identify novel pancreatic beta-cell surface antigens, mouse monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) were raised against rat insulinoma (RIN5F) cells with standard techniques. Several clones were identified whose antibodies bound specifically to RIN5F cells but not to other rat, mouse, and human target cells. Each of these MoAbs was radiolabeled, and the specificity of binding of each MoAb was determined by the ability of excess cold homologous MoAb to displace the labeled MoAb. Six RIN5F cell-specific MoAbs of different epitopic specificities were identified. The relevance of these beta-cell epitopes to human insulin-dependent diabetes (IDDM) was demonstrated by the differential ability of human serums from control and diabetic children to displace the radiolabeled MoAbs from the RIN5F cells. Serums from 333 children without diabetes or a family history of diabetes and from 156 newly diagnosed IDDM patients were tested. Only one IgM MoAb was specifically displaced by the IDDM serums, i.e., 146 of 156, compared to serums from control children, i.e., 10 of 333. With immunofluorescence, the serum component responsible for the displacement of the mouse MoAb was identified as IgG. Most of the positive control serums were from children with active autoimmune thyroiditis. Serums from children with other forms of glucose intolerance did not displace MoAb 1A2. There was no correlation between age and the degree of displacement of 1A2. Thus, the displacement of 1A2 is a specific and sensitive marker of diabetes susceptibility easily applicable to mass screening. 
Ultrasound and ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of supraclavicular lymph nodes in patients with esophageal carcinoma. The use of ultrasound combined with ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (UGFAB) of supraclavicular lymph nodes in the pretreatment staging of 37 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is described. All patients underwent computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest and the abdomen and ultrasound of the abdomen and supraclavicular regions. Supraclavicular lymph node metastases (Stage IV disease according to the tumor nodes metastasis [TNM] classification) were cytologically diagnosed in seven (18.9%) of the 37 patients. In two of these patients, no other metastases were found. In the other five patients, UGFAB replaced more invasive diagnostic procedures. Due to their superficial location, ultrasound and UGFAB of the supraclavicular lymph nodes was relatively simple to perform, and contributed to an improved staging of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. 
Anchorage-independent growth and the expression of cellular proto-oncogenes in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and in human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines. The expression of multiple cellular proto-oncogenes and the in vitro anchorage-independent growth of normal human epidermal keratinocytes and several human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines were studied and correlated. Squamous cell carcinoma cell lines KB, Si Ha, HEp-2, and Fa Du showed high anchorage independency, and MS 751 and A-253 cell lines had minimum independency. However, the normal keratinocytes and the A-431 cell line did not show anchorage-independent growth. Both the normal human epidermal keratinocytes and cancer cell lines expressed multiple proto-oncogenes such as src, erb B-1, abl, fos, raf, H-ras, and myc, and the amount of expression of these oncogenes was notably higher in the cancer cell lines than in the normal keratinocytes. The expression of proto-oncogenes from the monolayer cultures of the cancer cell lines is poorly correlated with the anchorage independency of the cells. These data indicate that the anchorage independency is not directly linked to the expression of specific cellular proto-oncogene(s) of the monolayer cancer cell cultures. 
Estrogen receptor localization in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix. To investigate the estrogen receptor (ER) status of cells during carcinogenesis of the uterine cervix, the immunohistochemical reactivity for a monoclonal anti-ER antibody (H 222) was studied in 26 normal cervical specimens, 21 cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), and 21 cases of invasive cervical carcinoma. In addition, the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA (types 6/11, 16/18, or 31/33/35) was analyzed by in situ hybridization. In the normal cervix, basal cells of the squamous epithelium, metaplastic cells, and endocervical glandular cells were ER positive. In contrast, neoplastic cells of CIN (17 of 21 cases) and invasive carcinoma (19 of 21 cases) were ER negative. The remaining four cases of CIN and two cases of invasive carcinoma were focally ER positive. The HPV DNA analysis revealed that HPV DNA in ER-negative cases was either types 16/18 or undetectable, but all ER-positive neoplasms contained HPV DNA types 31/33/35. These results suggest that most neoplastic cells in CIN and invasive cervical carcinoma lose their ER expression and that this may be related to the HPV DNA types which they possess. 
Progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension: report of two cases. Two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented. Emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement, which, supplemented by radiation therapy, allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms. Three possible explanations for this complication are offered: 1) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site, causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus, 2) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema, and 3) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus. Subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed. 
Endometriosis of the abdominal wall. Endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy. Most patients are young and in their active reproductive years. The histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands, endometrial stroma, or hemosiderin pigment. The diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery. Wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence. 
Evidence for the functional binding in vivo of tumor rejection antigens to antigen-presenting cells in tumor-bearing hosts. Spleen cells of BALB/c mice bearing a syngeneic CSA1M fibrosarcoma were treated with anti-Thy-1.2 antibody plus C, yielding a T cell-depleted, APC-containing fraction. The APC-containing fraction was first tested for its capacity to present exogenous modified-self or another tumor (Meth A) Ag after in vitro pulsing. The results showed comparable Ag-presenting capacities to those obtained by APC-containing fraction from normal spleen cells, indicating that APC function is not affected in tumor-bearing mice. We next examined whether APC from CSA1M-bearing mice bind endogenously generated CSA1M tumor Ag onto its surfaces to stimulate tumor-specific T cells. Five rounds of inoculation of APC-containing fraction from CSA1M-bearing mice without further in vitro pulsing resulted in the induction of potent anti-CSA1M immune resistance. The involvement of anti-CSA1M T cells in the induction of anti-CSA1M immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was delivered by Thy-1+ cell-depleted, but not by Thy-1+ cell-enriched fractions of spleen cells from CSA1M-bearing mice. Moreover, the failure of Sephadex G10-passed spleen cells to deliver anti-CSA1M resistance demonstrated the absolute requirement of APC for inducing the in vivo immunity. Finally, this in vivo resistance was found to be tumor specific, because APC fractions from CSA1M-bearing and Meth A-bearing BALB/c mice induced immune resistance selective against the corresponding tumor cell challenge. These results indicate that APC from tumor-bearing hosts can not only exert unaffected APC function against exogenous Ag, but also function to present tumor Ag generated endogenously in the tumor-bearing state and to produce tumor-specific immunity in vivo. 
Transurethral resection versus needle biopsy prior to radical prostatectomy for stage C prostate cancer. Influence on progression and survival. Previous reports have claimed that transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) preceding definitive radiation therapy for patients with Stage C prostate cancer promotes the risk of distant metastasis and increases the mortality rate. A total of 490 patients with pathologic Stage C adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated by radical prostatectomy were studied. Median time to follow-up was 4.6 years. Comparison was made between patients who had TURP within the six months preceding prostatectomy (n = 54) and those who had needle biopsy (n = 437) prior to operation. No significant differences were noted in local recurrence of disease, systemic progression of disease, disease-free interval, and overall and cause-specific survival, even after adjustment for clinical (adjuvant treatment) and pathologic prognostic variables. Our data suggest that for patients with pathologic Stage C prostate cancer treated by radical surgery, preoperative TURP is not associated with unfavorable outcome. 
Gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. Possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying. Transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (PPW). We placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing PPW. Myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies. The patient developed early postoperative gastric atony, associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias. These dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess. The gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying. Gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period. 
The role of tumor-derived cytokines on the immune system of mice bearing a mammary adenocarcinoma. I. Induction of regulatory macrophages in normal mice by the in vivo administration of rGM-CSF. Using a dimethylbenzanthracene-induced immunogenic nonmetastatic murine mammary adenocarcinoma in BALB/c mice, our previous work has shown that splenocytes from tumor bearers have reduced responses to both mitogens and Ag including tumor-associated Ag. NK and cytotoxic T cell activities are also reduced in splenocytes of tumor bearers. Mac-1+2+ macrophages induced in mammary tumor bearers are capable of down-regulating lymphocyte responses to mitogens and tumor-associated Ag by cell to cell contact interaction and increased PGE2 production. We have found that the tumor constitutively releases a granulocyte-macrophage (GM)-CSF-like factor in vivo and in vitro, which may be responsible for the systemic increase in cells of the macrophage lineage in tumor-bearing mice. A tumor cell line established from the in vivo tumor expresses and releases GM-CSF as shown by Northern and Western blot analyses. Daily i.p. injections for 3 wk of 10,000 U of rGM-CSF into normal mice induces hemopoietic and immunologic alterations similar to those observed in tumor bearers. Mac-1+ and/or Mac-2+ macrophages can also be detected in the spleens and bone marrow of the mice treated with rGM-CSF. Additionally, splenocytes from rGM-CSF-treated mice have reduced responses to mitogens and their peritoneal exudate cells can cause in vitro down-regulation of proliferative responses of lymphocytes from normal mice. The suppression can be partially reversed by the addition of indomethacin to the cultures suggesting that PGE2 may contribute to the effect. rGM-CSF enhances the in vitro release of PGE2 by the spleen, bone marrow, and peritoneal cells of normal mice. These data indicate that the high levels of GM-CSF constitutively produced by the tumor may be responsible for the hemopoietic changes and immunologic alterations observed in tumor-bearing mice. 
Adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with XXY karyotype and chronic lymphocytic leukemia: report of a case. We report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with 47XXY karyotype (Klinefelter's syndrome) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The increased incidence of malignancy in individuals with Klinefelter's syndrome has been well documented for certain neoplasms. Adenocarcinoma of the prostate has not been reported previously in a patient with Klinefelter's syndrome and a 47XXY karyotype. Absence of mosaicism was confirmed by peripheral lymphocyte, skin fibroblast, bone marrow cell and spleen stroma fibroblast cultures. Chronic lymphocyte leukemia, especially the T-cell cytotoxic/suppressive variant, may additionally add to an immunological deficit. Since carcinoma of the prostate, Klinefelter's syndrome and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are common, the lack of a previous report is interesting. Etiological aspects are discussed. 
Characterization in vitro of a human tumor necrosis factor-binding protein. A soluble form of a tumor necrosis factor receptor. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammatory responses. A cysteine-rich, highly glycosylated 30-kD TNF-binding protein (TNF-BP) purified from urine may have a role in regulation because it protects in vitro against the biological effects of TNF. The cytotoxic effect of TNF on the fibrosarcoma cell line WEHI 164 was inhibited by 50% at a 10-fold excess of TNF-BP. The binding of TNF to the receptor was partially reversed after the addition of TNF-BP. Results from biosynthetic labeling of cells with 35S-cysteine followed by immunoprecipitation with anti-TNF-BP indicated that TNF-BP is formed and released at the cell surface by cleavage because no corresponding cellular polypeptide was observed. A cellular 60-kD polypeptide, which was immunoprecipitated with anti-TNF-BP, may correspond to the transmembrane TNF-receptor molecule and be the precursor of TNF-BP. Thus, TNF-BP appears to be a soluble form of a transmembrane TNF-receptor. Moreover our results demonstrate that the production of TNF-BP is increased when the TNF receptor is downregulated in cells by treatment with TNF or by activation of protein kinase C with phorbol esters. TNF-BP may be an important agent that blocks harmful effects of TNF, and, therefore, useful in clinical applications. 
Linkage of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome 17q21. Human breast cancer is usually caused by genetic alterations of somatic cells of the breast, but occasionally, susceptibility to the disease is inherited. Mapping the genes responsible for inherited breast cancer may also allow the identification of early lesions that are critical for the development of breast cancer in the general population. Chromosome 17q21 appears to be the locale of a gene for inherited susceptibility to breast cancer in families with early-onset disease. Genetic analysis yields a lod score (logarithm of the likelihood ratio for linkage) of 5.98 for linkage of breast cancer susceptibility to D17S74 in early-onset families and negative lod scores in families with late-onset disease. Likelihood ratios in favor of linkage heterogeneity among families ranged between 2000:1 and greater than 10(6):1 on the basis of multipoint analysis of four loci in the region. 
A population-based study of functional status and social support networks of elderly patients newly diagnosed with cancer. We assessed the functional status and social support networks of 799 men and women aged 65 years or older newly diagnosed with cancer and living in six New Mexico counties. Functional limitations included depending on others for transportation (33%) and mental incompetence or poor recent memory (42%). The percentage of patients with functional limitation increased sharply with increasing age. In a substantial number of patients there was also evidence for poor social support networks; 26.5% of subjects lived alone and 38.9% had no children living in the vicinity. In a multiple logistic regression analysis, the predictors of having a poor social support network included non-Hispanic white ethnicity, advanced age, low income, and being a recent migrant to the area. Subjects with functional limitations were more likely to have poor social support networks than subjects without such limitations. The deleterious combination of impaired functional status and a limited social support network may explain why elderly cancer patients are at increased risk for not receiving appropriate therapy. Given the potential complexities involving the evaluation and appropriate treatment of cancer, care must be taken to adequately assess functional status and support mechanisms of older patients, and to provide adequate support to ensure compliance with treatment. 
Are three substages of clinical B prostate carcinoma useful in predicting disease-free survival? The B1 nodule, a 1.5 cm area of induration surrounded on at least two sides by prostatic tissue of normal consistency, was defined by Jewett in 1968 as the stage of prostatic cancer best suited for treatment and cure by radical prostatectomy (RP). The area of prostatic induration suitable for RP was subsequently extended to less than one lobe (Stage B1); this extension of induration was supported by the study of Walsh and Jewett in 1980 showing a 51 percent survival free-of-disease at fifteen-year follow-up. Subsequently, clinical staging systems evolved which substaged clinical B into three categories of induration: B1N = less than 1.5 cm nodule, B1 = greater than 1.5 cm but less than one lobe, and B2 = one lobe or both lobes. To determine if digital assessment of these progressively greater degrees of induration would translate into different intervals to first progression, whether local or distant, we reviewed prostate diagrams and descriptions of all Stage B patients treated by Iodine-125 interstitial implant and external beam radiation therapy between 1974 and 1985 at our institution. Forty-six patients had B1 nodules, 78 patients B1 (less than one lobe), and 52 patients B2 (one lobe or greater). Mean follow-up was fifty-five months. We found B1N, which was also associated with well-differentiated grade and a normal acid phosphatase, to have the longest interval to progression. 
Substance-P is present in a subset of thyrotrophs in the human pituitary. Substance-P immunoreactivity and tachykinin-like peptides are present in the pituitary gland of several mammalian species. In humans, however, the biochemical nature and cellular localization of pituitary substance-P has not been defined. We report here that substance-P-immunoreactive material is present in low concentrations in both the anterior and posterior lobes of the human pituitary gland. Gel chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography indicate that the majority of the substance-P immunoreactivity in human pituitaries elutes as authentic substance-P and its oxidized derivative. Immunohistochemical studies showed substance-P-immunoreactive fibers and terminals in the posterior pituitary gland and occasional substance-P-immunoreactive cell bodies in the anterior lobe. The substance-P-immunoreactive cells were found to colocalize with a small subpopulation of TSH beta-immunoreactive cells (thyrotrophs). Substance-P immunoreactivity was also found in a pituitary microadenoma that contained numerous TSH beta-immunoreactive cells. These studies indicate that substance-P is present in the human pituitary gland, and they suggest a relationship between substance-P and thyroid function. 
Breast cancer screening: who should be included? The recommendations of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force are reviewed in regard to screening for breast cancer. In contradistinction to those issued by some other national organizations, screening for breast cancer using mammography at ages 40-49 is not recommended. It is concluded that the scientific evidence is insufficient at present to recommend mammography screening for women aged 40-49. The recommendations of the task force are: all women over age 40 should receive an annual breast examination; all women should have mammography every one or two years beginning at age 50 and concluding at approximately age 75 unless disease has been detected; and it may be prudent to begin mammography at an earlier age for women at high risk of breast cancer. These recommendations are appropriate in light of the available evidence; though at present there is no evidence that clinical examination of the breasts at any age reduces breast cancer mortality; the upper age beyond which breast cancer screening no longer has a significant effect in reducing breast cancer mortality is unknown; and there is no evidence that women at high risk for breast cancer benefit to a different degree from screening than women not at high risk. 
Insulinomas: localization with selective intraarterial injection of calcium. To facilitate the noninvasive preoperative localization of islet cell tumors less than 15 mm in diameter, the authors examined the use of calcium as an insulin secretagogue in an arterial stimulation venous sampling (ASVS) technique. In four patients with episodic hypoglycemia, calcium gluconate (0.01-0.025 mEq Ca2+/kg) was injected directly into branches of the celiac plexus (gastroduodenal, splenic, and hepatic arteries) and the superior mesenteric artery. In all patients, serum levels of insulin rose abruptly in blood samples taken from the right hepatic vein 30 and 60 seconds after the infusion of calcium into the artery supplying the tumor; injection into an artery not supplying the tumor did not result in a similar rise. Accurate localization of the insulinomas was verified at surgery in three patients. In the fourth patient, who did not undergo surgery, arteriographic results were positive for insulinoma at the predicted site. On the basis of these results, the authors believe noninvasive ASVS may replace invasive portal venous sampling as the most effective method for the localization of occult insulinomas. 
Vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome. We report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage. Each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia. None had hemimegalencephaly. We hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients. 
Percutaneous urinary diversion in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer. Twenty-two patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer underwent percutaneous urinary diversion; at the time, all but one had metastatic disease. Eleven patients received postnephrostomy therapy. The median survival time for all the patients was one hundred nineteen days. Overall, 41 percent of the patients' remaining lifetime was spent in the hospital. Six never left the hospital and 10 required rehospitalization; the remaining 6 patients were never rehospitalized. The median survival time for this group of patients was shorter than the expected survival of similar patients without ureteral obstruction. It appears that percutaneous urinary diversion does not improve the quality of life of these patients. 
Differential effects of the stimulation of complement receptors CR1 (CD35) and CR2 (CD21) on cell proliferation and intracellular Ca2+ mobilization of chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells. The regulatory role of CR1 and CR2 on B cell activation and proliferation has been investigated by using B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells are clonal expansions of B lymphocytes frozen at specific stages of activation. They displayed two patterns of response upon surface Ig (sIg) cross-linking in terms of in vitro proliferation and intracellular free Ca2+ mobilization: cells from patient F (first pattern) proliferated in the presence of mitogenic anti-mu antibodies, whereas cells from patient A (second pattern) did not respond to sIg cross-linking but proliferated in the presence of low m.w. B cell growth factor and IL-2. Coculture of A or F cells with C3b-bearing SRBC led to a two- to four-fold increase in thymidine incorporation in cultures containing low m.w. B cell growth factor but not in cultures containing rIL-2. This enhanced proliferation was inhibited by F(ab')2 polyclonal rabbit antihuman CR1 antibodies. Only cells which proliferated in the presence of anti-mu (cells F) responded to cross-linking of sIg with a rise in intracellular Ca2+. No increase in calcium mobilization was observed after co-cross-linking of CR1 and sIg on A and F cells with mAb or polyclonal anti-CR1 antibodies. Co-cross-linking of CR2 with sIg only led to an enhanced intracellular Ca2+ rise in F cells but not in A cells. The lack of CR2-mediated synergy in Ca2+ rise in A cells indicates that the synergy occurs only if there is a proper coupling of sIg to phospholipase C. CR1-induced proliferation of B cells does not involve the signaling pathways of sIg. These results provide additional evidences for the role of C3 fragments in modulation of human B cell activation. 
Basal cell carcinoma arising in pemphigus vulgaris of the lower eyelid. A 59-year-old woman on continuous treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for pemphigus vulgaris of 14 year's duration presented with an enlarging nodular lesion on the right lower eyelid. The neoplasm, diagnosed as basal cell carcinoma, was excised conserving the lid margin, and eyelid reconstruction was done with a rotated cheek flap. Wound healing proceeded without complications in spite of immunosuppressive treatment, and the final cosmetic and functional result was satisfactory. 
In vitro and in vivo consequences of VLA-2 expression on rhabdomyosarcoma cells. Cloned integrin alpha 2 subunit complementary DNA was expressed on human rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells to give a functional VLA-2 (alpha 2 beta 1) adhesion receptor. The VLA-2-positive RDA2 cells not only showed increased adhesion to collagen and laminin in vitro, but also formed substantially more metastatic tumor colonies in nude mice after either intravenous or subcutaneous injection. These results show that a specific adhesion receptor (VLA-2) can markedly enhance both experimental and spontaneous metastasis. In contrast to the metastasis results, there was no difference in either the in vitro growth rate or apparent in vivo tumorigenicity of RD and RDA2 cells. 
Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma of the tongue. A case of posterior tongue lymphoma associated with adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) that occurred as a lesion in the lingual dorsal portion is reported in a 64-year-old woman. Initially, a diagnosis of Hodgkin's lymphoma was considered as no findings associated with ATL except lymphadenopathy and serum anti-ATLA antibodies were present. Combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy were administered with favorable results; however, 4 months later, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia developed, and 2 months later, generalized lymphadenopathy and hypercalcemia evolved. At this time, a diagnosis of ATL was made. The patient died of renal dysfunction 6 months after the initial presentation. In suspected cases of ATL and malignant diseases of T-cell lineage, namely, malignant lymphoma and mycosis fungoides, the presence of HTLV-1 infection should be confirmed by testing for anti-ATLA antibodies. 
Biology of basal cell carcinoma (Part II). Host-tumor relationships involve several factors that can enhance or suppress neoplastic growth. This second part of a review of basal cell carcinoma biology examines the role that hormones, cytokines, local and systemic immunity, congenital and genetic syndromes, and environmental factors play in the development of this neoplasm. Theories of etiology and pathogenesis are discussed, and transplantation and cell culture techniques used to study this cancer are explored. Valuable second-line therapies for treatment of multiple tumors are reviewed, and important areas of present and future research are emphasized. 
Dietary fat and risk of breast cancer. The relationship between dietary fat and subsequent risk of breast cancer was studied in 3988 initially cancer-free Finnish women aged 20-69 y. During a follow-up period of 20 y, 54 breast-cancer cases were diagnosed. Risk of breast cancer was significantly inversely related to energy intake and nonsignificantly inversely related to absolute fat intake. A positive association between energy-adjusted total fat intake and occurrence of breast cancer was also observed. The relative risk in the highest tertile as compared with the lowest tertile was 1.7 (95% confidence limits 0.6-4.8). The corresponding relative risks were 1.4 (0.5-3.7) for saturated fatty acids, 2.7 (1.0-7.4) for monounsaturated fatty acids, 1.2 (0.6-2.8) for polyunsaturated fatty acids, and 2.2 (1.0-5.0) for cholesterol intake. Adjustment for different potential confounding factors did not alter the results. The present data suggest that breast cancer is associated inversely with energy intake and weakly positively with energy-adjusted fat intake. 
Bronchoalveolar carcinoma: factors affecting survival. One hundred thirty-four consecutive patients (65 men and 69 women) underwent pulmonary resection for bronchoalveolar carcinoma. Mean age was 65 years. Lobectomy was done in 100 patients, pneumonectomy in 10, segmentectomy in 5, and wedge excision in 19. Only 10 patients had lymph node metastases (7.5%). The neoplasm was solitary in 111 patients (82.8%); 97 were in stage I, 4 were in stage II, 9 were in stage IIIa, and 1 was in stage IIIb. There were two operative deaths (1.5%). Thirty-nine complications occurred in 31 patients. Median follow-up was 5.1 years. Recurrent bronchoalveolar carcinoma developed in 45 patients. Five- and 10-year survival for patients in stage I was 75.2% and 62.0%, respectively. Survival for patients with T1 N0 M0 neoplasms was identical to expected survival and was 90.5% at 5 years, as compared with 55.4% for patients with T2 N0 M0 disease, only 35.9% for patients with multiple bilateral disease, and 0.0% for patients with bilateral disease (p less than 0.0001). Other significant factors adversely affecting survival included the presence of signs and symptoms, diffuse malignant invasion, mucin-producing tumors, and the histological absence of scar. We conclude that bronchoalveolar carcinoma has a unique natural history that is more influenced by local neoplastic processes than by lymph node metastases. Early aggressive pulmonary resection is safe and offers the potential for cure. The presence of bilateral cancer, however, is ominous. 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating multiple myeloma. Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicated the course of two patients with multiple myeloma. The diagnosis was established in both cases by bronchoalveolar lavage, which demonstrated the typical pneumocysts. Clinical and roentgenographic improvement in both patients was observed following a course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. One patient had lymphocyte subsets performed with a CD4/CD8 ratio of 0.8; both patients were HIV antibody-negative by ELISA. Both patients tolerated prophylactic TMP-SMX given concurrently with the subsequent chemotherapy for myeloma. We suggest that the immune defect seen in multiple myeloma may have placed these patients at risk for opportunistic infections such as P carinii pneumonia; however, as opposed to patients with AIDS, our patients tolerated therapy with TMP-SMZ quite well. 
When epilepsy masquerades as heart disease. Awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis. Autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, anginal chest pain, neurogenic pulmonary edema, and symptoms of pheochromocytoma. Either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms. A better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis, because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing. 
Effectiveness of carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin combination chemotherapy in good-prognosis metastatic testicular nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. The combination of carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin (CEB) was evaluated as initial chemotherapy in 76 patients with good-prognosis metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (NSGCT) between 1984 and 1988. The classification of eligible patients included Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) stages IM, IIA, IIB, IIC, IIIA, IIIB, IV0ABCL1, and IV0ABL2. Four courses of combination chemotherapy were administered in a 21-day cycle, and surgical excision of residual mass was performed in 27 cases (23 laparotomies and four thoracotomies). At the time of analysis, median follow-up was 24 months from start of chemotherapy (range, 6 to 54 months). The 2-year cause-specific survival probability was 98.5%, the single cause-related mortality being caused by bleomycin pneumonitis. Five patients failed CEB chemotherapy, but all have been successfully salvaged with a combination of surgery and intensive chemotherapy, follow-up from completion of all treatment being 35 to 44 months. The toxicity of CEB included bone marrow suppression and alopecia in all patients but no significant neurotoxicity or ototoxicity, and minimal renal toxicity. Only four (5%) patients had a decrease in the glomerular filtration rate greater than 15%. In 51% of patients, the hemoglobin fell below 10 g/dL. The WBC count nadir was less than 1,500/microL in 11% of treatment cycles and in 16% the platelet nadir fell below 50,000/microL. Decreases in the WBC and platelet counts were of very brief duration. Only one of 310 CEB cycles was complicated by neutropenic sepsis, and there were no episodes of thrombocytopenic purpura or bleeding. We conclude that the CEB combination represents an effective alternative to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in good-prognosis NSGCT and that the replacement of cisplatin by carboplatin leads to reduced toxicity. 
Serial magnetic resonance imaging in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. We prospectively performed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies during the neonatal period, and at 4 and 8 months of age, on 15 term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, and compared the results with their neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 months of age. Cerebral palsy developed in nine infants, two infants were classified as having abnormalities of tone and delayed motor milestones that were suggestive of cerebral palsy, and four infants were normal. Structural abnormalities, delayed myelination, or a combination of the two were detected with MRI at 8 months of age in all nine infants with later development of cerebral palsy. Three of the four normal infants and one infant with suggestive abnormalities had normal serial MRI findings. Each of the remaining two infants (one normal, one with suggestive abnormalities) had isolated persistent ventricular dilation on all three MRI studies. Our results suggest that 8 months appears to be the earliest time at which MRI findings correlate well with later adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in this population. 
Predicting radionuclide bone scan findings in patients with newly diagnosed, untreated prostate cancer: prostate specific antigen is superior to all other clinical parameters. Presently, the standard staging evaluation of prostate cancer includes digital rectal examination, measurement of serum tumor markers and a radionuclide bone scan. To evaluate the ability of local clinical stage, tumor grade, serum acid phosphatase, serum prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) and serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) to predict bone scan findings, a retrospective review of 521 randomly chosen patients (mean age 70 years, range 44 to 92 years) with newly diagnosed, untreated prostate cancer was performed. Local clinical stage, tumor grade, acid phosphatase, PAP and PSA all correlated positively with bone scan findings (p less than 0.0001). Using receiver operating characteristic curves, however, PSA had the best over-all correlation with bone scan results. The median serum PSA concentration in patients with a positive bone scan was 158.0 ng./ml., whereas men with a negative bone scan had a median serum PSA level of 11.3 ng./ml. (p less than 0.0001). Using multivariate logistic regression analysis, local clinical stage, tumor grade, acid phosphatase and PAP were evaluated in combination with PSA to assess whether these parameters increased the ability of PSA alone to predict bone scan findings. None of these clinical parameters, irrespective of the combination used, contributed appreciably to the predictive power of PSA alone. A probability plot with 95% confidence intervals was constructed that allows the practicing urologist to estimate on an individual basis the probability of a positive bone scan for any given serum PSA value. The most significant finding of this study, however, was the negative predictive value of a low serum PSA concentration for bone scan findings. In 306 men with a serum PSA level of 20 ng./ml. or less only 1 (PSA 18.2 ng./ml.) had a positive bone scan (negative predictive value 99.7%). This finding would suggest that a staging radionuclide bone scan in a previously untreated prostate cancer patient with a low serum PSA concentration may not be necessary. 
Endosonography of pararectal lymph nodes. In vitro and in vivo evaluation. One hundred thirteen patients with carcinoma of the rectum were evaluated for lymph node metastases by endorectal ultrasound. With the use of 7.5 MHz and based on different echo patterns, two main groups of lymph nodes can be differentiated: hypoechoic and hyperechoic lymph nodes. Compared with pathologic findings, hypoechoic lymph nodes represent metastases, whereas hyperechoic lymph nodes are visualized due to unspecific inflammation. Lymph node metastases can be predicted with a sensitivity of 72 percent and inflammatory lymph nodes with a specificity of 83 percent. The physical basis of the differentiation of lymph nodes was assessed in vitro by the determination of ultrasound parameters (speed of sound, acoustic impedance, attenuation, and backscattered amplitude). The attenuation coefficient of benign lymph nodes [2.5 dB/(MHz x cm)] is significantly higher than the mean value of lymph node metastases [1.3 db/(MHz x cm)]. The results demonstrate that involved nodes can principally be differentiated from not involved nodes. Micrometastases, mixed lymph nodes, and changing echo patterns within inflammatory nodes explain the accuracy rate of 78 percent. 
The value of immunohistochemistry for collagen IV expression in colorectal carcinomas. The Dukes' classification has well-established prognostic value in colorectal cancer patients. Yet, in each Dukes' class, the survival of individual patients may vary considerably. Recent studies show prognostic significance of genetic alterations in colorectal carcinoma. However, the importance of tumor stromal components noted in the surrounding tissue may have been overlooked by the methods used. Therefore, in a longitudinal study of 154 patients with colorectal cancer operated on between 1967 and 1974, the authors determined the influence on prognosis of lymphocytic infiltration and expression of collagen type IV in tumor stroma. Also, age, sex, Dukes' classification, grade of tumor differentiation, vasoinvasion, and the number of positive lymph nodes were analyzed. Follow-up was at least 15 years. Lymphocytic infiltration and collagen IV expression were scored as mild, moderate, or severe. Survival was analyzed by a Cox proportional-hazards model. The density of lymphocytic invasion showed no significant influence on survival. Collagen IV expression analyzed as a single variable was significantly (P = 0.038) related to better prognosis in colorectal cancer patients. By multi-variate analysis collagen IV expression showed a trend toward better prognosis that was not statistically significant (P = 0.12). Dukes' classification (P less than 0.001), the presence of vasoinvasion (P = 0.009), and lymph node status (P = 0.04) significantly influenced survival. In conclusion immunohistochemistry for collagen IV is an important additional staining technique with prognostic value. In addition, collagen IV immunostaining facilitates recognition of vascular invasion by highlighting the basement membrane of vessels. 
Familial ovarian cancer in Israeli Jewish women. Among 310 women with ovarian cancer of epithelial origin, eight ovarian cancer-prone families were identified, accounting for 24 cases. Five first-degree relatives underwent prophylactic oophorectomy, and early ovarian carcinoma was diagnosed in one of them. Familial aggregation of ovarian cancer occurs in the Israeli Jewish population. 
Use of various epithelial tumor markers and a stromal marker in the assessment of cervical carcinoma. The epithelial cell tumor markers squamous cell carcinoma antigen, CA 125, CA 15-3, and TAG 72, and the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen, an indicator of collagen metabolism, were evaluated in 111 cervical carcinoma patients. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen was pathologic in 47%, aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in 40%, CA 125 in 13%, CA 15-3 in 30%, and TAG 72 in 9% of the 91 patients with squamous cell carcinoma. The squamous cell carcinoma antigen, aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen, and CA 125 correlated with the clinical stage. The predictive value of a pathologic squamous cell carcinoma antigen was 78% and that of a negative result 68%. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen and aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen further increased the detection rate by approximately 20% from that obtained by squamous cell carcinoma antigen alone. In 16 patients with advanced disease, squamous cell carcinoma antigen correlated with the behavior of the disease in eight, aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in nine, and CA 125 in six patients. Pathologic squamous cell carcinoma antigen, CA 125, CA 15-3, TAG 72, and aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen appeared in 11, 32, 31, 31, and 47% of 19 patients with adenocarcinoma, respectively. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen is clinically useful in squamous cell carcinoma but poor in adenocarcinoma, for which the other markers are better. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen, CA 125, and aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen may be used for monitoring the behavior of advanced squamous cell carcinoma. 
The management of pseudomyxoma peritonei. The management of nine patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei was reviewed. Aggressive surgical resection of tumor is the standard of treatment, with many patients requiring multiple laparotomies. Chemotherapy, including the use of cisplatin is not effective. Long-term nutritional support provides a better quality of survival for select patients. 
Multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma: report of a case with anogenital pruritus at presentation. A case of multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma of the perianal skin and vulva in a 79-year-old woman is presented, and the embryologic basis for the multicentricity is discussed. Histologically, cloacogenic carcinoma can be differentiated from other small cell neoplasms that affect the area. Cloacogenic carcinoma should be considered a rare cause of anogenital pruritus. It is important to perform an early biopsy of anogenital lesions that do not respond to conventional therapy. 
High-dose chemoradiotherapy supported by marrow infusions for advanced neuroblastoma: a Pediatric Oncology Group study [published erratum appears in J Clin Oncol 1991 Jun;9(6):1094] We conducted a pilot protocol at seven Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) institutions to examine the feasibility, toxicity, and efficacy of using a common regimen of high-dose chemoradiotherapy (HD CT/RT) supported by autologous or allogeneic marrow infusions in children with metastatic neuroblastoma (NBL) in first or second remission. During a 57-month period, we accrued 101 patients. We report here results for the 81 who completed treatment at least 2 years ago. The HD CT/RT regimen consisted of melphalan 60 mg/m2/d for three doses, and total body irradiation (TBI) either 1.5 Gy (n = 27) or 2.0 Gy (n = 54) twice daily for six doses. Twenty-three patients also received irradiation consisting of 1.2 Gy twice daily for 10 doses to persisting disease sites. Seventy-four were given autologous and seven allogeneic marrow, 64 autologous marrows being purged immunomagnetically. Fifty-four children were in first complete (CR) or partial (PR) remission and 27 in second CR or PR. As of October 1, 1990, follow-up was from 32 to 72 months. Forty-seven of these 81 children relapsed, 10 died of complications, one of unknown cause, and 23 continue in remission, including 21 of the 54 treated in first remission, and 16 who completed treatment more than 3 years ago. The 2-year actuarial event-free survival (EFS) probabilities are first CR (CR1) 32% (SE 10%), first PR (PR1) 43% (SE 9%), second CR (CR2) 33% (SE 27%), and second PR (PR2) 5% (SE 5%). Probability of EFS correlated with remission number (first better than second, P less than .001), with interval from diagnosis to HD CT/RT (greater than 9 months better than less than 9 months, P = .055), and with TBI dose (12 Gy better than 9 Gy, P = .031). These encouraging results may partly reflect selection for this treatment of patients with NBL who have a slower disease pace. 
Regulation of HLA class II molecule expressions by IFN-gamma. The signal transduction mechanism in glioblastoma cell lines. We examined the signal transduction mechanism responsible for the IFN-gamma-induced HLA class II molecule expressions on glioblastoma cell lines, T98G and A172. A series of experiments demonstrated that the activation of protein kinase C (PKC) is involved in the DR and DP molecule expressions on T98G cells. In addition to the activation of PKC, calcium influx appeared to be involved in the DR and DP molecule expressions on T98G. Northern blot analyses with actinomycin D or cycloheximide revealed that these second messengers induce the transcription of DRA and B and DPA and B genes without de novo protein synthesis. Furthermore, we examined the region of the DPB gene that is responsible for IFN-gamma-induced gene transcription by gene transfer of a series of 5' and 3' deletion mutants in which the upstream region of the DPB was linked to a reporter gene, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. By using these deletion mutants, it appeared that the region between -152 and -126 bp contains a critical IFN-gamma-responsive element. Taken together, these results suggest that IFN-gamma activates PKC and stimulates calcium influx, resulting in the induction of transcription of DRA and B and DPA and B genes without de novo protein synthesis. In DPB gene, we speculate that preexiting protein(s) phosphorylated by PKC in the presence of Ca2+ might directly bind or indirectly interact with the region between -152 and -126 bp of the upstream sequence, leading to the induction of the transcription (possibly in concert with other nuclear protein(s) bound to the promoter sequences). 
Extrahepatic metabolism of morphine occurs in humans. The pharmacokinetics of morphine was studied in six patients in whom a radiologic localization of an insulinoma was to be performed under general anesthesia. Sampling was done in the peripheral artery, the mesenteric vein in five of the six patients, the hepatic vein, and the peripheral vein, as well as in urine. Hepatic blood flow was estimated by an indocyanine green infusion technique at the end of the radiologic procedure. Morphine terminal half-life was 92 +/- 9 minutes, total body clearance was 1260 ml.min-1, and the hepatic extraction ratio was 0.65 +/- 0.11. No concentration gradient was observed between the artery and the superior mesenteric vein, showing that no gut wall metabolism of morphine occurred. The total body clearance exceeded the hepatic clearance by 38%. It was concluded that the extrahepatic extraintestinal clearance of morphine probably occurred through the kidney. 
The recombinant immunotoxin anti-Tac(Fv)-Pseudomonas exotoxin 40 is cytotoxic toward peripheral blood malignant cells from patients with adult T-cell leukemia. Anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 is a recombinant single-chain immunotoxin containing the heavy and light variable regions of the anti-Tac monoclonal antibody fused to a mutant form of Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE). Anti-Tac binds to the p55 subunit of the human interleukin 2 (IL-2) receptor, and anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 kills human or monkey cell lines that contain either the intact IL-2 receptor or its p55 subunit alone. To assess the usefulness of anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 in treatment of IL-2 receptor-positive leukemia, we tested peripheral blood mononuclear cells from six patients with adult T-cell leukemia. In each of the six patients, anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 was extremely cytotoxic to the malignant cells. Metabolic activity and sensitivity of the fresh cells improved when a small amount of IL-2 (10 units per ml) was present during incubation. The toxin concentration necessary to inhibit protein synthesis by 50% after 16-hr incubation of cells with immunotoxin varied from 1.6 to 16 ng/ml (2.5-25 x 10(-11) M). In every case, binding was by means of the Tac antigen because anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 cytotoxicity was prevented by adding excess anti-Tac antibody. Moreover, anti-Tac alone or an inactive mutant of anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 without ADP-ribosylation activity had very little cytotoxic activity. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal controls, from a patient with Tac-negative leukemia, and from adult T-cell leukemia patients without significant peripheral blood involvement were not sensitive to anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40. These results indicate that anti-Tac(Fv)-PE40 is a potent cytotoxin against adult T-cell leukemia cells in vitro and warrants clinical testing. 
Intracranial arachnoid cysts in children. A comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting. The best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy. Recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent. The cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported. Five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention. Of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration, 10 (67%) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal (eight patients) or ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunting (one patient), or revision of a VP shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration (one patient). Two other patients with existing VP shunts required no further procedures. Thus, only three (20%) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years. The 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively; shunt revision has been necessary in six (30%) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence. Cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision, but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable. In all locations, though, shunting was more successful than fenestration. It is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-VP shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations, including those in the middle cranial fossa. 
Management decisions in laryngeal carcinoma in situ. Twenty-one patients with laryngeal carcinoma in situ (n = 12) or carcinoma in situ with microinvasion (n = 9) were treated with laser mucosal dissection of the vocal cords and/or superficial laser cordectomy. The normal architecture of the vocal cords was preserved because the depth of vaporization was usually superficial in these early cases. Five patients had recurrence, new tumor, or persistence of abnormal tissue that required additional laser surgical treatments. With a follow-up range of 6 months to 4 years, all patients currently are free of laryngeal abnormality, and no patient has needed open laryngeal surgery or radiation therapy. Transoral endoscopic laser resection of laryngeal carcinoma in situ with or without microinvasion should be the treatment of choice for these early lesions. 
Possible involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in undifferentiated sinonasal carcinoma. Retinoblastoma tumor formation is initiated by the loss of function of both alleles of the RB-1 gene on chromosome 13. Patients with the hereditary form of retinoblastoma carry a germ line mutation at one of the two homologous gene loci in all cells and have an increased risk for nonocular tumors (mainly osteosarcoma and other mesenchymal tumors) in later life. The authors studied a 38-year-old patient with sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (SNUC) who had been treated for bilateral retinoblastoma by enucleation (left eye) and irradiation (right eye), respectively. Using molecular probes for the RB-1 gene and other loci on chromosome 13, the authors detected a deletion at the RB-1 locus in metastatic SNUC cells that was not present in normal tissue. These findings indicate that somatic mutations at RB-1 locus may be involved in the formation or progression of ectodermal tumors. 
Risk factors for cancer of the tongue in Uruguay. From 1987 to 1989, a hospital-based case-control study of cancer of the tongue was conducted in Montevideo, Uruguay, as part of a large study to investigate a number of risk factors for cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx. The study involved interviews with 57 cases and 353 controls and was restricted to men. Relative risks (RR) associated with tobacco smoking, alcohol drinking, and selected dietary items were obtained by unconditional logistic-regression analysis. Users of black tobacco had a RR fourfold higher than users of blond tobacco, and heavy drinkers of alcohol had a RR of 11.6. Infrequent consumption of vegetables was associated with a significant RR of 5.3, and heavy drinkers of the local infusion "mate" had a RR of 2.5. It was concluded that black tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking were the strongest risk factors for cancer of the tongue in Uruguay. Their effects combine according to a multiplicative model. Also, infrequent vegetable intake and mate ingestion contribute to the risk of cancer of the tongue. 
Metastasizing pleomorphic adenoma of the nasal septum. Pleomorphic adenoma is the most common benign tumor of glandular tissue occurring in the head and neck region. There have been several reports of metastasis of this benign-appearing tumor from the salivary glands to distant sites, suggesting hematogenous spread and implantation. Although occurrence of pleomorphic adenoma on the nasal septum has been described, to our knowledge this is the first reported case of recurrent septal pleomorphic adenoma with histologically benign tissue in an enlarged metastatic ipsilateral submandibular lymph node, suggesting lymphatic spread. The literature concerning the subject is reviewed. Wide septal excision and modified neck dissection is the recommended treatment. 
Long survival and prognostic factors in hepatocellular carcinoma. We studied survival and prognostic factors in all cases of hepatocellular carcinoma seen at a Midwestern teaching hospital from 1947 through 1986. Of the 70 cases, 56 were diagnosed during life and 14 at autopsy. There were 47 males and 23 females with age at diagnosis ranging from 14 to 88. Median survival for the 56 patients diagnosed during life was 106 days. Only 11 patients lived longer than one year. Two patients were long survivors and presumed cured, one living 27 years after diagnosis and surgical treatment and the other 19 years. Cox regression model showed young age at diagnosis and low stage of disease at diagnosis to be significant predictors of long survival. White patients survived nearly twice as long as black patients but the difference was not significant. Gender and year of diagnosis did not appear to be important determinants of survival. Pathologic material was still available for one of the two long survivors and the histology was that of fibrolamellar carcinoma of young adults. 
Mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma in diffuse epithelial ingrowth treated by block-excision. We treated a 40-year-old man with an acute, unilateral, open-angle glaucoma caused by a gelatinous translucent material in the anterior chamber. A clinical diagnosis of mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma caused by diffuse epithelial ingrowth after ocular trauma one year earlier was suspected, but a primary or secondary ciliary body or iris neoplasm could not be ruled out. A curative 9-mm block-excision was performed. Six years later, intraocular pressure was normal, and the visual function was unchanged. Light and electron microscopy disclosed an island of diffuse columnar epithelium with numerous goblet cells on the iris surface and copious mucinous material extending into the trabecular mesh-work. 
Time to recurrence varies inversely with thickness in clinical stage 1 cutaneous melanoma. The thickness of a tumor has been identified as the principal prognostic factor in cutaneous malignant melanoma. However, time to recurrence has not conclusively been related to thickness. A retrospective study of 216 patients with a primary cutaneous malignant melanoma that recurred was conducted to clarify this relationship and investigate possible independent relationships between age at diagnosis and sex of patients to time to recurrence. The results of analysis of linear regression revealed an inverse linear relationship between thickness and time to recurrence (p less than 0.001). Patients more than 50 years of age at the time of diagnosis were shown to relapse sooner than those less than 50 years of age (p = 0.014). Sex was not a significant factor in predicting time to recurrence (p greater than 0.10). These results suggest that thickness of tumor provides an indication of time to recurrence in those patients destined to recur and stress the need for long term surveillance in patients with a history of malignant melanoma because of the possibility of late relapse even with thin lesions. 
Impaired production of tumor necrosis factor in breast cancer. Spontaneous and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) by peripheral blood macrophages was investigated in breast cancer. Whereas spontaneous TNF production by macrophages derived from patients with breast cancer was comparable with the one found in healthy controls (P greater than 0.1), LPS-stimulated macrophages derived from patients in the disease-free interval as well as with metastatic breast cancer were found to produce significantly lower amounts of TNF, as compared with macrophages derived from healthy control individuals (P less than 0.0005). However, the production of TNF did not significantly differ between the two patient populations (P greater than 0.05). The impairment of LPS-induced TNF production did not depend upon such characteristics of the primary tumor as size, axillary lymph node and estrogen receptor status, or upon the fact of administration of adjuvant chemotherapy and, in patients with metastatic disease, hormone treatment. To further investigate cytokine production by macrophages, spontaneous and LPS-induced interleukin-1 (IL-1) production was investigated also. However, no difference was found between patients and controls concerning IL-1 generation. The authors thus conclude that LPS-induced TNF production was impaired in breast cancer independent of the presence of detectable metastatic disease, whereas IL-1 production remained unimpaired. 
Primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the ileum in an adult. We report a case of primary rhabdomyosarcoma of the ileum occurring in a 45-year-old man. The rhabdomyoblastic nature was immunohistochemically confirmed by positivity with anti-myoglobin and anti-striated actin antisera. We discuss the differential diagnosis with similar tumors. To our knowledge, ileal rhabdomyosarcomas have not been previously reported in adults. 
Patterns of cervical lymph node metastasis from squamous carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract. A consecutive series of 1,081 previously untreated patients undergoing 1,119 radical neck dissections (RNDs) for squamous carcinoma of the head and neck was reviewed to study the patterns of nodal metastases. Primary tumors were located in the oral cavity in 501 patients, in the oropharynx in 207 patients, in the hypopharynx in 126 patients, and in the larynx in 247 patients. Lymph node metastases were confirmed histologically in 82% of 776 therapeutic neck dissections, and micrometastases were discovered in 33% of 343 elective RNDs. Lymph node groups in the neck were described by levels (I to V). Predominance of certain levels was seen for each primary site. Levels I, II, and III were at highest risk for metastasis from cancer of the oral cavity, and levels II, III, and IV were at highest risk for metastasis from carcinomas of the oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx. Supramohyoid neck dissection (clearing levels I, II, and III) for NO patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity and anterolateral neck dissection (clearing levels II, III, and IV) for NO patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx are recommended. 
Diagnosing breast carcinoma in young women OBJECTIVE--To assess the individual and combined diagnostic accuracy of clinical examination, mammography, and fine needle aspiration biopsy in young women with breast cancer. DESIGN--Analysis based on case notes of patients presenting with breast cancer during 1971-89. SETTING--A combined breast clinic. PATIENTS--Consecutive series of 81 women aged less than 36 with histologically proved breast cancer presenting with a discrete mass over 19 years. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Results of clinical examination, xeromammography or conventional mammography, fine needle aspiration biopsy, and examination of tissue removed by surgery. RESULTS--The clinical diagnosis was correct in 47 women and radiography in 35. Fine needle aspiration biopsy was correct in 47 of the 63 women in whom it was successfully performed. Fine needle aspiration was significantly more accurate than mammography (78% v 45%, p less than 0.01). Ten (16%) patients had negative results on clinical examination, mammography, and fine needle aspiration. CONCLUSION--Mammography alone seems inadequately sensitive to detect breast cancer in young patients. When all investigations give negative results excision biopsy is the only way of obtaining a definitive diagnosis. 
The elusive colonic malignancy. A need for definitive preoperative localization. Colonoscopy with biopsy is the standard of practice for the diagnosis of colonic malignancies. Unfortunately, the inability of endoscopy to obtain precise distance measurements from the anal verge can make localization of lesions at operation difficult. For this reason, preoperative barium enema or intraoperative colonoscopy have been advocated to further pinpoint the sites of those lesions not thought to be easily located at operation. Five patients are presented in whom malignant lesions of the colon were diagnosed and verified histologically, but were later undetectable at operation or subsequent colonoscopic examinations. Four of these patients underwent laparotomy and three received colon resections. None of these patients' tumors were identified during intraoperative colonoscopy, in the resected bowel on pathologic examination, or on follow-up colonoscopy. A fifth patient is presented who spontaneously passed a polyp containing invasive adenocarcinoma, but multiple colonoscopic examinations have failed to identify the site of the lesion. To date, none of these tumors have recurred with periods of follow-up ranging from 6 months to 2 years. These patients demonstrate a poorly documented and little understood aspect of the behavior of colonic malignancies, i.e., the ability to spontaneously regress or slough from the bowel wall. Based on these instances, localization of potentially malignant colon lesions is recommended with submucosal dye injections at initial endoscopy or with colonoscopy in the operating room immediately prior to operation. 
An epithelial cyst in the cerebellopontine angle. Case report. A case of a benign epithelial cyst in the posterior cranial fossa is described. It had the unique histological feature of a double-layered cuboidal epithelial lining. Detailed immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies supported an endodermal origin. The differential diagnosis and the histogenesis of epithelial cysts in the central nervous system are discussed. 
Recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus. A benign lesion, not to be mistaken for malignant melanoma. Melanocytic nevi that recur after incomplete removal are pigmented lesions that may clinically and pathologically simulate malignant melanoma in situ. Five examples of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus, with emphasis on light microscopic and immunohistochemical findings, are reported herein. Prominent HMB-45 staining in these nevi may cause further confusion in differentiating them from malignant melanoma. The differential diagnosis of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevi is discussed, with particular emphasis on distinguishing these lesions from malignant melanoma. Our immunohistochemical observations indicate that the recurrences most likely develop as a result of proliferation of melanocytes remaining in the epidermis and/or adnexae following incomplete removal. The approach and management of recurrent nevi are also discussed. 
The role of the immunogenetics laboratory in marrow transplantation. Allogeneic marrow transplants from genotypically HLA-identical siblings have become lifesaving therapy for patients with various congenital and acquired diseases of the immune and hematopoietic systems. Unfortunately, less than 30% of patients in the United States have an HLA-identical sibling; therefore, many are denied the opportunity for potentially curative treatment for otherwise fatal conditions. The results of marrow transplantation from haploidentical family members who were partially compatible for nonshared haplotypes with the patients demonstrated the relevance of HLA compatibility for engraftment and graft-vs-host disease. These results have provided the rationale for using HLA-identical unrelated volunteers as marrow donors. The recent development of a national registry of volunteer bone marrow donors (the National Marrow Donor Program in the United States) has made it possible to access a centralized file of more than 260,000 HLA-typed volunteers. Marrow transplants from an unrelated donor have become feasible. However, our preliminary clinical experience clearly demonstrated an increase in the incidence and severity of graft-vs-host disease. It is likely that standard HLA typing techniques are not adequate to provide data for sufficient donor and recipient matching. It is possible that currently available molecular technology could be applied to HLA typing and donor matching to improve on clinical results. 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the anus and HIV infection. We retrospectively reviewed six patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (SCCA) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection treated between 1985 and 1988. All six patients were homosexual men. Five patients had AIDS and one was HIV-positive. The most common symptoms and signs were pain (n = 5), mass (n = 5), and bleeding (n = 5). The average tumor size was 3.2 cm with a range of 1-10 cm. Five tumors were located in the anal canal and one at the anodermal junction. One patient was treated with biopsy alone, one with local excision, one with wide local excision and radiation therapy, and two with diverting colostomy. The average follow-up was 8 months. Of the five AIDS patients, two died, one was transferred to a hospice facility, one was lost to follow-up, and one remains alive 1 year following treatment. The HIV-positive patient died secondary to metastatic SCCA. This group of patients raises the question of a possible association between HIV and SCCA. 
Effect of bleomycin on hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy of solid tumors. Hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy (HpD-PT) has been successfully used to localize and treat superficial squamous cell cancers. Bleomycin sulfate is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has antineoplastic properties against squamous cell cancers. Because both HpD-PT and bleomycin chemotherapy are accepted forms of treatment for squamous cell cancer and their cytotoxicity is mediated by singlet oxygen and oxygen radicals, we studied the possibility of enhancing the response of solid tumors to HpD-PT by combining this modality with systemic bleomycin chemotherapy in a murine tumor model. Bleomycin did not enhance HpD-PT significantly. Also, we are not confident that HpD-PT alone or in combination with other agents can eradicate solid tumors; it certainly did not in this syngeneic murine tumor model. 
Risk of gastric cancer after gastric surgery for benign disorders. The objective of this review was to evaluate published evidence for the association between gastric resection for benign disorders and subsequent cancer of the gastric remnant. We searched the literature through Medline (1970 to 1988) and through the references of relevant articles. Fifty-eight studies consisting of case series, uncontrolled surveys, and case control or cohort analyses were identified and critically assessed using defined methodological criteria. There were no consistent differences between the expected and observed number of cancers occurring within 15 years after gastric resection. However, all case control studies and seven of the eight cohort analyses, in which the prevalence of cancer was stratified by time since gastric resection, indicated a twofold to fourfold increase in the risk of gastric cancer in patients who survived 15 or more years after gastric surgery. We conclude that most studies of the association of gastric surgery with subsequent gastric cancer have relatively weak designs. Still, the repetitive demonstration of this association by different investigators using different research designs supports the hypothesis that gastric resection increases the risk of cancer in the gastric remnant. 
Osteoblastoma of the spine. A review of 75 cases. Clinical and radiologic features of 75 cases of osteoblastoma of the spine were reviewed. In addition to pain, which was the most frequent complaint, 18 patients demonstrated objective neurologic deficit, while scoliosis was observed in 17 patients. Aspirin yielded pain relief in 13 patients. Pathologic fracture was not encountered. The radiologic and histologic characteristics of osteoblastoma of the spine are indistinguishable from those arising in other sites. The typical lesion exhibited a well-defined, geographic margin with a sclerotic, frequently lobulated border. Approximately one half of the cases were predominantly lucent, the remainder displaying varying degrees of matrix mineralization. Distribution of the osteoblastomas through the spinal axis was as follows: cervical-29, thoracic-16, lumbar-17, sacral-13. Other significant findings included posterior element involvement in 73 of 75 cases, and a striking male to female ratio of 2.5 to 1. 
Erythropoietin receptors induced by dimethyl sulfoxide exhibit positive cooperativity associated with an amplified biologic response. Erythropoietin triggers the differentiation of erythrocyte progenitors by binding to receptors on their plasma membrane. We report here that pretreatment of erythropoietin-responsive murine erythroleukemia cells with chemical inducers resulted in a striking increase in erythropoietin-specific hemoglobinization. This amplification of the erythropoietin biologic response was accompanied by the induction of a new population of high-density receptors (approximately 20,000 per cell) exhibiting marked positive cooperativity. Erythropoietin binding to new receptors displayed a convex upward Scatchard plot and a Hill coefficient (nH) of 6.75. Measurement of erythropoietin receptor mRNA demonstrated an initial decrease in receptor transcript followed by an approximately 2- to 3-fold increase after 24-48 hr. This increase in receptor message does not appear to account for the magnitude of the receptor up-regulation by dimethyl sulfoxide. We propose that this positive cooperativity reflects the interaction (clustering) of receptors, presumably through the formation of homooligomers or heterooligomers, and that this receptor interaction may amplify the erythropoietin signal transduction pathway. 
The effect of somatostatin on 5-hydroxytryptamine release from a carcinoid tumor. One of the major manifestations of the carcinoid syndrome is secretory diarrhea thought to be due to overproduction of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). Synthetic somatostatin analogues have proved to be clinically effective in controlling this diarrhea. We have established a continuous cell line from a human pancreatic carcinoid tumor that secretes 5-HT. We examined the ability of the somatostatin analogue, SMS 201-995, to inhibit 5-HT release in vitro. Tumor cells were exposed to SMS 201-995 (10(-6) mol/L), pentagastrin (10(-9) mol/L), acetylcholine (10(-5) mol/L), and isoproterenol (10(-5) mol/L) alone and in combination; 5-HT release was assayed with high pressure liquid chromatography. We found that pentagastrin (6.43 +/- 0.64 ng/ml), isoproterenol (20.24 +/- 2.17 ng/ml), and acetylcholine (12.39 +/- 1.10 ng/ml) each stimulated release of 5-HT compared to control values (4.38 +/- 0.42 ng/ml). SMS 201-995 significantly reduced release of 5-HT in response to isoproterenol and acetylcholine but did not inhibit the effect of pentagastin. These data suggest that different agents do not act through the same pathway to stimulate 5-HT release from human pancreatic carcinoid cells. 
Clinical study of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors producing alpha-fetoprotein. We present six patients with intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors that produced alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). Their ages ranged from 8 to 20 years (average, 11.5 years old); two were male and four were female. Four of the tumors originated in the pineal region and two in the suprachiasmatic region. One patient treated with only radiation therapy died within 3 months of admission as a result of intraperitoneal metastasis via a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Another patient, treated with radiation therapy and intrathecal administration of neocarzinostatin, died after 12 months because of tumor progression and subarachnoid dissemination. Two patients who received radiation and combination therapy with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin died after 13 and 25 months. The remaining two patients treated with radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy (cisplatin and etoposide) are now alive without recurrence after 16 and 19 months from admission. Adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide appears to be efficacious in the treatment of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumor. 
Evolution of in vitro transformation and tumorigenesis of HPV16 and HPV18 immortalized primary cervical epithelial cells. Cervical carcinoma develops through a progressive spectrum of premalignant intraepithelial lesions (CIN I-III), the majority of which are associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18. We established HPV16 and HPV18 immortalized human cervical epithelial cell lines and used them as a model to investigate the genesis and progression of cervical malignancy. The cell lines when cultured in vitro in a system mimicking their in vivo environment exhibit cytologic atypia and a variety of defects in morphologic differentiation at early passage compared to their normal counterparts. With increased passage, these alterations progress to more severe grades, histologically similar to CIN III; however only a limited number of the cell lines are tumorigenic, mimicking the epidemiologic evidence on the rate of conversion from premalignant to invasive carcinoma. The observed changes are not associated with alterations of viral DNA integration or expression and may reflect specific cellular events or changes in virus-host interactions associated with malignant progression. 
Intraosseous lipoma within the femoral head. A case report. Intraosseous lipoma occurring within the femoral head seems not to have been previously reported. Symptoms associated with the tumor included slowly increasing pain and a cystic lesion shown on roentgenograms. Management was by total hip arthroplasty. Pathologic examination of the specimen showed that the tumor was composed almost entirely of mature adipose tissue in keeping with a diagnosis of Stage 1 intraosseous lipoma. A sclerotic border and osteoid seams were noted, two features that seem not to have been previously reported in early lesions. Recent papers suggest intraosseous lipomas are more common than previously thought, and the femur now accounts for 25% of reported cases. 
Titrated intravenous barbiturates in the control of symptoms in patients with terminal cancer. Patients with terminal cancer may have a series of severe and dehumanizing physical and psychologic symptoms. To improve symptom control in the final days and hours of life, we administer intravenous barbiturates continuously to provide heavy sedation or continuous somnolence. Titrated dosage is then reduced to a minimum, after a desired steady-state has been achieved. Improved symptom control is provided, and the patient's dignity is maintained until death. 
Adjuvant topical chemotherapy versus immunotherapy in primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. In a prospective randomised controlled study, the efficacy of ethoglucid was compared with that of keyhole-limpet haemocyanin (KLH) in preventing recurrent tumours following transurethral resection of primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Patients treated with ethoglucid (n = 39) received 0.565 g (1% solution) ethoglucid weekly for 6 weeks and then monthly for 1 year. Patients treated with KLH (n = 38) were immunised subcutaneously with 1 mg KLH; bladder instillations of 30 mg were then given weekly for 6 weeks and thereafter monthly for 1 year. The recurrence rates, disease-free intervals and tumour progression rates were evaluated. The end-point of the study was either progression in stage or grade or more than 1 recurrence during the observation period. The minimum length of follow-up was 1 year. The recurrence rates, mean disease-free intervals and progression rates in the 2 groups showed no statistically significant differences. 
Flow cytometric evaluation of chemosensitive and chemoresistant head and neck tumors. For patients with head and neck squamous carcinoma, a clinical response to induction chemotherapy has correlated with a survival advantage. Similarly, patients with diploid tumors have displayed a survival advantage when compared with patients with aneuploid tumors. This study examined DNA content in 33 patients who had undergone induction chemotherapy as part of two clinical protocols to determine if there was a correlation between the patients with diploid tumors and the patients with a clinical response to chemotherapy. Although patients with stage III tumors had a longer disease-free survival than stage IV patients (p less than 0.0002), the addition of DNA content information did not improve the ability to predict response. Specifically, there was no correlation between DNA content and the response to chemotherapy. In addition, for this group of patients, a diploid DNA content was not correlated with a survival advantage. We conclude that DNA content information did not add significantly to the prediction of clinical outcome in these patients who received induction chemotherapy. 
Adjuvant antiestrogen therapy for breast cancer. Past, present, and future. Laboratory investigations using animal models of breast cancer growth have indicated that the antiestrogenic compound tamoxifen is a tumoristatic agent. It is therefore effective in suppressing, rather than destroying, the breast tumor. Its use as an adjuvant in breast cancer management has been successful, with a proportion of women benefiting from long periods of tamoxifen treatment. All the initial studies recruited postmenopausal women, but tamoxifen is now proposed for the treatment of premenopausal women for an extended time. Naturally, there are many aspects of the toxicology of tamoxifen to consider; however, careful monitoring of clinical trials will determine the safety of the drug for the general patient population. 
Role of mastectomy in breast cancer. The surgical management of breast cancer continues to evolve in an attempt to define the ideal line between therapeutic efficacy and morbidity. It is clear that breast cancer is a biologically heterogeneous group of diseases, and no single hypothesis explains its behavior. The surgical options proposed to the individual patient must draw from the experience of retrospective clinical studies and prospective randomized trials in an attempt to optimize the treatment plan. Most patients without distant disease are eligible to consider mastectomy, which can accomplish excellent local control and significantly improve survival for earlier stages of disease. However, breast conservation remains an appropriate alternative for a carefully defined subset of patients. Today, with early-stage disease, no patient need leave the operating room without a breast. Recent advances in reconstructive surgery make mastectomy with immediate reconstruction or limited resection plus axillary dissection with postoperative radiation therapy the two principal treatment choices available. Future studies will focus on the integration of other treatment modalities. Clinical research into the use of preoperative chemotherapy to downstage the disease to permit less extensive surgery is of interest. Recent application of molecular biologic techniques such as oncogene analysis, cytogenetic studies, proliferative indices, and the highly sensitive detection of distant micrometastases using monoclonal antibodies may assist in the design of innovative approaches to surgery, radiation therapy, and systemic drug treatment. These advances show great promise for improving the quality of life and the cure rate for patients with breast cancer. Today, surgical treatment options have evolved that fulfill some of the objectives outlined by Dr. James Ewing of Memorial Hospital some 50 years ago. His concerns about breast cancer remain as relevant today as they were half a century ago: "I have drawn the impression that in dealing with mammary cancer, surgery meets with more peculiar difficulties and uncertainties than with almost any other form of the disease. The anatomical types are so numerous, the variations in clinical course so wide, the paths of dissemination so free and diverse, the difficulties of determining the actual conditions so complex, and the sacrifice of tissues so great, as to render impossible in the majority of cases a reasonably accurate adjustment of a means to an end.". 
Fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration for bladder cancer. Intravesical administration of bacillus Calmette-Guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer. Complications from bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur. Five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus Calmette-Guerin sepsis. One man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 C. Two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death. Sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid, rifampin and streptomycin. Two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment. Triple antituberculous antibiotics, including cycloserine, may be lifesaving. Sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization. 
Estimation of PR and ER by immunocytochemistry in breast cancer. Comparison with radioligand binding methods. Immunocytochemical assays for progesterone receptor (PR) using monoclonal antirabbit PR antibodies (PR-ICA) and for estrogen receptor (ER) (ER-ICA) were compared with radioligand binding (dextran-coated charcoal [DCC]) methods for receptor determination in patients with breast cancer. Immunocytochemical staining for PR was exclusively nuclear in localization. In this regard, PR staining is similar to previous findings for ER; PR-ICA showed a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 100%. ER-ICA was also 89% sensitive and similarly specific. There was good correlation between the degree and intensity of staining and quantitative binding of radioligand. Receptor-positive tumors, however, show considerable variation of immunocytochemical staining, suggesting heterogeneity of cellular PR content. The availability of an immunocytochemical assay for PR increases the discriminatory potential for these methods of receptor determination. 
A comparative study of histopathology, hormone receptors, peanut lectin binding, Ki-67 immunostaining, and nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins in human breast cancer. The current study was performed on 71 cases of human female breast cancer and compares the results of five morphologic methods developed for the detection of estrogen receptors (ER), progesterone receptors (PgR), lectin Peanut agglutinin (PNA) binding sites, monoclonal antibody Ki-67 immunoreactivity, and the mean number of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions (Ag-NOR). All the parameters were evaluated on serial cryostat sections representative of a closely related, if not identical, neoplastic population. A significant positive correlation was found between the occurrence of estrogen, progesterone, and peanut receptors and between Ki-67 immunoreactivity, mean number of NOR, and mitotic index. Furthermore, ER, PgR, and PNA receptors showed a significant, inverse correlation with Ki-67 immunoreactivity, mitotic index, and mean number of Ag-NOR. These results provide further data that support the hypothesis that (1) progesterone and PNA receptors are estrogen-induced and indicate a metabolic response of the target cells to functioning estrogen receptors; (2) the mean number of NOR reflects the cell kinetics of the tumor; and (3) metabolic differentiation of neoplastic cells is inversely correlated to the proliferation index. 
The use of bromodeoxyuridine cytokinetic studies as a prognostic indicator of cancer of the head and neck. Traditional measures of head and neck tumors often fail to predict patient outcome or clinical course, particularly in nonadvanced disease. This problem of unpredictable tumor behavior has been one focus of cell proliferation studies. Such studies, however, have been limited by difficult methodology. A newer method of quantifying tumor cell proliferation using bromodeoxyuridine is applicable for head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, as shown in the present study. The relative ease with which cell proliferation can be evaluated using this technique will allow large numbers of head and neck tumors to be studied, enabling correlations with tumor behavior to be made. 
Melanoma in pregnancy. The clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy, but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients. Early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis. Surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease. As the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group, obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure. Overall, maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis. However, a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy. After treatment, long-term follow-up is recommended. Since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis, it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval. 
High incidence of antibodies to HTLV-I tax in blood relatives of adult T cell leukemia patients. Adult T cell leukemia (ATL) is caused by the human T cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I). Although the mechanisms of the leukemogenic process are unknown, the tax gene may have a role in this process. Because clustering occurs with HTLV-I and ATL, members of ATL families were examined for antibodies to the tax protein and compared with matched HTLV-I-positive blood donors. To investigate the antibody response to this protein, a plasmid, pBHX-4, was constructed to express a recombinant tax protein (r-tax). For ATL patients and their HTLV-I antibody-positive blood relatives, the rate of seroreactivity with the r-tax protein was 67.3% (35/52), compared with 51.6% (97/188) for HTLV-I antibody-positive control blood donors (P less than .05). The difference between direct offspring of ATL patients and matched HTLV-I blood donors was even greater (84.2% [16/91] vs. 44.2% [42/95]; P less than .005). Thus, tax antibody positivity in direct offspring of ATL patients may reflect differences in time or route of HTLV-I infection. Alternatively, it might reflect genetic differences in host susceptibility or virus strain. 
Impact of enucleation for choroidal melanoma on the performance of vision-dependent activities. We report a functional outcome assessment of 71 patients who underwent enucleation for choroidal melanoma. Each was interviewed to evaluate his her self-reported ability to perform four vision-dependent activities--working, driving, reading, and television viewing--before enucleation and when interviewed. The interval between enucleation and the interview varied between 2 and 25 years. Eighty-seven percent (62/71) reported no change in their ability to perform these important vision-dependent tasks. At 15 years after enucleation, 90% (18/20) retained the ability to drive and 96% (25/26) retained the ability to read. These results are reassuring for those with choroidal melanoma who are faced with enucleation, because most of these patients seem likely to continue at a level of visual function comparable with their preenucleation status. 
Primary non-Hodgkin's T-cell lymphoma of the esophagus. A case with peculiar endoscopic ultrasonographic pattern. We report a case of primary esophageal non-Hodgkin's T-cell lymphoma in a young white female. At admission, endoscopy revealed large, irregularly shaped, esophageal ulcerations with super imposed candidiasis. Endoscopic ultrasonography to assess submucosal alterations and periesophageal involvement revealed a diffuse hypoechogenic thickening (up to 5 mm) of the esophageal wall, a pattern consistent with lymphomatous infiltration. Definitive diagnosis was made with the aid of histology and immunohistochemistry. 
Intraoperative pathologic diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms. Report on experience with 504 specimens. Intraoperative pathologic examination with frozen section (FS) was performed on 504 specimens of thyroid tissue obtained from 457 patients over a period of 9 years. After examination of permanent sections (PS) a malignant neoplasm was diagnosed in 57 specimens (11.3%); 50 (87%) of these were primary thyroid carcinoma, four (8%) metastatic carcinoma, and three (5%) malignant lymphoma. The FS diagnosis was "benign" in 448 (88.9%), "malignant" in (30) 5.9%, and "deferred" in 26 (5.2%). The sensitivity of FS diagnosis of malignancy was 53% and the specificity and positive predictive value 100%. The negative predictive value was 97.8% and overall accuracy 97.9%. The PS disclosed a malignant neoplasm in 62% of specimens in which FS diagnosis was "deferred." Sixty-eight percent of papillary carcinomas, 87% of undifferentiated carcinomas, and a single case of medullary carcinoma were diagnosed with FS examination. A FS diagnosis of malignancy was not made in any of the ten specimens containing follicular carcinoma; in all ten the neoplasms were well-differentiated and eight were encapsulated and minimally invasive. The inability to diagnose follicular carcinoma intraoperatively with FS is the most significant factor accounting for the relatively low sensitivity of FS diagnosis of malignant thyroid neoplasms. 
Role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy. The purpose of this study was to determine the role of laparoscopy in patients with suspected hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and a normal computerized tomograph (CT). Twenty-five consecutive patients with a normal liver and no peritoneal lesions on CT were evaluated. Patients with a documented primary neoplasm or a positive ascitic fluid cytology were excluded. At laparoscopy, malignancy was documented by biopsy in 12 patients for an incidence of 48%. Of the patients with exudative ascites, 75% had peritoneal metastases. In addition seven patients had benign liver disease documented by laparoscopic biopsy. Liver enzymes were not helpful in distinguishing benign and malignant disease in this group of patients. This study indicates that a negative CT does not exclude liver or peritoneal malignancy. Laparoscopy has a significant yield in patients with a negative CT suspected of having hepatic or peritoneal malignancy and is the procedure of choice in evaluating these patients. 
Clinical features and natural history of von Hippel-Lindau disease The clinical features, age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease were studied. Mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years. Retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients (43 per cent), followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma (n = 60, 39 per cent) and renal cell carcinoma (n = 15, 10 per cent). Overall, 89 patients (59 per cent) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, 89 (59 per cent) a retinal angioma, 43 (28 per cent) renal cell carcinoma, 20 (13 per cent) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 (7 per cent) a phaeochromocytoma. Renal, pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed. Mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (44.0 +/- 10.9 years) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma (29.0 +/- 10.0 years) and retinal angioma (25.4 +/- 12.7 years). The probability of a patient with von Hippel-Lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma, retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84, 0.7 and 0.69, respectively. A comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented, based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications. Median actuarial survival was 49 years, with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death. 
Tumor-secreted vascular permeability factor increases cytosolic Ca2+ and von Willebrand factor release in human endothelial cells. Vascular permeability factor (VPF), a tumor-secreted heparin-binding protein (Mr approximately 38,000), is responsible for increased vessel permeability and fluid accumulation associated with tumor growth. Vascular permeability factor also promotes the growth of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC) and bovine pulmonary ECs in vitro. It is shown for the first time that guinea pig VPF (half-maximal and maximal dose approximately 0.4 and 22 pmol/l (picomolar), respectively), as well as human VPF, are potent stimuli for human ECs resulting in [Ca2+]i increases (maximal three- to fourfold) and inositol triphosphate (IP3) formation. Unlike the maximal responses to thrombin and histamine, the [Ca2+]i response to a maximal VPF dose was preceded by a characteristic 10- to 15-second delay. Guinea pig VPF also selectively increased [Ca2+]i in cultured aortic and pulmonary artery ECs, but not aortic smooth muscle cells, human fibroblasts, or neutrophils. Affinity-purified rabbit antibody (raised to a synthetic peptide representing VPF N-terminal amino acids 1 to 24) adsorbed all vessel permeability-increasing activity, EC growth-promoting activity, and specifically all activity responsible for increasing EC [Ca2+]i. Similar to other mediators that increase [Ca2+]i in cultured ECs, VPF also induced a 200% increase in von Willebrand factor release. Together these data indicate that VPF acts directly on ECs and that rapid cellular events in its in vivo/in vitro actions are likely to involve phospholipase C activation, [Ca2+]i increase, and von Willebrand factor release. 
Aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphomas: review of 91 patients treated with the LNH-84 regimen. A study of the Groupe d'Etude des Lymphomes Agressifs. PURPOSE: Patients with aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphoma undergoing the LNH-84 chemotherapy regimen were analyzed to determine the efficacy of intensive combination chemotherapy, the role of surgical debulking in patients treated with combination chemotherapy, and the toxicity associated with each of these modalities. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-one patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma who participated in the prospective multicenter LNH-84 combination chemotherapy trial (total number of patients in trial, 737) were analyzed. These 91 patients included 69 (76%) with diffuse large cell, nine (10%) with diffuse mixed, and seven (8%) with small noncleaved cell lymphoma. Two patients (2%) had stage IE, 54 patients (59%) stage IIE, and 35 patients (38%) stage IV disease; all patients with stage IE, 22 with stage IIE, and 18 with stage IV disease had bulky (greater than or equal to 10 cm) tumors. Specific sites of gastrointestinal involvement included stomach (47%), small bowel (38%), ileocecum (14%), colon (11%), and rectum (7%). Although surgical resection was attempted in 71 patients (78%), only 28 (31%) had complete tumor excision. All patients received three or four cycles of ACVB (defined in text) induction therapy followed by sequential consolidation as previously described. RESULTS: Responses to treatment in the 91 patients included 71 (78%) complete remissions, six (7%) partial remissions, five (5%) nonresponses, and nine (10%) deaths. With a median follow-up of 3 years, 10 patients (14%) have had relapses; predicted 4-year disease-free survival of complete responders is 85% and predicted 4-year survival of the entire group is 62%. In patients with stage IE or IIE disease, the complete response, survival, and disease-free survival rates were similar in those who underwent complete surgical resection or incomplete or no surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy. Prognostic factors predicting for survival in the 91 patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma were similar to those in the 646 other patients treated with the LNH-84 regimen. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with aggressive gastrointestinal lymphoma treated with intensive chemotherapy have outcomes and prognostic factors comparable to those of patients with similar-stage aggressive lymphoma without primary gastrointestinal involvement. Surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy did not influence the complete response rate, survival rate, or disease-free survival rate in this small group of patients. 
Diagnosis of thymoma in myasthenics using anti-striated muscle antibodies: predictive value and gain in diagnostic certainty. Assay of anti-striated muscle antibodies (StrAb) is used as a diagnostic test for thymoma in individuals with myasthenia gravis. Unfortunately, false positive results are common, and their effect on test accuracy is magnified by the relatively low frequency of thymoma in myasthenics. We estimated the predictive values of positive and negative StrAb assays (PV+ and PV-) and gain in diagnostic certainty using values for sensitivity, specificity, and thymoma frequency previously reported in the literature. Sensitivity for indirect immunofluorescence assays ranged from 0.83 to 0.84 (pooled estimate = 0.84; n = 68). Specificity ranged from 0.73 to 0.88 (pooled estimate = 0.77; n = 898). Frequency of thymoma ranged from 0.07 to 0.17 (pooled estimate = 0.12; n = 4,515). The expected gain in diagnostic certainty from StrAb was minimal in those aged 0 to 20 and those aged 60+. In those aged 20 to 60, a negative test helped to exclude thymoma, and a positive test raised diagnostic suspicion but was not sufficient to establish a diagnosis of thymoma (PV+ = 0.46). 
Central neurogenic hyperventilation: pharmacologic intervention with morphine sulfate and correlative analysis of respiratory, sleep, and ocular motor dysfunction. Central neurogenic hyperventilation (CNH), for which there is no effective therapy, can eventually result in respiratory fatigue and death. This report describes a patient with CNH due to a brainstem anaplastic astrocytoma who also exhibited disturbances of sleep and ocular motor function. The CNH responded clinically to morphine sulfate and methadone. Analysis of ventilatory response to CO2 before and after morphine demonstrated a depression of ventilatory response (49 to 53% of baseline) and occlusion pressure response (35 to 50% of baseline) to CO2, with a requirement for high doses of naloxone (10 mg IV) to reverse the effect. Polysomnography revealed sustained hyperventilation, elevated O2 saturation, and low end-tidal CO2 throughout all stages of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, and absence of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Ocular motor evaluation disclosed absence of horizontal and reflexive saccades with compensatory head thrusts. Correlation of the clinical and physiologic data with the MRI abnormalities suggested that the lesion responsible for CNH in this patient might reside in the medial tegmental parapontine reticular formation. Since recurrent episodes of hyperventilation responded in a sustained fashion to IV and oral opiates, this treatment may warrant consideration in other patients with CNH. 
Cervical lymph node metastasis: assessment of radiologic criteria. To estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma, seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed. Three lymph node diameters, their location, their number, the presence of a tumor, and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded. The minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis. A minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion. The size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger (11 mm). Groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity. Radiologically detectable necrosis (3 mm or larger) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74% of the positive neck dissection specimens. Shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status. 
Hypercalcemia in malignancy. The pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years. Since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy, progress has been remarkably rapid. A parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself. Nonetheless, both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia. It is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors, particularly squamous and renal carcinomas. New assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia. At the same time, new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available, most notably the bisphosphonate drugs. 
Inositol phosphate formation in the human squamous cell carcinoma line SCC-12 F: studies with bradykinin, the calcium ionophore A23187, and sodium fluoride. The phospholipase C (PLC)-mediated hydrolysis of membrane phosphoinositides is an important signal transduction pathway coupled to the cell-surface receptors for several hormones and growth factors. In addition, PLC activity can be modulated by changes in intracellular calcium and activation of GTP binding proteins. In this report, differential activation of PLC in the human keratinocyte cell line SCC-12F was studied as judged by specific patterns of inositol phosphate formation. Several hormones and growth factors previously shown to stimulate PLC in a variety of cell types were screened for activity in SCC-12F cells. Only bradykinin was active, stimulating the PLC-dependent generation of inositol (1,4,5) triphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3). Ins(1,4,5)P3 was rapidly metabolized to inositol(1,4)biphosphate (Ins(1,4)P2) and inositol(1,3,4,5)tetrakisphosphate (Ins(1,3,4,5)P4), and subsequently degraded to inositol monophosphates. The response elicited by bradykinin was concentration dependent (EC50 value of 50 nM), suggesting involvement of a specific bradykinin receptor. Treatment of these cells with the calcium ionophore A23187 appeared to result in the direct formation of Ins(1,4)P2 without Ins(1,4,5)P3 as precursor. Treatment of the cells with AIF4-, a putative activator of GTP binding proteins, resulted in the generation of inositol monophosphates as the major metabolites in the absence of detectable Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation. Taken together, these observations suggest that the PLC complex present in SCC-12F cells can be differentially activated to yield either Ins(1,4,5)P3, Ins(1,4)P2, or InsP. The observed effects may be due to a direct PLC-dependent hydrolysis of the appropriate membrane phosphoinositide. 
Effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects. The effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease (mean age 40 (SD 13) years) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 (36) months before the study. All patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases. Bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance (sGaw) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol (45-1260 micrograms). The dose producing a 35% decrease in sGaw (PD35) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis. Mean baseline sGaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid (1.35 (0.36) and 1.41 (0.56) s-1 kPa-1). The interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sGaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group (14% versus 8%). Geometric mean PD35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid (97 micrograms) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid (192 micrograms). It is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects. 
Expression of enzymatically active sucrase-isomaltase is a ubiquitous property of colon adenocarcinomas. Adenocarcinoma of the colon is one of the most prevalent and lethal of all human malignancies. The early diagnosis and management of this disease could be improved if biological markers, whose expression was restricted to malignant colon cells, were identified. Sucrase-isomaltase is a glycoprotein hydrolase expressed throughout the small intestine and fetal colon but not in the normal adult colon. This study shows that the expression of enzymatically active sucrase-isomaltase is a ubiquitous property of primary and metastatic colon adenocarcinoma. Significant sucrase enzyme activity (i.e., greater than 5 mU/mg protein) was observed in 16 colon carcinomas but not in adjacent normal colon mucosa. Sucrase-isomaltase messenger RNA was identified in all tumors using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis, this study shows that the amount of sucrase-isomaltase messenger RNA in tumors examined (3.4 x 10(-8) to 3.19 x 10(-7) micrograms/micrograms total RNA) was greater than in adjacent mucosa (0 to 3.4 x 10(-8) micrograms/micrograms total RNA). This induction of sucrase-isomaltase messenger RNA and enzyme activity was corroborated by immunostaining. Of 30 colon adenocarcinomas examined, 80% were positive for sucrase-isomaltase. In addition, all colon carcinoma metastases examined were positive for sucrase-isomaltase. The staining pattern was distinct and demarcated tumor cells from the surrounding histologically normal tissue. No sucrase-isomaltase staining was seen in normal mucosa from the same patients. With the exception of lung, no sucrase-isomaltase immunostaining was observed in a variety of examined noncolonic adenocarcinomas. Thus, the specificity and ubiquity of sucrase-isomaltase expression in adenocarcinomas of the colon can be exploited to improve the clinical management of this disease. In addition, studies on the structure of the sucrase-isomaltase gene and its regulatory elements should contribute toward understanding the alteration of gene expression by oncogenic transformation of the colonic mucosa. 
Free alpha subunit of the pituitary glycoprotein hormones. Measurement in serum and tissue of patients with pituitary tumors. A solid-phase radioimmunoassay was developed that measures the free alpha subunits of pituitary glycoprotein hormones (alpha PGpHs) and has negligible cross-reactivity with the intact hormones (less than 0.014% for thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH], less than 0.1% for human chorionic gonadotropin [hCG], 0.8% for luteinizing hormone [LH], and 2.0% for follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH]). The assay is standardized with the alpha subunit of hCG but also reacts well with the alpha subunits of the other glycoprotein hormones (84% for alpha TSH, 77% for alpha FSH, and 64% for alpha LH). Concentrations as low as 0.3 micrograms/L can be reliably measured, and the 97.5% reference range in 27 healthy adults, including postmenopausal females, is less than or equal to 1.2 micrograms/L. Elevated preoperative alpha PGpH concentrations were found in 45 (9.4%) of 479 sera from patients with pituitary adenoma and 3 (4.5%) of 66 patients with nonadenomatous sellar lesions. Postoperative alpha PGpH levels were lower in 30 of 39 adenoma patients and 2 of 3 nonadenoma patients. In five (1%) of the patients with pituitary adenomas, alpha PGpH was the only elevated serum hormone marker. Serum values of alpha PGpH correlate weakly with alpha subunit immunocytochemical staining--95% of those with negative staining have normal alpha PGpH values, but only 18% of those with positive staining have elevated alpha PGpH values. 
Elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors in small cell lung carcinoma. The presence of the soluble form of the interleukin-2 receptors (sIL-2R) was evaluated in the serum of 21 patients with small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and 37 patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma (non-SCLC) by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The sIL-2R level was measured serially in patients with SCLC both during and after therapy. The mean serum level of sIL-2R in patients with SCLC was 3.8 times higher than that of 47 healthy controls and was 1.9 times higher than in 37 patients with non-SCLC. Six patients with SCLC had very high levels of sIL-2R, ranging from five to 52 times the mean level observed in normal controls. Tumor cells in the pleural fluid of the patient with highest levels were positive with monoclonal antibodies to IL-2R (CD25), NKH-1, OKDR, and OKT9. A longitudinal study in this patient showed a good correlation between tumor activity and sIL-2R levels. Also, the sIL-2R levels decreased in patients responding to therapy. These results suggest that some SCLCs secrete sIL-2R and that the serial measurements of the serum sIL-2R levels can be used as a noninvasive tumor marker in this disease. 
Hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. Retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease (VOD). Twelve patients (4.1%) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant (RUQ) tenderness or hepatomegaly, jaundice, and ascites, with or without encephalopathy, within 40 days of marrow reinfusion. Evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for VOD (P = .0002). Sex, age, histology, hepatitis B serology, and elevated liver function tests were not predictive. No individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of VOD. However, a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine (BCNU) (greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2) led to an increased incidence of VOD when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule (P = .0258) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents. Seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of VOD. The four patients in whom clinical VOD resolved had lower median peak bilirubins (7.3 v 15.9 mg/dL), lower median peak creatinines (2.1 v 4.1 mg/dL), and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils (mean, 18.7 days). One of the four patients in whom VOD resolved had other grade 4 (life-threatening) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed. In summary, VOD is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas. Our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated BCNU schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents. 
Sequential connection of flaps: a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction. Microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck. Restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction. Replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration. There is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone, can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible, and provides thin skin for oral lining. Combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps. In six patients, a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects. In these selected patients, the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap, which was placed sequentially. The distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle. This approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited, such as following head and neck surgery and radiation. 
Late effects of treatment for Wilms' tumor. A report from the National Wilms' Tumor Study Group. The National Wilms' Tumor Study (NWTS) was initiated in 1969. One of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications. The NWTS has therefore incorporated a Long Term Follow-up Study (LTFS) within its framework to monitor late effects. The LTFS is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery, and data are collected using specifically designed forms. A total of 787 patients registered on NWTS-1 or NWTS-2 (1969 to 1979) were eligible, of whom 680 (86%) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and neuropsychologic status, and the presence of benign and malignant tumors. Patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported, along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities (32 versus 2), nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation (35 of 57 versus 5 of 53, respectively). The difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) (2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk) had borderline statistical significance (P = 0.06). No excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine. When considering patients with disease of all stages, all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation (RT patients); benign tumors were also more frequent in RT patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation (41 of 486 or 8% versus 4 of 194 or 2%). Continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed, especially for those given Adriamycin, because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients. 
Soluble interleukin-2 receptors in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The authors performed a retrospective analysis of serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) levels in 72 patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) using an enzyme immunoassay. Their objectives were to determine the value of serum sIL-2R in estimating the tumor burden, and its predictive value in response to therapy and prognosis. The data showed that serum sIL-2R levels in patients were significantly higher than that of healthy controls. The serum levels correlated with clinical staging and hence the tumor burden of NPC. Serial measurement of serum sIL-2R provided an accurate prognostic index of the clinical response to radiotherapy in at least 89% of patients with raised serum sIL-2R at initial diagnosis (defined as mean + 2 SD of healthy controls) and a reliable predictive index in all patients who subsequently developed distant metastasis despite initial radiotherapy. Simultaneous measurement of Epstein-Barr virus-related serology (IgA-VCA and IgG-EA) failed to demonstrate predictive value comparable with that of serum sIL-2R. The authors conclude that monitoring serum sIL-2R levels has clinical and prognostic significance in patients with NPC and that prospective studies are indicated. 
Carotid body tumors. The surgical management of carotid body tumors requires identification and preservation of neural and vascular structures without compromising resection of the neoplasm. Fifteen patients were examined and treated for carotid body tumors at the Cleveland (Ohio) Clinic Foundation from 1979 through 1987. The benchmark of diagnosis is bilateral carotid angiography. When neural structures are free of tumor, meticulous dissection facilitates their preservation. Large tumor size increases risk for arterial resection necessitating reconstruction. The use of a vascular shunt minimizes the risk of cerebral ischemia. Postoperative intravenous digital subtraction angiography allows for evaluation of arterial repair. A retrospective review of 15 carotid body tumor resections performed in 14 patients revealed no evidence of tumor recurrence, no mortality associated with surgical intervention, no postoperative cerebrovascular accident, and limited morbidity associated with unavoidable sacrifice of neural elements. 
Subclinical vulvar papillomavirus infection. Eighty-eight cases of subclinical human papillomavirus (HPV) vulvar infection were detected in a consecutive colposcopic series of 968 women. Three patterns of acetowhite lesions had a 72% predictive value (88/122) for histologically assessed HPV. The prevalence of subclinical vulvar HPV in self-referred patients was 7.9% (73/918); it was 9% (88/968) in the overall series and significantly higher in younger patients (age less than 25 years: 21/106, or 19.8%) or in those with cervical HPV or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) (40/100, or 40%). Routine inspection of the vulva after acetic acid lavage in association with a Papanicolaou test might help identify Papanicolaou-test-negative patients at high risk of developing cervical HPV or CIN. Treatment with beta-interferon (2,000,000 IU daily intramuscularly for 10 days) was given to 30 consecutive patients, but the results were poor: regression was observed in only 2 cases. 
Lung cancer histology in Jews and Arabs in Israel, 1962-1982. Lung cancer rates in Israel are lower than in Western countries, not explainable by smoking habits. Because of the different relations of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma to smoking it was of interest to study the histologic distribution in Israel. A total of 7,871 histologically confirmed lung cancer cases were studied in the period 1962-1982. Squamous cell carcinoma was the leading tumor type in Jewish men and adenocarcinoma in Jewish women. Rates of both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma increased throughout the period in both Jewish men and women, but the increase in adenocarcinoma was more pronounced in the last study period than that in squamous cell carcinoma. In 1977-1982 the rate ratio of squamous cell carcinoma to adenocarcinoma among Jewish men was 1.7. In Arab men it was 2.9, and in Jewish women 0.57. The Kreyberg I/II ratio among Jewish men was about 2.7 with no clear trend throughout the study period, and among Arab men this gradually decreased from 8.1 to 3.5. Jewish women had a constant Kreyberg I/II ratio of about 1 through the whole study period, but the ratio in Arab women was significantly higher than 1, with a mean overall ratio of 3.2. Jews and Arabs in Israel are different from each other in their patterns of lung cancer histology and are different to some extent from other populations in the Western world. 
Fine-needle aspiration cytology and flow cytometry of intracystic papillary carcinoma of breast To define criteria for cytologic diagnosis of intracystic papillary carcinoma (ICPC), the authors retrospectively reviewed the fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytologic specimens of eight cases of histologically proven ICPC of breast. The patients were five black and three white women, 56-87 years of age. The FNA specimen was cyst fluid in four cases (bloody in three, clear in one). All the aspirates showed cellular smears with small and large clusters of cells with papillary and/or cribriform configurations and numerous single epithelial cells. The cells were cuboidal to columnar with minimal atypia. ICPC was suggested by FNA in each case, and all the patients underwent surgical excision or mastectomy. Flow cytometry, performed on fresh FNA specimen in one case and on paraffin-embedded surgical tissue in all eight cases, showed seven tumors to be aneuploid and one to be diploid. The authors contend that ICPCs of breast have distinct cytomorphologic features that can be recognized by FNA. Because ICPC may present in cyst fluid, either bloody or clear, all breast cyst fluids from postmenopausal women should be examined cytologically. Flow cytometric demonstration of an aneuploid population may assist in confirming malignancy in this lesion. 
Vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele: a case report. A case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele. Sonographic and radiologic studies are described. The patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty. 
Subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer in New Zealand, 1974-1983. The purpose of this study was to examine changes in subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer within different age groups. Registration of colorectal cancer by the National Cancer Registry of New Zealand approached 100 percent by 1974. The present study was based on 15,395 individuals aged 25 years and over and registered for colorectal cancer between 1974 and 1983. Subsite distribution (right colon, left colon, rectum) for different age groups (25-49, 50-69, 70+ years) was significantly skewed, with an excess of right colonic cancer in individuals aged 25-49 years and 70+ years. This right colonic excess was accompanied by a relative reduction in left colonic cancer. Age adjusted incidence rates for the periods 1974-78 and 1979-83 were compared and stratified by age group and subsite. Incidence rates increased in all subsites in individuals aged 50+ years. This was particularly evident for right sided cancer in the elderly of both sexes. There was a marked reduction in the incidence of left colonic cancer and rectal cancer in individuals under 50 years. In contrast, the incidence of right colonic cancer remained relatively stable in young individuals. Time trend studies indicate that the skewed subsite distribution of large bowel cancer in different age groups may increase with time and is probably due to varying etiological factors acting on different cohorts. 
Type II oestrogen binding sites in human colorectal carcinoma. Seven cases of colorectal adenocarcinomas were investigated for the presence of oestrogen receptors and progesterone receptors. The tumours specifically bound oestradiol. This binding almost exclusively resulted from the presence of high numbers of type II oestrogen binding sites. Oestrogen receptors were absent or present at very low concentrations. Immunohistochemical investigation of nuclear oestrogen receptors gave negative results. This indicates that antioestrogen receptor antibodies recognise oestrogen receptors but not type II oestrogen binding sites. The presence of specific type II oestrogen binding sites and progesterone binding offers further evidence for a potential role for these steroids and their receptors in colorectal carcinoma. 
Lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell activity in B and T chronic lymphoid leukemia: defective LAK generation and reduced susceptibility of the leukemic cells to allogeneic and autologous LAK effectors. The capacity to generate lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and the susceptibility of the neoplastic cells to both allogeneic and autologous LAK effectors were studied in B and T chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. While in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) the depressed natural killer function could be restored after a 7-day incubation with recombinant interleukin (IL-2), B-CLL mononuclear cells showed a reduced LAK activity compared with normal LAK cells. Furthermore, in all but 1 of the 20 B-CLL samples tested the leukemic cells were totally resistant to autologous LAK effectors. In most cases the leukemic cells were also resistant to normal allogeneic LAK cells. Competition experiments demonstrated that the patients' LAK cells, as well as normal LAK effectors, were capable of recognizing B-CLL cells, pointing, therefore, to a postbinding cytolytic defect. In hairy cell leukemia (HCL) an overall reduced LAK activity against allogeneic targets was documented, but, at variance from B-CLL, hairy cells were often susceptible to the lytic effect of normal LAK cells, and in half of the cases tested the neoplastic population was also sensitive in an autologous system. Similarly to B-CLL, in the great majority of T chronic lymphoproliferative disorders studied, the pathologic cells were resistant to normal and autologous LAK effectors and a defective LAK generation was found. These results demonstrate that in most B and T chronic leukemias the LAK function is defective and, when inducible, does not appear directed against the leukemic population. The possibility of exploiting an immunotherapeutic approach with IL-2/LAK cells in the management of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders does not gain support by these findings. 
Vascular lesions of the intestines. This article reviews the pathology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding. In addition, a modified system for classifying such lesions, based on the author's personal experience with such lesions, is presented. 
Long-term follow-up of patients with recurrent malignant gliomas treated with adjuvant adoptive immunotherapy. Between August 1986 and October 1987, the Denver Brain Tumor Research Group conducted a clinical trial using autologous human recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2)-activated lymphocytes to treat 20 patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas. The trial involved surgical resection and/or decompression followed by intracavitary implantation of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and autologous stimulated lymphocytes (ASL) along with rIL-2 in a plasma clot. One month later, stimulated lymphocytes and rIL-2 were infused through a Rickham reservoir attached to a catheter directed into the tumor bed. The LAK cells were rIL-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 4 days; the ASL were lectin- and rIL-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 10 days. Of the 20 patients treated, 11 were evaluated as a group (mean age, 44 years, range, 15-61 years; mean Karnofsky rating, 69, range, 50-100; mean Decadron dose at entry, 14 mg/d, range, 0-32). The average number of lymphocytes implanted was 7.6 x 10(9) (range, 1.9-27.5 x 10(9], together with 1 to 4 x 10(6) U of rIL-2. To date, 10 of the 11 patients died, all from recurrent tumor growth. The median overall survival time was 63 weeks (range, 36-201; mean, 86). The median survival time after immunotherapy was 18 weeks (range, 11-151; mean, 39). No significant difference in survival after immunotherapy was found between those patients who had received previous chemotherapy and those who had not. The use of steroids or prior chemotherapy did not influence the in vitro generation of ASL or LAK cells. 
Basic studies on a new material for inducing antitumor immune cells. Recently, adoptive immunotherapy for cancer with lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells has been widely used experimentally. The therapy has several problems, including difficulty in handling, sterilization, and time consumption. To solve these problems, new materials able to induce antitumor immune cells were investigated. Pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and PWM-conjugated materials (CMC-1) could induce strong killer cells by short-term stimulation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). The induced killer cells showed a wide killing spectrum in vitro against human tumor cell lines (MKK-1, PRMI4788, NBT-2, ZR-7530, H-1, Hela, KB, HMV-1, PC-10, C-1). Human PBL stimulated for a short time by CMC-1 also showed a tumoricidal effect on tumor bearing (MKN-1, MKN-45) nude mice. These results suggest that CMC-1 may solve the problems with currently used LAK therapy and may provide easily applicable extracorporeal immunotherapy for cancer. 
Obesity and body fat distribution and breast cancer prognosis. This study addresses the effect of obesity and body fat distribution on axillary lymph node involvement, tumor size, and estrogen receptor (ER) level in breast cancer patients. Anthropometric measurements were prospectively obtained on 248 consecutively and newly diagnosed women with invasive breast cancer. The anthropometric measurements evaluated were abdomen, thigh, subscapular, and midaxillary skinfolds; weight; and height. Weight and Quetelet Index (kg/m2) were significantly (P = 0.001) associated with lymph node involvement in postmenopausal patients. The abdomen:thigh skinfold ratio was significantly higher in premenopausal patients (P = 0.004) and postmenopausal (P = 0.03) without axillary node involvement compared with women with 4+ axillary node involvement. The abdomen:thigh skinfold was higher (P = 0.05) in women with smaller breast cancers (less than 2.0 cm) and higher ER levels. Weight and Quetelet Index did not affect tumor size or ER level. This study demonstrated that obese postmenopausal women who developed breast cancer tend to have more axillary node involvement than their leaner counterparts. Generalized obesity did not affect tumor size or ER level. Premenopausal and postmenopausal women with upper body fat distribution appear to be a subset of women who have a more favorable prognosis as measured by less lymph node involvement, smaller tumors, and higher levels of ER in their tumors. 
Surgical strategy for early gastric cancer. The diagnostic and therapeutic options in early gastric cancer are reviewed. In Japan, the rate of detection of early gastric cancers has increased so that minute gastric cancers can now be identified as a result of advances in diagnostic methods. The results of histopathological staging of a large number of resected specimens have led to three surgical options based on size and depth of the primary lesion, namely classical R2 resection, radical resection with limited lymphadenectomy and endoscopic surgery. 
Surgical therapy in Barrett's esophagus. Seventy-six patients with Barrett's esophagus were cared for during a 10-year period. Fifty-six patients (74%) presented with complications of the disease. There were 20 strictures, 7 giant ulcers, 11 cases of dysplasia, and 29 patients with carcinoma. In patients with benign disease, 93% had mechanically defective sphincters and 83% had peristaltic failure of the lower esophageal body. Esophageal pH monitoring showed excessive esophageal exposure to pH less than 4 in 93% and excessive exposure to pH more than 7 in 34% of the patients tested. Ninety-three per cent of patients with excessive alkaline exposure had complications, compared to only 44% with normal alkaline exposure (p less than 0.01). Gastric pH monitoring, serum gastrin levels, and gastric acid analysis supported a duodenal source for the alkaline exposure. Antireflux surgery was performed using Nissen fundoplication in 30, Belsey partial fundoplication in 3, and Collis-Belsey gastroplasty in 2. Six required resection with colon interposition. Good symptomatic control was achieved in 77% after antireflux surgery. Four patients had symptoms and signs of duodenogastric reflux; three required a bile diversion procedure. Fifteen patients had an en bloc curative resection with colon interposition. One patient with high-grade dysplasia on biopsy was found to have intramucosal carcinoma after simple esophagectomy. Five tumors were intramucosal, seven were intramural, and four were transmural. Lymph node involvement occurred only in the latter two. Actuarial survival 5 years after curative resection was 53%. Median survival time for patients after palliative resection or no resection was 12 months. Study of en bloc specimens indicated that extent of resection should be adapted to extent of disease: esophagectomy for intramucosal disease, en bloc esophagectomy with splenic preservation for intramural and transmural disease. Serum CEA was useful in detecting recurrent disease after surgery when the primary tumor stained positively for CEA. 
Squamous carcinoma metastatic to the sternum. A 63-year-old man had a 10 x 16-cm sternal mass 18 months after a second aortocoronary bypass operation. The resected lesion was a metastatic tumor of squamous histology. No primary tumor was found. The diagnostic work-up and treatment options are presented. 
Adverse mortality experience of a southwestern American Indian community: overall death rates and underlying causes of death in Pima Indians. As part of an ongoing epidemiologic study, the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in Pima Indians who resided in the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC) in 1965 and later. Death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths. In 78% of the deaths, the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records. The age- and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the GRIC population (1639/100,000) was 1.9 times (95% CI 1.7-2.0) the 1980 rate for the U.S. all races (878/100,000). In Pima males, whose death rate was substantially higher than that of Pima females, the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in U.S. males, all races. Moreover among males 25-34 years of age, the Pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the U.S. all races. Diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59% of U.S. deaths in 1980, but only 19% of GRIC deaths. By contrast, the age- and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the GRIC Pima was 5.9 times the rate of the U.S. all races for accidents, 6.5 times for cirrhosis, 7.4 times for homicide, 4.3 times for suicide, and 11.9 times for diabetes. Tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the Pima, for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death. The findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the GRIC population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents, alcoholic cirrhosis, homicide, suicide, diabetes mellitus, and infectious diseases. Young Pimas, especially the males, should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts. These findings and recommendations probably apply to many Native American populations. 
Prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function. In summary, we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly. They include obstruction, hypertension, drug interaction, and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly, renal carcinoma. Only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered. Proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions, can save huge human costs in terms of mortality, morbidity, and money. 
An unusual manifestation of Paget's disease of bone: spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome. Neurologic sequelae of Paget's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae, ischemia caused by a spinal artery, steal syndrome or neoplasm. We describe a patient with Paget's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma. Clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome. 
Nonspecific magnetic resonance appearance of renal oncocytomas: report of 3 cases and review of the literature. We report the magnetic resonance appearance of 3 cases of solitary renal oncocytomas. All lesions were of low to moderate signal intensity on T1-weighted images and became considerably brighter on the more heavily T2-weighted images. One lesion contained a large central area of cystic degeneration, while the other 2 were solid. A central stellate scar was present in the smaller of the 2 solid lesions. Our observations lend further support to earlier reports on the nonspecific magnetic resonance features of oncocytomas. 
An epitope on the transferrin receptor preferentially exposed during tumor progression in human lymphoma is close to the ligand binding site. We have previously reported an anti-transferrin receptor antibody, Trump, which was originally selected for its ability to discriminate low- and high-grade lymphomas. This feature was distinct from the other anti-transferrin receptor antibodies such as OKT9. In the present study, further immunochemical analysis was performed to define the nature of the antigenic site recognized by the Trump antibody. Trump was found to block the binding of transferrin both to solubilized and to surface transferrin receptors; conversely, transferrin could block the binding of Trump only to surface transferrin receptors. Therefore, the epitope recognized by Trump is near but not identical to the transferrin binding site. Stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes with phytohemagglutinin induced both the OKT9 epitope and the Trump epitope, but 12-phorbol 13 myristate acetate induced only the OKT9 epitope. Growth of some cell lines was inhibited by Trump but not by OKT9. No structural difference was found between transferrin receptor molecules reactive with Trump and those reactive with OKT9. In support of these results, Trump was able to immunoprecipitate transferrin receptor molecules solubilized from low-grade follicular lymphoma cells even though it did not bind to the receptors exposed on the surface of these cells. These findings imply that low-grade lymphoma cells differ from high-grade lymphoma cells not in the structures of their transferrin receptors but in their exposure of the molecule on the cell surface. 
A surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine. We describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine, the brachial plexus and related vessels. The method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium, the sternoclavicular joint, and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle. We have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results. Its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia, surgical technique and postoperative care. 
Changes in gastric mucosa that antedate gastric carcinoma. Endoscopic biopsy specimens of the gastric mucosa from 13 patients who were found at follow-up examination to have gastric carcinoma were compared for abnormal histologic features, type of intestinal metaplasia, and presence of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), with specimens from 40 tumor-free controls. Villus-like changes and angular infolding, cytologic nuclear pleomorphism, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, irregular chromatin clumping, prominent nucleoli, and distinct nucleoli were manifestations of the carcinoma group. Angular infolding, distinct nuclear border, irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane, and distinct nucleoli were also observed in the latent stage before detection of carcinoma. The individual features, however, lacked specificity. Histochemically, a IIB subtype of intestinal metaplasia, and immunoreactive CEA in the cytoplasm of foveolar epithelium appeared exclusively in the patients with carcinoma. These findings indicate that the gastric epithelium of patients with gastric carcinoma tends to be morphologically and histochemically abnormal even before the recognition of classical dysplasia. This can be described as abnormal epithelium and is believed to provide the soil on which gastric carcinoma develops. 
Chondrosarcomas of the synovium. Chondrosarcoma of the synovium, either primary or secondary to synovial chondromatosis, is rare. Ten cases of synovial chondrosarcoma were studied (four from the Mayo Clinic files and six from the authors' consultation files). Two were considered primary. In five cases there was evidence of preexisting synovial chondromatosis, and in the remaining three, there was a suggestion of preexisting disease. Several histologic features were found that were helpful to diagnose malignancy. The most important ones were loss of the "clustering" growth pattern typical of synovial chondromatosis, myxoid change in the matrix, areas of necrosis, and spindling at the periphery of chondroid lobules. Pulmonary metastasis developed in five of nine patients; three of these patients died. 
Intraoperative pressure profile measurement and continence mechanism adjustment in the Indiana pouch urinary reservoir. We have described herein a simple pressure transducer system which helps the surgeon to tailor suture placement and achieve a continent ileocecal reservoir. It seems that fewer Lembert sutures than previously recommended are necessary to create a continent reservoir, although further study is needed. 
Cutaneous malignant melanoma metastatic to the choroid. Cutaneous malignant melanoma metastatic to the eye is a well-documented occurrence in the ophthalmic literature. Typically, ocular metastatic disease occurs concomitantly with or following the documentation of disseminated metastases. We present the clinical and histopathologic findings in a 62-year-old man whose first manifestation of metastatic cutaneous melanoma was his choroidal lesion. 
Marjolin's ulcer: a review and reevaluation of a difficult problem. The formation of an epidermoid carcinoma in nonhealing scar tissue, a Marjolin's ulcer, is a well described neoplasm. These lesions are, however, frequently overlooked and often inadequately treated. This paper reviews six cases of scar-tissue carcinoma. All lesions were secondary to various kinds of burns. Four of the Marjolin's ulcers were well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas. One was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, and one was a malignant melanoma. The average age at presentation was 59 years, and the mean interval from time of burn injury to appearance of neoplasm was 36.8 years. The lesions varied in anatomic location and involved the upper extremities, lower extremities, and scalp. In addition to the case studies, this paper reviews the literature and provides a logical treatment plan for a patient with a Marjolin's ulcer. Because these lesions can be very aggressive, a well thought-out treatment plan is necessary to optimize care and assure patient survival. 
Spinal coning after lumbar puncture in prostate cancer with asymptomatic vertebral metastasis: a case report. A 60-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for complete urinary retention. Prostate cancer was diagnosed and anti-cancer chemotherapy was administered. Regression of prostatic enlargement was appreciated and difficult urination improved. At 6 months after the initial treatment vertebral metastasis of T10-11 was noted on a bone scintigram but there were no symptoms induced by bone metastasis. Orchiectomy was performed with the patient under lumbar anesthesia. Complete paralysis of both lower extremities occurred postoperatively. Computerized tomography and myelographic findings demonstrated complete subarachnoid block with an extramedullary spinal cord tumor. It was concluded that traction on the spinal cord producing neurological deterioration (spinal coning) occurred after removal of the cerebrospinal fluid by lumbar puncture. 
Altered protein tyrosine kinase levels in human colon carcinoma. To further understand the molecular mechanisms and the biological indicators of colonic tumorigenesis, the authors examined tyrosine kinase activity in the cytosol and in the particulate fraction of the homogenates of specimens from 20 human colonic carcinomas and compared them with the adjacent normal mucosal tissues. Total protein tyrosine kinase activity could be precisely detected using miniphosphocellulose column purification and a synthetic peptide, Glu-asparagine (Asp)-alanine (Ala)-Glu-tyrosine (Tyr)-Ala-Ala-arginine (Arg)-Arg-Arg-glycine (Gly) (E11-G1), as an artificial substrate. Tyrosine kinase activity of colonic carcinoma and normal mucosa was reduced in the cytosol fraction whereas activity in the particulate fraction was elevated with respect to protein concentration. The average specific activity ratios were 1.95 +/- 0.27 (normal cytosolic/carcinoma cytosolic) and 0.57 +/- 0.01 (normal particulate/carcinoma particulate) for tyrosine kinase activity. Cellular distribution (% cytosol) of tyrosine kinase activity in normal mucosa and in carcinoma varied from 21.0% to 91.2% and from 7.0% to 61.4%, respectively. In nearly all cases the percentage of cytosolic tyrosine kinase activity in carcinoma tissues was lower than in normal tissues. There was no difference due to histologic type or the presence of adenomatous components. A significant decrease of cytosolic tyrosine kinases was correlated with Dukes' Stage A. With advancing Dukes' stage, the average specific activity ratios (normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol) were decreased. This study indicates that colonic carcinogenesis might be associated with alterations in cellular levels of tyrosine kinase activity and that the average specific activity ratio (normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol) had a possible correlation with colonic tumor growth. 
Prognostic value of DNA flow cytometry in paragangliomas of the carotid body. A carotid body tumor is a paraganglioma of the carotid bifurcation. Histologic appearance does not correlate with the malignant potential of the lesion, and thus a reliable prognostic marker for these tumors is lacking. To determine whether flow cytometric analysis of paraffin block specimens by DNA index and synthetic phase fraction (SPF) would be of prognostic value, a retrospective chart review of 14 patients with carotid body tumors was performed. Three of 14 tumors were aneuploid and were the only tumors with SPF greater than 15%. One of 3 patients (33%) with an aneuploid tumor (SPF = 22%) developed a local recurrence; no patient with a diploid tumor developed a recurrence. Two of 3 (67%) patients with aneuploid tumors (SPF = 18%) but only 1 of 11 (9%) with a diploid tumor were symptomatic preoperatively (P = 0.03). DNA index and SPF may help select a subgroup of patients with more aggressive tumors who are at increased risk for recurrence and therefore require closer follow-up. 
Prognostic factors of hepatocellular carcinoma in the west: a multivariate analysis in 206 patients. To investigate the prognostic factors in Western patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 206 patients with confirmed diagnoses of hepatocellular carcinoma were studied in terms of survival. All patients were diagnosed between 1983 and 1987. A multivariate survival analysis (Cox regression model) using clinical, biochemical, ultrasonographical and pathological data obtained at diagnosis disclosed that bilirubin (p = 0.0001), ascites (p = 0.0001), toxic syndrome (defined by the presence of weight loss greater than 10% premorbid weight, malaise and anorexia) (p = 0.009), blood urea nitrogen (p = 0.025), tumor size (p = 0.001), gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (p = 0.0006), age (p = 0.0005), serum sodium (p = 0.003) and presence of metastases (p = 0.002) were independent predictors of survival. According to the contribution of each of these factors to the final model, a prognostic index was constructed allowing division of patients in different groups according to their relative risk of death: RRD = EXP (Age x 0.03 + Ascites x 0.8281 + BUN x 0.0137 + Serum sodium x (-0.0538) + gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase x 0.0019 + Bilirubin x 0.0734 + Tumor size x 0.33 + Toxic syndrome x 0.4965 + Metastases x 0.55). These results facilitate the stratification of hepatocellular carcinoma patients to design and evaluate future controlled trials. 
History of cigarette smoking and risk of leukemia and myeloma: results from the Adventist health study. The risks of leukemia and myeloma associated with cigarette smoking were evaluated in a cohort study of 34,000 Seventh-day Adventists. Although Seventh-day Adventists do not smoke by church proscription, many are adult converts who smoked cigarettes prior to their baptism into the church. In comparison with those who never smoked, ex-smokers experience a relative risk of 2.00 (95% confidence interval = 1.01-3.95) for leukemia and 3.01 (95% confidence interval = 1.13-8.05) for myeloma. Risks increased in a dose-response fashion with increasing numbers of cigarettes smoked daily for both leukemia (trend P = .009) and myeloma (trend P = .005). Also, the risks of both leukemia and myeloma increased with the total duration of cigarette smoking. The cigarette smoking-leukemia relationship was strongest for myeloid leukemia, for which ex-smokers experienced a relative risk of 2.24 (95% confidence interval = 0.91-5.53). These data lend support to the hypothesis that cigarette smoke may induce malignant degeneration in bone marrow and its products. 
The potential and limitations of laser photoablation of colorectal adenomas. Ablation of colorectal adenomas by Nd:YAG laser energy was investigated in 271 patients. Two hundred and forty-one patients, selected because of poor surgical and medical condition or refusal of surgery, presented with incompletely removed polyps or with lesions unsuitable for endoscopic polypectomy. Thirty patients with polyposis coli were treated for rectal stump polyps after subtotal colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis. Because of insufficient follow-up (28) or malignant degeneration (23), full evaluation was possible in 196 colon adenoma and 24 polyposis patients. Complete ablation with histologic confirmation for at least 12 weeks was achieved in 150 (82%) of the 183 colon adenomas. This declined to 141 (77%) because of later recurrences in prolonged follow-up. Treatment of large adenomas was less successful than that of intermediate and small lesions: ultimate ablation in 56, 85, and 93%, respectively. Impressive was the immediate relief in 100 symptomatic elderly patients, who were bothered by frequent diarrhea, excessive mucous discharge, and incontinence. All patients survived despite major complications (7%) that mainly consisted of stenosis and hemorrhage. Rectal stump polyps were eliminated in 20 patients with polyposis coli. The remaining four had an uneventful ileoanal anastomosis for ultimately uncontrollable growth of polyps. Malignancy was discovered in 22 adenoma patients and in 1 polyposis patient. We recommend laser ablation of colorectal adenomas for small and medium-sized polyps, that cannot be removed by endoscopic polypectomy in inoperable patients or in patients refusing operation. Laser treatment for extensive adenomas seems only appropriate for symptomatic relief. 
The relationship of nasopharyngeal carcinomas and second independent malignancies based on the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group experience. The authors sought to learn if the incidence of second independent malignancies after the irradiation of carcinomas of the nasopharynx is similar to that observed after treatment of tumors arising in other head and neck sites. One hundred twenty-one patients who had primary carcinomas of the nasopharynx who were treated solely by ionizing radiation (according to the specifications of a Radiation Therapy Oncology Group protocol) were identified and their subsequent well-being was reviewed. Overall there was a 4.1% incidence of second malignancies (2% after 3 years, 5% after 5 years, and 8% after 8 years) with most arising in the upper aerodigestive tract. This rate is significantly less than the rate associated with other head and neck sites. It is not significantly different from the rate of first malignancies observed in an age-matched and sex-matched population. When only those patients who were free of all evidence of neoplastic disease 6 months after the completion of radiotherapy are considered, similar analysis leads to similar outcomes. The authors conclude that the risk of second malignancies after the successful irradiation of carcinomas of the nasopharynx is substantially less than after treatment of tumors at other head and neck sites. 
Prospective randomized comparison of intravesical with percutaneous bacillus Calmette-Guerin versus intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin in superficial bladder cancer. Conflicting reports of the necessity for percutaneous bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) administration with intravesical BCG prompted us to evaluate its benefit in a randomized prospective comparison of intravesical versus intravesical with percutaneous BCG therapy. Intravesical Tice BCG was given in a dose of 50 mg. with or without percutaneous BCG weekly for 6 weeks, at 8, 10 and 12 weeks, at 6 months and every 6 months thereafter. Tumor recurrence was documented in 13 of 30 patients (43%) receiving only intravesical BCG and in 15 of 36 patients (42%) receiving intravesical plus percutaneous BCG. The addition of percutaneous BCG to intravesical therapy did not increase treatment efficacy in this study. 
Effect of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow, blood, and oral granulocyte counts. This study was designed to elicit the effects of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow production, blood carriage, and oral extravasation of granulocytes, and on the phagocytic activity of those harvested from the mouth. Fifteen adult patients with various morphologic forms of acute leukemia were followed through one to four courses of chemotherapy. Oral saline rinse samples were obtained thrice weekly and prepared for enumeration in a hemocytometer. The oral granulocyte counts were compared with concurrent counts in the bone marrow and peripheral blood. Phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was measured by the method of Smith and Rommel. The 15 patients were followed through 30 courses of chemotherapy and recovery. During each, there was a drug-induced decrease in marrow, blood, and oral granulocytes that was reversed when therapy was discontinued and bone marrow activity was restored. Phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was not perceptibly affected by the antileukemic drugs. Oral granulocyte counts provide a noninvasive method for monitoring the onset and recovery of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression and granulocytopenia in patients with leukemia. 
The development of neutralizing antibodies in a patient receiving subcutaneous recombinant and natural interleukin-2. Systemic administration of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in humans may induce antibodies specific to IL-2. The case is reported of a patient with metastatic rectal carcinoma who was treated with long-term subcutaneous IL-2 and a combination of subcutaneous IL-2 and interferon-alpha 2b (IFN-alpha 2b). This patient developed nonneutralizing and neutralizing anti-IL-2 antibodies recognizing both the recombinant and natural cytokine. Detectable serum levels of neutralizing antibodies were accompanied by the inhibition of immune responsiveness to systemic IL-2 in vivo. 
Spinal cord hemangioblastoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A case of subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a cervical hemangioblastoma is presented. The clinical picture was indistinguishable from that of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial lesion. The diagnosis was established by angiography and water-soluble contrast myelography followed by cervical computed tomographic scan. At surgery, the tumor was completely removed, and no neurological deficit was observed after the operation. 
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor synergizes with interleukin-6 in supporting the proliferation of human myeloma cells. The role of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in the growth of multiple myeloma (MM) was investigated in 21 patients with MM. In 17 patients with proliferating myeloma cells in vivo, recombinant GM-CSF significantly increased the endogenous-IL-6-mediated spontaneous myeloma cell proliferation occurring in 5-day cultures of tumor cells in vitro (P less than .01). Furthermore, GM-CSF was detected in 5-day culture supernatants of myeloma bone marrow cells. This endogenous GM-CSF was produced by the myeloma bone marrow microenvironment but not by myeloma cells and contributed to the spontaneous myeloma-cell proliferation observed in 5-day cultures. In fact, this proliferation was partially blocked (67%) by anti-GM-CSF monoclonal antibodies. The stimulatory effect of rGM-CSF was mediated through IL-6 because it was abrogated by anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibodies. rGM-CSF did not reproducibly increase the endogenous IL-6 production in short-term cultures of bone marrow cells of MM patients. Using an IL-6-dependent myeloma cell line (XG-1 cell line), rGM-CSF was shown to act directly on myeloma cells stimulating by twofold their IL-6 responsiveness. rGM-CSF did not induce any IL-6 production in XG-1 cells, nor was it able to sustain their growth alone. Although no detectable GM-CSF levels were found in the peripheral or bone marrow blood of MM patients, it is possible that GM-CSF, produced locally by the tumoral environment, enhances the IL-6 responsiveness of myeloma cells in vivo in a way similar to that reported here in vitro. 
The Merkel cell and associated neoplasms in the eyelids and periocular region. Merkel cells are clear oval cells in the epidermis and outer root sheaths of hair follicles, which are probably of epithelial origin, share ultrastructural features with neuroendocrine cells, and are found in association with touch receptors. In the eyelid, they occur singly in the epidermis and external root sheaths of hairs and eyelashes, and in specialized touch spots alternating with eyelashes. Their typical electron microscopical and antigenic features include dense-core granules, intranuclear rodlets, spinous processes, and a positive reaction for specific cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin. Merkel cell carcinoma probably develops from precursor cells which give rise to keratinocytes and Merkel cells, and nearly one out of ten Merkel cell carcinomas occur in the eyelid and periocular region. They tend to be bulging lesions near the lid margin of elderly patients, reddish in color, and erythematous with telangiectatic vessels. The diagnosis is based on the frequent presence of neurofilaments and paranuclear aggregates of intermediate filaments in addition to features typical of normal Merkel cells. The tumor often mimics lymphoma or undifferentiated carcinoma and frequently invades lymphatic vessels. One third of Merkel cell carcinomas recur, almost two thirds give rise to regional node metastases, and up to one half metastasize widely and result in death. Initial treatment should be prompt and aggressive, with wide resection and routine postoperative irradiation. Although metastatic lesions often respond to radiation therapy and cytostatic drugs, these treatments are mainly of palliative value. 
Sequence and functional expression in Xenopus oocytes of a human insulinoma and islet potassium channel. Regulation of insulin secretion involves the coordinated control of ion channels in the beta-cell membrane. We have isolated and characterized cDNA and genomic clones encoding a voltage-dependent K+ channel isoform expressed in human islets and in a human insulinoma. This K+ channel isoform, designated hPCN1, with a deduced amino acid sequence of 613 residues (Mr = 67,097), is related to the Shaker family of Drosophila K+ channels. hPCN1 is homologous to two other human K+ channel isoforms we have isolated, hPCN2 and hPCN3, with 55% and 65% amino acid sequence identity, respectively. The electrophysiological characteristics of hPCN1 were determined after microinjection of synthetic RNA into Xenopus oocytes. Two-microelectrode voltage-clamp recordings of oocytes injected with hPCN1 RNA revealed a voltage-dependent outward K+ current that inactivated slowly with time. Outward currents were inhibited by 4-aminopyridine with a Ki less than 0.10 mM and were relatively insensitive to tetraethylammonium ion or Ba2+. A delayed rectifier K+ channel such as hPCN1 could restore the resting membrane potential of beta cells after depolarization and thereby contribute to the regulation of insulin secretion. 
A T-cell neoplasia showing clinicopathologic features of malignant histiocytosis with novel chromosomal abnormalities and N-ras mutation. Malignant histiocytosis (MH) is a distinct disease entity defined clinically and morphologically. However, the neoplastic origin of MH is not well established. The authors report a 26-year-old woman who showed the typical clinicopathologic features of so-called MH. Cytogenetic and molecular genetic examinations were performed in addition to the morphologic and immunologic approach. The expression of CD2 and T-cell receptor gene rearrangements indicated the T-cell origin of this case. CD30, which is positive for anaplastic large cell lymphoma (Ki-1 lymphoma), was not expressed. The cytogenetic study revealed a clonal chromosome abnormality involving 3q25, 6p21, 11p15, and 11q21. An N-ras point mutation within codon 12 (GGT----GCT) was also detected. These finding indicate that MH defined clinically and morphologically is not a tumor of true histiocytic origin and that it should be reclassified on the basis of immunologic, cytogenetic, and molecular genetic data. 
Urinary excretion of bile acid glucosides and glucuronides in extrahepatic cholestasis. Recently the formation of bile acid glucosides has been described as a novel conjugation mechanism in vitro and in vivo. In 10 patients with extrahepatic cholestasis caused by carcinoma of the head of the pancreas we investigated excretion rates and profiles of urinary bile acid glucosides. Urinary bile acid glucosides and, for comparison, bile acid glucuronides were extracted and characterized according to established methods. In controls total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.22 +/- 0.03 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- S.E.M.)-in the range of bile acid glucuronide excretion (0.41 +/- 0.06 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- S.E.M.). A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-characterized trihydroxy bile acid glucoside of still-unknown hydroxyl positions accounted for 65% of total urinary bile acid glucosides. In extrahepatic cholestasis total urinary bile acid glucoside excretion was 0.52 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr (mean +/- SEM), yet significantly lower than bile acid glucuronide excretion (1.53 +/- 0.13 mumol/24 hr; mean +/- SEM; p less than 0.001). In cholestasis the primary bile acid derivatives cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid glucosides amounted to 90%, whereas the trihydroxy bile acid glucoside had decreased to 5% of total bile acid glucoside excretion, indicating its alteration during enterohepatic circulation. The data establish the composition and quantity of urinary bile acid glucosides in healthy controls and cholestasis and constitute a quantitative comparison with another glycosidic conjugation reaction, bile acid glucuronidation. 
Microcystic adnexal carcinoma following radiotherapy in childhood. A 36-year-old man was treated by radiotherapy for tinea capitis many years before discovery of microcystic adnexal carcinoma (MAC). Because of patient's refusal of any surgical intervention, we were able to follow the natural course of this tumor for 13 years. This case emphasizes the typical slow development of (MAC). The implication of the association of MAC and radiotherapy are discussed. 
Preferential localization of human adherent lymphokine-activated killer cells in tumor microcirculation. The efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy for solid tumors with lymphokine-activated effector cells presumably depends on the ability of these cells to localize adequately in tumor tissues. We present here the first quantitative study of the in vivo movement of fluorescently labeled adherent lymphokine-activated killer (A-LAK) cells. These cells were injected intra-arterially along with low-dose interleukin-2 into normal (mature granulation) tissue and an implant of VX2 carcinoma grown in the rabbit ear chamber. A small proportion of A-LAK cells accumulated preferentially in the tumor microcirculation in vivo because of an increased frequency of long-term adhesive interactions with the tumor vasculature. Stasis of blood flow in the tumor vasculature was observed 1 to 2 days after injection. Subsequent necrosis of the tumors was observed, along with diffuse infiltrates of lymphocytes, monocytes, and granulocytes in the interstitial space within the tumor. Development of necrosis despite low ratios of effector cells to target cells suggests that in addition to direct cytotoxicity, the response to adoptive immunotherapy is mediated via the tumor vasculature. This novel mechanism for adoptive immunotherapy must be taken into account in the development of improved strategies for cancer treatment. 
Hereditary ovarian cancer. Heterogeneity in age at diagnosis. An unknown fraction of the ovarian cancer burden occurs in women with a family history indicative of a putative autosomal dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndrome. The results from a five-generation, extended, hereditary breast-ovarian cancer kindred are described 10 years after it was initially ascertained. Significantly more cancers were observed in high-risk family members during this decade than were expected (P less than 0.001). The age of ovarian cancer diagnosis was studied in additional ovarian cancer-prone families of three types: site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome, the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome, and Lynch syndrome II. The age of onset in each of the three sets was significantly (P less than 0.001) earlier than the general population mean of 59, and there were significant differences in the age of onset (P = 0.050) among these three cohorts. Ovarian cancer histology was similar to that of patients with negative family histories. There may be clinically significant heterogeneity in the age at diagnosis of ovarian cancer among these ovarian cancer-prone syndromes. This has important implications for understanding its natural history and targeting surveillance-management strategies. 
Detection and typing of human papillomavirus using the Vira Type "in situ" kit: comparison with a conventional dot blot technique. A new commercial kit (Vira Type "in situ", Life Technologies, Inc., Molecular Diagnostics Division, Guithersburg, Maryland, USA) for the detection of human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33 and 35 in routinely processed human anogenital tissue was compared with a conventional dot blot assay for HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18. Both systems use double-stranded genomic DNA probes for the detection of type specific HPV DNA. The probes used on the dot blots were labelled with 32P and visualised autoradiographically. The Vira Type probes were labelled with biotin and visualised using a streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate with NBT-BCIP substrate. Biopsy specimens from the cervix, vagina, and vulva of 46 women were processed by both methods and compared. The histological diagnoses ranged from benign changes, to dysplasia, and invasive carcinoma. Overall, 50% of biopsy specimens were positive for HPV DNA by dot blot hybridisation; only 39% were positive by Vira Type in situ hybridisation. Three of the specimens positive by the Vira Type "in situ" kit showed no cross hybridisation and were the same HPV type as the dot blot. A further 13 showed hybridisation, but the showed cross hybridisation, but the to the dot blot results. One biopsy specimen was positive for different HPV types by the two tests and one was positive by Vira Type and negative by dot blot. Six biopsy specimens were negative by Vira Type but positive by dot blot. It is concluded that the Vira Type "in situ" kit has a similar specificity but lower sensitivity than the dot blot hybridisation method for the detection of HPV DNA. 
New chemotherapies for ovarian cancer. Systemic and intraperitoneal podophyllotoxins. The epipodophyllotoxin derivatives etoposide and teniposide have been evaluated intermittently for possible use in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Conflicting studies suggest that variables such as dose and prior treatment have a major influence on outcome. Response rates ranged from 0% to 40% in five series with teniposide, and from less than a 10% overall response rate to greater than a 10% complete response rate in nine studies with etoposide. One study documented activity with oral etoposide. However, because all patients had received various prior chemotherapies, firm conclusions regarding the activity of etoposide could not be drawn. These results, and the expectation of synergy with etoposide and cisplatin, led to several studies that combined etoposide with platin compounds by the systemic and intraperitoneal (IP) routes. Various studies have used intravenous drug combinations of these agents in both previously treated and untreated patients. One study, which used carboplatin instead of cisplatin, reported only seven failures among 26 previously untreated patients. Conversely, the prominent toxicities reported by another study were discouraging, and responses did not exceed what might be expected from cisplatin alone. Studies of analogous combinations administered IP are ongoing. A favorable experience, which was initially reported by the University of California (San Diego group), is being confirmed by other investigators. This has prompted the incorporation of etoposide into first-line strategies. The pharmacologic advantage of etoposide by the IP route (related to its high protein binding) may provide appropriate dose intensity against IP disease while sparing systemic toxicities. Finally, systemic dose intensity with autologous bone marrow support indicates some promise for etoposide in combination with high-dose alkylating drugs. 
Papanicolaou smear cell recovery techniques used by primary care physicians. Nine hundred Tennessee-based internists, family physicians, and obstetrician-gynecologists were randomly selected and surveyed to identify Papanicolaou smear cell recovery methods used in their practices. This 16-item survey also requested typical laboratory reporting procedures on Papanicolaous smears. The most frequently reported cell sampling technique was the combination cotton-tipped applicator and spatula, which was used by 47 percent of all physicians. Use of the cervical cytobrush for Papanicolaou smears, which has been shown to improve the detection of cervical dysplasia, was used alone or in combination by 19 percent of those surveyed, of whom 72 percent were gynecologists. Cervical sampling should contain cells from the transformation zone as evidenced by an adequate number of endocervical cells on the smear. Laboratories reporting the presence of endocervical cells were significantly different (P less than 0.05) among the specialties, with 26 percent of the internists', 18 percent of the family physicians', and 15 percent of the obstetricians' laboratories not providing this information in their reports. Reporting inadequate smears is a necessary first step toward improved sampling technique. Without this information, physicians risk missing pathology through reports of false-negative Papanicolaou smears. 
Mutational hotspot in the p53 gene in human hepatocellular carcinomas Human hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) from patients in Qidong, an area of high incidence in China, in which both hepatitis B virus and aflatoxin B1 are risk factors, were analysed for mutations in p53, a putative tumour-suppressor gene. Eight of the 16 HCC had a point mutation at the third base position of codon 249. The G----T transversion in seven HCC DNA samples and the G----C transversion in the other HCC are consistent with mutations caused by aflatoxin B1 in mutagenesis experiments. No mutations were found in exons 5,6,8 or the remainder of exon 7. These results contrast with p53 mutations previously reported in carcinomas and sarcomas of human lung, colon, oesophagus and breast; these are primarily scattered over four of the five evolutionarily conserved domains, which include codon 249 (refs 4-9). We suggest that the mutant p53 protein may be responsible for a selective clonal expansion of hepatocytes during carcinogenesis. 
Ki-67 immunostaining in uveal melanoma. The effect of pre-enucleation radiotherapy. The reactivity of 33 choroidal and ciliary body melanomas with monoclonal antibody Ki-67, which recognizes a proliferation associated nuclear antigen, has been assessed and compared with clinicopathologic parameters. In 23 cases, 8 Gy irradiation was given 2 days before enucleation. Nonirradiated melanomas had a significantly higher proliferation rate as defined by staining with monoclonal antibody Ki-67 as compared with irradiated tumors (P = 0.007). Similarly, a strong relationship was found between pre-enucleation irradiation and low mitotic activity (P = 0.001). There was no significant correlation between the presence of Ki-67-positive nuclei and histologic classification, largest tumor diameter, localization of the tumor, age, sex, scleral invasion, pigmentation, and lymphocytic infiltration. The relevance of Ki-67 immunohistochemistry for the assessment of the life prognosis of patients with uveal melanoma has to be studied prospectively. 
Screening for neuroblastoma at 3 weeks of age: methods and preliminary results from the Quebec Neuroblastoma Screening Project. A large neuroblastoma screening study was recently started in the province of Quebec, Canada. This project, a collaboration between the Quebec Network for Genetic Medicine and the University of Minnesota, is studying the impact of screening infants for the preclinical detection of neuroblastoma on the population-based mortality caused by this tumor. All infants born in Quebec during a 5-year period will be screened twice, at 3 weeks and at 6 months. Urinary homovanillic acid and vanillylmandelic acid determination from dried filter paper samples is used for screening. Initial qualitative screening is done by means of thin-layer chromatography with confirmatory quantitative screening by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). During the initial 6 months of 3-week screening, 41,673 neonates (92% compliance rate) were screened and 10.6% of them were tested also by GC-MS. Nine of these neonates had positive results on two GC-MS tests and were referred for evaluation to rule out the presence of neuroblastoma. Four had the tumor, 1 had a calcified adrenal gland, and 4 had no tumor detected. Three additional neonates had clinical diagnosis of neuroblastoma before they reached the screening age of 3 weeks. A neuroblastoma that did not secrete homovanillic acid or vanillylmandelic acid was diagnosed clinically in 1 additional patient who tested negative by screening. 
Diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. Clinical importance, surgical treatment, and follow-up study. A diffuse sclerosing variant is not very rare among papillary carcinomas of the thyroid when the patients are female and younger than 30 years of age. The variant is characterized by diffuse involvement of one or both thyroid lobes, with dense sclerosis, patchy lymphocytic infiltration, and abundant psammoma bodies. Controversy still exists concerning its prognosis. We reviewed our experience with 14 patients treated between 1958 and 1988. All patients were young females, their age being from 10 to 28 years with a mean of 19.6. Hashimoto's thyroiditis had been suspected in nine patients before they came to our clinic. Nowadays the diagnosis of this cancer is possible when we have this entity in mind and detect abundant psammoma bodies either by ultrasonography or by soft-tissue roentgenography of the neck. Total thyroidectomy with modified neck dissection was carried out in eight patients, subtotal thyroidectomy with neck dissection in five, and lobectomy with neck dissection in one. All of them are alive and well without distant metastasis at a mean follow-up of 16 years. Because most of the patients with this variant of papillary carcinoma are young women and the prognosis is favorable, a complete resection without causing later recurrence, but also cosmetic and complication-free surgery, should be considered. 
IgE receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis and exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells are independent of extracellular Ca2+ in a hypotonic buffer containing a high concentration of K+. In isotonic buffer, IgE receptor-mediated exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells is dependent on extracellular Ca2+, with half-maximal degranulation requiring 0.4 mM Ca2+. No significant exocytosis occurs in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. This absolute requirement for Ca2+ is eliminated by suspending the cells in a hypotonic buffer containing 60 to 80 mM K+; Na+ cannot substitute for K+. Optimal Ca2(+)-independent exocytosis occurs in a buffer containing 20 mM dipotassium Pipes, pH 7.1, 40 mM KCl, 5 mM glucose, 7 mM Mg acetate, 0.1% BSA, and 1 mM EGTA. The cells maintain this Ca2(+)-independent exocytosis even if they are preincubated with 1 mM EGTA for 40 min at 37 degrees C before triggering. Exocytosis is eliminated as isotonicity is approached by adding sucrose, NaCl, KCl, or potassium glutamate to the buffer. Quin 2 fluorescence measurements reveal only a very small rise in [Ca2+]i when the cells are triggered in hypotonic buffer in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and the presence of 1 mM EGTA. In isotonic buffer, degranulation does not occur under conditions that lead to such a small rise in [Ca2+]i. Sustained IgE receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis, which is also Ca2+ dependent in isotonic buffer, becomes independent of Ca2+ in the hypotonic buffer. In fact, the rate of phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis in hypotonic buffer in the absence of Ca2+ (and presence of 1 mM EGTA) is twice that observed in isotonic buffer in the presence of 1 mM Ca2+. These data show that in hypotonic buffer, the requirement of IgE receptor-mediated PI hydrolysis for extracellular Ca2+ is eliminated, and degranulation proceeds with a [Ca2+]i of 0.1 microM, the baseline level of [Ca2+]i found in resting cells. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that, in isotonic buffer, the Ca2+ requirement for mast cell degranulation is for the generation of second messengers via hydrolysis of membrane phosphatidylinositols. 
Effect of selective elimination of the oral flora on mucositis in irradiated head and neck cancer patients. Recently it has been reported that chlorhexidine 0.1% rinsing was not successful in eradication of gram-negative bacilli in patients who have head and neck cancer. These bacilli could play a role in irradiation mucositis. This study reports the effect of lozenges containing 2 mg polymyxin E, 1.8 mg tobramycin, and 10 mg amphotericin B qid on the oropharyngeal flora in 15 irradiated head and neck cancer patients. The results were compared with those of a previous study in two groups of 15 patients comparing chlorhexidine rinsing with placebo. In all patients using lozenges, eradication of gram-negative bacilli and yeasts was achieved within 3 weeks. A significant increase of enterococci was found. Mucositis was significantly reduced compared with the previous two groups. All patients showed erythema only, whereas 80% of both the placebo and chlorhexidine rinsing patients suffered from severe mucositis, with signs of pseudomembranes developing from the third week of conventional irradiation protocol. The effect of selective elimination of gram-negative bacilli from the oropharynx and the prevention of severe mucositis may be explained by the eradication of these bacteria and/or neutralization of salivary endotoxin, released by gram-negative bacilli, mediating the inflammatory processes. 
Treatment of anovulation due to polycystic ovarian syndrome by laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery. Our experience of ovarian electrocautery for the treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) in ten women is described. We found that nine responded favourably, either ovulating spontaneously or becoming more responsive to ovulation induction. There was a significant and persistent fall in serum testosterone levels, and a transient fall with subsequent rise in inhibin. We recommend that laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery is considered as an alternative to ovulation induction with gonadotrophins, in women with PCOS who fail to respond to clomiphene citrate. 
Pancreatic tumor pathogenesis reflects the causative genetic lesion. Transgenic mice in which c-myc expression is targeted to pancreatic acinar cells develop mixed acinar/ductal pancreatic adenocarcinomas between 2 and 7 months of age. This contrasts with the effect on pancreas of the simian virus 40 tumor antigen or activated ras, which in adult mice causes lesions composed exclusively of acinar-like cells. Furthermore, during an early stage of myc-induced pathology, transformed acinar-derived cells appear within islets, suggesting that islet hormones may influence the progression of these exocrine pancreatic tumors. These findings demonstrate that the initial oncogenic alteration can influence the pattern of subsequent tumor pathogenesis and, given that human exocrine pancreatic tumors are predominantly ductal adenocarcinomas, support the suggestion that transformed acinar cells may contribute to the genesis of this serious disease in man. 
Aetiology of pancreatic cancer Curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and, to date, responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing. To make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required. This review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer. 
Selenium in forage crops and cancer mortality in U.S. counties. The potential protective effect of selenium status on the risk of developing cancer has been examined in animal and epidemiologic studies. This ecological study investigated the association between U.S. county forage selenium status and site- and sex-specific county cancer mortality rates (1950-1969) using weighted least squares regression. Consistent, significant (p less than .01) inverse associations were observed for cancers of the lung, rectum, bladder, esophagus, and cervix in a model limited to rural counties and for cancers of the lung, breast, rectum, bladder, esophagus, and corpus uteri in a model of all counties. No consistent significant positive associations were observed in the rural county models. This remarkable degree of consistency for the inverse associations strengthens the likelihood of a causal relationship between low selenium status and an increased risk of cancer mortality. 
Lack of transmission of the live attenuated varicella vaccine virus to immunocompromised children after immunization of their siblings. The safety of administering the live attenuated Oka/Merck varicella vaccine to the well siblings of children with malignancy was evaluated as a strategy for reducing the risk of household exposure to varicella among immunocompromised children. Susceptible well children were eligible for vaccination if the child with malignancy had leukemia, lymphoma, or solid tumor in remission for 3 months or longer. No evidence of vaccine virus transmission was found among 30 children with malignancy whose 37 healthy susceptible siblings were immunized with varicella vaccine. Varicella-zoster virus was not isolated from the oropharyngeal secretions taken from 17 vaccinees or their 14 immunocompromised siblings. None of the 30 immunocompromised children had vaccine-related rashes or showed immunologic evidence of subclinical varicella-zoster virus infection based on testing for varicella-zoster virus IgG antibodies and T-lymphocyte proliferation to varicella-zoster virus. Four healthy vaccinees eventually had mild breakthrough cases of varicella, with transmission to the high-risk sibling in 3 cases. However, even in these families, the immunocompromised children had been protected from household exposure varicella for at least 20 months early in the course of their immunosuppressive treatment. 
Primary CT diagnosis of abdominal masses in a PACS environment Whether the display medium--film versus cathode ray tube (CRT)--affects observer performance during interpretation of computed tomographic (CT) images is an important research issue in these times of implementation and growth of picture archiving and communications systems in radiology. The authors performed a multiobserver receiver operating characteristic (ROC) study to determine the performance of radiologists who read abdominal CT studies displayed on film, as well as on a high-resolution workstation (video monitor) that made use of three different display modes. A total of 166 examinations were evaluated by eight radiologists, who recorded their ordinal confidence ratings of the demonstration of presence or absence of abdominal masses. ROC analysis showed small differences in the confidence ratings assigned by individual readers for the detection and interpretation tasks. Results for the group as a whole showed no significant reduction or improvement in observer performance when ratings for any one of the workstation display modes were analyzed. The results of this study demonstrate that current CRT display technology is adequate for enabling the primary detection of abdominal masses with CT examinations. 
Molecular phenotype of a pediatric small round cell tumor. Molecular probes were used to characterize an unusual small round cell abdominal tumor arising from the fallopian tube of a 15-year-old girl. DNA and RNA extracted from the tumor and adjacent normal tissue was subjected to Southern and Northern blot analysis using a variety of different probes. N-myc oncogene RNA was greatly expressed in the tumor, but was not expressed in normal tissue or amplified in chromosomal DNA. Insulin-like growth factor II RNA was similarly overexpressed in the neoplasm, but not in normal tissue. While histopathologic studies could not distinguish between a neuroectodermal neoplasm and Wilms' tumor, electron microscopy and the pattern of gene expression was most consistent with Wilms' tumor. 
Low-dose preoperative radiation postpones recurrences in operable rectal cancer. Results of a randomized multicenter trial in western Norway. A randomized, multicenter clinical trial was conducted in Western Norway to study the effectiveness of preoperative radiation therapy in operable rectal cancer, given at a dosage of 3150 cGy in 18 fractions, 2 to 3 weeks before radical surgery. Three hundred nine patients were entered into the trial between May 1976 and December 1985. After radiation no tumor was seen in 4.5% of the patients. There was no increased morbidity or mortality at surgery. The 5-year survival for evaluable patients was 57.5% in the control group and 56.7% in the radiotherapy group. For patients operated on for cure the 5-year survival was 60.9% and 64.2% in the control group and radiotherapy group, respectively. Radiation significantly delayed both local and distant recurrences in patients in the radiation group who had curative resection from 13.3 months in controls to 27.1 months. The local recurrence rate in the corresponding groups was 21.1% and 13.7%, respectively. We conclude that higher preoperative radiation doses should be used in new trials as a higher dosage may transform the observed positive effects into a survival benefit. 
Multicentric endobronchial granular cell myoblastoma. Granular cell myoblastoma (GCM) is a rare benign neoplasm involving the tracheobronchial tree. It is believed to arise from the Schwann cell. Four cases of tracheobronchial GCM, all of which were multicentric, are presented and a conservative therapeutic approach is suggested. 
A simplified diagnostic approach to pheochromocytoma. A review of the literature and report of one institution's experience. Pheochromocytoma is an unusual but potentially devastating tumor. Although a high index of suspicion is necessary, the likelihood of a pheochromocytoma is lower in the absence of the typical symptoms and findings. Nonetheless, screening must be broadened to include patients with a lower risk of the disease, such as those with resistant or labile hypertension who are minimally symptomatic. Extensive diagnostic evaluations should be reserved for those whose clinical or laboratory findings are more suggestive. Symptoms in a group of patients in whom a pheochromocytoma was seriously considered but excluded overlap symptoms in patients with a pheochromocytoma. Certain symptoms are useful: flushing to suggest a non-pheochromocytoma illness; visual symptoms, flank pain, and pallor to suggest that a pheochromocytoma is more likely. Combinations of symptoms can be of value: 2 or more symptoms from the triad of headache, palpitations, and diaphoresis were present in the majority of pheochromocytoma patients, but in a smaller number of non-pheochromocytoma patients. The presence of the entire triad is more specific, but less sensitive. New hypertension, or hypertension associated with unexplained orthostatic hypotension, are suggestive of an underlying pheochromocytoma. Twenty-four-hour urine studies are consistently abnormal in patients with a pheochromocytoma, but are also elevated in a significant proportion of non-pheochromocytoma patients. Values greater then 1.5-2-fold above the upper limit of normal are very suggestive that a pheochromocytoma is present, and warrant a more intensive subsequent evaluation. Imaging studies are reliable in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, and can help to confirm or exclude the disease. Patients with a higher clinical likelihood and any elevated urinary testing, or with a lower clinical likelihood and persistently and/or significantly elevated urinary testing, should have imaging studies performed. This combination of clinical screening, 24-hour urinary testing, and imaging studies is a useful and reliable approach to patients suspected of harboring a pheochromocytoma. 
Impaired polymorphonuclear leucocyte function in patients undergoing hepatectomy: adenylate energy charge and superoxide anion production in relation to hepatic mitochondrial redox state. Patients undergoing hepatectomy have an increased susceptibility to infection. We therefore studied the energy metabolism of the polymorphonuclear leucocyte (PMN), focusing on energy charge and function, especially superoxide anion (O2-) generation, in relation to the hepatic mitochondrial redox state. By labelling the PMN adenine nucleotide pool with radioactive adenine and by superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c, the energy charge and O2- production was measured in 18 patients with hepatoma (non-cirrhotic, seven; cirrhotic, 11) undergoing hepatectomy. Their arterial ketone body ratios (KBRs), reflecting the hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, were above 0.7 before operation. After surgery, the 18 patients were divided into two groups: group A, KBR greater than 0.7, n = 10; and group B, KBR less than 0.7, n = 8. The energy charge and O2- release in group B decreased significantly from preoperative values (P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.01 respectively) and when compared with group A (P less than 0.05 and P less than 0.01 respectively). These results suggest that impaired hepatic energy metabolism (KBR less than 0.7) in hepatectomized patients leads to impaired energy charge and O2- production in the PMNs. 
A prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients. The French Epirubicin Study Group The French Epirubicin Study Group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil (5FU) 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (FEC 50) and 5FU 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (FEC 75) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients. Patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only. Four hundred twelve patients entered this trial; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy. The overall response rates were comparable between FEC 50 (44.6%) and FEC 75 (44.7%), but both were better than the epirubicin alone (30.6%) (P = .04 and P = .0006, respectively). The complete response rate was better in FEC 75 (15.5%) than in FEC 50 (7%) (P = .025) or epirubicin (4%) (P = .002). Similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases. No difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only. Mean durations of response were similar in the three groups, being 412 days, 440 days, and 350 days for FEC 50, FEC 75, and epirubicin, respectively. Patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment (without anthracyclines). Tolerability was fair in the three groups. Overall, the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups, which did not differ significantly. Time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups, but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and FEC 50 groups; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the FEC 75 group, and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the FEC 75 group was of borderline significance. No difference in survival was observed between epirubicin- and FEC 50-group patients, even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group. 
Increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome. Seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids. Because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases, we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones. Epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome. The epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients. In contrast, the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients. These data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions, particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome. 
Nephrotic syndrome complicating adenocarcinoma of the lung with resolution after resection. Nephrotic syndrome is an uncommon complication of lung cancer. We present a case in which adenocarcinoma was complicated by the nephrotic syndrome, which resolved after resection of the cancer. 
Radiation necrosis of the optic chiasm, optic tract, hypothalamus, and upper pons after radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma, detected by gadolinium-enhanced, T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging: case report. A 26-year-old woman was treated for a prolactin secreting pituitary adenoma by surgery and radiotherapy (5860 rads). Fourteen months later, she developed right hemiparesis and dysarthria. A T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan using gadolinium contrast showed a small, enhanced lesion in the upper pons. Seven months later, she had a sudden onset of loss of vision, and radiation optic neuropathy was diagnosed. A T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan showed widespread gadolinium-enhanced lesions in the optic chiasm, optic tract, and hypothalamus. Magnetic resonance imaging is indispensable for the early diagnosis of radiation necrosis, which is not visualized by radiography or computed tomography. 
Treatment of childhood angiomatous diseases with recombinant interferon alfa-2a. A heterogeneous group of five patients with progressive, invasive angiomatous diseases including pulmonary hemangiomatosis, angiosarcoma, or massive hemangioma with associated consumptive coagulopathy were treated with interferon alfa-2a for periods of 17 to 33 months. One patient with a large thoracic hemangioma, cardiorespiratory failure, and consumptive coagulopathy died after less than 2 months of treatment. The remaining four patients have shown beneficial responses, including (1) regression of abnormal vessels on pulmonary angiogram and improved exercise tolerance in pulmonary hemangiomatosis (two patients), (2) decreased corticosteroid and/or platelet transfusion requirements in consumptive coagulopathy (two patients), and (3) decreased size and number of tumor nodules in the one patient with angiosarcoma arising in preexisting angiomatous lesions. Responses occurred during periods of 2 to 20 months of treatment. There was no measurable progression of angiomatous lesions in any patient receiving interferon at the therapeutic dose, except possibly in the one who died. Each of the four surviving patients had improved linear growth and weight gain during interferon treatment. 
Continuity of cancer care. The importance of providing continuity in the care of all patients with major medical problems, such as cancer, has widespread acceptance in our current health care system. From the perspective of an oncology social work clinician, this article offers a definition of the concept of continuity of care, examines factors influencing its provision in oncology, and reviews key components in continuity of cancer care planning and implementation. It also examines some innovative efforts in practice to improve continuity. 
Radiologic staging of chest in testicular seminoma. We investigated the usefulness of chest x-ray (CXR), conventional planar tomography (TOM), and computerized axial tomography (CAT) in evaluating patients with Stages I and II testicular seminoma. All patients had a CXR, and 22 patients had either TOM or CAT as part of initial staging. No occult pulmonary or mediastinal nodal disease was found during initial staging, and none of the patients manifested recurrence of tumor in these sites as a first event. Review of the literature corroborates our finding of a very small thoracic failure rate in early stage seminoma. Routine use of CAT or TOM is not indicated in staging these patients. 
Use of cytoplasmic 5'nucleotidase for differentiating malignant from benign monoclonal gammopathies. Bone marrow smears from 15 patients with multiple myeloma, 15 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), and 15 control subjects were examined for the presence of cytoplasmic 5'nucleotidase (c5NT) in plasma cells. Plasma cell positivity for c5NT (mean and 95% confidence interval) in patients with multiple myeloma numbered 46.4% (38.0-54.8%), in those with MGUS it was 15.3% (11.1-19.6%), and in control subjects it was 1.2% (0.3-2.1%). These findings indicate that c5NT can be used to differentiate benign from malignant monoclonal gammopathies. 
Argon green (514 nm) versus krypton red (647 nm) modified grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema. Between 1984 and 1988, 225 eyes of 132 patients were entered in a prospective, randomized clinical trial to determine if any significant differences exist between treatment with argon green (514 nm) and krypton red (647 nm) modified grid laser photocoagulation for patients with diffuse diabetic maculopathy with or without cystoid macular edema. At the 12- and 24-month follow-up visits, no statistically significant difference was found between the two groups with respect to all of the following: reduction or elimination of macular edema, improvement in visual acuity, worsening of visual acuity, number of treatments per eye, and effect on the visual field. At the 12-month follow-up visit, none of the following factors statistically affected the visual outcome in either of the two groups: a history of systemic hypertension, systemic vascular disease, cystoid macular edema, or initial poor visual acuity. 
Endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary during pregnancy: a case report. Serum alpha-fetoprotein screening led to the detection of an endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary in a 24-year-old female in week 17 of pregnancy. After surgery, chemotherapy was postponed. In week 28 levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein increased, but delivery was delayed until 33 weeks' gestation. After delivery, the patient received four chemotherapy courses (cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin). Mother (24 months after last chemotherapy) and child are doing well. 
Cell lineage markers in human pancreatic cancer. The normal pancreas consists of three major cell types or lineages that share a common embryologic origin from pluripotent endodermal precursors. The type of cell that undergoes neoplastic transformation to form a pancreatic carcinoma is controversial and may influence the phenotype and biologic behavior of the tumor. In this study, immunohistologic techniques were used to determine the cell lineage differentiation expressed in 29 primary exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas, five metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas, and five islet cell neoplasma. Specimens of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis were used for comparison. The cell lineage markers consisted of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against trypsin and lipase (acinar cells); secretory component, carbonic anhydrase II, and pancreatic cancer mucin SPan-1 (ductal cells); and chromogranin-A and somatostatin (islet cells). The expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and lysozyme were also determined. This collection of markers allowed the differentiation between acinar, ductal, and islet cells of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis specimens. The expression of cell lineage markers in islet cell tumors was homogeneous and restricted to chromogranin-A. In contrast, the expression of these markers in primary and metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas was variable. Reactivity with monoclonal anti-CEA was absent in normal pancreas, and was present in 83% of chronic pancreatitis specimens as well as 90% of exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas. In addition, lysozyme reactivity was absent in normal pancreas; however, lysozyme was expressed in one case of chronic pancreatitis, 17 cases of primary carcinoma, and three cases of metastatic carcinoma. These findings support the concept that the original transformed cell type in many pancreatic exocrine carcinomas resemble endodermal "stem cells" that retain the capability of differentiation along more than one cell lineage pathway. 
Circulating CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes specific for HTLV-I pX in patients with HTLV-I associated neurological disease. The human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I), the first human retrovirus to be characterized, is associated with adult T-cell leukaemia and a chronic progressive disease of the central nervous system termed tropical spastic paraparesis, or HTLV-I-associated myelopathy. Only 1% of individuals infected with HTLV-I develop clinical disease however. The various manifestations of an HTLV-I infection may be related to differences in the genetic backgrounds of individuals, infection with variant strains of HTLV-I, differences in viral tropism or host immune response to the virus. Whereas the humoral response to HTLV-I is well characterized, little is known about the human cellular immune response, such as the production of cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Here we report the presence of high levels of circulating HTLV-I-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in patients with HTLV-I associated neurological disease but not in HTLV-I seropositive individuals without neurological involvement. These cytotoxic T lymphocytes are CD8+, HLA class I- restricted and predominantly recognize the HTLV-I gene products encoded in the regulatory region pX. These findings suggest that HTLV-I-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes may contribute to the pathogenesis of associated neurological disorders associated with HTLV-I. 
The value of symptom directed evaluation in the surveillance for recurrence of carcinoma of the breast. Specific postoperative tests used to diagnose recurrent carcinoma of the breast were evaluated for their ability to have an impact on the over-all course of the disease. Sixty-four patients with recurrent or new contralateral primary disease were divided into two groups based on the method of diagnosis. Those patients with a new complaint at an interval between scheduled follow-up visits and who went on to have tests to document a recurrence were categorized as interval follow-up. Those who were seen at a prearranged regular follow-up period and received tests as recommended by the attending physician or surgeon and had a documented recurrence were classified as routine follow-up. Thirteen patients presented with new contralateral primary disease and 51 with metastatic disease (16, bone; 13, lung; 11, local; three, liver, and eight, multiple). The median time to discovery of recurrence from the primary treatment was 29 and 28 months for the interval and routine groups, respectively. Ninety per cent of the failures occurred by 53 months. The survival time after recurrence was significantly greater in those patients diagnosed routinely (p = 0.003). However, the over-all survival time (from primary therapy to death) was only significantly improved for the routine group when the contralateral new primary diseases were included (p = 0.009). The method of diagnosis of a contralateral primary carcinoma was physical examination and mammogram. Strong recommendations for follow-up testing can be limited to mammogram and physical examination. 
Human papillomavirus in women with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia III. Untreated cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) III may progress to invasive vulvar carcinoma. Tissues from 29 New Zealand women with VIN III were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18 by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. HPV 16, the only HPV type detected in the lesions, was identified in about half the cases. HPV-positive women were younger than HPV-negative women, and their lesions displayed koilocytosis more often. In four of five cases in which there was a progression to invasive cancer, HPV 16 was detected in both the VIN III and invasive cancer tissue. 
Retinal vasculitis as a complication of rheumatoid arthritis. Two middle-aged women developed retinal vasculitis in the moderately active phase of classical rheumatoid arthritis. Fluorescein angiography disclosed diffuse leakage from the retinal capillaries and cystoid macular edema, which subsided in response to oral steroid. They did not show any clinical signs of vasculitis in other parts of the body. Retinal vasculitis should be included in the list of complications observed in rheumatoid arthritis. 
Astroblastoma: electron microscopy and immunohistochemical findings: case report. The clinical, histological, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic features of a cerebral astroblastoma are reported. The patient is a young woman with a superficial parietal tumor. Macroscopic findings include a well-delineated superficial nodule with a hard central core. Histological study disclosed a predominantly papillary tumor with hyalinized vessels. Tumor cells were scarcely positive with immunohistochemical stain for glial fibrillary acidic protein, extensive and diffusely positive with vimentin and neuron-specific enolase, and intensely positive with S-100 and epithelial membrane antigen in the papillary areas. Ultrastructural study showed abundant intermediate filaments forming bundles in tumoral cytoplasms, membrane junctions, and external laminae when cells were in contact with collagen fibers. Based on immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics, we believe that the filaments seen in tumor cells are mainly vimentin filaments. These peculiar immunohistochemical patterns in a glioma may aid in the histological diagnosis of this rare tumor type. 
Improved early detection of recurrence in prostatic carcinoma following hormonal therapy. Combined use of palpation and fine needle aspiration cytology. Fifty-nine hormonally treated prostatic carcinoma patients were prospectively followed by rectal examination and fine needle aspiration cytology at six-month intervals for periods ranging from six to one hundred twenty months (median follow-up 48 mos). The cytologic findings and clinical impressions were divided into four or five categories, respectively, ranging from benign to clearly malignant. Cytologic material and clinical descriptions suitable for evaluation were available for 306 follow-up examinations. Of these, 209 were cytologically benign (including 191 without and 18 with clinical evidence of malignancy). The remaining 97 examinations showed cytologic evidence of malignancy of which 50 were clinically apparent (51.5%). While the correlation of clinical and cytologic findings was good (91.4%) in cases with no evidence of disease activity, our findings indicate that many recurrences which are occult to clinical examination may be detected by cytologic examination. 
Chromosomes in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: karyotypic patterns in disease subtypes. To define further the clinical importance of cytogenetic analysis in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) a prospective study was performed on 139 unselected children. Analyses were considered adequate in 104, of whom 35 were normal and 69 had clonal abnormalities. Abnormalities were categorised according to banded chromosome analysis as well as chromosome count. Karyotypes were correlated with clinical and laboratory features at diagnosis and with survival. Of the successful analyses, thirty five (34%) children had no abnormalities; this group contained an excess of T cell disease. Twenty five (24%) had a "characteristic" hyperdiploid karyotype and as a group had lower presenting white counts, a tendency to CD10, and periodic acid schiff positivity of the blast cells and smaller spleens. None was an infant and only one was over 10 years old. Seven (7%) children with t(9; 22), t(8; 14), or t(4; 11) translocations were grouped together as "specific" translocations. Collectively they had a significantly worse prognosis than the remainder. Nine children developed central nervous system relapse, six of whom had either t(4; 11) or abnormalities of 9p or 19p. A descriptive classification taking into account chromosome bonding pattern is cytogenetically more appropriate and may be more clinically useful than grouping children simply by chromosome number. As knowledge and techniques improve, the classification of cytogenetic abnormalities in ALL will need to be kept under frequent review. 
Thyroid carcinoma with mixed tall-cell and columnar-cell features. Tall-cell and columnar-cell carcinomas have been regarded as aggressive variants of papillary thyroid carcinoma. In the present case report the authors describe a composite tumor where these forms of differentiation coexisted, with transitional changes occurring within single follicular structures. This finding indicates that the two variants are closely related. In local recurrences, one or the other feature appeared in separate lesions. Lung metastases developed, and the patient died 5 1/2 years after diagnosis and primary treatment. 
Radiobiological studies in the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. The naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is described in a 43-year-old male. The response of dividing fibroblasts from this patient to the lethal effects of ionizing radiation was indistinguishable from that of a normal control: mean inactivation dose (D) = 1.74 Gy and 1.68 Gy, respectively. However, these cells were defective in the repair of potentially lethal damage (D = 2.36 Gy and 3.26 Gy, respectively). The response to radiation of Go T lymphocytes derived from the patient was similar to that of the control. The frequency of mutant circulating T lymphocytes resistant to 6-thioguanine was 17 x 10(-6) which was elevated when compared with age-matched controls. These results suggest an abnormality in the response of the fibroblasts to ionizing radiation damage. 
Breast cancer screening in older women: practices and barriers reported by primary care physicians. Annual mammography, in combination with clinical breast examinations, can reduce mortality from breast cancer. However, surveys of both patients and physicians suggest that mammography is underutilized. This study examined whether physicians' reported breast cancer screening practices and barriers to mammography varied with patients' age. Data from 576 primary care physicians (internal medicine, family/general practice, and obstetrics/gynecology) who participated in a mailed statewide survey were analyzed. Physicians reported screening elderly women significantly less often than younger women, regardless of family history of breast cancer. With the exception of medical specialty, physicians' demographic and practice characteristics were not associated with reported screening practices. However, physicians' knowledge and beliefs about breast cancer in older women were associated with reported screening practices. When analyzing barriers to ordering mammography, cost to the patient was viewed as a barrier for women of all ages, and pain was viewed as a greater barrier for younger women; otherwise, physicians consistently believed that their elderly patients faced considerably more barriers compared with younger women. Further investigation is required to examine why primary care physicians report age-related differences in both breast screening and barriers to mammography. 
Factors related to and consequences of weight loss in patients with stomach cancer. The Norwegian Multicenter experience. Norwegian Stomach Cancer Trial. Of 1165 patients with stomach cancer included in a national, prospective multicenter study with 51 surgical units participating, information about weight loss before diagnosis was available for 855 patients (73%). Median weight loss was 5 kg; 259 patients (31%) experienced no weight loss. By logistic regression analysis the authors found that weight loss increased with age and advancing stages of disease (TNM Stage I-IV), with decreasing Karnofsky index, in Lauren's diffuse versus intestinal tumor type, and with tumors located at the cardia/esophagus. Increasing weight loss reduced the resectability rate significantly, but no association between weight loss and postoperative complication rate was found. The odds ratio for postoperative mortality was 2.5 to 1 for the weight loss group 5 to 10kg versus 0 kg. In conclusion, weight loss reflects a less favorable tumor status. Weight loss did not increase postoperative morbidity but did lead Weight to a higher death rate after surgery. 
Synthesis of type I collagen in healing wounds in humans. To quantify wound healing in surgical patients, samples of wound fluid were collected through a silicone rubber tube for 7 postoperative days and their concentrations of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP) and the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) were measured with specific radioimmunoassays. The mean concentration of PICP in would fluid on day 1 was 207 +/- 92 (SD) micrograms/L, and on day 2 908 +/- 469 micrograms/L (p less than 0.001, signed rank test). On day 7, the mean concentration reached was 380 times higher than that of day 1 (79,330 +/- 54,151 micrograms/L). Only one peak of PICP antigenicity, corresponding to the intact propeptide as set free during synthesis of type I procollagen, was detected on Sephacryl S-300 gel filtration analysis of wound fluid samples. The mean concentration of PIIINP was 70 +/- 61 micrograms/L on day 1, 86 +/- 88 micrograms/L on day 2, and 180 +/- 129 micrograms/L on day 3 (p less than 0.001 when compared with day 1). Finally on day 7, a 250-fold concentration (17,812 +/- 9839 micrograms/L), compared with day 1, was reached. Methods described in the present paper allow separate and repetitive quantification of the synthesis of both type I and type III procollagen during human wound healing. 
Unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat, myelolipomatous metaplasia, and metastatic carcinoma. Five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions. One pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin. Workup revealed a left breast mass, which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents. Four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells. In addition, intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases, with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one. Awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma. 
Late metastases of cutaneous melanoma: case report and literature review. The development of delayed metastases, although rare, is well documented in patients with invasive cutaneous melanoma. Only 24 cases, including ours, are clearly documented in the literature. We describe a 56-year-old woman who had an acral lentiginous melanoma of the right hand (thickness 1.2 mm). Thirteen years after excision and postoperative irradiation, a subcutaneous metastasis developed in the right arm. One year later the patient died with disseminated bone metastases. This case, as with most of those with delayed metastases, has typical features: female sex; location at a site other than the back, arm, neck, or scalp; and primary tumor thickness between 1.2 and 2.5 mm. 
Cathepsins D and E in normal, metaplastic, dysplastic, and carcinomatous gastric tissue: an immunohistochemical study. Immunohistochemical distributions of cathepsins D and E were determined in normal mucosa, metaplastic, dysplastic, and cancerous lesions of the human stomach. Cathepsins D and E were localised in the foveolar epithelium and parietal cells of the normal gastric mucosa, but their intracytoplasmic distributions were different - cathepsin E distribution was even and diffuse in the cytoplasm while cathepsin D was found in coarse intracytoplasmic granules. Chronic inflammation and ulcer did not influence the distribution of these enzymes. No positive staining was obtained in the incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and well differentiated adenocarcinoma. Tumour cells of signet ring cell carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma cells, however, gave strong and diffuse stainings for cathepsins D and E in the cytoplasm. The results suggest that the distribution of cathepsins D and E is related to each specialised function of the foveolar epithelium and the parietal cells, and that their disappearance is associated with development of well differentiated adenocarcinoma from intestinal metaplasia. 
The intraoperative incidence of detectable bilateral and multicentric disease in papillary cancer of the thyroid. This is a prospective study to determine the incidence of grossly detectable multicentric and bilateral cancer at operation in patients who, before surgery, were believed to have a unilateral lesion. The opposite lobe was inspected at the time of operation and the surgeon made a determination as to whether there was bilateral and/or multicentric disease present. A total thyroidectomy was then carried out and the accuracy of the surgeon's judgment was established by permanent-section pathologic examination. Fifteen of the 44 patients were assessed to have gross bilateral disease. Thirteen of these were confirmed by pathologic examination. One case of microscopic bilateral disease was not recognized by the surgeon. Seventeen patients were thought to have unilateral multicentric disease. Fifteen of these cases were confirmed by microscopy and an additional seven cases were documented to have secondary foci. It is obvious from this study that most disease that is called microscopic disease is actually palpable. A review of the literature confirms this. It was very unlikely for a patient who did not have unilateral multicentric disease to have a contralateral focus of carcinoma. The incidence of bilateral disease was 32%, and the incidence of multicentric disease was 50%; the surgeon was very accurate in assessing this. We believe that surgeons who advocate lobectomy as the primary treatment for thyroid cancer are recognizing grossly detectable disease in a significant number of patients and thus are doing total thyroidectomies in most patients with bilateral disease. 
De novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients. Immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma. Three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients. Two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6. One patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury, including bladder carcinoma. Treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely, with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1. The remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit. 
Immunocytochemical localization of progesterone receptors in endocrine cells of the human pancreas. Progesterone receptors (PgR) have been immunocytochemically localized in the nuclei of several (40% to 75%) endocrine cells of the human pancreas and in a more variable number of neoplastic cells of 7 of 18 endocrine pancreatic tumors. Conversely the exocrine epithelial cells of the pancreas did not exhibit any PgR immunoreactivity in normal as well as in different pathologic conditions, including pancreatic adenocarcinomas. Estrogen receptors were not detected in any of the pancreatic samples investigated. Double immunocytochemical experiments have documented that PgR immunoreactivity in normal Langerhans islets is a consistent feature of most (75%) glucagon-producing A cells, of approximately 5% to 20% of insulin-producing B cells, and of a variable percentage of pancreatic polypeptide (PP)-producing cells, ranging from 5% to 70%. These figures were not affected by the sex, age, or underlying disease of the patients. The reported findings corroborate previous clinical and experimental evidence indicating that sex steroid hormones may have some regulatory effects on the functional activity of the endocrine pancreas. 
Prostate tumour markers and differentiation grade in prostatic cancer. Serum acid phosphatase activity, prostate specific phosphatase and prostate specific antigen were measured in 100 patients with prostatic cancer. The patients were divided according to the differentiation grade into 3 groups: G1 (well), G2 (moderately) and G3 (poorly differentiated) carcinoma. Bone metastases were identified by scintigraphy. Among the 76 M0 patients the mean levels of all 3 markers were slightly higher in patients with moderately differentiated prostatic carcinoma. Among the 24 M1 patients the primary tumour was either G2 (18 patients) or G3 (6 patients); none had G1 lesions. Significantly higher serum ACP and PAP levels were found in patients with G2 tumours than in those with G3 lesions. It was concluded that the histological differentiation grade of prostatic carcinoma did affect serum levels of prostatic tumour markers; the tendency towards higher levels in the G2 group was noticeable in both non-metastatic and metastatic cases despite the limited number of patients in the latter category. In clinical practice this information may be an important additional tool in staging prostatic cancer. 
Granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma. Their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods. Granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically. To develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases, the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions (nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin (AE1/3), prostate-specific antigen (PSA), prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), lysozyme, antimacrophage M, and leukocyte common antigen (LCA). In granulomatous prostatitis, histiocytes were not immunoreactive for PAP, PSA, or cytokeratin; however, histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases, antimacrophage M in seven of nine cases, and LCA in one of nine cases. Tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with PAP, PSA, and cytokeratin; all failed to react with lysozyme, LCA, and antimacrophage M. The authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods. 
Enhanced antitumor reactivity of tumor-sensitized T cells by interferon alfa. Tumor-draining lymph node cells from mice bearing the methylcholanthrene-induced MCA 106 tumors can be sensitized in vitro to acquire antitumor reactivity. We examined the effect of interferon alfa on the function of cells that underwent in vitro sensitization in adoptive immunotherapy. Interferon alfa increased the antitumor reactivity of in vitro sensitized cells in the treatment of MCA 106 pulmonary metastases. This effect was evident in irradiated mice, indicating that a host response to the interferon alfa was not required. Interferon alfa treatment increased class I major histocompatibility complex antigen expression on tumor cells and increased their susceptibility to lysis by in vitro sensitized cells. These results suggest that interferon alfa enhancement of adoptive immunotherapy was mediated by its effect on tumor cells. Interferon alfa may be a useful adjunct to the adoptive immunotherapy of human cancer. 
A community study of delay in presenting with signs of melanoma to medical practitioners. In the absence of more effective treatment for advanced tumors, early diagnosis and treatment of localized tumors is the most effective way of reducing the burden of illness associated with melanoma. This study examined the following factors: prevalence of signs of melanoma (a mole changing in size, shape, appearance, or color, itching or tingling, bleeding or weeping, becoming raised) in 1344 individuals in a randomly selected sample of 1075 households; the length of delay in seeking medical advice; the factors associated with either going to a medical practitioner or not going/delaying; and the actions of the medical practitioners when first presented with these signs. The results indicate that a large proportion of the sample (11.9%, n = 156) had observed signs of melanoma in the previous 12 months. Of the sample reporting signs that had first appeared in the previous 5 years, only 32% sought medical advice about the signs within the recommended period. Of the sample either not seeking advice at all or delaying, 49% reported that they thought the sign "wasn't serious/would clear up." Furthermore, 30% of the sample either did not known or underrated the importance of early detection and treatment of lesions. These results indicate that there is a deficit in the knowledge of the general public about the signs of melanoma, the severity of the disease, and the possible risks associated with delay. 
Intralaryngotracheal thyroid. A case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented. The treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed. 
True hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes, bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas, 46,XX/46,XY karyotype, and a successful pregnancy. The first case (to the authors' knowledge) is reported of a true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes, bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas, a 46, XX/46,XY karyotype, and a successful pregnancy. The true hermaphroditism was diagnosed during infancy. The patient was subsequently found to have a gonadoblastoma and a microscopic dysgerminoma in the gonad diagnosed as an ovotestis and excised during infancy. The successful pregnancy occurred when the patient was 29 years old. A year later a large gonadal tumor affecting the remaining gonad was excised. The gonad was found to be an ovotestis, and the tumor was a dysgerminoma arising from a gonadoblastoma. This case further emphasizes the malignant potential of the Y chromosome in patients with abnormal gonads. 
Papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear. A case of papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear is presented. The patient had an unusually short history of otalgia, aural discharge and facial palsy, and, at presentation the tumour was too large for surgical resection to be a feasible option. The management of this rare tumour is discussed and the relevant literature reviewed. 
Sarcoid reaction mimicking intrathoracic dissemination of testicular cancer. The close observation of patients treated for testicular cancer led to the suspicion of intrathoracic and/or mediastinal metastases on radiologic examination in a number of patients without other evidence of relapse. This report presents two patients with combined seminomatous and nonseminomatous germ cell tumors with isolated sarcoid reactions of hilar and interlobular lymph nodes, detected concomitant with diagnosis and 12 months after diagnosis, respectively. Histologic examination appears to be imperative in these cases to avoid unnecessary chemotherapy. 
Local-regional breast cancer recurrence following mastectomy. Local-regional recurrence patterns were investigated in 1392 patients with breast cancer. Primary treatment for all patients included a mastectomy. Nine hundred seventeen patients had negative nodes and did not receive systemic therapy. Four hundred seventy-five patients had node metastases and were randomized to receive different combinations of chemoendocrine therapy. Follow-up ranged between 5 and 16 years. Two hundred thirty (25.8%) node-negative patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 9.2%. Two hundred forty-two (50.9%) node-positive patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 17.1%. Larger tumors and more extensive node involvement were associated with more first local-regional recurrences. The relative percent of first local-regional recurrence among patients in whom cancer recurred was similar for node-negative and node-positive patients (35.4% and 33.5%, respectively). In 63.6% of patients in whom cancer recurred, first local-regional recurrence were distant. Larger tumors, more extensive node involvement, and a shorter disease-free interval after mastectomy were associated with more rapid appearance of distant recurrence among these patients. 
A cytotoxic T-lymphocyte clone derived from mice with progressively growing tumors. Tumor-specific T-cell clones were derived from spleen cells of mice bearing a syngeneic PHS-5 tumor (a P815 mastocytoma mutant). Cells were expanded in vitro and characterized and assayed for activity against the relevant tumor in vivo. Clone cells were CD4-, CD8+ T lymphocytes, as determined by fluorescence activated cell sorting analysis and were specifically cytotoxic against P815 tumor cells in vitro, as shown in chromium 51 release assays. These cells require both antigen and interleukin 2 to proliferate; neither alone is sufficient, even with the addition of interleukin 1. In an experimental P815 liver metastasis model, the adoptive transfer of GD11 or GD11.17 clone cells and injection of recombinant interleukin 2 (7500 U intraperitoneally) 3 days after infusion of tumor cells reduced the number of tumor nodules, while the adoptive transfer of lymphokine-activated killer cells was ineffective. 
Immunochemical studies on the differential binding properties of two monoclonal antibodies reacting with Tn red cells. Two monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs), BRIC 66 (IgM) and BRIC 111 (IgG1), were produced by immunizing mice with ovarian cyst blood group A1 glycoprotein and Tn red cells (RBCs), respectively. Their specificities were determined by inhibitions using Tn sialoglycoproteins (SGPs), mucins (armadillo [ASG] and ovine [OSG] submaxillary glycoproteins), and monosaccharides. BRIC 66 agglutinated both Tn and group A RBCs and reacted immunohistochemically with both the vascular endothelium and tumor cells from a group A adenocarcinoma, BRIC 66 was inhibited by N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), Tn SGPs, and mucins on both hemagglutination inhibition tests and radioimmunoassay. BRIC 111 agglutinated Tn RBCs only, and it specifically stained tumor cells from a group O patient's breast carcinoma and a group A patient's adenocarcinoma. In hemagglutination inhibition tests, BRIC 111 was readily inhibited by Tn SGPs, only partially inhibited by GalNAc, and not inhibited by mucins. In a sensitive radioimmunoassay, BRIC 111 was inhibitable by GalNAc. Tn SGP was 2000-fold more effective as an inhibitor than the mucins (ASG and desialized OSG), which contain a high content of terminal alpha-GalNAc-O-serine (threonine) residues. It is postulated that BRIC 66 is specific for terminal alpha-GalNAc units in carbohydrate chains. The exclusive reaction of BRIC 111 with Tn SGP indicates a combining site larger than GalNAc alpha-1, which probably includes amino acid residues in juxtaposition to GalNAc in Tn SGP. In view of its specific agglutination of Tn RBCs, BRIC 111 is a useful reagent for the examination of polyagglutinable RBCs. 
Intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma. The presence of perineural spread in relation to site, size, local extension, and metastatic spread in 22 cases. Twenty-two patients with an intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC), initially treated by surgery with or without postoperative radiotherapy, were examined for the presence of perineural spread in relation to primary site, size, local extension, histologic status of the surgical margins, and metastatic spread of the tumor. There seems to be no correlation between perineural spread and the primary site or size of the tumor. However, perineural spread occurred more often in tumors with local extension and in cases with surgical margins with positive results. There seems to be no statistically significant correlation between perineural invasion and distant metastatic disease. 
Expression of the antimetastatic gene nm23 in human breast cancer: an association with good prognosis. The nm23 gene was identified in murine melanoma cells, in which its expression is associated with the cells' metastatic potential. Expression of nm23 has been detected in human breast tumors by means of hybridization and immunocytochemistry. We measured nm23 mRNA in 71 patients with primary breast cancer and found variable levels of nm23 expression. The nm23 gene was expressed at higher levels in well-differentiated tumors (P less than .02). There was a significant inverse relationship between nm23 expression and nodal status (P less than .02). Expression of nm23 was positively associated with longer disease-free survival and overall survival, and the relationships were significant (P less than .002 and P less than .003, respectively). This study showed that nm23 expression in human breast cancer was associated with good prognosis and a lack of lymph node metastasis and suggests that the nm23 gene product may play an important role in suppressing the metastatic phenotype. 
Resection and reconstruction for soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremity. Soft-tissue sarcomas are uncommon malignant tumors, and when a diagnosis is made early, the patient has up to an 80% chance of surviving. In treating soft-tissue sarcomas, the goal of the surgeon is the prolongation of patient survival, the total eradication of local disease, and the minimization of functional deficits. In addition to treatment, this article discusses evaluation, histology, and staging. 
Hormonal treatment of functional ovarian cysts: a randomized, prospective study. Estrogen (E)/progestin therapy for functional ovarian cysts is widely used in clinical practice, but the efficacy of this treatment has not been determined in controlled trials. In this study, we examined the effect of E/progestin administration in a group of infertility patients enrolled in a program of ovulation induction who had cysts identified by transvaginal sonography. Patients were randomized to receive either norethindrone 1 mg/mestranol 0.05 mg/d (group A, n = 24) or no treatment (group B, n = 24) for up to 6 weeks. Patients were re-evaluated by sonography at 3, 6, and 9 weeks after entry into the protocol. The ages, mean cyst diameters, and proportions of patients having received gonadotropins in the previous menstrual cycle were not significantly different among the two groups. All patients who had a sonographic abnormality persisting for 9 weeks were surgically explored and found to have pathological cysts. The rate of disappearance of functional ovarian cysts was not affected by E/progestin treatment. 
Symptomatic pineal cyst: case report. Pineal cysts are being described with increasing frequency since the advent of magnetic resonance imaging. Although pineal cysts are incidental findings in as many as 4% of magnetic resonance imaging studies, symptomatic pineal cysts are quite rare. We present a case of pineal cyst causing aqueductal obstruction with symptomatic hydrocephalus and resultant headache and syncope, which was treated by surgical resection. A review of the relevant literature and discussion follow. 
Mechanism of antitumor activity of tumor necrosis factor alpha with hyperthermia in a tumor necrosis factor alpha-resistant tumor. Cells from a radiation-induced fibrosarcoma (RIF-1) are exceedingly resistant to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in vitro. We tested whether the addition of mild hyperthermia (42.5 degrees C, 30 minutes) could enhance TNF-alpha activity against RIF-1 tumors growing in syngeneic hosts (C3H mice). TNF-alpha was administered intratumorally. Tumor cell killing essentially was not measurable following TNF-alpha, hyperthermia, or a combination of the two. Single-modality treatments also had no effect on tumor growth delay or on the x-ray dose (given 24 hours after the primary treatment) required to sterilize 50% of the tumors. The combination of TNF-alpha and hyperthermia, however, resulted in a marked increase in tumor doubling time and a highly significant reduction in the x-ray dose required to sterilize the tumors. Syngeneic lymph nodal lymphocytes and blood leukocytes did not appear to mediate the action of TNF-alpha on RIF-1 cells in vitro. Necrosis and hemorrhage were the most prominent histopathological alterations in the treated tumors. Electron microscopic studies 6 hours after therapy showed increased damage to capillary endothelial cells and accumulation of neutrophils in the capillaries of tumors treated with TNF-alpha with or without heat, suggesting that neutrophils may mediate the endothelial cell injury. These observations indicate a greater than additive tumoricidal effect of TNF-alpha with hyperthermia. Furthermore, they support the concept that the interaction between the two agents damages the vasculature, compromising the microcirculation and ultimately causing ischemic tumor necrosis. 
Boronate affinity chromatography of gamma-glutamyltransferase in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. We analyzed the serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) by boronate affinity chromatography to ascertain the presence or absence of any changes in the binding properties of gamma-GT toward boronate gels in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis, and in normal controls. The mean gamma-GT activity ratio of the bound (peak 2) and nonbound (peak 1) fraction in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma was significantly higher than that in patients with liver cirrhosis or in normal controls. Thus, the gamma-GT, which has adjacent cis-hydroxyl groups in its carbohydrate moieties, was found to increase in the serum of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. The positivity rate was examined in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis, using a cut-off level for the peak 2:peak 1 ratio of 1.05 (mean + 2 SD of liver cirrhosis). Nineteen (42.2%) patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had a ratio of peak 2:peak 1 higher than 1.05. Nine of the 19 patients who had serum alpha-fetoprotein levels below 100 ng/ml had an elevated peak 2:peak 1 ratio. In total, 77.8% of the occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma could be detected by a combination of these two markers. Three patients who had developed hepatocellular carcinoma during the course of cirrhosis but remained negative for alpha-fetoprotein throughout the course developed higher levels of peak 2:peak 1 ratio when hepatocellular carcinoma occurred. These results indicate that the two markers, the peak 2:peak 1 ratio of serum gamma-GT activity and serum alpha-fetoprotein level, may be considered to serve as complementary markers for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of vena caval tumor thrombi: a comparative study with venacavography and computerized tomography scanning. We assessed the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in demonstrating the presence and extent of vena caval tumor thrombi. The study group included 20 patients with vena caval thrombi from renal cell carcinoma (18), renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma (1) and adrenal pheochromocytoma (1). Preoperative diagnostic studies included magnetic resonance imaging in all patients, inferior venacavography in 16 and computerized tomography scanning in 15. All patients underwent an operation in which the presence and extent of the vena caval thrombus were confirmed. Magnetic resonance imaging accurately delineated the presence and extent of the thrombus in all 20 patients (100%). Venacavography was accurate in 15 patients (94%) but 8 (50%) required a retrograde and antegrade study. Computerized tomography scanning demonstrated the presence of a tumor thrombus in all 15 patients but accurately delineated the cephalad extent of the thrombus in only 5 (33%). In patients with vena caval tumor thrombi magnetic resonance imaging can provide accurate information regarding the extent of vena caval involvement while avoiding the need for an invasive contrast imaging study. 
Perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis. We report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations. This patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum. Perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis. The ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel. Amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis. Macroscopically, it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia. 
Microinvasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Stage IA). In 1985 the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) subdivided Stage IA cervical cancer and specified metric criteria to demarcate Stage IA from Stage IB. Early stromal invasion (Stage IA1) denotes the first invasive protrusions of a carcinoma in situ into the stroma. Microcarcinomas (Stage IA2) are small cancers a number of orders of magnitude larger than Stage IA1 lesions and with a maximum depth of invasion of 5 mm and a maximum horizontal spread of 7 mm; larger lesions are classified as Stage IB. This study reviews 486 patients previously classified as having Stage IA disease. This yielded 344 Stage IA1 and 101 Stage IA2 lesions; 41 cancers were reclassified as Stage IB. Three hundred nine, 89, and 38 patients were followed for greater than or equal to 5 years. One (0.3%) patient with Stage IA1 disease re-presented with Stage IIB disease 12 years after conization. Five (5.6%) patients with Stage IA2 lesions developed invasive recurrences; three died. None of the 38 patients reclassified as having a Stage IB lesion, including 16 who were treated conservatively, developed a recurrence. The FIGO classification is not a guideline for treatment. Stage IA1 lesions can be treated conservatively, but treatment in Stage IA2 must be individualized. Risk factors such as vascular space involvement and confluency are of high sensitivity but low specificity. 
Composite reconstruction for chest wall and scalp using multiple ribs-latissimus dorsi osteomyocutaneous flaps as pedicled and free flaps. A composite flap is presented based on the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous unit together with the underlying ninth to eleventh ribs. Three patients are presented. In two, a full-thickness chest-wall defect was present. In one, a full-thickness scalp and cranial defect was present. Use of the composite osteomyocutaneous latissimus dorsi free flap as a pedicled flap in two patients and as a free flap in one patient resulted in successful definitive reconstruction in all with no complications. This procedure necessitates no transplantation of soft tissue prior to bone grafting to maintain local vascularity, so the simultaneous one-stage reconstruction of an osseous-soft-tissue defect becomes possible easily. 
The effect of metoclopramide on ovarian responsiveness to gonadotropin administration in patients with severe polycystic ovarian syndrome. Six patients with poor ovarian response to menotropin after pretreatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog exhibited improved ovarian responsiveness when metoclopramide was added on days 3, 5, and 7 of the cycle. This was evidenced by a higher number of leading follicles (4.4 versus 0.6), a higher mean of maximal serum 17 beta-estradiol levels (560 versus 178 pg/mL), a shorter duration of menotropin treatment (7 versus 11 days), and fewer ampules of menotropin used (20 versus 37 ampules/cycle) in metoclopramide-treated cycles as compared with control cycles, respectively. Serum prolactin levels reached a maximum of 172 ng/mL within 1 hour after metoclopramide administration and declined to normal range within 6 hours. These results suggest that intermittent increased prolactin secretion may augment ovarian response to gonadotropins. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of fourth ventricular epidermoid tumors. Two pathologically proved cases of epidermoid tumor of the fourth ventricle are presented; clinical history and computed tomographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and histopathologic findings are included. 
Cystic rheumatoid arthritis: description of a nonerosive form. In a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 9% (n = 70) were found to have a cystic form. At radiologic examination of these patients with cystic RA, the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions. The cysts were distributed symmetrically, most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal, metacarpophalangeal, and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet. Computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts. Magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid, inflamed synovia, or both. Cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of RA and a supplement to the criteria of the American Rheumatism Association. Osteoporosis, joint-space narrowing, and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic RA than in patients with classic RA. Of the patients with cystic RA, 54% were male, and 50% were seronegative. This study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in RA. 
Endometrioma of the liver. Hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare. We describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary. We suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause. 
Combined surgical resection and iridium 192 implantation for locally advanced and recurrent desmoid tumors. Thirty-eight histologically confirmed desmoid tumors were treated with conservative surgical resection and interstitial iridium 192. Patients included in this series constituted a poor prognostic group. Seventy five percent (75%) had previous recurrences of their disease and 50% had tumors 8 cm or greater in size. In addition, 16% of the patients had gross residual disease after surgical excision and 79% had positive or close margins of resection. With a median follow-up of 5.5 years, the 5-year actuarial in-field local control rate was 75% and the overall local control rate was 66%. Four of the 12 local recurrences developed at the periphery of the implant volume and four patients failed at least 3 cm or more beyond the treated volume. After salvage therapy, the 5-year actuarial local control rate was 95%. Two patients required amputation for recurrent disease. Thirty of 34 patients remain free of disease with an excellent functional result achieved. The authors conclude that surgical resection and postoperative interstitial iridium 192 is effective therapy for patients with desmoid tumors. Despite the fact that most patients in this series had bulky, recurrent tumors, excellent long-term local control and limb function were achieved. 
Resection and reconstruction for bone tumors in the proximal tibia. The proximal tibia is a common site for both benign and malignant tumors. This article reviews pertinent anatomy, clinical presentation, and staging methods for tumors of this area. Discussion is given to various methods of resection and reconstruction with useful guidelines for procedure selection. The use of allografts for reconstruction is discussed in depth. 
Spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis. We report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester. Spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred, associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome. 
Expression of c-erbB-2 gene product in urinary bladder cancer. Expression of the c-erbB-2 gene product and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) was investigated in 54 cases of human bladder cancer immunohistologically and by Western blot analysis. For detection of the c-erbB-2 product, two specific antibodies, a rabbit polyclonal antibody directed to the intracellular domain and a murine monoclonal antibody recognizing an epitope in the extracellular domain, were used. Seventeen cases of bladder cancer were stained by the anti-c-erbB-2 polyclonal antibody, while 20 cases were stained by the monoclonal antibody, with good correlation on both stainings (p less than 0.01). There were four c-erbB-2 positive cases in 26 G1 tumors, four in 15 G2 tumors, and nine in 13 G3 tumors. There were also eight erbB-2 positive cases in nine muscle-invasive tumors, nine of 45 superficial tumors, four of five with lymph node metastasis, and seven of 14 without metastasis, as revealed by staining with the polyclonal antibody. Thus, the c-erbB-2 gene product was more frequently expressed in high grade tumors (p less than 0.01), in high stage tumors (p less than 0.01), and nodal metastatic tumors (N.S. by Chi-square test). Twenty-two of the 54 tumors were stained by an anti-EGF-R monoclonal antibody, 528 IgG. The expression of EGF-R was independent of histological grading, tumor stage, and nodal status, and no correlation was observed between expression of the c-erbB-2 product and EGF-R. The c-erbB-2 product may be applicable as a tumor marker for evaluation of malignant potential, invasiveness, and probably metastatic potential of human bladder cancer. 
Mononuclear phagocytes: a major population of effector cells responsible for rejection of allografted tumor cells in mice. To understand the in situ mechanism of immunological response of recipient animals to allografted tumor cells, the types of cells that infiltrated into the rejection site were examined. When Meth A cells (H-2d) were given i.p. to an allogeneic [C57BL/6 (H-2b)] strain of mouse, the tumor cells ceased to grow on the 6th day, accompanied by an i.p. infiltration of leukocytes. The tumor cells were totally eliminated from the peritoneal cavity around the 12th day. The highest cytotoxic activity against Meth A cells was obtained with the peritoneal exudate cells harvested on day 8. On this day, the exudate cells consisted of three populations when examined by flow cytometry, and each was isolated by sorting. Each of them appeared to be homogeneous, and they were morphologically identified as lymphocytes; granulocytes; and medium-sized, mononuclear, less-granular cells. The cytotoxic activity was confined exclusively to the last population. The effector cells (H-2b) were cytotoxic against not only Meth A cells (H-2d) but also concanavalin A-stimulated allogeneic spleen cells [C3H/He (H-2k), CBA/N (H-2k), A/J (H-2a), BALB/c (H-2d), and DBA/2 (H-2d) strains of mouse]. The effector cells were totally inert against concanavalin A-activated syngeneic spleen cells [C57BL/6 (H-2b) and C57BL/10 (H-2b) strains of mouse]. The effector cells were phenotypically (Thy-1.2- CD3- Lyt-1- Lyt-2- L3T4- immunoglobulin- asialo GM1-), morphologically, and functionally distinct from cytotoxic T cells, natural killer cells, and lymphokine-activated killer cells but were adherent mononuclear phagocytes. 
Peripheral ameloblastoma with clear cell differentiation. This report details a case of mandibular peripheral ameloblastoma having a clear cell component. The latter consisted of ovoid cells with vacuolated or clear cytoplasm and vesicular or pyknotic nuclei that may be disposed as discrete clusters or show direct transition from typical acanthomatous areas. Comparison of this lesion with other odontogenic and nonodontogenic tumors that contain clear cells is discussed in the context of the differential diagnosis. 
Bone cancer incidence rates in New York State: time trends and fluoridated drinking water. BACKGROUND: Recent animal studies of the potential carcinogenicity of fluoride prompted an examination of bone cancer incidence rates. METHODS: Trends in the incidence of primary bone cancers, including the incidence of osteosarcomas were examined among residents of New York State, exclusive of New York City. Average annual osteosarcoma incidence rates in fluoridated and non-fluoridated areas were also compared. RESULTS: Among persons less than 30 years of age at diagnosis, bone cancer incidence among males demonstrated a significant increase since 1955, while incidence among females has remained unchanged. A significant decrease in bone cancer incidence rates since 1955 was observed among both males and females age 30 years and over at time of diagnosis. Osteosarcoma incidence rates have remained essentially unchanged since 1970, among both younger and older males and females. The average annual age adjusted incidence of osteosarcomas (1976-1987) in areas served by fluoridated water supplies was not found to differ from osteosarcoma incidence rates in non-fluoridated areas. CONCLUSIONS: These data do not support an association between fluoride in drinking water and the occurrence of cancer of the bone. 
A case of classical mycosis fungoides associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I. A 72-year-old male patient from north-eastern Iran developed the typical clinical and histopathological features of mycosis fungoides with lymphadenopathy, but without any other systemic involvement. Human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I) antibodies were detected in the patient's serum by two different ELISAs and by Western blot using purified viral particles from MT-2 culture supernatants. Cultured peripheral blood lymphocytes were positive for labelling with anti-HTLV-I serum. Southern blot hybridization of DNA extracted from a skin tumour and from an involved lymph node revealed integrated proviral DNA with identical restriction patterns. This case supports a relationship between mycosis fungoides and HTLV-I and may indicate a new region of endemic HTLV-I infection. 
Desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma: report of a case and review of the literature. A case of desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma is reported. The lesion, in a 36-year-old Japanese woman, was successfully treated by partial maxillectomy. Reconstruction was carried out with a block of hydroxyapatite about 7 years and 6 months later. Six cases, including our case, reported up to the present are summarized and reviewed. 
An evaluation of the distinction of ectopic and pituitary ACTH dependent Cushing's syndrome by clinical features, biochemical tests and radiological findings. The efficiency of various laboratory and radiological investigations in the differentiation of ectopic from pituitary dependent Cushing's syndrome was studied, based on findings in 23 patients with verified Cushing's disease and seven patients with the ectopic ACTH syndrome. Clinical features strongly favouring the ectopic type were male sex and history for less than 18 months. Basal biochemical features strongly indicating the ectopic syndrome included plasma K+ less than 3.0 mmol/l and HCO3 greater than 30 mmol/l; serum cortisol at 9 a.m. or midnight of greater than 800 nmol/l; urine free cortisol greater than 1300 nmol/24 hours; plasma ACTH greater than 100 ng/l. In the high-dose dexamethasone suppression test, suppression by less than 50 per cent of 9 a.m. serum cortisol, urine free cortisol or 17-oxogenic steroids was usually indicative of an ectopic source of ACTH. A mean suppressed value of greater than 450 nmol/l for the 9 a.m. and midnight cortisol combined occurred in all of those with the ectopic syndrome, but in none of the 23 patients with Cushing's disease. For urine free cortisol, a mean suppressed value of less than 1000 nmol/24 hours was found in all patients with Cushing's disease, but in none of those in the ectopic group. In the metyrapone test, there was an increase of less than or equal to 3-fold in 11-deoxycortisol at 24 hours in patients with ectopic ACTH; the increase was greater than 3-fold in all but one of the patients with Cushing's disease. Failure to respond to either dexamethasone or metyrapone was found in only one of the patients with Cushing's disease (Patient 16); in the ectopic group, all patients except Patient D failed to respond to either test. It is concluded that patients presenting with clinically obvious Cushing's syndrome along with measurable plasma ACTH can be reliably divided by conventional tests into those that are driven from the pituitary and those driven by ectopic ACTH. 
Control of interleukin-1 beta expression by protein kinase C and cyclic adenosine monophosphate in myeloid leukemia cells. We have examined the signal transduction pathways leading to the expression of the interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) gene in human myeloid leukemia cells lines. Two cell lines representing different stages of differentiation were used (HL-60, promyelocytic, and THP-1, mature monocytic). In accordance with previous studies, it was observed that a protein kinase C (PKC) activator, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), was a sufficient stimulus for induction of the IL-1 beta messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and IL-1 beta protein production in both of these cell lines. A structural analog of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (dbcAMP) or agents elevating the endogenous cAMP levels (prostaglandin E2, forskolin) were not alone able to induce IL-1 beta expression, but they strongly enhanced the PMA-induced IL-1 beta production and IL-1 beta mRNA accumulation. Nuclear run off analysis showed that this elevation in IL-1 beta mRNA levels was due to an increased rate of transcription. If dbcAMP was added 6 hours before PMA to the cultures, no enhancement in the IL-1 beta production was seen, implying that for this enhancing effect both of these signals must be present simultaneously. PKC inhibitor, H7, also blocked effectively the PMA plus dbcAMP induced IL-1 beta production, while the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, HA1004, had no effect, suggesting that PKA activation is not involved in the mechanism of action of cAMP in this case. Collectively, the present findings show that cAMP-dependent signals can have a positive regulatory effect on the PKC-dependent activation of the IL-1 beta gene in cells derived from different stages of myeloid differentiation. 
Treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with emphasis on intensive induction chemotherapy. A report from the Study Group of Japan. One hundred nine newly treated patients with advanced neuroblastoma were entered in this study between January 1985 and May 1989. The eligible patients included infants younger than 12 months of age with Stage IVA disease (bone cortex, distant lymph node, and/or remote organ metastases) and patients aged 12 months or older with Stage III or IV disease (IVA plus IVB with tumor crossing the mid-line and with metastases confined to bone marrow, liver, and skin). The patients first received six cyclic course of intensive chemotherapy (regimen A1), consisting of cyclophosphamide (1200 mg/m2), vincristine (1.5 mg/m2), tetrahydropyranyl adriamycin (pyrarubicin; 40 mg/m2), and cisplatin (90 mg/m2). Original tumors and the regional lymph node metastases were removed some time during these first six cycles of chemotherapy. The patients were further divided into three groups. Patients in course 1 received alternating treatment by regimen B (cyclophosphamide and ACNU) and intensified regimen A1, and those in course 2 were treated with alternating administration of regimen C (cyclophosphamide and DTIC) and intensified A1. Patients in course 3 were treated with bone marrow transplantation (BMT) preceded by high-dose preconditioning chemotherapy. Survival rates were 77% in Stage III and 54% in Stage IV at 2 years, and 70% in Stage III and 45% in Stage IV at 3 years. The major toxicities encountered were bone marrow suppression with leukocyte counts down to 100/mm3, mild cystitis, and hearing impairment. The 2-year survival rate was 78% in 21 patients who underwent BMT when complete remission was achieved. We concluded that our intensive induction chemotherapy is of significant value in increasing the rate of complete response, and in widening the indications for and achieving improved results of treatment with BMT. 
Use of the levator scapulae muscle flap in head and neck reconstruction. There are numerous techniques available for reconstruction of defects following composite resection of oral cavity and oropharyngeal tumors. No single technique is applicable in all situations. The levator scapulae muscle flap is well known for its application in carotid protection. Little attention is paid to its usefulness in other aspects of head and neck reconstruction. We have been using the levator scapulae muscle flap for a variety of reconstructive problems. The flap is useful for buttressing intraoral suture lines, closing intraoral defects, and providing soft tissue to fill in dead spaces and bulk out lateral and anterior oral defects. The levator flap was found to be easy to elevate, safe, and reliable with a minimum of wound complications. A review of 18 patients, representative case studies, and a discussion of surgical technique and relevant anatomy and blood supply is presented. 
Myofibroblastoma of the tongue. An immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric study. A case of myofibroblastoma arising in the tongue of a 77-year-old man is described. The patient presented with a submucosal tongue mass without other associated symptoms. The tumor was 2 cm in diameter, well circumscribed, and composed of uniform spindle cells arranged in fascicles. Electron microscopic examination and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a myofibroblastic origin for the tumor cells. DNA flow cytometric analysis showed a diploid DNA content of this tumor. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of myofibroblastoma occurring in the tongue. 
Cervical rotation flaps for midface resurfacing. The midface has long served as a focus for creativity in surgical reconstruction. Full-thickness skin grafts, split-thickness grafts, and distal flaps have long been used to attempt to reduplicate existing anatomy in this area. Recent reconstruction efforts have focused on the creative use of microvascular free flaps for this purpose. This article reports on the use of extensively developed regional rotation flaps as an excellent reconstructive modality for use in this area of the face. The details of surgical incisional planning are given. The nuances of surgical creation of these flaps and their rotation and suspension into place are given. The cases we have done using this technique for the past 3 years are reviewed. Our present indications for use of these flaps and their limitations are given. 
Decalcification of a choroidal osteoma. A 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye. A choroidal osteoma was suspected, and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis. Fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour, which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice. Recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment. Three years after the patient first presented, thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination. During the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared, leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy. Total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography. 
Oral manifestations of HIV infection and their management. II. Less common lesions. This second of two articles reviews the many uncommon and rare oral lesions that have arisen in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The various drug-related oral disorders of HIV disease are also considered. 
Direct interaction of a ligand for the erbB2 oncogene product with the EGF receptor and p185erbB2. The erbB2 oncogene encodes a 185-kilodalton transmembrane protein whose sequence is similar to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). A 30-kilodalton factor (gp30) secreted from MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells was shown to be a ligand for p185erbB2. An antibody to EGFR abolished the tyrosine phosphorylation induced by EGF and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) but only partially blocked that produced by gp30 in SK-BR-3 breast cancer cells. In two cell lines that overexpress erbB2 but do not expresss EGFR (MDA-MB-453 breast cancer cells and a Chinese hamster ovary cell line that had been transfected with erbB2), phosphorylation of p185erbB2 was induced only by gp30. The gp30 specifically inhibited the growth of cells that overexpressed p185erbB2. An antibody to EGFR had no effect on the inhibition of SK-BR-3 cell colony formation obtained with gp30. Thus, it appeared that gp30 interacted directly with the EGFR and erbB2. Direct binding of gp30 to p185erbB2 was confirmed by binding competition experiments, where gp30 was found to displace the p185erbB2 binding of a specific antibody to p185erbB2. The evidence described here suggests that gp30 is a ligand for p185erbB2. 
Prospective study of estrogen replacement therapy and risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Apr 10;265(14):1828] We prospectively examined the use of estrogen replacement therapy in relation to breast cancer incidence in a cohort of women 30 to 55 years of age in 1976. During 367 187 person-years of follow-up among postmenopausal women, 722 incident cases of breast cancer were documented. Overall, past users of replacement estrogen were not at increased risk (relative risk, 0.98; 95% confidence interval, 0.81 to 1.18), including even those with more than 10 years since last [corrected] use (relative risk after adjustment for established risk factors, 0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.45 to 1.10). However, the risk of breast cancer was significantly elevated among current users (relative risk, 1.36; 95% confidence interval, 1.11 to 1.67). Among current users, a stronger relationship was observed with increasing age but not with increasing duration of use. These data suggest that long-term past use of estrogen replacement therapy is not related to risk of breast cancer but that current use may modestly increase risk. 
Distinct characteristics of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells derived from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). A factor in B-CLL serum promotes natural killer cell-like LAK cell growth. We show that lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell precursors derived from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and cultured in the presence of recombinant interleukin-2 and normal human serum (NHS), develop into primarily NK cell-like (CD 57+) LAK cells, whereas identically prepared LAK cell precursors from normal subjects develop into mainly T cell-like (CD 3+, CD 8+) LAK cells. B-CLL LAK cells exhibited greater proliferative capacity than did normal LAK cells. When normal LAK cells were grown in B-CLL serum instead of NHS, their proliferation increased; NK cell levels also increased to those found in B-CLL LAK cells, suggesting that B-CLL serum contains a factor that promotes NK cell-like growth, LAK cells derived from normal or B-CLL patients demonstrated similar lytic activity toward K562 and Raji cells. Growth in B-CLL serum did not reduce their lytic potential. Thus, the altered phenotype and growth exhibited by B-CLL LAK cells and normal LAK cells grown in B-CLL serum does not lead to abnormalities in their cytolytic functions. We propose instead that the predominance of NK-like cells in B-CLL LAK cell populations and the presence of an NK cell-like growth factor in B-CLL serum reflect abnormalities related to NK cell-mediated B-cell regulation; ie, either inhibition of normal B-cell growth and/or growth stimulation of the leukemic clone in B-CLL. 
Effect of morphine on growth of metastatic colon cancer in vivo. Control of colon cancer depends, in part, on intact immune defense mechanisms. Since opiates are known to affect some components of immune function, this study was conducted to determine the effect of high-dose subcutaneous morphine sulfate and of low-dose intrathecal morphine on the postoperative growth of metastatic colon cancer. Five groups of 15 Fischer 344 rats were given intraportal injections of colon cancer cells as follows: group 1, control; group 2, daily subcutaneous injections of 20-mg/kg morphine the day before and for 2 days after colon cancer cell inoculation; group 3, daily subcutaneous injections of saline; group 4, daily intrathecal injections of 20 micrograms of morphine; and group 5, daily intrathecal injections of saline. There was a significant decrease in the hepatic tumor burden in group 2 compared with groups 1 and 3 and a significant increase in the hepatic tumor burden in groups 4 and 5 compared with group 1. This study demonstrates that intermittent injections of a narcotic may decrease the growth of tumor cells that gain access to the circulation during a surgical procedure. In addition, the results support the concept that tumor cells entering the circulation during a vulnerable period of postoperative immunosuppression are more likely to survive as metastatic tumor. 
Cartilage removal prior to skin grafting in the triangular fossa, antihelix, and concha of the ear. Skin grafting onto a large area of exposed ear cartilage with irregular contours poses an increased risk of inadequate re-establishment of circulation. Removal of cartilage not needed for structural support before grafting following Mohs surgery on the triangular fossa, antihelix, and concha of the ear decreases the risk of recurrence of the carcinoma, and increases the chances for survival of the graft. 
Tanning salons: an area survey of proprietors' knowledge of risks and precautions. An area survey of tanning salon proprietors was conducted in a medium-sized midwestern city. Proprietors reported they were in compliance with federal safety regulations, but not all had age, frequency, or duration restrictions. Similarly, proprietors were not uniformly informing patrons of potential tanning hazards, including the possibility of skin cancer, and were not knowledgeable about the risk and benefits of tanning. Some establishments reported selling psoralens to patrons to enhance tanning. More explicit guidelines regarding the use of tanning equipment and more accurate consumer information are needed. 
Philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. During an 8-year period, 3,638 children from institutions of the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Fifty-seven patients had Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph1) ALL. Blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases (23%) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 (-7). This subgroup of children with Ph1/-7 ALL was comprised primarily of older males with early B-lineage ALL. Bone marrow specimens from six Ph1/-7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the ALL, and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9;22 translocation. Rearrangements were detected in RNA from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients, although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis. Five cases showed the ALL breakpoint, while one child with Ph1/-7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint. The induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup (31%) as compared with Ph1-negative cases, and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years. ALL with both the 9;22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood ALL associated with a particularly adverse outcome. Leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene (Ph1) and a tumor suppressor gene (-7). 
Left superior vena cava: a pitfall in computed tomographic diagnosis with surgical implications. We report 2 cases in which computed tomography of the mediastinum demonstrated an abnormality originally misinterpreted as lymphadenopathy but subsequently shown to represent a left superior vena cava. Misinterpretation may result in errors in optimum treatment and may complicate surgical exploration of the mediastinum. These 2 cases are presented to remind radiologists and surgeons of the possibility of this unusual anatomy. 
Intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses. A cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days. Patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmHg of atmospheric pressure. After recovery of activity, pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmHg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time. Distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site (P less than 0.001). Two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmHg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmHg; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmHg. Four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmHg and a peak of 45 mmHg. Each contraction persisted for 15-20 min. Intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence. 
Meningeal carcinomatosis in breast cancer. Prognostic factors and influence of treatment. In 58 breast cancer patients with meningeal carcinomatosis (MC) pretreatment characteristics, clinical course, and response to treatment were evaluated. Forty-four patients were uniformly treated with intraventricular chemotherapy. Fourteen patients did not receive intraventricular treatment. In the intraventricularly treated group the median survival was 12 weeks. Multivariate analysis of the pretreatment characteristics of the intraventricularly treated patients demonstrated a prognostic significance with respect to survival for age older than 55 years, lung metastases, cranial nerve involvement, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose less than 2.5 mmol/l, and CSF protein 0.51 to 1.0 g/l. Based on the significance of these predicting factors a prognostic index (PI) identified four groups of patients with a median survival of 43 weeks, 22 weeks, 11 weeks, and 3 weeks, respectively. After 6 weeks of intraventricular treatment 22 patients showed a neurologic improvement or stabilization, and nine patients showed a worsening of the neurologic signs, whereas 13 patients (30%) had already died. The responders had a median additional survival of 5 months versus 1 month for nonresponders. No relation was found between survival and intensity of the intraventricular treatment after the first 6 weeks of treatment. Almost all long survivors had also received systemic treatment for systemic disease, whereas most patients who died within 6 months did not receive systemic therapy. Radiation therapy had no influence on the survival time. Early death due to the intensive treatment occurred in three patients. In 11 of the 17 patients who survived more than 4 months an often seriously debilitating late neurotoxicity developed. The survival curve of the nonintraventricularly treated patients appeared to be essentially the same as the curve of the intraventricularly treated patients. Using the same PI the predicted survival time was also the same as in the intraventricularly treated group. It is concluded that survival in MC from breast carcinoma may be more dependent on some pretreatment characteristics than on treatment intensity. On the basis of these pretreatment characteristics the survival time seems to be predictable. Finally, late neurotoxicity due to aggressive treatment leads to impairment of the quality of life in more than 50% of the long survivors. The exact value of intraventricular and systemic therapy in patients with MC still has to be determined. 
Evaluation of in vitro bromodeoxyuridine labeling of breast carcinomas with the use of a commercial kit. The prognostic significance of S-phase fraction analyses of breast carcinomas has been reported by several investigators. The Cell Proliferation Kit (Amersham Corporation, Arlington Heights, IL), which uses in vitro bromodeoxyuridine (BRDU) labeling to evaluate cell cycle kinetics without a flow cytometer or radioisotopes, simplifies this assay for the clinical-based laboratory by providing standardized reagents and recommended methods. This study was performed to determine whether data derived from its use were comparable to published S-phase data from the use of thymidine labeling, BRDU, or other methods on breast carcinomas. Primary infiltrating ductal carcinomas (n = 142) and primary lobular carcinomas (n = 6) showed mean and median BRDU labeling of 4.63% and 3%, 1.3% and 1%, respectively, with a range of 0-28%. Benign lesions always had less than 3% BRDU uptake (n = 21). Estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) status correlated with BRDU labeling (P less than 0.05), with the highest S-phase fractions in ER- and PR-negative tumors. Correlations between BRDU uptake and histologic tumor type or size were observed. Significant correlations between BRDU uptake and lymph node status, patient age, or histologic tumor grade were not observed. S-phase studies of breast carcinomas using other techniques have shown similar data, therefore, the Cell Proliferation Kit appears to be a practical and useful method for in vitro S-phase analysis that allows concomitant histologic examination of the same tumor tissue sample. 
Squamous carcinoma of the distal esophagus: a survival study. A survival study for squamous carcinomas of the distal esophagus treated by the Southern California Permanente Medical Group in the interval of 1954 to 1988 was undertaken. We found radiation therapy and surgery equally efficacious in terms of cure for patients without distant disease and performance status sufficient to tolerate treatment. We did not find survival benefit for patients treated with palliative surgery, and plan less invasive endoscopic means along with chemotherapy and radiation for palliation, reserving surgery for special circumstances. 
Primary hepatic carcinoid tumor. An electron microscopic and immunohistochemical study. A case of primary carcinoid tumor of the liver with striking morphologic and electron microscopic features is reported. Conventional histologic examination showed a prominent paranuclear clear zone in numerous tumor cells. By electron microscopic examination, this clear zone corresponded to a paranuclear mass of intermediate filaments admixed with neurosecretory granules and other cytoplasmic organelles. 
Epstein-Barr virus transformation of B lymphocytes from IgA nephropathy patients and first-degree relatives results in increased immunoglobulin synthesis not restricted to IgA. In order to study B-cell activation patterns independent of T-cell regulation in patients with IgA nephropathy (IgAN), peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 67 patients with IgAN, 15 first-degree relatives of patients with familial disease, and 13 normal controls were transformed with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Culture supernatants of these transformed cells were assayed for levels of IgG, IgA, and IgM, and results obtained on the three populations were compared. EBV-transformed cells of IgAN patients, as well as the population of first-degree relatives, secreted significantly elevated levels of all three isotypes as compared with the normal controls. However, in comparing ratios of secreted isotypes, it was determined that more IgA relative to IgG and IgM was synthesized by cells of these two populations as compared with the normal controls. Our results imply that (1) the population of B cells susceptible to EBV activation is increased in IgAN patients; (2) this population of "activatable" B lymphocytes is polyclonal and not restricted to the IgA class; and (3) even though there may be a primary B-cell abnormality in IgAN, an additional defect(s) is probably operative in the pathogenesis, since cells of clinically unaffected relatives behaved in a pattern similar to that of patients. 
A phase I clinical trial of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in pediatric patients with acute leukemia. To evaluate its toxicity and clinical efficacy in children with relapsed or refractory leukemia, we performed a phase I trial of 2-chloro-2'-deoxy-adenosine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine; 2-CDA) given as a continuous 5-day infusion at doses of 3 to 10.7 mg/m2/d. In this study of 31 children with acute leukemia, the only dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression. At the highest dose level, three of seven patients developed fatal systemic bacterial or fungal infections. At dose levels above 6.2 mg/m2/d, significant oncolytic responses occurred in all patients. In addition, there was a significant correlation between both the responsiveness by cell type and dose of 2-CDA, such that more oncolytic responses were noted in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients than acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients (P = .02). Although this was a phase I trial in heavily pretreated patients with refractory disease, two AML patients treated at 5.2 and 10.7 mg/m2/d, respectively, had complete hematologic responses, and one patient treated at 10.7 mg/m2/d had a partial response. In addition, there was a dose-response relationship in all patients with improved cytoreduction of peripheral blast cells at higher doses of 2-CDA. In vitro evaluation of 2-CDA uptake and anabolism by leukemic blast cells from 22 patients demonstrated that 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (Cld-AMP) and 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine 5'-striphosphate (CldATP) reached concentrations close to steady-state levels within 1 hour. Intracellular nucleotide disappearance rates were high with half-lives of 1.29 and 2.47 hours for CldAMP and CldATP, respectively. This suggests that continuous infusion is necessary to maintain the desired plasma concentration. The results of this study confirm the antileukemic activity of 2-CDA and the lack of prohibitive nonhematologic toxicity. Phase II trials in patients with AML and ALL are warranted. 
Skin exudate levels of interleukin 6, interleukin 1 and other cytokines in mycosis fungoides. The role of locally released cytokines in inducing lymphocyte activation and infiltration in the skin lesions of mycosis fungoides has been investigated. The levels of selected cytokines were measured in chamber fluid samples from lesional and control skin. Biologically active interleukin 6 was significantly elevated in lesional samples and a recombinant form of this cytokine was shown to induce lymphocyte migration in an in vitro assay. Biologically active interleukin 1 was detected in all control chamber fluid samples. Significantly reduced levels of this cytokine were present in lesional samples, which may be the result of the release of preformed material. Interleukin 2 and tumour necrosis factor activity, and gamma interferon and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor immunoreactivity, were not detectable in any of the samples. Interleukins 1 and 6 may play a role in the pathogenesis of the lesional lymphocyte infiltrates in mycosis fungoides. 
Prostate-specific antigen for staging prior to surgery and for early detection of recurrence after surgery. The exact usefulness of prostate-specific antigen for staging before radical prostatectomy is still unclear. Perhaps the marker's most exciting feature is its value in detecting residual disease after radical prostatectomy. The author also discusses the technical questions in testing and interpretation. 
The risk of lymph node metastasis in colorectal polyps with invasive adenocarcinoma. One hundred fifty-one patients with colorectal polyps containing invasive adenocarcinoma treated by resection were studied to determine the incidence of lymph node metastasis and whether lymph node metastasis was related to the depth of invasion. Other variables evaluated included size and configuration of the polyp, grade of adenocarcinoma, presence or absence of lymphovascular invasion, and degree of differentiation. In patients with sessile polyps, the incidence of lymph node metastasis was 10 percent. Eighty percent of these lesions had lymphovascular invasion. For pedunculated polyps, the overall incidence of lymph node metastasis was 6 percent. However, there was no incidence of lymph node metastasis when the depth of invasion was limited to the head, neck, and stalk of the polyp (Levels 1, 2, and 3). Only when the depth of invasion reached to the base of the stalk (Level 4) was the risk of lymph node metastasis high (27 percent). The other risk factors were not associated with lymph node metastasis. We concluded that the most significant risk factor for lymph node metastasis in patients with invasive carcinoma in a polyp was invasion into the submucosa of the bowel wall (Level 4). 
Effects of FUdR on primary-cultured colon carcinomas metastatic to the liver. Hepatic arterial infusion of fluorodeoxyuridine (FUdR) has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma of the liver. In this study, the direct cytotoxic effect of FUdR was measured on ten metastatic and two primary-site colorectal carcinomas in a primary culture assay system. Overall, clinically achievable concentrations of FUdR (0.4 to 4 microM) induced partial cell kill in 75% of tumors, including a greater than 50% reduction in viable tumor cell number in only two tumors and less than 50% in the remaining seven. Total cell kill was not observed in any tumor. Three tumors were resistant to these FUdR concentrations. Tumor sensitivity correlated with the size of the tumor growth fraction. Increasing the exposure time to FUdR from 3 to 7 days approximately doubled the magnitude of the response. 5-Flurouracil and cisplatin, at clinically achievable concentrations, were more toxic to metastatic tumor cells than FUdR. Because of the limited chemosensitivity of metastatic colorectal tumor cells to FUdR in vitro, we postulate that other mechanisms besides direct cytotoxicity contribute to the clinical efficacy of FUdR in vivo. 
Flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure in rural patients. In this study of flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure for rural, impoverished patients, 16% of asymptomatic patients who were screened by sigmoidoscopy and 23% of patients with a positive test for fecal occult blood were found to have a polyp or carcinoma. Flexible sigmoidoscopy appears to be an important part of the physical examination of patients older than 50. It is a test that can readily be done by primary care physicians in a rural setting. 
Capillary hemangioma of the maxilla. A report of two cases in which angiography and embolization were used. This article presents two clinical cases of capillary hemangiomas of the maxilla. Such lesions are rare, as demonstrated by the review of the literature included in this article. The presentation, differential diagnosis, histopathology, management, and follow-up for each case are discussed. Our rationale for approaching these types of lesions, as well as our opinion that microembolization should be considered as a first line approach to treatment, is presented. 
Prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery. From 1979 to 1989, 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base. Histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas, 3 chondrosarcomas, 2 melanomas, 2 basal cell carcinomas, 2 adenocarcinomas, 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas, 1 malignant schwannoma, and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma. Survival was 57%, with follow-up of 41 months. A 50% complication rate included osteomyelitis, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, meningitis, brain abscess, epidural abscess, and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. Recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients (41%), the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by CT scan or at operation. Patients demonstrating dural involvement (N = 9) had a 22% survival rate, while patients without (N = 12) had a survival rate of 83%. The impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized. Though complications were frequent, long-term results were favorable. 
Reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors. We report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors (meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma). The factors that differentiate these "non-acoustic tumors" in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed. A surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed. 
Preliminary studies for an immunotherapeutic approach to the treatment of human myeloma using chimeric anti-CD38 antibody. Multiple myeloma is a disease in which conventional chemotherapy has only limited value, but which may be ideal for treatment with passive antibody against a suitable cell surface antigen on the neoplastic plasma cell. The CD38 antigen is known to be present on the majority of neoplastic plasma cells, and this was confirmed by detailed examination of bone marrow aspirates from three patients. Strong expression of CD38 was confined to cells which, by the criteria of light-scattering profiles and possession of cytoplasmic Ig, were plasma cells. The vast majority of neoplastic plasma cells appeared to be involved. Using a cell line as a model, it was found that the CD38 antigen acts as a target for a chimeric antibody prepared from the antibody OKT10. The chimeric antibody consists of the Fab portion of the mouse monoclonal antibody linked by a stable thioether bond to an Fc molecule derived from human IgG1, thereby forming mouse Fab-human Fc. In contrast to the parent antibody, the chimeric molecule mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) very efficiently with human blood mononuclear effector cells, and is effective at low concentration. Also, even though the CD38 antigen is present on natural killer cells, there appears to be little deleterious action of the antibody on effector cell function. The antibody also failed to affect the growth of progenitor cells of the granulocyte/macrophage or erythroid lineages present in normal bone marrows, despite the suspicion that these cells express the antigen. Other advantages of the CD38 molecule are that it is not found in the serum of patients with myeloma, and it does not appear to modulate in vitro. Fourteen patients with florid myeloma and on various chemotherapeutic regimes had an undiminished capacity to mediate ADCC with the chimeric antibody, when compared with normal individuals. The maintenance of ADCC activity, coupled with the known suppression of the antibody response in these patients, augers well for treatment with chimeric antibody. 
Occupational sunlight exposure and melanoma in the U.S. Navy. Melanoma is the second most common cancer, after testicular cancer, in males in the U.S. Navy. A wide range of occupations with varying exposures to sunlight and other possible etiologic agents are present in the Navy. Person-years at risk and cases of malignant melanoma were ascertained using computerized service history and inpatient hospitalization files maintained at the Naval Health Research Center. A total of 176 confirmed cases of melanoma were identified in active-duty white male enlisted Navy personnel during 1974-1984. Risk of melanoma was determined for individual occupations and for occupations grouped by review of job descriptions into three categories of sunlight exposure: (1) indoor, (2) outdoor, or (3) indoor and outdoor. Compared with the U.S. civilian population, personnel in indoor occupations had a higher age-adjusted incidence rate of melanoma, i.e., 10.6 per 100,000 (p = .06). Persons who worked in occupations that required spending time both indoors and outdoors had the lowest rate, i.e., 7.0 per 100,000 (p = .06). Incidence rates of melanoma were higher on the trunk than on the more commonly sunlight-exposed head and arms. Two single occupations were found to have elevated rates of melanoma: (1) aircrew survival equipmentman, SIR = 6.8 (p less than .05); and (2) engineman, SIR = 2.8 (p less than .05). However, there were no cases of melanoma or no excess risk in occupations with similar job descriptions. Findings on the anatomical site of melanoma from this study suggest a protective role for brief, regular exposure to sunlight and fit with recent laboratory studies that have shown vitamin D to suppress growth of malignant melanoma cells in tissue culture. A mechanism is proposed in which vitamin D inhibits previously initiated melanomas from becoming clinically apparent. 
Data compression: effect on diagnostic accuracy in digital chest radiography. High-resolution digital images make up very large data sets that are relatively slow to transmit and expensive to store. Data compression techniques are being developed to address this problem, but significant image deterioration can occur at high compression ratios. In this study, the authors evaluated a form of adaptive block cosine transform coding, a new compression technique that allows considerable compression of digital radiographs with minimal degradation of image quality. To determine the effect of data compression on diagnostic accuracy, observer tests were performed with 60 digitized chest radiographs (2,048 x 2,048 matrix, 1,024 shades of gray) containing subtle examples of pneumothorax, interstitial infiltrate, nodules, and bone lesions. Radiographs with no compression, with 25:1 compression, and with 50:1 compression ratios were presented in randomized order to 12 radiologists. The results suggest that, with this compression scheme, compression ratios as high as 25:1 may be acceptable for primary diagnosis in chest radiology. 
Pinch modification used to repair a large surgical defect on the scalp: other proposed uses. Dr Peng's "pinch modification" of the linear advancement flap, a reconstructive technique used to correct surgical wounds on the nose and suggested as a surgical alternative in other non-hair-bearing skin, was used successfully to correct a surgical defect of 55 mm in diameter located on the occipital area, on hair-bearing skin. Other possible uses for this technique are suggested. 
Treatment planning for internal radionuclide therapy: three-dimensional dosimetry for nonuniformly distributed radionuclides. A calculational approach is described that provides the spatially varying radiation absorbed dose, presented as isodose contours superimposed on CT images, from nonuniform and/or irregular cumulated activity distributions. CT images are read from magnetic tape and are displayed on a high-resolution color graphics display monitor. Source tissue geometries are defined on a series of contiguous CT images automatically (by an edge detection algorithm) or manually (using a trackball), thereby obtaining a three-dimensional representation of the various source volumes of activity. Dose calculations are performed using a radionuclide-specific absorbed dose point kernel in the form of a lookup table. The method described yields the spatially varying dose delivered to tumor and normal tissue volumes from a patient-specific cumulated activity distribution in a clinically implementable manner. This level of accuracy in determining normal tissue and tumor doses may prove valuable in the evaluation and implementation of radionuclides and radiolabeled compounds for therapeutic purposes. 
Embryonic stem cell virus, a recombinant murine retrovirus with expression in embryonic stem cells. The expression of Moloney murine leukemia virus and vectors derived from it is restricted in undifferentiated mouse embryonal carcinoma and embryonal stem (ES) cells. We have developed a retroviral vector, the murine embryonic stem cell virus (MESV), that is active in embryonal carcinoma and ES cells. MESV was derived from a retroviral mutant [PCC4-cell-passaged myeloproliferative sarcoma virus (PCMV)] expressed in embryonal carcinoma cells but not in ES cells. The enhancer region of PCMV was shown to be functional in both cell types, but sequences within the 5' untranslated region of PCMV were found to restrict viral expression in ES cells. Replacement of this region by related sequences obtained from the dl-587rev retrovirus results in MESV, a modified PCMV virus that confers G418 resistance to fibroblasts and ES cells with similar efficiencies. Expression of MESV in ES cells is mediated by transcriptional regulatory elements within the 5' long terminal repeat of the viral genome. 
Phase I clinical and pharmacokinetic trial of flavone acetic acid. Flavone acetic acid is a synthetic benzopyrone derivative with an unknown mechanism of action. Thirty-eight patients (30 men and 8 women) were treated once a week for 4 weeks every 5 weeks with doses of flavone acetic acid ranging from 0.33 to 12.5 g/m2. At doses less than or equal to 3.9 g/m2, the drug was administered intravenously over 1 hour; at doses greater than or equal to 5.28 g/m2, the infusion period was lengthened to 6 hours. Treatment of all patients included hydration before and after treatment and alkalization to maintain urine pH at greater than or equal to 6.5. A dose-limiting toxic effect was hypotension at 10 g/m2. Pharmacokinetic studies revealed linear behavior in the eight patients studied, beginning at 3.9 g/m2. Peak plasma levels ranged from 125 to 630 micrograms/mL, with a mean terminal half-life of 22.4 hours. Immunologic monitoring was performed in three patients at 10 g/m2. A transient increase in CD16- and/or Leu-19-positive cells was noted in all three patients. In one patient, this increase correlated with a 10-fold increase in K562 cell killing. There were no objective tumor responses seen in this trial. The recommended phase II dose on this schedule is 8 g/m2. Further studies to elucidate the drug's mechanism of action and to define its immunologic properties are recommended. 
Regional and systemic distribution of anti-tumor x anti-CD3 heteroaggregate antibodies and cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes in a human colon cancer xenograft. Anti-tumor antibody (317G5) covalently coupled to an anti-CD3 antibody (OKT3) produces a heteroaggregate (HA) antibody that can target PBL to lyse tumor cells expressing the appropriate tumor Ag. The i.v. and i.p. distribution of radiolabeled HA antibody 317G5 x OKT3 and of radiolabeled cultured human PBL were studied in athymic nude mice bearing solid intraperitoneal tumor established from the human colon tumor line, LS174T. Mice were injected with 125I-labeled HA antibody, 125I-labeled anti-tumor mAb, or 111In-labeled PBL, and at designated timepoints tissues were harvested and measured for radioactivity. 125I-317G5 x OKT3 localized specifically to tumor sites. Tumor radioactivity levels (percent injected dose/gram) were lower with 125I-317G5 x OKT3 HA antibody than with 125I-317G5 anti-tumor mAb, but were similar to levels reported for other anti-tumor mAb. The major difference in radioactivity levels observed between i.v. and i.p. administration of 125I-317G5 x OKT3 was an increase in hepatic radioactivity after i.v. HA antibody administration. HA antibodies produced from F(ab')2 fragments, which exhibit decreased m. w. and decreased Fc receptor-mediated binding, demonstrated improved tumor:tissue ratios as compared to intact antibody HA. 125I-317G5 F(ab')2 x OKT3 F(ab')2 antibody levels were equivalent to intact HA antibody levels in tumor, but were lower than intact HA antibody levels in the blood, bowel, and liver. Tumor:bowel ratios (20:1 at 48 h) were highest when 317G5 F(ab')2 x OKT3 F(ab')2 was injected i.p. Autoradiography confirmed that anti-tumor x anti-CD3 HA antibodies localized specifically to intraperitoneal tumor; that i.p. administered HA antibodies penetrated tumor directly; and that i.v. administered HA antibodies distributed along tumor vasculature. Cultured human PBL distributed in moderate concentrations to intraperitoneal tumor when administered i.p., but not when administered i.v. The poor localization of i.v. injected PBL to tumor may reflect species disparity in homing receptors and/or endothelial ligands, a problem which may be overcome with a syngeneic model. These results suggest that regional therapy with HA antibodies and PBL may offer advantages over systemic therapy for initial clinical trials. 
Medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice. Despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings, few investigators have examined this issue empirically. Using a two-stage screening procedure, we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic. Forty-one patients (6.6%) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder (MDD). We compared this group with a 20% random sample of nondepressed patients. While patients with MDD were younger (mean age, 41.1 vs 47.2 years), they were assessed by the Duke University Severity of Illness Scale as having more severe medical illness. Patients with MDD were more likely to have malignant tumors and "ill-defined conditions" than nondepressed patients. The 18 patients with MDD (44%) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected. A logistic regression model predicting MDD group membership included female gender, younger age, higher Duke University Severity of Illness Scale score, and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses. These findings are consistent with assertions: (1) patients with MDD have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or (2) somatic symptoms and disability caused by MDD add to the burden of physical illness. 
Nitrite from inflammatory cells--a cancer risk factor in ulcerative colitis? Elevated levels of luminal nitrite and a lowered luminal pH were found in 77 percent of patients with acute ulcerative colitis. No luminal nitrite was found in healthy control subjects. Nitrites are a secretory product of activated macrophages and neutrophils of the lamina propria, whereas the lowered luminal pH is due to diminished bicarbonate formation by impaired colonocytes. A hypothesis is put forward that nitrites, lowered pH, and bacterial amines are conducive to formation of carcinogenic n-nitroso compounds, which reflect a cancer risk in patients with ulcerative colitis dependent on the type and extent of inflammatory cell activation as well as metabolic impairment of colonic epithelial cells. 
Comparison of myelography with CT follow-up versus gadolinium MRI for subarachnoid metastatic disease in children. We evaluated 17 children with primary intracranial neoplasms for subarachnoid metastatic disease (SAMD) using myelography with computed tomographic follow-up (Myelo + CT) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) histopathologic examination, as well as magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium DTPA (MRI + Gd), between December 1988 and December 1989. There were 12 boys, and the median age was 5.7 years (range, 0.8 to 21.8 years). Tumor histology included 8 primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), 3 ependymomas, 2 low-grade astrocytomas, 1 anaplastic astrocytoma, 1 glioblastoma multiforme, 1 atypical rhabdoid tumor, and 1 malignant fibrous histiocytoma. Thirteen tumors originated in the posterior fossa, 2 were supratentorial, and 2 were in the spinal cord. The median interval between the 2 diagnostic tests was 2 days. MRI + Gd was positive in 11 (65%), Myelo + CT in 8 (47%), and CSF in 5 (29%) cases. MRI + Gd was superior in delineating spinal cord nodules and "sugar coating" whereas Myelo + CT more readily revealed nerve root sleeve filling defects. There was no case in which Myelo + CT was positive that MRI + Gd did not reveal SAMD. MRI + Gd is a safe, noninvasive test that should be used as the initial imaging modality for the presence of SAMD. 
Benign parotid tumour enucleation--a reliable operation in selected cases. The method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized, but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure. A series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported; the majority of mixed and Warthin's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence. The rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing, deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours, parotidectomy appears to be the best choice. In the other group of more commonly occurring tumours, enucleation represents a reliable time saving option. 
Occurrence of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane in breast cancer patients. The residues of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) and neutral organochlorine compounds in breast fat of 44 breast cancer patients and 33 women free of cancer were determined. No statistically significant differences appeared between the two comparison groups with regard to occurrence of PAH compounds. Of the neutral organochlorine compounds, residues of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) were found more frequently in breast cancer patients. After adjusting for age and parity by stepwise logistic regression, beta-HCH remained a significant risk factor of breast cancer. Using a cutoff point for the residue level of beta-HCH in breast adipose tissue of more than 0.1 mg/kg fat, the odds ratio was 10.51 (95% CI, 2.00-55.26). 
Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the esophagus. A clinicopathologic study of three cases. In a group of 245 cases of primary carcinoma of the esophagus the authors found three cases of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC). Clinical and pathologic data of those patients (one female and two male; age range, 49-74 years) were analyzed. Tumors were localized in the middle third of the esophagus. One patient lived 15 months after surgery. Another is a case of early ACC who has been living 4.5 years after surgery and is without specific symptoms. The third patient had not had surgery and died 13 months after the onset of dysphagia. An autopsy showed only a locally invasive tumor growing into the surroundings of the esophagus, and regional lymph node metastases without distant parenchymal metastases. These findings support pathologic and biologic similarities between ACC of the esophagus and ACC of the salivary glands. There are synchronous tumors of the esophagus and the vital localization which makes the prognosis of ACC of the esophagus worse than ACC of the salivary glands. 
Renal vein leiomyosarcoma. The 11th case of primary leiomyosarcoma of the renal vein is reported. Unique features of this case included concomitant resection of an isolated hepatic metastasis, intraoperative radiation therapy, and the use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical stains in confirming the diagnosis. A review of the previously reported cases shows a tendency toward slow tumor growth and infrequent recurrence (18%). Metastases are common (82%), primarily to the lung and liver. Aggressive surgical resection and adjuvant radiation therapy, including intraoperative radiation therapy, are recommended. Adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered, although its benefits at present are unclear. 
Serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the tunica vaginalis of the testis with metastasis. Testicular or paratesticular neoplasms that resemble the common epithelial type of ovarian tumor are quite rare. The authors report the case of a 29-year-old man with a metastatic serous papillary adenocarcinoma arising from the tunica vaginalis. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of a serous carcinoma of the tunica vaginalis behaving in a malignant fashion. The fact that clinically apparent metastatic disease occurred 4 years after initial presentation suggests that development of metastases is a late event. Unfortunately, the tumor has been refractory to therapy with chemotherapeutic agents with activity against ovarian malignancies. 
Solitary thyroid nodule: a prospective evaluation of nuclear scanning and ultrasonography. The aim of this study was to assess prospectively the value of thyroid nuclear scans and ultrasound examination in the preoperative investigation of patients with a solitary thyroid nodule. Total thyroid lobectomy for a solitary thyroid nodule was performed in 68 cases. Each patient had a thyroid isotope scan (except two women who were pregnant) and thyroid ultrasound examination. There were 10 (15 per cent) malignant nodules, 11 (16 per cent) benign neoplastic nodules and 47 (69 per cent) benign non-neoplastic nodules. All of the patients with malignant nodules who were scanned had a solitary cold nodule on thyroid scan, as did 40 (69 per cent) of those with benign solitary nodules. Ultrasound examination of the thyroid suggested correctly that one of 16 (6 per cent) cystic lesions, four of 16 (25 per cent) complex solid-cystic lesions and three of 18 (17 per cent) of solid lesions were malignant. One lesion reported as multinodular on ultrasonography and one reported as normal also turned out to be malignant. Thyroid isotope scans and ultrasound do not accurately differentiate between benign and malignant conditions and their routine use in the investigation of a solitary thyroid nodule should be abandoned. 
Response by women aged 65-79 to invitation for screening for breast cancer by mammography: a pilot study [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Jul 27;303(6796):234] OBJECTIVE--To determine whether there is sufficient benefit to be gained by offering screening for breast cancer with mammography to women aged 65-79, who are not normally invited for screening. DESIGN--Pilot study of women eligible for screening but not for personal invitation. The results of this study were compared with the results of routinely screened younger women (aged 50-64) from the same general practice. SETTING--One group general practice in south Manchester. PATIENTS--The 631 women aged 65-79 on the practice list. A total of 42 (7%) were excluded by the general practitioner, and 22 (4%) invitation letters were returned by the post office. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Response rates to invitation for screening assessed by three indices: crude population coverage ratio, crude invited population coverage ratio, and corrected invited population coverage ratio. RESULTS--344 Patients aged 65-79 (61% of those invited, excluding those who could not be traced) were screened compared with 77% of women aged 50-64. The three response indices were higher for younger women than older: crude population coverage ratio = 66.5%, crude invited population coverage ratio = 69.3%, corrected invited population coverage ratio = 76.8% for women aged 50-64, compared with 54.5%, 58.4%, and 60.7% respectively for women aged 65-79. All four biopsies done in the older women gave positive results, giving a cancer detection rate of 11.6/1000 compared with 4.1/1000 among younger women. CONCLUSIONS--These results show that there is a potential for high attendance at routine screening by older women if they are invited in the same way as younger women. If these results are found elsewhere the costs and benefits of screening older women should be reassessed. 
Clinical, radiographic, and pathological features of symptomatic Rathke's cleft cysts. The clinical, radiographic, and pathological findings in 155 patients with symptomatic Rathke's cleft cysts are discussed. Eight patients were treated by the authors and 147 were collected in a review of the literature. This lesion occurred more often in female than male patients by a 2:1 margin, and the mean age at presentation was 38 years. The average patient had been symptomatic for nearly 3 years at the time of treatment, with the most common symptoms and signs being pituitary dysfunction, visual disturbances, and headaches. Affected children generally were pituitary dwarfs. The sella was enlarged in 80% of cases, and the cyst was situated in both an intrasellar and a suprasellar location in 71%. Computerized tomography revealed a low-density cystic mass with capsular enhancement in one-half of the cases. A variable appearance was seen with magnetic resonance imaging. Partial excision and drainage of the cyst by the transsphenoidal approach is the recommended treatment, as the recurrence rate is low. Most symptoms and signs improved or resolved following surgery with the exception of hypopituitarism and diabetes insipidus. The cyst lining was usually composed of ciliated cuboidal or columnar epithelium. Theories as to the origin of Rathke's cleft cysts are also discussed. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of facial nerve neuromas. Facial nerve neuromas are uncommon tumors often confused with other tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle. Radiologically, it may be impossible to differentiate an intracanalicular facial nerve neuroma from an acoustic neuroma. We present three case reports of facial nerve neuromas arising within the internal auditory canal to show the important magnetic resonance imaging features of these tumors. One tumor extended into the cerebellopontine angle, middle cranial fossa, and middle ear. Another filled the internal auditory canal and extended through the cerebellopontine angle to the brain stem. The third occurred in a patient who had neurofibromatosis as well as numerous other intracranial tumors. We feel that gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging provides the most useful information in the preoperative assessment of this disorder. 
Factors influencing survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer. Eighty-nine patients with carcinoma of the head of the pancreas underwent pancreaticoduodenectomies. The actuarial 5-year survival for all 89 patients was 19%, with a median survival of 11.9 months. The 81 hospital survivors were analyzed in an effort to determine factors influencing long-term survival. Negative lymph nodes and the absence of blood vessel invasion both favored long-term survival. The strongest predictive factor was negative lymph node status with a median survival of 55.8 months, compared with 11 months with lymph nodes involved with tumor (p less than 0.05). Blood transfusions were also predictive, with patients receiving two or fewer units having a median survival of 24.7 months, compared with 10.2 months for those receiving three or more units (p less than 0.05). The most important determinant of long-term survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer is biology of the tumor (lymph node status, blood vessel invasion). However, performance of the resection (units of blood transfused) also appears to be an important factor influencing survival. 
Regressing atypical histiocytosis. Aberrant prothymocyte differentiation, T-cell receptor gene rearrangements, and nodal involvement. Two cases of regressing atypical histiocytosis were studied. New findings reported include the presence of CD1 epitope on large atypical histiocytoid cells and apparent early lymph node involvement. Because regressing atypical histiocytosis may demonstrate aberrant thymic differentiation antigen expression and T-cell receptor gene rearrangements, initial lymph node involvement, and eventuation in conventional lymphoma in some cases, the alternative term regressing-phase anaplastic lymphoma is proposed as a more accurate designation for this entity. 
Roentgenographic evaluation of the augmented breast. We performed a retrospective study to determine the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer arising in women with augmented breasts. Of eight women with breast implants in whom breast cancer developed, six had mammograms before biopsy. Only two of the six cancers were identified mammographically (sensitivity = 33%), and one of these two was seen only in retrospect. In both cases, the mammographic findings suggested a benign rather than a malignant process. All eight women had a palpable mass and early disease, and all are clinically disease-free at present. The sensitivity of mammography in detecting palpable cancers in a control group of women without implants was 92% (118 of 128). For tumors of 2 cm or less, the sensitivity was 88% (58 of 66). These results suggest that the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer is decreased when implants are present. Further investigations are needed to determine the effects of prostheses on mammographic evaluations. 
Response of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma. We evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma (SCC). Thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or resection) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for LEMS. Seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement (1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years); in 3 of 11 improvement was transient. An EMG index of disease severity (compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi) was significantly increased at final follow-up (p less than 0.01; n = 11). A pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mV was a good prognostic sign. We conclude that a combined treatment approach in SCC-LEMS usually results in neurologic improvement. 
Granular cell tumor of the esophagus: endoscopic ultrasonographic demonstration and endoscopic removal. A 35-yr-old Japanese man with a granular cell tumor of the esophagus that was removed by endoscopic polypectomy is presented. Radiography and endoscopy showed a 20 x 12 mm sessile protrusion in the distal esophagus. Endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated the hypoechoic mass in the submucosa without continuity to the muscularis propria. The lesion was successfully treated by endoscopic polypectomy without complications. The cross-sections of the resected specimen were quite in agreement with the ultrasonographic findings. Endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable to assess the exact location and extent of the tumor, and to determine the indication for endoscopic polypectomy. 
Coexpression patterns of vimentin and glial filament protein with cytokeratins in the normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic breast. The authors studied by immunohistochemistry the intermediate filament (IF) protein profile of 66 frozen samples of breast tissue, including normal parenchyma, all variants of fibrocystic disease (FCD), fibroadenomas, cystosarcoma phylloides, and ductal and lobular carcinomas. Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to cytokeratins included MAb KA 1, which binds to polypeptide 5 in a complex with polypeptide 14 and recognizes preferentially myoepithelial cells; MAb KA4, which binds to polypeptides 14, 15, 16 and 19; individual MAbs to polypeptides 7, 13, and 16, 17, 18, and 19, and the MAb mixture AE1/AE3. The authors also applied three MAbs to vimentin (Vim), and three MAbs to glial filament protein (GFP). Selected samples were studied by double-label immunofluorescence microscopy and by staining sequential sections with some of the said MAbs, an MAb to alpha-smooth muscle actin, and well-characterized polyclonal antibodies for the possible coexpression of diverse types of cytoskeletal proteins. Gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis also were performed. All samples reacted for cytokeratins with MAbs AE1/AE3, although the reaction did not involve all cells. Monoclonal antibody KA4 stained preferentially the luminal-secretory cells in the normal breast and in FCD, whereas it stained the vast majority of cells in all carcinomas. Monoclonal antibody KA1 stained preferentially the basal-myoepithelial cells of the normal breast and FCD while staining tumor cell subpopulations in 4 of 31 carcinomas. Vimentin-positive cells were found in 8 of 12 normal breasts and in 12 of 20 FCD; in most cases, Vim-reactive cells appeared to be myoepithelial, but occasional luminal cells were also stained. Variable subpopulations of Vim-positive cells were noted in 9 of 20 ductal and in 1 of 7 lobular carcinomas. Glial filament protein-reactive cells were found in normal breast lobules and ducts and in 15 of 20 cases of FCD; with rare exceptions, GFP-reactivity was restricted to basally located, myoepithelial-appearing cells. Occasional GFP-reactive cells were found in 3 of 31 carcinomas. Evaluation of sequential sections and double-label immunofluorescence microscopy showed the coexpression of certain cytokeratins (possibly including polypeptides 14 and 17) with vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin together with GFP in some myoepithelial cells. The presence of GFP in myoepithelial cells was confirmed by gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. Our results indicate that coexpression of cytokeratin with vimentin and/or GFP is comparatively frequent in normal basal-myoepithelial cells of the breast.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Carotid artery disease in patients with head and neck carcinoma. Irradiation has been shown experimentally to cause accelerated development of atherosclerosis in exposed large arteries. However, occurrence of such an entity in carotid arteries of patients after treatment for head and neck carcinoma is unknown. Therefore, we reviewed 179 patient charts who had undergone head and neck operations with or without irradiation between 1979-1987. Of these 179 patients, 107 (59.8%) were dead at time of follow-up. Cause of death was unknown in 42 (40%) patients; in the remainder included: respiratory arrest--33; carcinoma-related--18; cardiac--6;pneumonia--7; and trauma--1. Average interval from treatment to death was 23.5 months. Of the 72 patients known to be alive, follow-up was obtained in 52 patients. Their average age was 64.9 years. Risk factors for atherosclerosis included: male gender--43; smoking--50; hypertension--9; diabetes--4; coronary artery disease--12; and peripheral vascular disease--4. Seventy-five per cent of these patients received postoperative irradiation. Average follow-up was 64.5 months. Duplex scans were performed on 34 patients. Three patients had common or internal carotid stenoses greater than 75 per cent. All of these patients had received irradiation and none of them were symptomatic. Seven patients had carotid stenoses between 50 to 75 per cent; five of these had received irradiation. Of these five patients, one had a stroke 60 months postoperatively, and one had a TIA 36 months postoperatively. The remaining 58 patients (of which 48 had irradiation) had carotid stenoses less than 50 per cent and none were symptomatic. 
Intramuscular hemangioma in the oral region: report of three cases. The occurrence of intramuscular hemangioma in an intraoral or perioral localization is rare, and a thorough knowledge of these tumors is necessary for adequate diagnosis and treatment. Three cases are presented with discussion, and their histopathology and differential diagnosis are discussed. An adequate primary excision is necessary to avoid recurrence. 
Human papillomavirus in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Thirty seven cases of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma were studied by applying DNA slot blot analysis and in situ hybridisation using type specific probes for HPV 6, 11, 16 and 18. Cases of condyloma accuminata, cervical carcinoma, and laryngeal papilloma were used as controls. Blocks including areas of invasive carcinoma, intraepithelial neoplasia, and normal epithelium were studied in each case. No HPV genome was detectable in any of the oesophageal cases. It is concluded that these types of HPV do not have an association with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 
The effects of interleukin-6 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes derived from human renal cell cancer. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) are a heterogeneous population of T cells with potent antitumor activity against a wide variety of tumors. TIL from renal cell cancer (RCC) typically exhibit diminished growth and antitumor activity after four weeks in vitro. We have therefore investigated effects of varying doses of interleukin-6 (IL-6) (0, 25, 100 units/ml.) on in vitro expansion, proliferation, cytotoxicity, and expression of cell surface phenotypes of long term renal TIL cultures from three RCC patients. Among the various conditions tested, three of three TIL cultures displayed a mild increase in cell expansion when grown in IL-2 with the addition of 100 units/ml. of IL-6. Two of three TIL cultures grown in IL-2 and 100 U/ml. of IL-6 demonstrated enhanced proliferation as determined by 3H-thymidine uptake. TIL could not be isolated or maintained in vitro when grown in the presence of IL-6 alone without IL-2. IL-6 was also found to enhance the long term non-specific cytotoxicity against an allogeneic nonrenal tumor target. No consistent effect on autologous tumor-specific cytotoxicity was demonstrated. We conclude that IL-6, when used in combination with IL-2, may modestly enhance the long-term growth of RCC-derived TIL. 
Chondrosarcoma of the soft tissues. Two different sub-groups. Chondrosarcomas arising from soft tissues are rare. Two different varieties are described, myxoid and mesenchymal. We have collected nine cases of the tumour, five myxoid and four mesenchymal, from a review of 513 cases of chondrosarcoma seen between 1904 and 1988. We report the principal clinical, radiographical and histological differences between the two varieties and discuss their surgical treatment and prognosis. 
Cerebral venous thrombosis: new causes for an old syndrome? The range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders, abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow, and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions, all of which may promote thrombosis. We describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis: two had protein S deficiency, one had protein C deficiency, one was in early pregnancy, and there was a single case of each of the following: dural arteriovenous malformation, intracerebral arteriovenous malformation, bilateral glomus tumours, systemic lupus erythematosus, Wegener's granulomatosis, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific, and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure, allowing confusion with 'benign intracranial hypertension'. The existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential. The prognosis of treated patients may be favourable. 
Central neurogenic hyperventilation in invasive laryngeal carcinoma. We describe a patient with central neurogenic hyperventilation secondary to extension of a laryngeal tumor into the base of the brain, resulting in extrinsic compression of the medulla. Such an association has not been previously described. Unique features which distinguish this patient from previously reported cases are emphasized. Possible mechanisms involved in pathogenesis, as well as types of therapy, are outlined. 
'Locked-in syndrome' for 27 years following a viral illness: clinical and pathologic findings. We describe a man who, after a presumed encephalitic illness, was "locked-in" for 27 years. His CT and autopsy findings showed atrophy of the brainstem and a cystic lesion at the base of the pons. He survived longer than most other patients in a similar state. 
Reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients. In this prospective study, mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between July 1988 and January 1990. Sixteen patients had prior surgery; 13 had prior radiotherapy. In 11 patients, prior radiation and surgery had failed. Sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions. Twelve patients had complications of either intraoral (8), extraoral (5), or combined (1) plate exposure or fistula formation (2). Factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition, accelerated radiation, and recurrence. Sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully. When patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded, the success rate was 73%. Only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair. 
Aspiration biopsy cytology of occult breast lesions by use of the "scouting needle". A prospective study of 261 cases. The increased use of mammography for the detection of impalpable breast lesions has resulted in a need for new diagnostic techniques. In a prospective study of 261 occult breast lesions, aspiration biopsy was done with a standard fine needle and syringe. This "scouting needle" technique permits the collection of diagnostic cytologic material in the clinician's office without specialized radiologic equipment. Thirty of 53 malignant lesions (57%) were detected cytologically. A benign cytologic diagnosis, which was made in 220 patients, did not preclude additional investigation. Aspiration biopsy using the "scouting needle" is a rapid, low-cost, easily performed, initial procedure which complements "watchful waiting." When diagnostic of carcinoma, it results in immediate surgical intervention and may obviate two-stage surgical treatment. 
Occurrence of uveal melanoma in contact with a chorioretinal cryocoagulation scar. A case of a uveal melanoma arising in an eye previously treated with cryocoagulation for a horseshoe retinal tear is described. In the anterior border of the tumor, a notch, clearly fitting the curve of the chorioretinal scar was observed. Possible mechanisms which may be responsible for the local arrest of the tumor extension are discussed. 
Esophageal ultrasound and the preoperative staging of carcinoma of the esophagus. Esophageal ultrasound allows the esophageal wall to be viewed as five discrete layers. Lymph nodes are easily identified, and their size, shape, margin, and internal structure can be assessed. This provides an alternative method of preoperative (clinical) evaluation of the primary tumor [T] and the regional lymph nodes [N] of patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. Esophageal ultrasound was attempted in the clinical staging of 28 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. Six patients (21%) were not assessed because of the inability to pass the esophageal ultrasound probe through the malignant stricture. The staging system for carcinoma of the esophagus developed by the International Union Against Cancer and the American Joint Committee on Cancer was used. Twenty-two patients had the true T determined by pathologic review of the resected esophagus. Esophageal ultrasound correctly identified T in 13 patients (59% accuracy). In four patients (18%) the disease was overstaged by esophageal ultrasound; all these patients had early T1 tumors confined to the submucosa. In five patients (23%) the disease was understaged by esophageal ultrasound; all of these patients had advanced tumors (four T3 and one T4) that invaded beyond the esophageal wall. Seven of the nine incorrect esophageal ultrasound determinations were called T2 (three T1, three T3, one T4), which suggests that the borders of the muscularis propria require careful attention when evaluated by esophageal ultrasound. Twenty patients had the true N determined by pathologic review of the resected specimen. Esophageal ultrasound correctly identified N in 14 patients (70% accuracy). Three patients were falsely identified as having N1 disease and three were falsely identified as having N0 disease. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for N assessment by esophageal ultrasound were 70%. Esophageal ultrasound provides an alternative method of visualization of the esophageal wall and regional lymph nodes. Our early experience shows promise for esophageal ultrasound in the clinical staging of carcinoma of the esophagus. 
Multimodal therapy in locally advanced breast carcinoma. Among 879 patients treated for breast cancer between 1975 and 1984, advanced disease was found in 125 (14%). A subgroup of 34 (4%) presented with untreated locally advanced disease without demonstrable distant metastases at the time of diagnosis (stage IIIB = T4abed, NX-2,MO). During the first 5 years (1975 through 1979), 17 patients were treated primarily with sequential radiotherapy and chemotherapy (Group A). From 1980 to 1984 (Group B), the management consisted of four courses of induction multi-drug chemotherapy followed primarily by mastectomy and additional chemotherapy. The mean follow-up for the most recent group (Group B) is 48 months. Follow-up was complete. While the local disease control rate was the same for both groups (76%), the survival was remarkably different. Group A patients experienced a median survival of 15 months, and only one survived 5 years. In Group B, the median survival was 56 months with nine patients (53%) alive between 40 and 76 months, seven (41%) of whom are 5-year survivors. While the overall mortality of patients with inflammatory breast cancer was greater in both groups when compared with the group with noninflammatory disease, the survival of patients in Group B was better than in Group A for both inflammatory and noninflammatory cancers (p less than 0.01). Estrogen receptor, nodal, and menopausal status did not influence survival. These data suggest that neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves survival for patients with stage IIIB breast carcinoma and delays the establishment or progression of distant metastases. Mastectomy is an important component in the treatment of this disease. 
Preliminary characterization of growth factors secreted by human pituitary tumors. To investigate the secretion of mitogenic factors by human pituitary tumors we have cultured cells from 54 adenomas in serum-free medium. Conditioned media from 28 (52%) elicited dose-dependent stimulation of [3H]thymidine incorporation into rat GH3 cells (22-338% above control), while 14 (26%) inhibited GH3 proliferation. Stimulating activity was observed more frequently in nonfunctional tumor-conditioned medium (73%; n = 22) than in secretory tumor-conditioned medium (37%; n = 32). Of 10 tumour-conditioned media with mitogenic activity for GH3 cells, only 4 produced modest stimulation of HEp2 (human laryngeal carcinoma) cells. In contrast, [3H]thymidine incorporation into A431 (human squamous carcinoma) and PC12 (rat adrenal pheochromocytoma) cells was enhanced by each of 15 tumor-conditioned media (up to 342% and 275%, respectively), 8 of which had shown stimulatory and 2 inhibitory effects on GH3 cells. Gel filtration of pooled conditioned media from 10 nonfunctional tumors showed significant growth-promoting activity for GH3 cells in fractions corresponding to mol wt of 2-3 and 11-18 kDa. Proliferative activity on A431 cells also eluted in two positions; one corresponded to the higher mol wt peak seen with GH3 cells, while the other, not observed with GH3 cells, was in the 3- to 6-kDa range. These findings suggest that cells derived from human pituitary adenoma tissue synthesize and secrete several growth factors, each of which may have its own target cell specificities. These factors have yet to be characterized, but we suggest that they may have a role in stimulating the development or maintenance of human pituitary adenomas. 
Cryoprobe as a "handle" for resection of metastatic liver tumors. Resection of metastatic liver tumors can be a difficult and risky procedure. Using a cryoprobe as a "handle" can greatly facilitate resection by providing a taut surface for transection and improving visualization of ductal and vascular structures. In addition, this technique may decrease the risk of contaminating surrounding tissues with cancer cells, and may inhibit tumor recurrence within the margins of resection. 
Toxic dermatitis induced by 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin (10-EdAM), a novel antifolate. A new methotrexate analog, 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin (10-EdAM), was found to induce a particular form of skin toxicity different than the skin rash reported to result from methotrexate. At histologic examination, it was found to be a toxic dermatitis that clinically most often first appears on the lower legs but can occur anywhere in the body, especially if treatment is continued. Nine cases are reported. A specific risk factor could not yet be identified. Discontinuation of 10-EdAM administration leads to complete healing; concomitant corticosteroid treatment also induces healing. 
The vascularized fibula graft in mandibular reconstruction. The use of a vascularized graft from the fibula for mandibular reconstruction is presented. The great strength, pliability, and long vascular pedicle that characterize such grafts make them particularly suitable for this type of repair. The results in six cases were highly satisfactory. Masticatory function was well restored, without alteration of the facial contour, and with minimal sequelae at the donor site. 
The justification for surgical treatment of metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract. Fifty-six patients with symptomatic metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) treated surgically at the Sydney Melanoma Unit between 1974 and 1989 were reviewed. The majority of these patients presented with abdominal pain or symptoms of anemia. The small intestine was the site of metastasis in more than 80 per cent. The mean over-all survival time was 11.7 months (range of one to 60 months) after surgical treatment of a first metastasis to the GIT and 3.6 months (range of zero to 12 months) postoperatively for a second GIT metastasis. Forty-four of the patients reported complete relief of their symptoms postoperatively. The results suggest that an aggressive approach to symptomatic GIT metastases from malignant melanoma is justified both to relieve distressing symptoms and to prolong life. 
Hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. Part 2: In vitro effect of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor on growth of meningiomas. Cell culture and biochemical techniques have been employed to examine the effects of steroids, bromocriptine, and epidermal growth factor (EGF) on the growth and proliferative potential of meningiomas. In cell culture, the growth of meningiomas was not altered by progestogens, antiprogestogens, or 17beta-estradiol. The progestogen, norethisterone, had no effect on the uptake by meningiomas cell cultures of 3H-thymidine. Furthermore, cytosolic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase activity of meningiomas did not correlate with the progesterone receptor status of the same tumors. In contrast, the androgen antagonists, cyproterone acetate and 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and the dopamine agonist, bromocriptine, all inhibited the in vitro growth of meningioma cells. The growth of meningioma cell cultures was stimulated by EGF, and there was a positive correlation between the EGF content and DNA polymerase activity in meningioma cytosols. These results demonstrate that female sex steroids do not influence growth of meningiomas in vitro, whereas antiandrogens and bromocriptine have an antiproliferative effect. Consequently, bromocriptine and antiandrogens may have a role in the medical treatment of meningiomas. In addition, these results suggest that EGF may be involved in the genesis and/or progression of meningiomas. 
Clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina and cervix. A report of the Central Netherlands Registry with emphasis on early detection and prognosis. The Central Netherlands Registry (CNR) of women with vaginal or cervical clear cell adenocarcinoma (CCAC) was established in 1985. An overview is presented of clinical and pathologic data of 55 patients who were registered at the CNR until July 1, 1988. All Netherlands Departments of Pathology (NDP) maintain a patient registry and 95% of the Institutes are connected with a Central Archive via a computer network. The histologic slides and clinical status were reviewed at the CNR. Twenty-five tumors were classified as vaginal carcinoma and 30 as cervical carcinoma. The mean age of the patients was 22 years. Fifty-five percent of patients (63% of patients with known maternal history) were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero. The majority of cases was initially diagnosed after 1980. Cytologic examination before the initial histologic diagnosis indicated that cervical tumors were detected in 80% of cases, but vaginal tumors were detected only in 33% of cases. It was concluded that an examination of DES-exposed women should consist of colposcopic inspection of the cervix and vagina, cytologic examination of the cervix and four quadrants of the vagina, and careful palpation of the cervix and the entire vaginal wall. The most important prognostic parameter for patients with CCAC was stage and grade of nuclear atypia. The results of a statistical analysis showed that these features were the most effective to distinguish between nonsurvivors and patients surviving more than 5 years. 
Epithelial cyst of the fourth ventricle. Case report. A case of epithelial cyst in the fourth ventricle of a 4-year-old child is described. A single epithelial layer with a clear basement membrane lining the cyst wall was observed. There were no prominent histological findings to suggest a pathogenesis for this cyst based on immunohistochemical or ultrastructural studies; however, the cyst fluid contained significant amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen. It is considered that the epithelial layer lining the cyst wall was possibly of endodermal origin. 
Expression of class II molecules on intestinal epithelial cells in humans. Differences between normal and inflammatory bowel disease. Expression of class II antigens on human intestinal epithelial cells was assessed using a sensitive avidinbiotin-peroxidase technique. HLA-DR was present predominantly in the normal small bowel with diminished but evident expression in the colon. HLA-DP staining was less prominent, and HLA-DQ was absent. In inflammatory bowel disease the expression of both HLA-DR and HLA-DP was increased, but that for HLA-DQ remained absent, suggesting an inherent defect in the ability of intestinal epithelial cells to express HLA-DQ. In related experiments, an interferon gamma-treated malignant epithelial cell line T84 also failed to stain for HLA-DQ and HLA-DP despite the presence of HLA-DR. Isolated RNAs for all three subclasses of HLA-D were detectable by slot-blot analysis, suggesting that the lack of HLA-DQ expression relates to posttranscriptional defects in intestinal epithelium. These and other differences with conventional class II antigen-positive accessory cells (macrophages/B cells) may help to explain the unique properties of intestinal epithelial cells as antigen-presenting cells. 
Mucinous cystadenoma of the lung. A report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analysis. We describe two patients who presented with solitary pulmonary masses that consisted of unilocular cysts lined by columnar mucinous epithelium. The cysts contained copious mucus. The epithelial lining of the cysts showed foci of stratification and papillary infolding. Histologically identical lesions have previously been termed unusual mucous cysts or mucinous cystadenomas. We believe that these tumors are true neoplasms differentiating toward the respiratory epithelial mucous cell. They should be distinguished from a variety of pulmonary neoplasms including bronchoalveolar carcinoma, bronchial mucous gland adenoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma, and metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
Overexpression of HER-2/neu in endometrial cancer is associated with advanced stage disease. Prior studies have shown that overexpression of HER-2/neu occurs in one third of breast and ovarian cancers and that overexpression is associated with poor prognosis. We used a monoclonal antibody to assess immunohistochemically the level of HER-2/neu expression in normal and malignant endometrium. In 24 normal endometrial samples light to moderate (1+ to 2+) staining for HER-2/neu was seen in the glands, and there was no variation in intensity of staining during the menstrual cycle. Among 95 endometrial adenocarcinomas, nine (9%) were found to have heavier staining for HER-2/neu than was seen in normal endometrium (3+). High expression of HER-2/neu was found in 27% of patients with metastatic disease compared with 4% of patients with disease confined to the uterus (p less than 0.005). High HER-2/neu expression also was associated with absence of estrogen receptor (p less than 0.005) and with increased mortality from cancer. Further studies are needed to determine the significance of HER-2/neu overexpression in endometrial cancer. 
Absence of estrogen receptors in dysplastic nevi and malignant melanoma. Benign nevi, dysplastic nevi, and primary and metastatic malignant melanomas were evaluated for the presence of sex hormone binding and estrogen receptor protein. We have confirmed the observation of Ellis et al. that some pigmented lesions possess sex hormone-binding proteins. We could not demonstrate a true estrogen receptor in any benign nevi, dysplastic nevi, primary melanomas, or metastatic melanomas. Thus the ability to bind estrogen or progesterone does not correlate with the presence of a true estrogen receptor. Lack of nuclear estrogen receptors suggests that the influence of estrogen on the pathophysiology of melanoma or of benign melanocytic nevi may not be significant. 
Postoperative follow-up of patients with early breast cancer. Patterns of care among clinical oncologists and a review of the literature. Eighty clinical oncologists in the southeastern United States were surveyed to determine their strategies for follow-up care after primary treatment of early-stage breast cancer. The frequency of use of the history and physical examination, complete blood count, liver function tests, carcinoembryonic antigen levels, chest x-ray, skeletal survey, bone scan, liver scan, and mammogram for observing hypothetical low- and high-risk patients was assessed. Yearly mammograms were recommended by more than 95% of respondents. History and physical examination were the modalities used most often, whereas periodic bone and liver scans were used only in a minority of patients. A review of the literature supported the strategy of the respondents in this survey and further underscored the cost-effectiveness of the history and physical examination in detecting recurrence during follow-up. Based on this survey and supporting literature, recommendations for reasonable yet cost-conscious follow-up are presented. 
Cyclosporine enhances the growth of carcinogen-induced enzyme-altered foci in rat liver. Cyclosporine, a powerful immunosuppressant, has been used successfully for organ transplantation. Its efficacy on liver transplants of patients with primary hepatic tumors remains controversial because of a high rate of recurrence of the original tumors in the transplanted livers. In this study, we experimentally tested whether cyclosporine exerts any effects on the growth of carcinogen-initiated liver cells using the short-term assays of rat liver carcinogenesis. Dietary cyclosporine, which maintained sufficient levels of blood cyclosporine and suppressed host immune functions, enhanced the development of the glutathione S-transferase, placental form-positive hepatocyte foci in the liver of male F-344 rats treated with a single weekly dose of diethylnitrosamine (75 mg/kg) for 3 wk. Dietary cyclosporine also accelerated the growth of preformed glutathione S-transferase, placental form-positive foci induced by a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (250 mg/kg) followed by the promoting regimen of a choline-deficient diet. It is possible that the enhancement of the size of hepatocyte foci by cyclosporine could be due to stimulation of growth or inhibition of regression. The mechanisms by which cyclosporine modifies the growth of preneoplastic lesions in the liver are not yet fully understood. Possible involvement of immunologically relevant cells in the liver, Kupffer cells and pit cells in the process is suggested. 
Colorectal cancer: have we identified an effective screening strategy? Three currently used screening methods are aimed at detecting colorectal cancer when it is asymptomatic and curable, and at detecting polyps so that they can be removed before they can progress to cancer. Digital rectal examinations are relatively cheap and easy but can detect only a small fraction of large-bowel cancers. Sigmoidoscopy is more sensitive, but its low acceptability to patients has been only partially mitigated by the introduction of the 35-cm flexible instrument. Fecal occult blood testing has limited sensitivity because blood from cancers and polyps is neither continuously shed nor uniformly distributed in feces; specificity and positive predictive value are also low because of other sources of blood in the stool. Prudent judgment suggests that all of these screening tests may prevent death from colorectal cancer in some patients. However, none has been proven effective in general use by well-controlled studies. Case-control studies can provide timely and valuable new evidence in this regard; the authors' investigations in progress are described. The current lack of strong evidence in support of these screening tests should not be interpreted as evidence against their use. 
The role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids. A patient with pernicious anemia, atrophic non-antral gastritis, hypergastrinemia, and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months, including 15 months after gastric resection. In this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa, suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis. 
The potential of 2-deoxy-2[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) for the detection of tumor involvement in lymph nodes. To assess the potential of FDG for PET imaging of nodal tumor metastases, we evaluated its uptake into normal lymph nodes, tumor-involved lymph nodes, and subcutaneous tumor xenografts in rodents. Normal lymph nodes in mice and rats accumulate FDG moderately, developing node/blood ratios of 1.3-11.9/1 at 2 hr following i.v. injection. By contrast, FDG given subcutaneously to healthy Sprague Dawley rats developed very high normal draining lymph node/blood ratios (272/1) versus 7.7/1 by i.v. injection. In nude mice, subcutaneous human ovarian cancer xenografts had 1.27-fold more uptake relative to blood than did normal popliteal lymph nodes. Subcutaneous tumor xenografts of rat breast cancer developed tumor/normal node uptake ratios of 4.91 +/- 0.43/1 and tumor/blood ratios of 6.6 +/- 0.9 at 2 hr postinjection. Mouse nodes involved with 38C13 murine B-cell lymphoma had mean node/blood ratios of 42.9 +/- 6.7/1 and tumored node/normal lymph node uptake of 6.3/1. Thus, FDG given intravenously but not subcutaneusly (due to high normal nodal uptake) has potential as an agent for the detection of metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes using PET scanning. 
Diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment of dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. We describe the diagnostic procedures and surgical approaches employed in 5 patients with dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum. Magnetic resonance imaging accurately described the existence and longitudinal extension of the intraspinal component of the tumor and assisted in choosing the appropriate surgical approach. Both the intrathoracic and intraspinal components of the tumor were resected at one time by a thoracic and neurosurgical team. We employed the Grillo technique three times and a separate laminectomy and thoracotomy approach. Magnetic resonance imaging proved the most useful diagnostic technique for suspected dumbbell mediastinal tumors. In our experience, the extended thoracotomy proposed by Grillo and co-workers worked well for small tumors involving only one foramen in which the intraspinal extension was limited to 2 to 3 cm, and when no more than two laminectomies were required. On the other hand, thoracotomy and a longitudinal paravertebral incision are preferable for larger tumors (more than 4 cm) involving more than one foramen in which the intraspinal extension exceeds 2 to 3 cm, for tumors requiring multiple laminectomy, and when bony infiltration is present. 
Treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine: clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients. We treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide (CY), and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity. On day 0, the patients were given CY 300 mg/m2 intravenously. Three days later, they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10(6) autologous, enzymatically dissociated, cryopreserved, irradiated (25 Gy) tumor cells mixed with bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG). This treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days. Of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases, five had responses, four complete and one partial, with a median duration of 10 months (7 to 84+ months). In six additional patients, we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy: the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) to autologous, mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens, such as enzymes or fetal calf serum, increased significantly following immunotherapy (day 0 v day 49, P less than .001; day 0 v day 161, P less than .001; day 0 v day 217, P = .021). Antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with DTH, as indicated by three observations: (1) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive DTH, (2) in postsurgical adjuvant patients, there was a highly significant linear relationship (P less than .001) between the intensity of DTH to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor, and (3) nine patients who developed DTH to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit DTH or elicited a much smaller response. In three cases, we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes. This demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value. 
Pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [clinical conference] A case of peripheral ameloblastoma, a rare intraoral neoplasm, has been presented. The lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life. The peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant. The lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision. 
A clinical pilot study combining surgery with intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy to prevent the local recurrence of rectal cancer. Intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy (IOPHC) with mitomycin C (MMC) was prescribed for 14 patients with resectable advanced rectal cancer in an attempt to prevent a postoperative local recurrence. Immediately after rectal amputation and extended lymphadenectomy, IOPHC was performed using physiologic saline containing 40 micrograms/mL of MMC at 45.5 +/- 0.6 C for 90 minutes, with an apparatus devised for IOPHC. At the end of IOPHC, the esophageal temperature was 37.2 +/- 0.8 C and cooling was not required. Antitumor efficacy and complications in the IOPHC group were compared with findings in 12 rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery only within the same period of time. Operation time was not prolonged with IOPHC treatment. In cytologic examinations of the pelvic lavage just before IOPHC treatment, viable cancer cells were detected in 6 of the 14 patients but were never detected in the postoperative exudate drained from the pelvic cavity. Of the 12 patients in the control group, 2 had a local recurrence, while in the IOPHC group there was no local recurrence for 16.9 +/- 9.7 months at this writing. Postoperative complications did not differ between the groups. This IOPHC treatment is a favorable method in eradicating cancer cells for postoperative local recurrence of rectal cancer. 
Cell cycling in bladder carcinoma determined by monoclonal antibody Ki67. Current methods of predicting prognosis in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder fail to provide consistently reliable information about future tumour behaviour. The monoclonal antibody Ki67 recognises an antigen present in actively dividing cells and Ki67 reactivity has been shown to correlate with conventional prognostic indicators in several tumours. In this study, Ki67 antibody was used to determine the proportions of cells undergoing active division in 26 transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder. The proportion of cells stained in muscle invasive tumours (12.3 +/- 5.4%) was significantly greater than in superficial tumours (4.3 +/- 1.9%) and poorly differentiated tumours showed significantly greater proportions of cells staining compared with well or moderately well differentiated tumours. These results show that Ki67 reactivity correlates with high tumour stage and poor differentiation. Ki67 staining provides an easy method of determining tumour cell turnover that might provide additional prognostic information. 
Expression of aminopeptidase N (CD13) in mesenchymal tumors. For a long time, CD13 molecules have been considered to be restricted to myeloid cells and related neoplasms. Meanwhile, however, expression of CD13 has also been detected in some hepatocellular, gallbladder, renal, and lung carcinomas, and even in some fibrosarcomas and malignant melanomas. In this study, expression of CD13 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells, along with 33 benign and 83 malignant mesenchymal tumors (MET) using CD13 monoclonal antibodies (MAb) My7, U71, WM-15, and MoU48. In non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells, expression of CD13 was restricted to perivascular fibrocytes/blasts, tissue histiocytes, osteoclasts, and to the perineurium of peripheral nerve trunks. Under neoplastic conditions, CD13 was detectable in some tumors of smooth muscle, fibrous, fibrohistiocytic, synovial, osteogenic, and peripheral nerve sheath origin, and even in some tumors of adipose tissue. Tumors of striated muscle origin, of autonomic ganglia, and of cartilage-forming tissues were CD13-negative throughout. Thus in most but not all tumors studied the pattern of expression of CD13 mirrors the situation found in their cells of origin. These findings enrich the data on expression of leukocyte differentiation antigens in extra-hematopoietic tissues. Expression of CD13, which meanwhile is known to be identical to aminopeptidase N, an important peptide-cleaving enzyme, in only some MET might reflect a special functional state of these neoplasms. 
Role of systemic therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Increasing evidence supports the investigation of chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Randomized studies in patients with stage IV disease have shown increased survival in chemotherapy-treated patients compared to best supportive care and indicate the ability of chemotherapy to alter the natural history of this disease. Randomized studies involving adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy have also shown encouraging results. These studies and results of recent pilot studies utilizing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and concomitant chemoradiotherapy indicate a potential benefit from the use of chemotherapy in patients with NSCLC and call for its continued intensive investigation in clinical trials. 
Systems used to study the nature of the leukemic cell and predict treatment outcome in patients with myeloproliferative disorders. Cell culture techniques have been used to study normal and leukemic hematopoiesis. Investigations provided data on the nature of the clonogenic leukemic cell, its patterns of in vitro growth, role of stimulating factors, and effects of chemotherapeutic agents. Assay systems developed to study leukemic progenitor cells or self-renewal capacity have been useful clinically as predictive indicators of success of remission-induction therapy and have allowed testing of drug sensitivity in vitro. Alternative approaches using short- and long-term suspension cultures have provided systems to evaluate leukemic cells, including nonclonogenic, biochemical, and kinetic events. In vitro systems have been introduced to measure cell cycle events accurately and to identify metabolic mechanisms of drug resistance. The information provided by all of these systems has allowed a more comprehensive and multifocal characterization of the nature of the leukemic process and has better directed our approach to treatment. 
Complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma: colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis. Postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the EEA-stapler were evaluated. In all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma. In 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level (above the anal verge: colorectal anastomosis) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level (coloanal anastomosis). There was no perioperative mortality. The only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis. In the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks, 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence, ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 (10.4%) patients. We conclude that for rectal tumors the EEA-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases. Stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various (early and late) complications. Nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort, many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma. 
The effect of graded doses of insulin on peripheral glucose uptake and lactate release in cancer cachexia. With the euglycemic clamp technique, we evaluated the effects of graded doses of insulin on glucose turnover rates and forearm lactate balance in five weight-losing patients with cancer before surgery and five age- and weight-matched healthy volunteers (control subjects). Insulin was infused sequentially at increasing rates of 0.5 (low physiologic), 1.0 (high physiologic), and 4.0 (supraphysiologic) mU/kg.min for 120 minutes each. Concurrently, rates of glucose appearance and disappearance were derived from [3-3H] glucose infusion. The mean postabsorptive rate of glucose appearance in patients (2.9 +/- 0.1 mg/kg.min) was significantly higher (p less than 0.02) than that of control subjects (1.98 +/- 0.16 mg/kg.min). Complete suppression of endogenous glucose production occurred at high physiologic insulin concentrations. With progressive insulin infusion, the rate of glucose disappearance increased to 3.6 +/- 1.2, 8.7 +/- 0.8, and 13.7 +/- 1.1 mg/kg/min in control subjects and 2.9 +/- 0.4, 5.3 +/- 0.3, and 10.9 +/- 0.9 mg/kg.min in patients, significantly different from that of control subjects (p less than 0.05) during the intermediate (high physiologic) insulin infusion. A comparable slight increase in arterial plasma lactate concentration was observed in both groups with progressive hyperinsulinemia. Baseline peripheral lactate flux was identical in patients (-272 +/- 56 nmol/100 gm.min) and in controls (-271 +/- 57 nmol/100 gm.min). Progressive physiologic hyperinsulinemia resulted in significantly (p less than 0.05) augmented peripheral lactate efflux in patients (-824 +/- 181 nmol/100 gm.min) compared with control subjects (-287 +/- 64 nmol/100 gm.min). Supraphysiologic insulin abolished this increased lactate efflux in patients. Postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance in weight-losing patients with cancer were elevated, but complete suppression was achieved with insulin concentrations in the physiologic range. Total body glucose use was diminished in these patients, consistent with a state of insulin resistance. This impaired insulin action on peripheral glucose use was associated with an increase in peripheral lactate release in patients. 
The epidemiology of cancer among Hispanic women. The experience in Florida. To explore cancer incidence among Hispanic women living in Dade County, Florida, data were analyzed from the statewide cancer registry. For all but three sites, Hispanics had lower rates of the 15 most prevalent cancers than non-Hispanics. However, higher rates of cancer among Hispanics were noted for cancers of the gallbladder, liver, and heart and soft tissue. Subgroups of women had significantly higher rates of cervical cancer and thyroid cancer. Lower rates among Hispanics were observed for cancers of the esophagus, vagina, breast, colon, buccal cavity and pharynx, and malignant melanoma. These data suggest that most cancer sites traditionally higher among US Latino women were not higher among Dade Hispanics, and that sites more common among non-Hispanics have not yet shown an increased incidence among Hispanic women in Dade County. 
Decreased mortality in users of estrogen replacement therapy In a prospective study of 8881 postmenopausal female residents of a retirement community in southern California, we evaluated in detail the relationship between estrogen use and overall mortality. After 7 1/2 years of follow-up, there had been 1447 deaths. Women with a history of estrogen use had 20% lower age-adjusted, all-cause mortality than lifetime nonusers (95% confidence interval, 0.70 to 0.87). Mortality decreased with increasing duration of use and was lower among current users than among women who used estrogens only in the distant past. Current users with more than 15 years of estrogen use had a 40% reduction in their overall mortality. Among oral estrogen users, relative risks of death could not be distinguished by specific dosages of the oral estrogen taken for the longest time. Women who had used estrogen replacement therapy had a reduced mortality from all categories of acute and chronic arteriosclerotic disease and cerebrovascular disease. This group of women had a reduced mortality from cancer, although this reduction was not statistically significant. The mortality from all remaining causes combined was the same in estrogen users and lifetime nonusers. 
Changes in the relative frequency of gastric adenocarcinoma in southern California. The incidence of gastric cancer is decreasing in most counties of the developed world, but at the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical Center, we diagnosed 99.8 cases of gastric adenocarcinoma per 10(5) discharges in the period 1982 to 1986 as opposed to 62.2 per 10(5) discharges in 1972 to 1976 (P less than .0001). This change involved primarily Hispanics younger than 30 years of age with 30 cases per 10(5) vs 4.2 cases per 10(5) (P less than .0001) and whites older than 30 years: 87 cases per 10(5) vs 54 cases per 10(5) (P less than .05) during 1982 to 1986 and 1972 to 1976, respectively. There was no change in the relative frequency rates of gastric adenocarcinoma among African Americans and Asians. Although these changes do not seem important enough to make the detection of gastric cancer a high-priority public health problem, they should alert physicians working in areas with high Hispanic populations of the relative possibility of the occurrence of gastric malignancy even in young patients. Also, we have found that gastric cancer is still prevalent in whites of low socioeconomic class. 
The clinical pharmacology of etoposide. Etoposide, a semisynthetic derivative of podophyllotoxin, is increasingly used to treat cancer. Etoposide is a phase-specific, cytotoxic drug acting in the late S and early G2 phases of the cell cycle. It appears to cause breaks in DNA by either an interaction with DNA-topoisomerase II or the formation of free radicals. Most studies show a biexponential decay after the intravenous (IV) administration of etoposide. The peak plasma concentrations of drug and the area under the concentration versus time curve (AUC) are linearly related to the IV dose. Considerable interpatient variability of pharmacokinetic variables exists after IV etoposide. Various metabolites of etoposide have been identified, but their detection and quantitation are disputed. Approximately 30% to 70% of an etoposide dose is excreted. The bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50%, but its absorption is not linear with increasing doses within the range in clinical use. Considerable interpatient and intrapatient variability exists in the pharmacokinetics of oral etoposide. There is no evidence of etoposide accumulation after multiple consecutive doses by either the IV or oral route. The exact roles of the liver and kidney in metabolism and excretion of etoposide are uncertain. Etoposide has been shown to be a highly schedule-dependent drug in clinical studies. This, together with the phase-specific action of etoposide and its increasingly widespread use in treating cancer, makes the clinical pharmacology of this drug of great clinical importance. 
Immunohistochemical demonstration of the placental form of glutathione S-transferase, a detoxifying enzyme in human gliomas. Expression of the human placental form of glutathion S-transferase (GST-pi) in human gliomas was investigated by immunohistochemical methods, and the result was compared with that of normal human glial cells. The gliomas in this study were composed of five benign astrocytomas (Grade 2), ten anaplastic astrocytomas (Grade 3), and 16 glioblastomas (Grade 4). Normal human glial cells showed only a weak immunostaining response for GST-pi in the cytoplasm or some nuclear membranes. All of benign astrocytomas had diffusely weak GST-pi immunostaining, resembling that of normal glial cells. With increasing grade, gliomas showed a strongly positive reaction for GST-pi. The positive reactions were remarkable especially in the gemistocytes and giant cells in the high-grade gliomas. These results suggest that cells of gliomas have some detoxifying function and the expression of this detoxifying enzyme, GST-pi, is related to the degree of malignancy of the gliomas. 
Oral contraceptives and breast cancer. Review and meta-analysis. To evaluate the relation between use of oral contraceptives and the incidence of breast cancer, the authors reviewed the epidemiologic literature and used quantitative methods to summarize the data. Study results for any use of oral contraceptives were pooled using a model that accounted for both interstudy and intrastudy variability. The authors also explored interstudy variability and modeled a duration-effect relation between oral contraceptive use and breast cancer. Case-control and follow-up studies were considered separately. Overall, the authors observed no increase in the risk of breast cancer for women who had ever used oral contraceptives, even after a long duration of use. These results were consistent across study design. However, data combined from case-control studies revealed a statistically significant positive trend (P = 0.001) in the risk of premenopausal breast cancer for women exposed to oral contraceptives for longer duration. This risk was predominant among women who used oral contraceptives for at least 4 years before their first term pregnancy (relative risk = 1.72; 95% confidence interval = 1.36 to 2.19). Additional study is required to determine whether this finding in a subgroup of exposed women is confirmed and whether the risk remains increased with advancing age. 
Local recurrence and survival following nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy. From March 1982 through July 1988, 76 men underwent nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy for carcinoma of the bladder at our hospital. Of the 76 patients 2 (2.6%) had positive surgical margins (dome of the bladder and left ureter) and neither had positive margins at the site of nerve-sparing modifications. Of 3 patients (3.9%) who had local recurrence none had positive surgical margins. The 5-year actuarial local recurrence rate is 7.5%. Thirteen of 76 patients (17%) died of transitional cell carcinoma and 7 (9%) died of other causes, while 53 (70%) are alive without evidence of disease with a mean followup of 38.4 months. The 5-year actuarial survival rates are 64% over-all, 68% without disease and 78% disease-specific. Of the 42 evaluable men who underwent cystoprostatectomy alone 27 (64%) are potent, compared to 2 of the 12 men (17%) who also underwent urethrectomy. We conclude that the nerve-sparing modifications do not compromise cancer control, that local recurrence and survival rates are at least comparable to those achieved with standard radical cystoprostatectomy, and that it is possible to preserve potency in most men undergoing this procedure. 
Inhibition of tumor growth in a glioma model treated with boron neutron capture therapy. This investigation attempts to determine whether increased survival time seen when the F98 glioma model is treated with boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) is a result of inhibition of tumor growth caused by radiation-induced alterations in endothelial cells and normal tissue components. This indirect effect of radiation has been called the tumor bed effect. A series of tumor-bearing rats was studied, using a standardized investigational BNCT protocol consisting of 50 mg/kg of Na2B12H11SH injected intravenously 14 to 17 hours before neutron irradiation at 4 x 10(12) n/cm2. Ten rats, serving as controls, received no treatment either before or after tumor implantation. A second group of 10 rats was treated with BNCT 4 days before tumor implantation; these animals received no further treatment. The remaining group of 10 rats received no pretreatment but was treated with BNCT 10 days after implantation. Histological and ultrastructural analyses were performed in 2 animals from each group 17 days after implantation. Survival times of the untreated control animals (mean, 25.8 days) did not differ statistically from the survival times of the rats in the pretreated group (mean, 25.5 days). The rats treated with BNCT after implantation survived significantly longer (P less than 0.02; mean, 33.2 days) than the controls and the preirradiated animals. Tumor size indices calculated from measurements taken at the time of death were similar in all groups. These results indicate that, with this tumor model, BNCT does not cause a tumor bed effect in cerebral tissue. The therapeutic gains observed with BNCT result from direct effects on tumor cells or on the peritumoral neovascularity. 
Pulmonary metastases and bone sarcomas. Surgical removal of lesions appearing after adjuvant chemotherapy. Pulmonary metastasis is the leading cause of death in pediatric patients with bone tumors. Multiple thoracotomies for surgical removal of individual lesions are performed at many centers. To explore the efficacy of this procedure and establish guidelines for an appropriate choice of patients, the experience with 43 thoracotomies in 24 children was reviewed. The appearance of first metastasis later than one year after diagnosis, presence of fewer than five nodules, and completeness of surgical resection were favorable predictors of postthoractomy survival. Early or multiple metastases, unresectable disease, and hilar, nodal, or pleural lesions conferred an unfavorable prognosis. With careful patient selection, pulmonary metastecotomy is a safe procedure that has few operative or long-term complications. It must be emphasized that although surgical removal of pulmonary metastases prolongs survival with good quality of life, the majority of patients with bone sarcomas ultimately succumb to their disease after thoracotomy. Follow-up time of greater than eight years is necessary to adequately assess the effectiveness of pulmonary resection in eradicating all disease in these patients. 
Characterization and significance of sulfonylurea receptors. This study describes and characterizes a putative sulfonylurea receptor. The radioligand used was [3H]glipizide (9 Ci/mmol). The beta-cell plasma membranes were derived from a transplantable rat insulinoma generated by subcutaneous injection of RINm5F cells and purified by ultracentrifugation on a 15-55% sucrose gradient. Specific binding of [3H]glipizide to purified beta-cell plasma membranes was determined to be maximal at temperatures of 4-23 degrees C, pH 7.3, and an incubation of 2 h. Scatchard analysis indicated a single binding site with Kd = 7 nM and sulfonylurea binding of 0.93 pmol/mg membrane protein. Displacement of [3H]glipizide from the purified beta-cell plasma membranes by various sulfonylureas and their analogues correlated well with their known hypoglycemic and insulin-releasing activities. Various agents, including nutrients, agents affecting Ca2+ flux, gastrointestinal hormones, and pancreatic hormones, had no effect on [3H]glipizide binding to the beta-cell plasma membranes. Putative sulfonylurea receptors on beta-cell and brain cell plasma membranes have been reported by several groups of investigators. Sulfonylurea binding to the beta-cell is hypothesized to close an ATP-sensitive K+ channel, which leads to depolarization of the membrane and activation of a voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel. 
Angiotropic B-cell lymphoma (malignant angioendotheliomatosis): failure of systemic chemotherapy. A 65-year-old female with angiotropic B-cell lymphoma is reported. Despite the absence of systemic involvement on formal staging and the favourable response of the cutaneous lesions to triple systemic chemotherapy with prednisolone, vincristine and cyclophosphamide, postmortem findings showed that death was due to widespread disease dissemination. 
Preventing cervical cancer by treating genital warts in men. Why male sex partners need androscopy. The increased incidence of cancer of the genitourinary and anorectal areas has been directly related to the coexistence of genital human papillomavirus infection. The diagnosis and treatment of condyloma acuminatum in men is important not only to prevent cancer but also to decrease the reservoir of virus that is being transferred to women. Screening with androscopy (examination of male genitals with a colposcope after a vinegar solution has been applied to the skin) is indicated for all men who are at risk for this infection. Treatment options include chemical application, cryosurgery, laser therapy, and interferon injections. To be effective, treatment must include both sexual partners. 
The internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone, skin, and mucosa. The reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking. When the defect involves skin as well as mucosa, the challenge becomes even greater. The internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle. We report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects. The utility, and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail. 
The papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas. An increasingly recognized clinicopathologic entity. The clinical course of the papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas is contrasted with that of the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. The former occurs predominantly in young women, has a low malignant potential, and is highly curable with surgical treatment. Three cases are reported that illustrate the typical clinical features and the indolent nature of the tumor. One case was discovered after blunt abdominal trauma resulted in rupture of the tumor and hemoperitoneum. All cases were treated by pancreatic resection with preservation of the spleen, an important consideration in younger patients. All patients were free of disease at long-term follow-up. Increasing awareness of this tumor has resulted in the reclassification of several tumors and should lead to better recognition by surgeons caring for patients with pancreatic diseases. 
Preoperative chemotherapy (cisplatin and fluorouracil) and radiation therapy in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase II study of the Lung Cancer Study Group. The Lung Cancer Study Group conducted a phase II pilot study of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy (chemoradiotherapy) before surgery in 85 eligible patients with non-small-cell cancer limited to the chest but in whom attempted resection would have been likely to leave residual disease (advanced stage IIIA and minimal stage IIIB disease). Cisplatin, 75 mg/m2, was given on days 1 and 29; fluorouracil, 1 g/m2 per 24 hours, was administered as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 4 and on days 29 through 32; and thoracic radiation, 30 Gy in 15 fractions, was administered on days 1 through 19. Two patients achieved a complete response and 46 patients had a partial response for an overall response rate of 56%. Toxicity from chemoradiotherapy was moderate but acceptable. Eight weeks after therapy was initiated, 54 patients underwent thoracotomy and tumor resection was attempted: 29 (34%) had complete resection and 15 (18%) had incomplete resection. Although surgical dissection was generally more difficult than in patients not pretreated with chemoradiotherapy, there was no apparent increase in postoperative complications. In 8 patients (9%), no viable tumor was detected pathologically in the resection specimen. Of the 18 patients whose tumors were completely resected and had disease recurrence, none had recurrence only in the chest, 12 (67%) had recurrence only in distant sites, and 3 developed second primary tumors. Median survival of all patients was 13 months. The overall results do not indicate a major benefit from this preoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen in patients with advanced but potentially resectable non-small-cell lung cancer. These results suggest a need to define better the relative roles of preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy. 
Epididymal metastasis from prostatic adenocarcinoma mimicking adenomatoid tumor. A case of epididymal metastasis from prostatic carcinoma is presented. The initial histologic findings were suggestive of adenomatoid tumor, but a diagnosis of metastatic adenocarcinoma of prostatic origin has been established by prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate-specific antigen immunoperoxidase staining. 
Prognostic value of immunocytologic detection of bone marrow metastases in neuroblastoma. BACKGROUND. Morphologic evaluation of bone marrow for neuroblastoma cells is a routine and important component of clinical staging. Specific immunostaining of malignant cells with monoclonal antibodies should be more sensitive, however, and may improve the detection of metastases and provide additional prognostic information. METHODS. We looked for tumor cells in bone marrow from 197 patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma, using immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies (immunocytologic analysis) and examination of smears and specimens obtained by trephine biopsy (conventional analysis). RESULTS. Routine smears and trephine-biopsy specimens were positive for tumor cells in 46 percent of the patients, whereas 67 percent were positive on immunocytologic analysis (P less than 0.0001). Immunocytologic analysis detected bone marrow metastases in 34 percent of patients considered to have only localized or regional disease (Stage I, II, or III). It also identified tumor cells that were not detected by conventional analysis in patients with widespread disease (Stage IV or IVS). Tumor content, as determined by immunocytologic analysis, predicted clinical outcome in relation to the age of the patient at diagnosis. Patients with Stage II or III disease diagnosed after one year of age who did not have occult marrow metastases did well, whereas those with metastases did poorly (P = 0.006). Patients in whom Stage IV disease was diagnosed before they were one year of age did well if bone marrow metastases were few or absent, but had poor survival if the marrow contained more than 0.02 percent tumor cells (P = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS. Immunocytologic analysis of bone marrow aspirates is more sensitive than conventional analysis in detecting tumor cells and provides prognostic information. The relations among marrow metastases, age at diagnosis, and clinical outcome illustrate the biologic heterogeneity of neuroblastoma. 
Acute promyelocytic leukemia: impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival. From 1976 to 1989, 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the University of Virginia Hospital. We reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome. We observed a complete remission rate of 35%; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months. Evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 (62%) of the 21 cases at diagnosis. Fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death, occurring in eight (40%) of the 20 patients evaluated. Initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10(9)/L and platelet count less than 20 x 10(9)/L were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. In patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation, the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin. The high mortality of 40% (8/20) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35% (7/20) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia. 
Chest wall involvement by lung cancer: computed tomographic detection and results of operation. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate: (1) the role of computed tomographic scanning in predicting chest wall invasion by peripheral lung cancer and (2) the results of operation according to the depth of chest wall involvement and other potential indicators of long-term survival. One hundred twelve patients with non-small cell lung cancer adjacent to the pleural surface who underwent computed tomographic scanning and subsequent thoracotomy were entered into this study. Tumor invasion was confined to the visceral pleura in 53 patients, to the parietal pleura in 18 patients, and to intercostal muscles in 25 patients; invasion extended beyond this layer in 16 patients. The computed tomographic criteria for chest wall invasion were (1) obliteration of the extrapleural fat plane, (2) the length of the tumor-pleura contact, (3) the ratio between the tumor-pleura contact and the tumor diameter, (4) the angle of the tumor with the pleura, (5) a mass involving the chest wall, and (6) rib destruction. The computed tomographic criteria 1 and 3 were significantly related to pathologic findings. Sensitivity was 85% for criterion 1 and 83% for criterion 3, specificity being 87% and 80%, respectively. Long-term survival of patients with T3 disease critically depended on the lymph node state and completeness of resection. The adenocarcinoma cell type and the T4 category were unfavorable prognostic factors. The depth of chest wall invasion did not affect survival, except for extensive rib and soft tissue infiltration. En bloc resection yielded better results than discontinuous resection. 
Localization and surgical treatment of occult insulinomas. Management of patients with biochemical evidence of insulinoma and negative preoperative imaging studies (occult) tumors is controversial, varying from primarily medical management to aggressive, blind nearly total pancreatectomy to extirpate the tumor. Since 1982, 12 consecutive patients with occult insulinoma underwent preoperative portal venous sampling (PVS) for insulin followed by surgical exploration with intraoperative ultrasound (IOUS). Eleven of twelve patients (92%) had insulinoma removed and were cured. Portal venous sampling correctly predicted the location of the insulinoma in 9 patients (75%) and that no tumor would be found in another patient. A fourfold insulin gradient in the pancreatic tail of one patient correctly predicted that a distal pancreatectomy would remove the insulinoma despite the fact that neither palpation nor IOUS identified any tumor. Intraoperative ultrasound was the single best method to identify occult tumors because it correctly identified 10 of 11 insulinomas that were found, including five pancreatic head tumors that were not palpable. Palpation identified five insulinomas. Of the 10 tumors that were identified during operation by palpation or ultrasound, IOUS identified significantly more (100% versus 50%, p = 0.03) and guided the successful enucleation of each. The results support the strategy of preoperative PVS and operation with IOUS to localize and remove insulinoma in patients with occult tumors. Most tumors (75%) will be correctly localized to a specific pancreatic region by preoperative PVS and identified by IOUS (83%), allowing simple enucleation and biochemical correction of hypoglycemia. Morbid blind pancreatic resections are no longer indicated and long-term medical management of hypoglycemia should be reserved for the occasional patient (8%) who fails preoperative PVS and operation guided by IOUS. 
Surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with extensive intracaval involvement using a venous bypass system suitable for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass. Renal cell carcinoma involves the vena cava in approximately 4% of the patients. Presently surgical extirpation is the only form of therapy that can result in cure. Recently management of extensive vena caval involvement has involved the use of cardiopulmonary bypass with circulatory arrest and hypothermia. We describe a technique using a venous bypass pump system (femoral vein to right atrium) for resection of renal cell carcinoma with suprahepatic vena caval extension (type II), which avoids the risks and complications of cardiac arrest and hypothermia but allows for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass should the intraoperative need arise. 
Rectus abdominis muscle flap with microvascular anastomoses for repair of recurrent sarcoma. After radical resection of a recurrent leiomyosarcoma, the thoracic wall was stabilized with a Gore-Tex graft. The skin and soft tissue defect was repaired with a large rectus abdominis flap in which the circulation was secured by end-to-end microvascular anastomosis of the inferior epigastric artery to the internal mammary artery, which had to be cut during tumor removal. 
'High single-dose' European PUVA regimen also causes an excess of non-melanoma skin cancer. We report the results of a long-term (12.8 years) follow-up study of the detection of malignant and benign skin tumours in patients with psoriasis, who were treated with PUVA according to the European, 'high single-dose' regimen. A total of 13 squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) and 24 basal cell carcinomas (BCC) were diagnosed in 11 of 260 patients. The incidence of both SCC and BCC was increased in comparison with the general Dutch population. The ratio of SCC to BCC in the general population was 1:8 but was 1:2.5 in our study group. A positive correlation was observed between the development of SCC and the total UVA dosage, the age of the patient at the start of the PUVA treatment and a history of arsenic use. This dose-related increase in the incidence of SCC, reported in studies from the U.S.A., has not been found in earlier European studies. The average time period between the start of PUVA therapy and the diagnosis of the first malignant skin tumour was 6.0 years for SCC and 4.7 years for BCC. Among the 49 benign skin tumours were actinic keratoses, a keratoacanthoma and 'PUVA keratoses', a newly described hyperkeratotic lesion, especially found in PUVA-treated patients. 
Human papillomavirus screening for women with atypical Papanicolaou smears. A study was undertaken to evaluate the utility of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening and colposcopy in the management of women whose Papanicolaou smears demonstrated atypia less than dysplasia. Fifty patients whose initial Papanicolaou smears were interpreted as showing atypia less than dysplasia were evaluated for the presence of HPV 16 DNA in exfoliated cervicovaginal cells and for histologic findings on biopsy. Those 50 patients were compared to two groups of patients: one consisting of 124 patients with biopsy-documented cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and another of 112 patients with normal Papanicolaou smears. The presence of HPV 16 DNA was confirmed with Southern analysis in 46% of patients with atypical Papanicolaou smears, 46% with confirmed CIN and 11.6% with normal Papanicolaou smears. The 50 patients with atypical smears underwent colposcopically directed cervical biopsies, revealing the following results: 14 (28%) had normal histology, 29 (58%) had koilocytosis without dysplasia, and 7 (14%) had CIN. HPV 16 DNA was present in exfoliated cervicovaginal cells from a large percentage of patients from each category (50% of patients with normal histology, 41.2% with koilocytosis and 57% with CIN). HPV 16 DNA screening did not predict which patients with atypical smears had underlying CIN. Colposcopically directed biopsy remains the evaluation method of choice. 
Synergism of ara-C-imuvert combination in aborting the development of transplanted chloroleukemia in the rat. The development of chloroleukemia in the rat after transplantation of C51 chloroma cells can be aborted by treatment with an exogenous source of differentiating activity (DA) or by stimulation of endogenous DA production by the administration of Imuvert, a biologic response modifier. Success or failure of treatment was determined by the ratio of DA to leukemic cell load. Accordingly, in the present study we examined the hypothesis that treatment with cytosine arabinoside (ARA-C) to reduce the leukemic cell load coupled with Imuvert would be more effective than either given alone. Treatment with ARA-C-Imuvert aborted the development of chloroleukemia in 79% of the animals in contrast to 0%, 9% and 45% in animals treated with buffer, ARA-C, or Imuvert respectively. These results suggest that stimulation of endogenous DA in combination with cytoreductive agents offers a potentially curative treatment for myelogenous leukemia. 
Cisplatin, continuous-infusion 5-fluorouracil, and intermediate-dose methotrexate in the treatment of unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung. Forty-one patients with unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung (NSCCL) were treated with cisplatin 20 mg/m2/d for 5 days as a daily bolus injection, 5-fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/d by continuous infusion for 5 days, and intermediate-dose methotrexate 200 mg/m2 on days 15 and 22 of a 28-day cycle (PFM). One complete and 23 partial responses were observed, yielding an overall response rate of 60%. There was no significant difference in response rates based on histologic subtype or extent of disease (locally unresectable versus metastatic). Median duration of response was 6 months, and the median survival of all patients was 10 months. Two patients with unresectable disease at presentation became resectable after chemotherapy and remain disease-free at 46+ and 53+ months. Toxicity was modest, with oral mucositis the major adverse effect. Clinically important neutropenia was uncommon. PFM is an active regimen in NSCCL and deserves further study in the "neoadjuvant" setting. 
Effects of hepatitis B virus, alcohol drinking, cigarette smoking and familial tendency on hepatocellular carcinoma. Independent and interactive effects related to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma were assessed using a community-based case-control study for hepatitis B virus, habitual alcohol drinking, cigarette smoking, peanut consumption and history of hepatocellular carcinoma among the immediate family. All 200 male newly diagnosed hepatocellular carcinoma patients were recruited consecutively through the period of study as the case group from two teaching medical centers in northern and southern Taiwan. Healthy community residents matched one-to-one with cases on age, sex, ethnic group and residential area were selected as the control group. The carrier status of HBsAg and HBeAg was determined by blind radioimmunoassays, and other risk factors were obtained through standardized interviews according to a structured questionnaire. Conditional logistic regression analysis showed a significant association between hepatocellular carcinoma and the carrier status of HBsAg and HBeAg with an odds ratio of 16.7 and 56.5, respectively, for carriers of HBsAg alone and for carriers of both HBsAg and HBeAg. There was a dose-response relationship between cigarette smoking and hepatocellular carcinoma with an odds ratio of 1.1, 1.5 and 2.6, respectively, for those who smoked 1 to 10, 11 to 20 and more than 20 cigarettes a day. A significant association with hepatocellular carcinoma was also observed for the habitual alcohol consumer with an odds ratio of 3.4. Those whose immediate family had a history of hepatocellular carcinoma were more likely to have the disease develop, with an odds ratio of 4.6. However, the frequency of peanut consumption was not significantly associated with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Cancer incidence among foundry workers in Denmark. Cancer incidence was studied among 6,144 male foundry workers who were invited to participate in either of two Danish national silicosis surveys conducted during 1967-1969 and 1972-1974. Cancer incidence was followed through to the end of 1985 by computerized linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry, and Standardized Morbidity Ratios (SMRs) were calculated based on incidence rates for the Danish population. For the entire cohort, significantly elevated SMRs were seen for all cancers (SMR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.01-1.18) and lung cancer (SMR, 1.30; 95% CI, 1.12-1.51), and SMRs were at the borderline of statistical significance for bladder cancer (SMR, 1.24; 95% CI, 0.97-1.59). Excess lung and bladder cancer risk were confined to workers who had worked in foundries for at least 20 y. There was a positive correlation between silicosis prevalence in employees at the foundries at the time of the x-ray examinations and lung cancer incidence during the follow-up period. Squamous cell carcinomas, anaplastic carcinomas, and other lung cancers accounted for the excess lung cancer risk, whereas there was not excess risk among the foundry workers for adenocarcinomas of the lung. 
Xeroderma pigmentosum: review and report of a case. Xeroderma pigmentosum is a rare inherited dermatosis that provides insight into the basic mechanism of carcinogenesis. It is a model disorder linking defective DNA repair with clinical abnormalities and neoplasia. UV light-induced damage to the skin begins early and results in multiple benign and malignant skin tumors, especially in sun-exposed areas of the head and neck. Oral cancers, primarily squamous cell carcinomas of the anterior third of the tongue, occur with greatly increased frequency. A patient with multiple facial neoplasia and oral manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum is presented. The role of the dentist in surveillance of oral and perioral structures is emphasized. The dentist is advised against the use of UV light-curing units in these patients because UV-induced epithelial damage may cause dysplasia when DNA repair mechanisms are dysfunctional. 
Cancer antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors. The authors studied data of combination assays of tumor markers, because simultaneous elevation of different types of tumor markers in the serum was puzzling. They interpreted such phenomena regarding cancer antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors. The tissue expression of the antigens was compared with preoperative serum levels. Several different factors were found to cause the simultaneous elevation of two or three of these markers in the serum. Furthermore, even when the levels of some of the tumor markers were raised in the serum, the ovarian tumor did not always produce the marker by itself. This study indicates that immunohistochemical identification of a marker in tumor tissue is prerequisite to the use of that marker in the serum to monitor disease status. 
Study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques. The status of hepatitis B virus DNA was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis B virus-associated cirrhosis. This liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. The results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis B core and surface antigens. There was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis B viral DNA by in situ hybridization and absence of HBc and HBsAg in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. These results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature. 
Ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma. Preliminary results. Cryosurgery, the in situ freezing of cancer, has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors. Its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection, allowing treatment of multiple lobes. Because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels, tumors in difficult locations, such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava (IVC), can be treated. With the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process, 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated. Of the 18 patients treated, 4 (22%) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography (CT) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels, with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months. Four patients (22%) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery. The number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12, with a mean of 6 lesions. Fourteen patients had bilobar disease; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery, and one patient had unilobar disease. Mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months, with 2 of the 14 still alive. Ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable (including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions). These preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study. 
Oral contraceptives and breast cancer. Among women in general the risk of breast cancer through 59 years of age does not appear to be affected appreciably by the use of oral contraceptives. Nonetheless, concern continues to be expressed about the effects of early age at first use, long-term duration of use, formulation, and a variety of other factors thought to influence breast cancer risk in the presence of oral contraception. A number of recent studies restricted to young women suggest that long-term use may increase the risk of disease occurring very early, but the present lack of consistent findings in well-conducted epidemiologic studies prevents any certain conclusion with regard to cause-and-effect. However, if an increased risk were indeed present, the most plausible interpretation is that long-term oral contraception promotes earlier clinical manifestation of breast cancer in some women while having no net impact on their lifetime risk of the disease. 
An inner city cancer prevention clinic. Design, methods, and early results. An American Cancer Society demonstration pilot project is underway that is designed to provide comprehensive cancer prevention-related services to the underserved community of West Oakland, California. An array of cancer prevention services are being made available through an inner-city clinic (West Oakland Health Center), including cancer risk assessments and education about cancer, physical examinations for cancer, teaching of self-examination procedures, smoking cessation, and nutrition counseling, appointments for Pap smears, sigmoidoscopy, mammography, and other more specialized screening procedures, case management for findings suspicious for cancer, and community education programs. Described is the process of implementing these services, their utilization, and their impact (after 6 months). 
Vegetables, fruits, and carotenoids and the risk of cancer. Low intake of vegetables, fruits, and carotenoids is consistently associated with increased risk of lung cancer in both prospective and retrospective studies. In addition, low levels of beta-carotene in serum or plasma are consistently associated with the subsequent development of lung cancer. The simplest explanation is that beta-carotene is protective. Since retinol (preformed vitamin A) is not related in a similar manner to lung cancer risk, beta-carotene appears to function through a mechanism that does not require conversion into vitamin A. However, the importance of other carotenoids and other constituents of vegetables and fruit has not been adequately explored. Both prospective and retrospective studies suggest that vegetable and fruit intake may reduce the risk of cancers of the mouth, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum, bladder, and cervix. But because of fewer studies and less consistency among studies, the epidemiologic evidence is at present less persuasive than for lung cancer. 
Transrectal ultrasonography in the evaluation of the infertile man: a report of 3 cases. The traditional evaluation of the infertile man with azoospermia or low ejaculate volume includes determination of serum testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels, a seminal fructose test, post-ejaculate urinalysis and, sometimes, vasography. Transrectal ultrasonography, a technique currently familiar to most urologists, recently has been added to our diagnostic armamentarium. This office-based imaging procedure provides an accurate assessment of the prostate, ejaculatory ducts and seminal vesicles, which can be helpful in the evaluation of certain infertile patients. We describe 3 patients who presented with either azoospermia or decreased ejaculate volume in whom transrectal ultrasonography had a critical role in the fertility evaluation. The clinical indications for and interpretation of transrectal ultrasonography in the infertile population are described. Transrectal ultrasonography currently is the most accurate, inexpensive and readily available noninvasive imaging technique used to diagnose obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts in the infertile patient with either azoospermia or low ejaculate volume. 
Modified Van Nes rotationplasty in the treatment of malignant neoplasms in the lower extremities of children. A technique of modified Van Nes rotationplasty has been used since 1981 for limb salvage surgery in children and adolescents with malignant sarcoma of the lower extremity. The original procedure for lesions of the distal femur was further modified and adopted for selected lesions of the proximal femur and tibia. Sixteen skeletally immature children form the base of this report. The tumors were located in the distal femur in ten children, the proximal tibia in five and the proximal femur in one. There were no intraoperative complications and postoperative complications included one infection requiring debridement and three minor healing delays. There were no local recurrences, neurovascular compromises, late derotations, or psychologic decompensations. One patient died of metastatic disease and another died of a second malignancy (leukemia). The remaining patients are good, functional, below-knee prosthesis users who participate in a number of sporting and athletic activities. The procedure is safe, has a relatively low complication rate, allows for the functional demands of an active, growing child, and accommodates for the future growth of extremities. 
Diagnosis of metastatic lesions to the stomach by salvage cytology. A report of three cases. Secondary neoplasms of the stomach are rare and are often clinical and diagnostic problems. Three patients with bleeding "volcano-like" ulcers were diagnosed by combined endoscopic "salvage" cytology and surgical biopsy as having metastatic submucosal lesions from hematologic spread. The combination of endoscopic appearance, clinical findings, and tissue and cytologic examination can lead to the correct diagnosis. The results from these cases support the utility of this cytologic technique in combination with biopsy in this clinical setting. 
Selective uptake of toxic nucleoside (125IUdR) by resistant cancer. We report uptake of a thymidine analogue 125-Iodine-5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (125IUdR) by nude mice bearing human xenografts of choriocarcinoma or colonic cancer. When 125IUdR was given alone, uptake by intestinal tissues was 5-10 times greater than by the tumours as measured by tissue gamma counting. This ratio was reversed when hydroxyurea or cytosine arabinoside were used as inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase and were given in combination with 5-fluorouracil or methotrexate to inhibit thymidine synthesis shortly before injecting 125IUdR. Counting the radioactivity in tissues removed 24 hours after 125IUdR gave tumour to highest normal tissue ratios of up to 15:1, but the corresponding nuclear grain counts, which is probably a more reliable indicator of selective uptake into DNA, were in excess of 100:1. The addition of unlabelled IUdR to the regimen only reduced the uptake of 125IUdR when given in relatively large amounts. For this approach to be exploited it is concluded that the tumour must be resistant at the cell level to the inhibitor of DNA synthesis either de novo or as a result of prior exposure to it. This inhibitor can then be used to block uptake of the potentially toxic nucleoside analogue by normal renewal tissues while it is taken up by the resistant cancer cells. By inhibiting synthesis of the corresponding normal nucleosides with inhibitors to which the cancer cells are not resistant, incorporation of the toxic analogues into tumour DNA was enhanced. Although 125IUdR is a convenient agent for exploring this approach and is highly cytotoxic when incorporated in DNA, the clinical potential of reverse role chemotherapy probably lies with the development of toxic non-radioactive nucleoside analogues. 
Malignant melanoma of the oral cavity. A case report. The oral cavity is a rare location for the development of primary malignant melanoma. Less than 2% of all malignant melanomas develop in the region. A case report is presented, illustrating the management in the site of the palate, together with a review of the relevant literature. 
Immunocytochemical estrogen and progestin receptor assays in breast cancer with monoclonal antibodies. Histopathologic, demographic, and biochemical correlations and relationship to endocrine response and survival. Breast cancer specimens from 600 women were assayed for estrogen receptors (ER) using an immunocytochemical assay (ICA) employing the monoclonal antiestrophilin antibody H222 Sp gamma. Results showed significant correlation with biochemical ER determinations as well as with tumor grade and menopausal status. In 449 cases, results of progesterone receptor assay by ICA using the monoclonal anti-PgR antibody KD 68, also correlated significantly with biochemical PgR measurements. The ERICA/PgRICA positivity was significantly more frequent in postmenopausal white women. Colloid carcinomas were most likely to be ERICA positive and PgRICA positive whereas medullary carcinomas were most often negative. In 47 patients with advanced mammary carcinoma, results of ERICA and PgRICA were more closely related to endocrine response than those of ER and PgR by dextran-coated charcoal assay (DCC). In 339 women with Stage I or Stage II breast cancer, ERICA was significantly associated with disease-free survival. Analysis by Cox's proportional hazard model, however, showed PgRICA to be the best predictor of survival and disease-free survival in 197 women at the same stages of disease. These data indicate that ICA is more predictive of prognosis than biochemical ER and PgR. The ease of ICA performance coupled with these results indicate that the method is an acceptable substitute for DCC in analyzing breast cancers for ER/PgR. 
Testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation: detection of steroid hormone receptors as a possible basis for tumour development and therapeutic management. A testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation, typical of granulosa cell tumours of the adult type, was investigated immunohistologically on snap frozen and paraffin wax embedded material. The predominance of vimentin and the additional expression of cytokeratin subtypes 8 and 18, as well as the negative staining for epithelial membrane antigen, accorded with results previously reported, for ovarian granulosa cell tumours; the lack of expression of desmoplakin, however, was a distinctive feature. Together with negative staining for leucocyte common antigen, the antigen pattern facilitates the differential diagnosis between granulosa cell tumour and undifferentiated carcinoma or gonadal lymphoma, although its suitability for differentiating within the group of gonadal stromal tumours seems to be limited. The small growth fraction, shown by the monoclonal antibody Ki-67, is typical of the clinical behaviour of granulosa cell tumours. The expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors, also recently found in testicular Leydig cell tumours, may provoke new approaches to the management of testicular granulosa cell tumours, as well as a new hypothesis on the development of these tumours. 
Abnormal vitamin B6 status in childhood leukemia. Vitamin B6 is involved in many biological processes of potential relevance to carcinogenesis and tumor growth, including DNA synthesis and maintenance of immunocompetence, yet very little information exists on B6 nutritional status in childhood leukemia. Using a radioenzymatic assay, the authors measured plasma pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), the biologically active form of B6, in 11 newly diagnosed untreated children with leukemia and 11 age-matched controls. The children with leukemia had significantly lower PLP levels than the controls. In 26 additional leukemia patients and 26 additional controls, a high-performance liquid chromatography assay also demonstrated lower plasma PLP levels in childhood leukemia compared with controls. These differences were significant for both acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and for acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL). The PLP values did not correlate with indices of leukemia cell burden, but did correlate with reported B6 intake, suggesting that illness-related diet changes are at least partially responsible for the low PLP levels. Before any chemotherapy, overall nutritional status was suboptimal in 53% of ALL cases and 57% of ANLL cases. Newly diagnosed children with leukemia have suboptimal overall nutrition as well as suboptimal vitamin B6 status. 
Effective destruction of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 3 at 100 degrees C using the Semm cold coagulator: 14 years experience A total of 1628 women with CIN 3 treated with the Semm cold coagulator between 1975 and 1989 was followed primarily by cytology. The standard suitability criteria for ablation were adhered to except that patients were treated at their first visit when the colposcopist expected that the diagnosis would be no worse than CIN 3. Overall 97% of the women were treated at their first visit. In 30 women (2%) the histology was glandular or worse than expected, but 22 of these showed no persistent cervical disease subsequently. Follow-up was achieved for 87% at 10 years. In actuarial terms the primary success rate was 95% at 1 year and 92% at 5 years, it was similar for all age groups. Repeat cold-coagulation for persistent/recurrent CIN 3 was less successful and is not advised. The outcome for 226 pregnancies established after treatment is known. The rates for miscarriage, preterm or operative delivery were not increased. Cold-coagulation of CIN 3 at 100 degrees C as performed by us is as effective as any other treatment and calls into question the need for more expensive practices. 
Correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity and clinical effect in carcinoma of the esophagus. The correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity evaluated by an in vitro succinate dehydrogenase inhibition (SDI) test and the histopathologic effects of hyperthermochemoradiotherapy (HCR therapy) were investigated in 43 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus. The succinate dehydrogenase (SD) activity of tissue fragments taken at biopsy was assayed after exposure to heat (43 degrees C.) and radiation (6 grays) was done. The sensitivity to radiation plus heat treatment was estimated by the percentage of SD activity of the treated cells, compared with that of the control cells. The 43 patients were divided into three groups according to the degree of SD activity after exposure to radiation plus heat treatment. The SD activity was less than 50 per cent in group 1 (highly sensitive), between 50 and 70 per cent in group 2 (moderately sensitive), more than 70 per cent in group 3 (less sensitive). Eighteen of 20 in group 1, 11 of 17 in group 2 and two of six in group 3 were classified as being histopathologically "effective" for HCR therapy. The two year survival rate for groups 1, 2 and 3 were 55.5, 34.9 and zero per cent, respectively, while there were no statistical differences with regard to prognostic factors. These data suggest that in vitro activities of SD correlate well with the clinical effectiveness of HCR therapy. Therefore, it is recommended that a SD inhibition test be included among the guidelines for clinical management. 
Tyrosine kinase and control of cell proliferation. The usefulness of phosphotyrosine antibodies for the detection of physiologically regulated or deregulated tyrosine kinases is discussed in this report. This rather rare enzymatic activity is shared by receptors for some polypeptide growth factors and by the products of Class 1 oncogenes. The antibodies are able to detect proteins phosphorylated on tyrosine in fibroblasts stimulated with growth factors such as EGF and PDGF. The major phosphorylated protein species are the receptors themselves, which undergo phosphorylation only after the addition of the exogenous factor and only transiently. Phosphotyrosine antibodies were able to detect the products of the retroviral Class 1 oncogenes, which are endowed with deregulated tyrosine kinase activity. In fact, in these cases a constitutive phosphorylation of the relevant proteins was observed, which occurred continuously and independently of the presence or lack of exogenous ligands. A tyrosine kinase constitutively activated in human gastric carcinoma cells was detected by P-Tyr antibodies. This molecule has been characterized at the molecular level, and the mechanisms responsible for its enzymatic activation have been investigated. The question of whether the tyrosine kinase identified is responsible for the induction and the maintenance of the transformed phenotype in gastric carcinomas remains to be answered. It is reasonable to suggest that this might be the case by analogy with other situations such as Class 1 oncogenes activated by transduction by retroviruses, abnormal expression of EGF receptors, or deregulated activity of c-abl-encoded proteins in chronic myelogenous leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Thus, the search for deregulated kinases by means of phosphotyrosine antibodies seems to be useful for identifying new activated oncogenes in clinical oncology. 
11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione: a marker of adrenal function in hirsutism. To assess the role of the adrenal glands in the development of hirsutism, levels of 11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione (11 beta-OHA), 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP), dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS), androstenedione (delta 4A), and free and total testosterone (T) were measured in 63 hirsute females and 30 control patients. Six of the hirsute patients had basal levels of 11 beta-OHA and 17-OHP and responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone that were significantly greater than these values in controls and the other hirsute women. These women were designated as having an adrenal source for their hirsutism. Women with polycystic ovarian syndrome and idiopathic hirsutism had normal values of 11 beta-OHA and 17-OHP. Levels of total and free T, DHEAS and delta 4A were significantly higher than control values in all of the hirsute women. This study demonstrates that 11 beta-OHA can be used as a marker to assess the adrenal contribution to hirsutism. 
Pseudocyst of the auricle: successful treatment with intracartilaginous trichloroacetic acid and button bolsters. Pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic, noninflammatory cystic swelling that typically involves the anthelix of the ear and results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity. We report a patient with a recurrent pseudocyst of the auricle and describe a new surgical technique for treating this condition by applying 50% trichloroacetic acid to the intracartilaginous cavity and utilizing external button bolsters for compressive therapy. This therapeutic approach is simple to perform in the office, results in permanent resolution of the pseudocyst, preserves the normal architecture of the external ear, and provides excellent postoperative and long-term cosmetic results. 
Expression of the MDR1 gene in human gastric and colorectal carcinomas. We measured expression of the MDR1 gene (also known as the PGY1 gene) in the human gastrointestinal tract. MDR1 messenger RNA (mRNA) levels were elevated in 13 of 15 colorectal carcinoma specimens and in six of 13 gastric carcinoma specimens. Well-differentiated colorectal carcinomas contained significantly higher concentrations of MDR1 mRNA than moderately differentiated colorectal carcinomas. Similarly, moderately differentiated gastric carcinomas contained higher concentrations of MDR1 mRNA than poorly differentiated gastric carcinomas. MDR1 gene expression in normal colorectal and gastric tissues adjacent to carcinomas was similar to that in the carcinomas. MDR1 gene expression in xenografts of colorectal and gastric carcinomas in nude mice was also investigated. Elevated expression of the MDR1 gene was seen in only four of 18 xenografts of colorectal carcinoma and was not seen in any xenografts of gastric carcinoma. P-glycoprotein was distributed over the luminal surface of the colorectal carcinoma. These results imply that the higher levels of MDR1 mRNA found in well-differentiated carcinomas derived from colorectal tissues are the results of increased expression of the MDR1 gene in the luminal surface cells. The level of expression of the MDR1 gene in colorectal and gastric carcinomas appears to correlate with the degree of differentiation and also appears to be affected by transplantation into nude mice. 
Bcr/abl recombinant DNA analysis versus karyotype in the diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of chronic myeloid leukemia. Karyotype and bcr/abl recombinant DNA analyses are two means of detecting the chromosomal aberration in chronic myeloid leukemia. The authors compared these two methods in a retrospective study of 36 patients with CML in which they found the bcr/abl DNA recombinant event in 100% (29 of 29) of those patients who had the Philadelphia chromosome. To achieve this sensitivity, a battery of two bcr probes and three restriction enzymes is necessary. The authors propose a sequential algorithm for efficient use of these probes and enzymes. In 76% of the patients, bcr/abl rearrangement can be detected with a Bgl II digest and a 3' commercial probe. An additional 21% of patients can be detected by a second assay in which the same membrane is rehybridized to a 3' and 5' combination bcr probe. One patient (3%) required an additional restriction enzyme digest with BamH I to detect the recombinant event by the same 3' probe. Karyotype analysis is used to determine cytogenetic remission in patients with CML under therapy. The authors studied the use of DNA analysis by the Southern blot technique to detect a decrease in the relative number of leukemic cells. By dilution studies and densitometric scanning of autoradiographs, the authors were able to detect a 15% decrease in the relative number of cells having the bcr/abl recombinant event. The authors report the preliminary results of three patients in whom they compared the karyotype and recombinant DNA analysis at multiple time points in their clinical course. In conclusion, the bcr/abl recombinant DNA analysis is superior to karyotype for the diagnosis of CML and can be used for monitoring treated patients. 
Forces of change in the health care system. Implications for cancer care in the 1990s. Dramatic changes will occur in the health care system during the 1990s which will profoundly affect the delivery of care for cancer. Perhaps the most important factor is the aging of the population. As the proportion of people who achieve old age increases, the absolute prevalence and incidence of cancer will increase despite improved treatment techniques. This phenomenon will increase health care expenditures despite ongoing efforts to control costs. Second, there will be continuing efforts at cost control and increased emphasis on quality assurance and outcomes by third party payers. Providers will be scrutinized and compared with one another. The large payers of the nation's health care bills will demand proof of outcome and cost leading to bidding by providers and payment only to those who have the best outcome for the least money. Third, there will be an increasing emphasis on prevention and screening, in public health policy, an approach that may conflict with personal freedom. Fourth, there will be increasing deliberations and questions about the ethics of the health care system and treatment decisions. There will be continuing debate about the need for a rationing of health care and the right of individual privacy versus the states' right to preserve life. These changes will impact on all health care professionals whose practice includes patients with cancer. 
Carboplatin in childhood brain tumors. A Children's Cancer Study Group Phase II trial. Between October 1985 and March 1988, Children's Cancer Study Group institutions entered 95 patients with recurrent brain tumors into a Phase II trial of carboplatin 560 mg/m2 every 4 weeks. Complete or partial responses were observed for one of 19 evaluable children with brainstem glioma, two of 14 with ependymoma, six of 19 with medulloblastoma or central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET), and none of 15 with high-grade astrocytoma. Of 33 children with medulloblastoma, ependymoma, or central nervous system PNET, five of 12 with no prior cisplatin exposure had responses, and two of 21 with prior cisplatin exposure had responses (P = 0.03). Thirty-four percent of patients had absolute neutrophil count nadirs less than 500/microliters, and 37% had platelet count nadirs less than 25,000/microliters. Sixteen percent had moderate to severe otoxicity, 10% had nausea and vomiting, and none had nephrotoxicity. 
Prognostic factors and value of adjunctive nephrectomy in patients with stage IV renal cell carcinoma. We reviewed 57 cases of Stage IV renal cell carcinoma to clarify the factors influencing prognosis and to evaluate the value of nephrectomy. Cumulative survival from the initial diagnosis was analyzed with respect to the patients' age, sex, side of primary tumor, initial performance status (PS), site of metastasis, and nephrectomy. Overall survival for the patients was 51 percent at one year, 22 percent at three years, and 11 percent at five years. Age, sex, and side of primary tumor had no influence on survival. Improved survival was correlated with good PS, metastases limited to single organ, and removal of the primary tumor. With regard to histopathologic features in nephrectomized patients, low grade and stage were correlated with longer survival. These factors should be considered in the analysis of results of future clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. 
Natural history of cardiac rhabdomyoma in infancy and childhood. Although spontaneous regression of cardiac rhabdomyoma has been reported, prognosis is still considered to be poor and surgery continues to be indicated. The experience with rhabdomyoma diagnosed in live infants over a 20-year period was reviewed. Diagnosis by angiography or echocardiography was accepted only if multiple tumors were present or if tuberous sclerosis was also diagnosed. Nine patients (3 diagnosed prenatally and the remaining 6 at age less than 8 months) were identified as having a total of 24 tumors. Measurements in 2 planes demonstrated at least some evidence of regression in 24 patients (100%), with 20 of 24 having complete resolution. One patient required delayed surgery for excision of a subaortic ridge that appeared at the site of a resolved tumor. Our findings suggest that pediatric cardiac rhabdomyoma is most often a benign condition in which spontaneous regression is the rule. Surgery is recommended only for patients with refractory dysrhythmias or severe hemodynamic compromise. 
The relationship of Papanicolaou testing and contacts with the medical care system to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer. The relationship of Papanicolaou (Pap) testing and physician visits to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer was assessed by interviews with 149 women with invasive cervical cancer and 214 women with in situ cervical cancer. A significantly smaller percent of study subjects with invasive disease than in situ disease had at least one Pap test in the 3 years prior to diagnosis (age- and race-adjusted odds ratio: 3.38). The two groups did not differ in visits to a physician for other reasons during this period. Pap testing decreased with increasing age for both groups, but not physician visits. While 65% percent of the subjects with invasive disease aged between 65 and 79 years had never had a Pap test until diagnosis, 88% had seen a physician in the preceding 3 years. Women with regional or distant invasive disease were least likely to have had Pap tests, and, within this group, those aged between 35 and 64 years were also least likely to have seen a physician. Strategies for early detection must reflect missed opportunities and the need to bring those not receiving care into the system. 
Immunohistologic detection of the epidermal growth factor receptor in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) expression was studied immunohistologically in 38 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The EGF-R was faintly expressed in basal and parabasal layers of normal esophageal epithelia and in cancer nests of 20 patients; it was strongly expressed in all areas of dysplastic epithelia and in cancer nests of 18 patients. The patients with strongly expressed EGF-R had lymph node metastases more frequently, and their prognosis was poorer than those with faintly expressed EGF-R. The EGF-R expression showed a mosaic pattern in 17 patients and a diffuse pattern in 21 patients. The patients with a mosaic pattern had lymph node metastases more frequently and a worse prognosis than those with a diffuse pattern. Expression of EGF-R in metastatic lymph nodes was similar to that in strongly expressing areas of primary cancers with a mosaic pattern. Thus EGF-R expression may be an important indicator for malignancies of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas because primary cancer cells with strongly expressed EGF-R metastasize to lymph nodes more frequently. 
Effects of site-directed mutagenesis at residues cysteine-31 and cysteine-184 on lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity. Native lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT; phosphatidylcholine-sterol acyltransferase; phosphatidylcholine:sterol O-acyltransferase, EC 2.3.1.43) protein, and LCAT in which either or both of the enzyme free cysteines had been replaced with glycine residues by site-directed mutagenesis, has been expressed in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells stably transfected with the human LCAT gene. The mass of LCAT secreted, determined by immunoassay, did not differ in the native and mutant species. LCAT specific activity was also unchanged in the mutant species. In particular, the cysteine-free double mutant, in which Cys-31 and Cys-184 had both been replaced, was fully active in the synthesis of cholesteryl esters. This result is not consistent with a catalytic role for LCAT free cysteine residues. The classical inhibitor of LCAT activity, 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB), which strongly (89%) inhibited the native enzyme, had partial (45%) inhibitory activity with mutant enzyme species containing a single -SH residue, while the double mutant was not significantly inhibited by DTNB. These data are interpreted to suggest that Cys-31 and Cys-184 are vicinal both to each other and to the "interfacial binding site" at residues 177-182, and that DTNB exerts its effect by steric inhibition. 
Distribution of immunoglobulins and secretory component in gastric cancer of the aged. The secretory immune system plays an important role in the local humoral immunity of the gastrointestinal tract. In order to evaluate humoral immunity in gastric cancer, distribution of immunoglobulins (Ig) and secretory component was immunohistochemically studied in 74 early and 15 advanced primary gastric cancers. In non-cancerous gastric mucosa, IgA and IgM, and secretory component were mainly identified in the cytoplasm of the intestinal metaplasia. In early gastric cancer of well-differentiated type, the localization of IgA and IgM, and secretory component was similar to that of intestinal metaplasia. In advanced gastric cancer, they were faintly observed and showed low positivity. The number of Ig-containing cells infiltrating cancerous stroma was enumerated. Immunoglobulin A-containing cells were dominant in the stroma of early gastric cancer. On the other hand, there were few Ig-containing cells in the stroma of advanced gastric cancer, and the number of IgA-containing and IgM-containing cells was also decreased. These results suggest that local humoral immunity is suppressed in gastric cancer, especially in advanced gastric cancer. 
Liver fatty acid-binding protein: a marker for studying cellular differentiation in gut epithelial neoplasms. Human liver fatty acid binding protein is a 127 residue cytoplasmic protein synthesized in liver and in the intestinal epithelium. Previous studies of normal and transgenic mice indicated that the liver fatty acid-binding protein gene is a sensitive marker of enterocytic differentiation. This study shows the use of immunohistochemical methods to examine liver fatty acid-binding protein gene expression in normal human colonic epithelium, colonic villoglandular adenomas, nonmucinous and mucinous adenocarcinomas, and several types of noncolonic epithelial neoplasms. Cells containing liver fatty acid-binding protein were found in normal colonic epithelium, in two thirds of colorectal villoglandular adenomas and nonmucinous adenocarcinomas, and in one third of mucinous adenocarcinomas but not in noncolonic, nonhepatic carcinomas. All liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenomas and adenocarcinomas contained patches of immunoreactive cells distributed among histologically identical patches of cells without liver fatty acid-binding protein immunoreactivity. This "mosaicism" was also found in metastases from liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenocarcinomas. Immunostaining of these liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive tissues for carcinoembryonic antigen did not show a mosaic cellular pattern in its expression. These data suggest that within a given neoplasm, differences exist in the differentiation programs of monoclonally-derived, malignant colonic epithelial cells and that liver fatty acid-binding protein is a useful marker for operationally defining these subpopulations. Liver fatty acid-binding protein is also a potentially useful diagnostic marker for colorectal and hepatic carcinomas. 
Oral diseases in older adults [clinical conference] In the case presented, a 65-year-old man with multiple dental, medical, and social problems benefited from interdisciplinary assessment and treatment. Despite his poor oral-health status and oral-health behaviors upon admission, patient education and dental therapy resulted in improved daily oral hygiene, elimination of oral diseases, and improved oral function. The overall quality of life of any individual, particularly an older one, can be enhanced through oral-disease prevention, health promotion, and, when indicated, dental therapy. This patient was treated in a hospital environment with a well-established team approach to geriatric care. However, regardless of the care setting, the physician can play a key role in improving the oral health status and quality of life of older adults by including an oral screening examination as part of the periodic comprehensive geriatric assessment, recognizing oral pathology, requesting dental consultations and encouraging appropriate dental service utilization. 
Nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas. For the development of renal cell carcinomas, it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p, and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost. We have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors. An unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration. We developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13, 3p11.2, 5q22, and 8q11.2. Subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either (i) in one step or (ii) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment. This general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors. 
Squamous cell carcinoma-antigen for detection of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinoma after primary treatment: a preliminary report. This study evaluated the efficacy of using the periodic measurement of the serum level of squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC-antigen) for determining the local recurrence and/or metastasis of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinomas after primary treatment. It was found that at the time of clinical recognition of recurrence, the SCC-antigen level was normal, but metastasis to regional lymph nodes or to remote organs generally was accompanied by an increase of SCC-antigen. Changes in the SCC-antigen level with mucoepidermoid carcinoma seemed to be less sensitive than with squamous cell carcinoma. 
Rationale for different chemotherapeutic and radiation therapy strategies in cancer management. The two primary therapeutic strategies in cancer have been to give either chemotherapy and radiation therapy together or give a complete course of one treatment modality before starting the second. Clinical studies show that toxicity has been one of the major deterrents to substantial improvements in cancer management when the two modalities are administered together. On the other hand, the prolonged time necessary to administer all of one modality followed by the other makes it likely that repopulation of the tumor during sequential treatment will diminish therapeutic effectiveness. A third strategy of giving chemotherapy and radiation therapy has been developed. This new regimen was designed to give chemotherapy initially, maintain the chemotherapy schedule to avoid any reduction in its effectiveness, and add radiation therapy as early as possible in between courses of chemotherapy to minimize the development of cross resistance. One of the primary objectives of alternating chemotherapy and radiation therapy is to increase the therapeutic index by reducing toxicity without a significant reduction in therapeutic effectiveness. Recent clinical, experimental, and theoretic results with radiation therapy and chemotherapy for cancer management emphasize the necessity of giving both modalities with the greatest intensity possible in the initial phase of induction therapy. Cancer treatment scheduling determines the toxicity and thereby limits the dose intensity that can be tolerated. Scheduling may also govern the antitumor effect directly; however, normal host tissue makes the determination of the direct effects on the tumor difficult, if not impossible, in clinical studies. Well-defined experimental solid-tumor systems provide the means for determining directly the relationship between toxicity and antitumor effects in relation to tumor burden and total therapeutic dose. In addition, its relationship to dose intensity and scheduling can be determined by the using more sophisticated research techniques, such as response surface methods. Well-defined clinical protocols to determine how to interact chemotherapy with radiation therapy more effectively hold considerable potential for rapid improvement in treatment of radiosensitive and chemosensitive cancers. 
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in high-grade ductal and medullary, but not in lobular breast carcinomas. Two hundred sixty-two invasive breast carcinomas dating from 1979 to 1984 were tested for vimentin and keratin on formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded sections. None of 26 lobular carcinomas expressed vimentin. Vimentin expression in 10% or more of tumor cells was found in 78% of medullary (14 of 18), in 16% of ductal not otherwise specified (NOS) (35 of 214), and in two of four mucinous carcinomas. A further seven tumors showed vimentin expression in less than 1% to 10% of the cells. Vimentin was expressed in tumor cells of 30% (28 of 93) of grade III invasive ductal NOS carcinomas versus 7% (7 of 105) of grade II and 0% of grade I carcinomas (0 of 10). Vimentin was found to be preferentially expressed in tumors growing in broad, often anastomosing bands or sheets with extensive necrosis, scanty supportive stroma, high nuclear grade, and numerous mitoses. The authors conclude that vimentin is not detected in lobular carcinomas, but is preferentially expressed in medullary and in high-grade ductal NOS breast carcinomas. 
Correlates of survival and the Daumas-Duport grading system for astrocytomas. In order to examine the correlation between prognosis and the histological features of nuclear atypia, mitosis, endothelial proliferation, and necrosis in supratentorial adult astrocytomas, the authors reviewed 251 such cases treated at the Massachusetts General Hospital between 1972 and 1980. One point was given for the presence of each feature. The total number of features was translated into a grade as follows: none of the four features = Grade 1 (one patient), one feature = Grade 2 (36 patients), two features = Grade 3 (33 patients), and three or four features = Grade 4 (181 patients). The period of survival was significantly associated with grade, the presence or absence of each of the four histological features, patient's age, type of operation, radiation therapy, and extent of tumor (log rank, p less than 0.05). The variables associated with grade were age (p less than 0.001) and radiation therapy (p less than 0.02). After adjustment for these variables using a Cox proportional-hazards model, the difference in overall survival time between patients in Grades 2 and 3 was not statistically significant. When comparable groups of patients were examined in terms of age or receipt of radiation therapy, the median survival times differed markedly. Patients 50 years of age or less had a median survival time of 68 months (Grade 2 tumors), 29 months (Grade 3 tumors), and 13 months (Grade 4 tumors). Patients over 50 years of age had a median survival time of 6 months (Grade 2 and 4 tumors) and 9 months (Grade 3 tumors). Those patients who had received radiation therapy had a median survival time of 68 months (Grade 2 tumors), 21 months (Grade 3 tumors), and 11 months (Grade 4 tumors). Those patients who did not receive radiation therapy had a median survival time of 1 month (Grade 2 tumors) and 2 months (Grade 3 and 4 tumors); over half of these patients died within 2 months of surgery. This grading system, originally proposed by Daumas-Duport, et al., is simple, objective, and reproducible, and correlates well with survival times. The authors recommend that astrocytomas be graded on a scale of 1 to 4, with Grade 1 reserved for the rare adult supratentorial astrocytoma with none of the four histological features. 
Localization of basic fibroblast growth factor mRNA in melanocytic lesions by in situ hybridization. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a mitogen for normal human melanocytes and keratinocytes in culture. Experiments in vitro suggest that keratinocytes supply bFGF to melanocytes through a paracrine mechanism and that the aberrant expression of bFGF in melanomas confers growth independence from bFGF-producing cells. To determine whether bFGF is expressed in vivo, we examined a series of benign and malignant melanocytic lesions in situ using bFGF riboprobes on tissue sections, and correlated bFGF expression with histologic phenotype. Seventeen melanocytic neoplasms were studied, including four common acquired nevi, four dysplastic nevi, four primary malignant melanomas, and five metastatic melanomas. Nevic cells in benign intradermal nevi showed low signal intensity (1+), whereas compound and dysplastic nevi showed 2+ to 3+ expression in the junctional nevic cell population and 1+ expression in the dermal nevic cell population. Melanocytes in primary melanomas had intermediate (2+) and those in metastatic melanomas had low (1+) levels of bFGF gene transcripts. Fibroblasts expressed high levels (3+) and epidermal and adnexal keratinocytes moderate (2+) levels of bFGF in all cases studied. Basic FGF expression in endothelial cells, known to produce and respond to this growth factor in vitro, was lower than that in the fibroblast and keratinocyte cell population and, in 10 of 17 cases, no bFGF mRNA was detectable. This study shows that bFGF is expressed in nevomelanocytes in vivo in all melanocytic lesions studied and thus cannot be used as a marker for transformation. The presence of bFGF gene transcripts in the various dermal cell types and in keratinocytes suggests that it may act as an autocrine and paracrine growth factor in regulating cellular proliferation in the skin. 
The effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests. Serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation, which so often accompany systemic illness, have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy. We have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests: a decreased serum T3 concentration; normal or, in critically ill patients, a low total serum T4 level; and a normal free T4 concentration. Another, less frequent pattern (high total and free T4 with a normal serum T3) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient. With the recent advent of sensitive assays for TSH and better methods for serum free T4, it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients; the vast majority are euthyroid. Certain drugs confound the picture. The most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids, both of which suppress TSH secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism. Other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices (e.g., amiodarone). Knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness, starvation, and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease. 
Systemic preoperative chemotherapy with cisplatin, methotrexate and vinblastine for locally advanced bladder cancer: local tumor response and early followup results. A total of 44 patients with infiltrating, locally advanced bladder cancer (stages T 3a-b, T 4a-b and N+/N0) were treated with the systemic chemotherapy regimen of cisplatin, methotrexate and vinblastine (CMV) in the neoadjuvant setting, of whom 39 were evaluable for response. After planned radical cystectomy and 2 to 3 cycles of chemotherapy no tumor was found on the pathological specimen of 4 patients (10%), the tumor was downstaged in 19 (49%) and no change was observed in 16 (41%). Toxicity included leukopenia in 29 patients (66%), 1 of whom died of granulocytopenic sepsis, nausea and vomiting in 39 (89%) and mild to moderate mucositis in 18 (41%). Median followup is 12 months with a range of 6 to 39 months. Of 32 patients followed for longer than 6 months 6 (19%) experienced progression or recurrence of disease. We conclude that preoperative CMV chemotherapy is effective in inducing downstaging of the tumor, although systemic toxicity limits its use to cautiously selected patients. 
Osteosarcoma of the spermatic cord. Malignant tumors of the spermatic cord are rare but the vast majority of these tumors are sarcomas. We report on a patient with osteosarcoma arising in the spermatic cord. Left radical orchiectomy with high dissection of the spermatic cord was performed, and the patient remains free of recurrence 2 years postoperatively. We could find no previous discussion or report of this tumor. 
Expression of laminin and its receptor LBP-32 in human and rat hepatoma cells. Dramatic cellular changes that occur during hepatocarcinogenesis are associated with major alterations in extracellular matrix formation and in the relationships between cells and their microenvironment. We have studied the expression of laminin, the major noncollagenous glycoprotein of basement membrane, and the laminin receptor 32 kD laminin-binding protein in two rat (Faza 967 and HTC) and two human (HepG2 and HBGC2) hepatoma cell lines that express a variety of liver-specific functions. Laminin was found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of these cells when the indirect immunoperoxidase method and electron microscopic examination were used. Radiolabeled laminin, immunoprecipitated from both media and cell extracts, was resolved by electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel in two major polypeptides that comigrated with the A and B subunits from Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm tumor laminin. Immunoblot analysis showed that the Mr = 400,000 polypeptide did not correspond to the A subunit of laminin. Northern blot analyses demonstrated large amounts of B1 and B2 mRNAs but no A chain mRNA. We conclude that the tumor cells produce the laminin B chains only. In contrast, normal adult hepatocytes from either man or rat lacked laminin mRNAs, whereas in 1-day primary culture, B chain mRNAs became detectable. The steady-state level of 32 kD laminin-binding protein mRNA was 10-fold and threefold higher in rat hepatoma cells than in freshly isolated and 1-day cultured normal rat hepatocytes, respectively. In human hepatocytes, the steady-state levels of 32 kD laminin-binding protein mRNAs varied depending on the donor and never reached the level of the human hepatoma cells. 
Trends in basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma of the skin from 1973 through 1987. Major increases have occurred in the incidence of basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, as well as in cutaneous malignant melanoma during the period 1973 through 1987 in British Columbia. The greatest increases in basal and squamous cell carcinomas are on the head and neck. This indicates that exposure to sunlight is the major causative factor. The greatest increase in melanoma is on the trunk in men and on the lower limbs in women. The dramatic increases in nonmelanoma skin cancers in British Columbia, a relatively low sunlight area, suggest that major prevention programs are needed in areas that are not considered "sunspots.". 
Malignant melanoma occurring during pregnancy: a report of the Northern Israel Oncology Center (1968-1988). Medical records of seven patients treated within a 20 year period for malignant melanoma during pregnancy were reviewed. No significant detrimental prognostic effects could be attributed to pregnancy. The current literature on melanoma and pregnancy is discussed. Based on this, pregnancy seems not to be contraindicated in melanoma patients. 
Motility factor produced by malignant glioma cells: role in tumor invasion. To better understand the cellular mechanism of tumor invasion, the production of a cell motility-stimulating factor by malignant glioma cells was studied in vitro. Serum-free conditioned media from cultures of rat C6 and human T98G cell lines contained a factor that stimulated the locomotion of the producer cells. This factor was termed the "glioma-derived motility factor." The glioma-derived motility factor is a heat-labile protein with a molecular weight greater than 10 kD and has relative stability to acid. The factor showed not only chemotactic activity but also chemokinetic (stimulated random locomotion) activity in the two types of glioma cells studied. Although glioma-derived motility factors in conditioned media obtained from two different cell origins are likely to be the same, chemokinetic migration of T98G cells to their conditioned medium was much stronger than that of C6 cells to theirs. Coincubation of cells with cytochalasin B, which disrupts the assembly of cellular actin microfilaments, almost completely inhibited the cell migration stimulated by glioma-derived motility factor. Cytochalasin B also induced marked alterations in cell morphology, including cell retraction and arborization, while the drug did not affect cell attachment to culture dishes. These results indicate that glioma cells produce a motility factor which may play a role particularly when tumor cells are detached and migrate away from the original tumor mass, thus promoting tumor invasion. Also, glioma cell migration stimulated by the motility factor requires the normal organization of cytoskeletons such as actin microfilaments. 
Synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia. Diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma (D-WDLL) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses. Dating back more than one century, reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians. A case of synchronous D-WDLL and gastric adenocarcinoma, presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia, is presented. The case and literature are reviewed. 
Spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage: imaging and management. We report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease, including renal cell carcinoma (5), angiomyolipoma (2), malignant melanoma (1), periarteritis nodosa (1) and severe portal hypertension (1). The etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography (CT) in 5 cases (50%), including 2 renal cell carcinomas, 1 angiomyolipoma, 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension. Arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases (80%) including the case of vasculitis. CT combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood. CT should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected. Arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected. If a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable, followup thin slice CT should be performed. 
Validation of intermediate end points in cancer research. Investigations using intermediate end points as cancer surrogates are quicker, smaller, and less expensive than studies that use malignancy as the end point. We present a strategy for determining whether a given biomarker is a valid intermediate end point between an exposure and incidence of cancer. Candidate intermediate end points may be selected from case series, ecologic studies, and animal experiments. Prospective cohort and sometimes case-control studies may be used to quantify the intermediate end point-cancer association. The most appropriate measure of this association is the attributable proportion. The intermediate end point is a valid cancer surrogate if the attributable proportion is close to 1.0, but not if it is close to 0. Usually, the attributable proportion is close to neither 1.0 nor 0; in this case, valid surrogacy requires that the intermediate end point mediate an established exposure-cancer relation. This would in turn imply that the exposure effect would vanish if adjusted for the intermediate end point. We discuss the relative advantages of intervention and observational studies for the validation of intermediate end points. This validation strategy also may be applied to intermediate end points for adverse reproductive outcomes and chronic diseases other than cancer. 
Assessment of "squamous cell carcinoma antigen" (SCC) as a marker of epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal. We measured squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC) in epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal in 66 patients. Samples were taken at diagnosis, before treatment, and during follow-up; 353 samples were analyzed. The positive threshold was taken as 2 ng/ml. At diagnosis, the sensitivity of the marker was 44 percent and its specificity 92 percent. In our series, the pretherapeutic level of SCC does not correlate with T as in Papillons' Clinical Staging System, but it does correlate with nodal invasion (P less than 0.05). It is of no prognostic value at the time of diagnosis. During follow-up, at relapse the level of SCC is 20.3 +/- 43 ng/ml. This increase is significant (P less than 0.01): the sensitivity of the marker is 77 percent. In patients who have relapsed, development of the illness correlates with the level of SCC, which is of prognostic value (P less than 0.01). In conclusion, the level of SCC should be associated with the clinical follow-up of patients with epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal. 
Bilateral malignant phyllodes tumours. We report a rare example of bilateral primary malignant phyllodes tumours. The diagnosis was supported by the identification of a benign epithelial element in each lesion. The case illustrates the typical dimorphic features of malignant phyllodes tumours. A contralateral tumour should not be regarded as metastatic without histological confirmation. 
Principles of treatment of pediatric solid tumors. Great strides have been made in the treatment of pediatric solid tumors over the last three decades. A multimodality approach involving a combination of surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy is now used in the treatment of these diseases. This article reviews the principles that guide the use of these modalities and the multidisciplinary approach used to integrate them into a coordinated treatment plan. The role of each modality in the control of local and systemic disease is described. Radiation treatment planning, dose fractionation, and toxicity are also discussed. 
Haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum. Angiosarcomas are extremely rare in the head and neck and the histological diagnosis is often difficult. We present a case of a haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum in a 33 year old male. The histological diagnosis and subsequent management are discussed. 
Razor-blade surgery. The razor blade can be a valuable tool in the performance of many minor surgical procedures. It is extremely sharp, flexible, inexpensive, readily available, and easy to use. The technique and specific applications are reviewed and discussed. 
Femoral mononeuropathy after radical prostatectomy. Femoral mononeuropathy is a recognized complication following abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy. Retractor injury and lithotomy position were postulated mechanisms. We report a femoral nerve lesion following a radical perineal prostatectomy. 
Squamous cell carcinoma in situ arising in an ovarian mature cystic teratoma. Report of one case with histopathologic, cytogenetic, and flow cytometric DNA content analysis. A squamous cell carcinoma in situ arose in an ovarian mature teratoma (ie, dermoid cyst) in a 62-year-old woman. Flow cytometric DNA content analysis of paraffin-embedded in situ carcinoma showed a normal DNA content with moderate to high proliferative activity (S-phase fraction estimate, 16% to 18%). Cytogenetic analysis of the in situ cancer and the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed a 46,XX karyotype. In addition, the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed homozygous chromosomal heteromorphisms, compared with heterozygous markers found in peripheral blood lymphocytes. These results show that this squamous cell carcinoma in situ was euploid and suggest that the mature cystic teratoma was derived from a single germ cell after meiosis I. 
Steroid cell tumor of the ovary in a child. An 8-year-old girl exhibited severe, progressive virilization of 2 years' duration associated with markedly elevated circulating testosterone concentrations. Based on her initial clinical presentation and results of a chemical evaluation, she was originally thought to have non-classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency, but her condition did not respond to corticosteroid therapy. Further evaluation confirmed the presence of an ovarian neoplasm. The excised ovary contained an attached gray-brown mass. Light microscopic and ultrastructural examination revealed the mass to be a steroid cell tumor. Because Reinke's crystals were not present, it was designated to be a steroid cell tumor not otherwise specified. This case represents one of 22 reported cases of steroid cell tumor occurring in children described in the literature, most of which have been associated with heterosexual precocity. To our knowledge, steroid cell tumors are benign when they occur in prepubertal children. Although they are rare, steroid cell tumors of the ovary should be considered in cases of childhood virilization. 
Experimental intravesical therapy for superficial transitional cell carcinoma in a rat bladder tumor model. A rodent bladder cancer model that is induced by intravesical instillation of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) was characterized. Cohorts of four to five week old female Fisher 344 rats received four biweekly 1.5 mg. doses of intravesical MNU and were sacrificed at various intervals. By week 13 all animals had flat atypia and/or papillary transitional cell tumors, and 67% of the lesions were moderately (grade II) or poorly differentiated (grade III). By week 20, 83% had gross muscle invasive tumors that eventually killed the host. A cohort of 40 MNU treated animals was subsequently treated commencing at week 17 after initiation of MNU with one of three intravesical six week regimens: 1) saline; 2) BCG (Tice strain); or 3) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (RTNF) plus adriamycin. There was no difference in animal survival or tumor growth in any group of animals commencing therapy at week 17. A second cohort of 107 animals commenced therapy at 13 weeks after initiation of MNU with one of five intravesical six week regimens: 1) intravesical BCG (Tice strain); 2) adriamycin; 3) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (RTNF); 4) RTNF plus adriamycin; or 5) BCG plus adriamycin. BCG, RTNF or adriamycin alone had no effect on tumor growth; however, BCG plus adriamycin and RTNF plus adriamycin commencing at week 13 significantly inhibited tumor growth and progression. In conclusion, this autochthonous intravesical rodent transitional cell carcinoma model appears useful for the following reasons: 1) it closely resembles human transitional cell carcinoma histologically and biologically in that all animals develop neoplastic changes in-situ that progress to muscle invasion and kill the host; 2) as with human bladder cancer these tumors do not respond to intravesical therapy if treated when tumor burden is large; however, tumor growth is inhibited when treated early; and 3) this model appears appropriate for screening and developing new intravesical treatments for superficial bladder cancer. 
Breast cancer: the military's experience at Wilford Hall USAF Medical Center. We reviewed the experience with breast cancer at Wilford Hall USAF Medical Center for the years 1978 through 1988. A total of 868 cases were identified in the Wilford Hall Tumor Registry; overall 5-year and 10-year survivals were 63% and 39%, respectively. Infiltrating ductal carcinoma represented the principal histologic category. The other predominant variants included invasive lobular carcinoma, lobular carcinoma in situ, and ductal carcinoma in situ. Until recently, most of these patients (90%) had modified radical mastectomy as their definitive surgical therapy, with chemotherapy reserved primarily for patients with advanced disease. 
Haemangiopericytoma of the temporal bone. Haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour with a widespread distribution. Although meningeal involvement is well recognized, only a few sporadic cases of temporal bone lesions have been documented, all with doubtful sites of origin. Late presentation together with the restrictive anatomy of this region often precludes its effective removal and even minimal residual disease may progress rapidly. A series of three such patients are presented in order to discuss the natural history, histological features and treatment of this disease. 
Defining the role of subtotal colectomy in the treatment of carcinoma of the colon. Seventy-two patients with colon cancer were treated by primary subtotal colectomy, including 23 patients with acute and subacute left colon obstruction. There were two operative deaths and no cases of disabling diarrhea. One death occurred in the group with colon obstruction. Other indications for subtotal colectomy included multiple polyps associated with the primary tumor (32), synchronous carcinomas (15), a previous transverse colostomy for obstruction (8), associated severe sigmoid diverticular disease (2), age less than 50 years with a positive family history (3), adherence of the sigmoid loop to a cecal tumor (2), and metachronous carcinoma (2). There were multiple indications in several patients. Subtotal colectomy has a defined role in a wide variety of clinical settings associated with colon cancer, including management of obstruction of the left and sigmoid colon, particularly if the proximal colon cannot be evaluated before operation by colonoscopy or barium enema. Segmental or regional colonic resections are appropriate if the entire colon can be evaluated before operation and no associated neoplasms are revealed. 
Immunoscintigraphy of ovarian cancer with indium-111-labeled OV-TL 3 F(ab')2 monoclonal antibody. The safety and diagnostic accuracy of immunoscintigraphy with the indium-111-labeled monoclonal antibody OV-TL 3 F(ab')2(111In-OV-TL 3 F(ab')2) for diagnosis and follow-up of ovarian cancer was prospectively studied in 31 patients. Planar and SPECT scintigraphy were performed up to 4 days after i.v. injection of 140 MBq 111In-OV-TL 3 F(ab')2. Surgical evaluation was possible in 22 out of 31 patients. Imaging results were compared with X-ray computed tomography, ultrasound, and CA 125 serum level using the histologically confirmed surgical findings as a "gold standard." Apart from a transient rash observed in two patients, no other immediate or delayed adverse reactions were observed. Within the surgically evaluated group, ovarian cancer lesions were detected in 16 out of 17 patients (94%). Of 45 distinct tumor deposits found at operation, 67% were detected and localized with immunoscintigraphy while X-ray computed tomography and ultrasound visualized 53% and 23%, respectively. 
The unique aspects of acute promyelocytic leukemia. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) accounts for approximately 10% of cases of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Distinctive features of this disorder at the time of diagnosis include leukopenia coexisting with a marrow replaced with granulated dysplastic promyelocytes, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, lack of Ia (HLA-DR) antigen expression, and translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17 (t[15;17]). Heparin is widely but not universally used to interfere with the coagulopathy during the initial phases of treatment. Serial bone marrow examinations during the induction period demonstrate the achievement of remission despite the persistence of malignant-appearing promyelocytes. Patients with APL are generally younger than those with other subtypes of AML, have a 70% to 80% likelihood of entering remission, and are thought to have a more favorable prognosis than other individuals with AML. Remission may be achieved with a conventional anthracycline-cytarabine combination, anthracycline alone, or, apparently, all-trans retinoic acid. Genes potentially important in myeloid differentiation such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and myeloperoxidase are located close to the breakpoint in the t(15;17) but have not been conclusively shown to be rearranged in the translocation. A better understanding of the unique aspects of APL may well shed light on the pathogenetic processes of AML. 
Radiographic microcalcification and parenchymal patterns as indicators of histologic "high-risk" benign breast disease. Breast tissue from a forensic autopsy series of 486 women (15 to 98 years of age) was studied radiographically and by histologic sampling. Prevalence of Wolfe P2/Dy parenchymal patterns decreased with age. Radiographic nonvascular microcalcification and histologic presence of marked ductal epithelial hyperplasia and lobular microcalcification increased with age. Both of these histologic parameters of increased risk for breast cancer correlated with the presence of radiographic microcalcification and Wolfe P2/Dy parenchymal pattern. The predictive value of the radiographic parameters for presence of "high-risk" proliferative fibrocystic change increased with age. 
Legislative influences on cancer care. Deficit reduction politics was a major force in policymaking in the 1980s and a pervasive fact of life in the development of health policy. The Medicare budget was habitually used to find savings for deficit reduction and reforms, such as how to address the problem of 31 to 37 million uninsured Americans, were postponed. The 101st Congress did produce major physician payment reforms and in the spring of 1990, the Pepper Commission issued its recommendations for access to care and long-term care. Less sweeping but significant proposals affecting cancer care were considered by Congress. For example, positive actions were taken on anti-smoking and food labeling proposals. Funding for the National Institutes of Health was increased, and there was a growing awareness of the threat to biomedical research presented by assaults on animal research facilities. 
DNA ploidy pattern in rectal carcinoid tumors. The nuclear DNA pattern of 22 rectal carcinoids was determined by cytophotometry of paraffin embedded tissues. The results were compared with clinical as well as histopathologic features of the tumor. Three of the carcinoids with synchronous or metachronous metastasis had aneuploid DNA pattern, whereas 19 tumors with no metastasis showed diploid DNA pattern. No other single clinical or pathologic feature of the tumor could predict more accurately the malignant potential and the subsequent course of the rectal carcinoid. It is concluded that DNA aneuploidy in rectal carcinoid tumors is not so rare as indicated by earlier studies and that it is a factor of significant prognostic value. 
Positive selection of candidate tumor-suppressor genes by subtractive hybridization. A positive selection system designed to identify and recover candidate tumor-suppressor genes is described. The system compares mRNA expression of genes from normal and tumor-derived human mammary epithelial cells grown in a special medium that supports similar growth rates of the two cell types. mRNAs uniquely expressed in normal cells are recovered as cDNAs after subtraction with mRNA from tumor cells. Seven different clones, from 0.6 to 4.8 kilobases in transcript size and including both rare and abundunt transcripts, were recovered in the first 23 clones analyzed. Among the isolated clones were genes encoding the gap-junction protein connexin 26, two different keratins, and glutathione-S-transferase pi, as well as an unknown gene in the S100 family of small calcium-binding proteins. In principle, tumor-suppressor genes include two classes: class I, in which loss of function results from mutation or deletion of DNA and class II, in which loss of function is from a regulatory block to expression. A class II suppressor gene is assumed to be regulated by a different suppressor gene that lost its function by mutation or deletion. Both classes of tumor-suppressor genes may provide valuable proteins with clinical applications in cancer diagnosis or therapy. Class II suppressors may be especially useful because the normal genes are present and their reexpression may be inducible by drugs or other treatments. 
Characterization of a factor-dependent acute leukemia cell line with translocation (3;3)(q21;q26). A strictly factor-dependent cell line (UCSD/AML1) was established from a patient with the syndrome of multilineage acute leukemia with high platelets. The patient's cells and the cell line karyotype were 45,XX,-7,t(3;3)(q21;q26), typical of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets. The cell line expresses CD34, CD7, TdT, and myeloid (CD13, CD14, CD33) and megakaryocyte/platelet (CD36, CD41, CD42b, CDw49b) antigens. In short-term culture, UCSD/AML1 cells proliferate in response to interleukin-3 (IL-3), IL-4, IL-6, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), and granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF), but not IL-1, IL-2, IL-5, or G-CSF. In long-term culture, proliferation can be sustained by GM-CSF, IL-6, or M-CSF. When maintained in GM-CSF, a small percentage of cells form multinucleated megakaryocyte-like giant cells. Culture with GM-CSF combined with IL-6, but not with IL-6 alone, increased giant cell formation fourfold to sevenfold. IL-6 alone or in combination with GM-CSF increased expression of platelet-related antigens. In contrast, culture with phorbol ester induced formation of macrophage-like cells. UCSD/AML1 is the first human acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cell line established from a patient with an acute leukemia syndrome associated with a specific chromosome abnormality. 
Cancer in populations living near nuclear facilities. A survey of mortality nationwide and incidence in two states. Reports from the United Kingdom have described increases in leukemia and lymphoma among young persons living near certain nuclear installations. Because of concerns raised by these reports, a mortality survey was conducted in populations living near nuclear facilities in the United States. All facilities began service before 1982. Over 900,000 cancer deaths occurred from 1950 through 1984 in 107 counties with or near nuclear installations. Each study county was matched for comparison to three "control counties" in the same region. There were 1.8 million cancer deaths in the 292 control counties during the 35 years studied. Deaths due to leukemia or other cancers were not more frequent in the study counties than in the control counties. For childhood leukemia mortality, the relative risk comparing the study counties with their controls before plant start-up was 1.08, while after start-up it was 1.03. For leukemia mortality at all ages, the relative risks were 1.02 before start-up and 0.98 after. For counties in two states, cancer incidence data were also available. For one facility, the standardized registration ratio for childhood leukemia was increased significantly after start-up. However, the increase also antedated the operation of this facility. The study is limited by the correlational approach and the large size of the geographic areas (counties) used. It does not prove the absence of any effect. If, however, any excess cancer risk was present in US counties with nuclear facilities, it was too small to be detected with the methods employed. 
Node-negative breast cancer: prognostic subgroups defined by tumor size and flow cytometry Adjuvant systemic therapy for women with node-negative breast cancer is most easily justified for those patients at highest risk of relapse. We have examined the impact of tumor size, histologic grade, estrogen receptor (ER) status, tumor ploidy, and S-phase fraction (SPF) on relapse-free survival (RFS) for 169 patients with node-negative breast cancer in order to identify groups of patients at high and low risk of relapse. Patients with small tumors (less than or equal to 1.0 cm) had a significantly better RFS than those with larger tumors (P = .005), with 96% remaining relapse-free at 5 years. Patients with tumors less than or equal to 1.0 cm were thus excluded from analysis when attempting to define a group with a poor prognosis. Within the group of patients with tumors greater than 1.0 cm, tumor ploidy (P = .63), ER status (P = .3), or progesterone receptor (PgR) status (P = .24) did not predict for RFS. Patients with grade 1 or 2 infiltrating ductal tumors had a significantly better prognosis than those with grade 3 tumors (P = .04). The prognostic factor that gave the widest separation between subgroups, however, was SPF. Patients whose tumors were greater than 1.0 cm with an SPF less than or equal to 10% had a 5-year RFS of 78% compared with a 5-year RFS of 52% for those with an SPF greater than 10% (P = .006). We have combined tumor size and SPF to identify three prognostic groups: (1) tumor less than or equal to 1.0 cm, 5-year RFS 96%; (2) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus SPF less than or equal to 10%, 5-year RFS 78%; 3) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus SPF greater than 10%, 5-year RFS 52%. These prognostic groupings may help identify patients most suitable for adjuvant therapy. 
Oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity Bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity, attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability. Clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen. We report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure. Our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy. Physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy. 
Malignant mixed tumor (malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma) of the maxilla. We present a rare case of carcinosarcoma (malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma) of the left maxilla that developed in a 63-year-old Japanese man. The tumor recurred repeatedly despite multiple surgical removals, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy and led to progressive cachexia; the patient died after 3.8 years of hospitalization. Histopathologic examination revealed that the recurrent tumor was carcinosarcoma, which had progressed from malignant ameloblastoma with fibroma. An autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of malignant mixed tumor with lung metastasis of malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma. 
Brush cytology in the diagnosis of colonic neoplasms. During a three-year period (1986-1988), 234 colonic brush specimens were received in the authors' laboratory. Nine samples (4%) were deemed unsatisfactory for evaluation because of inadequate cellularity and/or poor fixation. In 11 cases concomitant or follow-up histologic specimens were not available. The remaining 214 specimens included 82 malignant neoplasms, 88 neoplastic polyps (adenomas), and 44 nonneoplastic lesions. Sixty-seven (82%) of malignant neoplasms were correctly diagnosed by brush cytology. Three cases of adenoma with severe dysplasia or in situ carcinoma were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by cytology. No false-positive diagnoses were made of nonneoplastic lesions. Brush cytology was found to be a more sensitive technique in the diagnosis of colon cancer than endoscopic biopsy (82% and 74% sensitivity, respectively). The combination of the two techniques increased the sensitivity to 90% and improved the overall accuracy of the test. Seventy-one (82%) of the colonic adenomas were correctly diagnosed by cytology. Brush cytology is a convenient, safe, and accurate technique which should be used concurrently with endoscopic biopsy or polypectomy. 
Expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (CD54) on hematopoietic progenitors. The distribution of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), a ligand for lymphocyte function antigen-1, on hematopoietic tissue was determined using the anti-ICAM-1 monoclonal antibody CL203.4 with flow cytometry and short-term semi-solid hematopoietic progenitor cultures. After timed incubation in media with fetal bovine serum, 29% of erythroid burst-forming units (BFU-E), 24% of erythroid colony-forming units (CFU-E), and 52% of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-GM) bone marrow progenitors expressed ICAM-1. This finding, which is consistent with the detection of ICAM-1 on acute non-lymphoblastic leukemic blasts, is at variance with recent reports. ICAM-1 was also detected on bone marrow blasts, proerythroblasts, promyelocytes, and cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage, but was not detected on erythroblasts, normoblasts, neutrophilic myelocytes, metamyelocytes, bands, or on most lymphocytes. These results indicate that maturation of cells of the erythroid and myeloid lineage is associated with loss of ICAM-1. The distribution of ICAM-1 on bone marrow progenitors, early precursor cells, and accessory cells in conjunction with the function of this molecule in cell-cell interactions suggests that ICAM-1 may play a role in the cell-cell and cell-stromal interactions that regulate hematopoiesis. 
Characterization and histopathological correlation of cytosol proteins of benign and malignant breast tumors. Significant differences in cytosol protein level exist between normal/benign and cancerous breast tissues. There is a positive correlation between the cytosol protein level and histological grade of carcinoma. Well-differentiated carcinoma have a lower value of cytosol protein than poorly differentiated carcinoma. In slab gel electrophoregrams, the total numbers of bands are almost identical in normal, benign, and malignant conditions. In addition, 37 Kd protein band is consistently present in malignant cases and always absent in normal or benign cases. More extensive biophysical examination of this band may provide further insight into the protein alterations in cancer cells at the molecular level. 
Endoscopic placement of a Foley catheter across a stricture and rectovaginal fistula to perform a barium enema. Evaluation of enteric fistulas is often best performed with barium contrast studies. Clinical situations that preclude the satisfactory installation of barium decrease the yield of the study. A case is presented of a 59-yr-old female with stage III-B cervical carcinoma and a known rectovaginal fistula with an adjacent sigmoid colon stricture. An additional more proximal, enteric fistula was suspected. Definitive preoperative knowledge of the existence or absence of this fistula would have shortened the duration of a planned palliative intervention. The rectovaginal fistula and stricture precluded adequate barium and air installation for contrast study. Colonoscopy was unsuccessful. We have developed a combined technique in which the endoscopic placement of a semirigid guidewire allowed placement of a Foley catheter across the fistula and stricture. Successful barium study was performed. Intraoperative time and hospital stay were shortened. 
Differential diagnosis of sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the common hepatic duct (Klatskin tumors). Although it is recognized that some other lesion may be the cause, a presumptive diagnosis of Klatskin tumor is usually made when a focal stenotic lesion of the common hepatic duct is seen on a cholangiogram of a jaundiced patient. Biopsy is so often nondiagnostic that decisions about therapy are usually made on the basis of the imaging tests and lack of evidence for some other disease. Because the accuracy and consequences of this strategy have never been tested, we contrasted the preoperative diagnosis of Klatskin tumor with the final diagnosis in 98 consecutive patients treated from 1985 to 1990. Preoperative investigations included ultrasound and computed tomographic scans, percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and angiography. Sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the bile duct were correctly diagnosed in 68 cases. The final diagnosis was other than a sclerosing adenocarcinoma in 30 (31%) cases. There were 5 papillary bile duct carcinomas, 12 gallbladder carcinomas invading the bile duct, 5 metastatic tumors to the bile duct, 2 cases of Mirizzi syndrome, 3 granulomas, and 3 cases of idiopathic benign focal stenosis. Patients with papillary adenocarcinomas had an extensive filling defect of the duct, which was often thought to be unresectable. However, four of these five lesions could be completely excised, and the tumor was confined to the duct wall in all four. The outcome of surgical treatment of the other eight patients with benign lesions was good in most cases. These findings demonstrate the pitfalls of assuming that a focal stenosis of the hepatic duct represents a sclerosing adenocarcinoma. The diagnosis is much less specific than is generally thought, so there is considerable opportunity for mismanaging such patients. 
Mammography and age: are we targeting the wrong women? A community survey of women and physicians. To determine mammography use among women with a broad range of ages, the authors surveyed women aged 30 to 74 years and physicians practicing primary care in two eastern North Carolina counties. Twenty-five percent of women in their 30s had ever had a mammogram, and 34% intended to have one in the coming year. From 45% to 52% of women in their 40s, 50s, and 60s had ever had a mammogram, and 55% to 57% intended to have one in the next year. Thirty-seven percent of women aged 70 to 74 years had ever had a mammogram, and 40% intended to have one in the following year. Nineteen percent of physicians reported screening nearly all women aged 30 to 39 years, and 14% screened few women aged 50 to 74 years. Younger women were more worried about breast cancer than older women and assessed their risk as higher, attitudes that were generally associated with higher mammography utilization. These community surveys suggest that mammography use may be excessive among younger women; older women continue to be underscreened. 
Subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration. Significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings. To determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis, we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells. A total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous (n = 15), carcinomatous (n = 10) or nontuberculous, benign pleuritis (n = 15). The pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous, benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate (10 out of 15 patients), while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis (0 out of 15, p = 0.0001) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma (three out of 10, p = 0.082). Based on these results, the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature. 
A phase II multi-institutional trial of low-dose N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartate and high-dose 5-fluorouracil as a short-term infusion in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. A Southwest Oncology Group study. Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is a highly lethal malignancy and chemotherapy has had little impact on the natural history of this disease. PALA, used to potentiate 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), has been shown to have synergy in vivo and in vitro. Twenty-seven patients were treated with an intravenous push dose of PALA (250 mg/m2) followed 24 hours later with a 24-hour infusion of 5-FU (2600 mg/m2). This regimen was repeated weekly. There was one partial response of 21 eligible patients with an estimated response rate of 5%. Toxicity was severe with one toxic death and four patients experiencing Grade 4 toxicity. 5-Fluorouracil and PALA, given in the schedule described, do not appear to be effective against adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
A clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy. Two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare, transient visual symptoms, and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered. Both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision, ring scotomas, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber. Electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses. Antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum. Their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents. The triad of photosensitivity, ring scotomatous visual field loss, and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina. 
Vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion. The condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Using a life-table analysis, it was studied in 56 eyes. The incidence of posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) in the CRVO eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes. However, the incidence of PVD in CRVO eyes increased from 39.3% at the first vitreous examination to 58.5% after 6 months, and to 69.6% 1 year from the examination. The incidence of PVD in CRVO eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls (P = .009). The incidence of PVD after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy (P = .04). In the 34 eyes with macular edema, the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment (VMA) at the first examination than in those without VMA at this time (P = .02). VMA may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in CRVO. 
Patient-controlled analgesic administration. A comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses. The authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant (BMT) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion. In a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose, patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration. Patients controlling their morphine infusion rates (pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [PKPCA] group) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional PCA. Patients in the PKPCA group used more morphine than PCA patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects (e.g., nausea, mood changes, sedation). The authors conclude that PKPCA improves the management of prolonged, severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain. 
Prospective, randomized trial of palliative treatment for unresectable cancer of the esophagus. To evaluate the best method of palliation for obstructing nonresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the mid or distal esophagus, 27 patients were prospectively randomized to one of three treatment arms: (1) esophageal intubation with an Atkinson tube (AT, 10 patients), (2) esophageal intubation followed by radiation therapy (AT/RT, 8 patients), and (3) endoscopic laser therapy followed by irradiation (L/RT, 9 patients). Pretreatment characteristics were similar in the three groups. There was no procedure-related mortality. There were eight total complications related to the tube and none related to laser treatment (p = 0.02). Mean survival was 119 days in the AT group, 72 days in the AT/RT group, and 169 days in the L/RT arm (p = not significant). Quality of survival was most dependent on swallowing ability, and the swallowing score increased by 2.3 units in the AT group, 1.8 units in the AT/RT group, and 1.4 units in the L/RT group (p = not significant). Adding RT to laser therapy significantly increased time in treatment (mean, 38.7 days) when compared with the AT group (mean, 12.5 days) (p less than 0.001). However, only 1 patient required repeat laser ablation. It is concluded that AT and L/RT result in good palliation as measured by relief of dysphagia and survival time. However, morbidity of AT is significantly greater than that of L/RT. Laser and radiation therapy with a reduced total dosage of RT or with a change in fractionation schedule to limit treatment time is the preferred method of palliation. 
Hyperandrogenism in peripubertal girls. Androgens arise from either adrenal or ovarian secretion or by peripheral conversion of secreted precursors. The adrenals and ovaries normally contribute about equally to testosterone and AD production. DHAS is the major adrenal 17-KS. Testosterone is the major circulating form of androgen. More than 96% of plasma testosterone is bound to SHBG; the free testosterone seems to be the bioavailable fraction. Hyperandrogenism must be considered in any girl with premature or excessive development of public hair or acne, menstrual irregularity (whether it be oligo-amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding), or obesity. The most common cause of premature public hair development (pubarche) is premature adrenarche. The most common cause of hyperandrogenism presenting in a teenage girl is polycystic ovary syndrome. However, the differential diagnosis includes "exaggerated adrenarche," late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia, virilizing tumors, Cushing's syndrome, hyperprolactinemia, acromegaly, and abnormalities of androgen action or of metabolism. The plasma free testosterone is a more sensitive indicator of hyperandrogenism than is the total testosterone concentration. The pattern of response of plasma free testosterone, DHAS, and cortisol to dex-suppression testing is diagnostic of the source of androgen excess. Most hyperandrogenic adolescents will be found to have PCOS. The treatment is chosen according to particular symptoms, such as menstrual irregularity, hirsutism, or obesity. 
Esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia. Although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia, esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition. We report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after Heller esophagomyotomy, presumably related to Barrett's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease. 
Primary neoplasms of the central nervous system in children. Modern diagnostic imaging techniques are able to detect primary neoplasms of the central nervous system (CNS) in children safely and accurately but with less specificity as to cell type or degree of malignancy. These neoplasms, often peculiar in cell type and size, mediated by hydrocephalus in their clinical presentation, demand careful and often extensive imaging techniques best to evaluate their geography and character. Added to these basic observations, determination of the neoplasm from surrounding edema, detection of possible spread, and evaluation of residual or recurrent neoplasm are prime responsibilities of the pediatric neuroradiologist toward the child, neurosurgeon, and oncologist. 
Causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers. The authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital. There were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse, and in 41% of these, chronic alcoholism was implicated. Deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11% of all cases. The mean age at death was 39 years. There was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1. Half of all patients died from infection--72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) alone. These findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that AIDS and chronic alcoholism are significant problems. Emphasis should be placed upon detecting "hidden" intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information. 
Perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus. Human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the United States. In adults, it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma. Infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period; affected children face prolonged, difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis. Prevention of infection remains the best approach, since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal. 
Diagnosis and localization of prostate carcinoma by fine-needle aspiration cytology and correlation with histologic whole-organ sections after radical prostatectomy. Twenty-nine patients with clinical stage T1-2, NO, MO prostate carcinoma were treated by retropubic radical prostatectomy. Diagnosis was made by fine-needle aspiration biopsy from six to eight separate sectors of the prostate. At the time of biopsy, diagrams of the palpated organ were drawn, depicting the location of the lesion and the site of each biopsy. Without the examiners' knowledge of cytologic data, extirpated prostate glands were examined with whole organ histologic sections, and carcinomas were scored according to the method of Gleason. The location and extent of all typical and malignant foci were mapped on a standard diagram. The results of preoperative cytologic examination were compared with postoperative histopathologic findings, showing a tendency toward underestimation of both the extent and degree of differentiation of the carcinomas during cytologic examination. In no case were these parameters overestimated during cytologic examination. The Gleason score correlated well with the presence of capsular and seminal vesicle invasion. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of small hepatocellular carcinoma. Thirty-eight patients with small hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), size less than 20 mm, initially detected by ultrasound (US) and histologically confirmed, were examined by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, computed tomographic (CT) scan, and angiography. MR imaging demonstrated HCC nodules in nine (75.0%) of 12 patients with tumors less than 10 mm in diameter and in 22 (84.6%) of 26 patients with tumors 10-20 mm in diameter. In total, HCC nodules were detected in 31 of 38 patients (81.6%) by MR imaging. On the other hand, HCC lesions were found on CT scan in 14 of 26 patients (53.8%) and in 27 of 35 patients (77.1%) by angiography. With MR imaging, HCC nodules were demonstrated in 21 of 31 patients on both T1 and T2 weighted images, and 13 of 21 patients (61.9%) were shown to have low intensity areas or iso intensity areas on T1 weighted image, whereas the other eight patients (38.1%) were shown to have high intensity areas. All 21 patients were shown to have high intensity areas on T2 weighted image. Among 15 resected cases, four patients had a high intensity area on T1 weighted image, and a significant fatty change was noted in HCC nodules by histological study of the resected specimen. We suggest that MR imaging is a useful diagnostic imaging modality, even in small HCC of less than 20 mm. 
Aqueductal (pencil) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema: a case report. A case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus, without initial neurological deficit, is described. Computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of Sylvius. The lesion, on autopsy, was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a "pencil glioma" of the aqueduct. 
Second cancer after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix. Radiation-induced cancers after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix were investigated on 11,855 patients including 5725 patients treated with radiation therapy alone, 1969 postoperative radiation therapy and 4161 surgery alone. The observed-to-expected ratios of the second primary cancer was 0.933 for the patients with radiation therapy alone and 1.074 for the patients with postoperative radiation therapy, respectively. No significant increase was observed in the risk of second primary cancers when all sites were combined. However, assessing on site by site basis, significant excess was noted for the rectum cancer, leukemia, and bladder cancer for the radiation therapy group but not for the surgery group. A significant excess of lung cancer was observed in both radiation therapy and surgery groups, which was attributed to some other causative factors. Radiation-induced cancers were suggested to develop apparently in organs involved in the irradiated field. 
Vertebral hemangiomas: fat content as a sign of aggressiveness. Thirty-two vertebral hemangiomas (VHs) were evaluated with nonenhanced computed tomography (CT), T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, CT enhanced with contrast material, and selective spinal arteriography. The stroma between the osseous trabeculae was found to correspond to either fatty tissue or soft tissue or both. All 11 asymptomatic VHs showed complete fatty stroma at CT and increased signal intensity at MR imaging. In contrast, all four compressive VHs had soft-tissue attenuation at CT. Three compressive VHs showed low signal intensity on MR images. Predominantly fatty stroma at CT and increased signal intensity at MR imaging were associated with normal or only slightly increased vascularization at selective spinal arteriography or contrast-enhanced CT, while soft-tissue stroma at CT and low signal intensity at MR imaging were associated with distinct hypervascularization. The authors' experience suggests that fatty VHs may represent inactive forms of VH, while soft-tissue content at CT and low signal intensity at MR imaging may indicate a more active vascular lesion with potential to compress the spinal cord. CT and MR imaging may be especially valuable for evaluating patients with clinical signs or symptoms of uncertain origin and findings compatible with VH at plain radiography. 
Mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions: compliance rate and diagnostic yield. All recommendations for mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions seen at mammography during a 6-month period were reviewed to establish compliance rate and eventual outcome. One hundred forty-four of 2,650 mammograms (5%) showed minimal abnormalities that warranted short-term and periodic mammographic follow-up. Rates of compliance at 4 months and at 1, 2, and 3 years were 88%, 71%, 60%, and 47%, respectively. Progressive mammographic change was found in 10 patients, only one of whom had a carcinoma. It was concluded that mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions is a reasonable alternative to surgical biopsy, although patient compliance remains a significant problem. 
Glomus tumours of the skin: an immunohistochemical investigation of the expression of marker proteins. Immunohistochemical studies were carried out on cutaneous glomus tumours from 10 patients. The glomus areas in these tumours reacted strongly with anti-smooth muscle (CGA-7), anti-muscle (HHF-35) and anti-vimentin antibodies. Their neural supply was analysed using several nervous tissue markers (anti-neurone specific enolase, anti-S 100, anti-Leu 7, anti-neurofilaments). The results indicate a sprouting and proliferation rather than entrapment of pre-existing nerve fibres. 
Increasing the cancer screening of the medically underserved in south Florida. Diagnosis and treatment of cancers at advanced stages have contributed to a significantly lower survival rate among individuals of low socioeconomic status compared with those in higher brackets. In an effort to increase the accessibility and acceptability of cancer screening among such individuals in Dade County, Florida, the Cancer Control Division of the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of Miami School of Medicine initiated a pilot early detection program in 1987. The program initially provided breast cancer screening for women, aged 40 and older, who attended ten community health care centers located in low-income neighborhoods. With the selection of Miami by the American Cancer Society as one of three sites for conducting a screening demonstration project for the socioeconomically disadvantaged, this program has recently been expanded to include pelvic screening for women, aged 40 and older, and prostate screening for men, aged 65 and older. 
Radiotherapy. The mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma. Early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy. Controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence. This study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with T1 or T2, NO invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984. All patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy. One hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis. Radiation therapy controlled disease in 93% (105 of 113) of patients with T1 lesions and 73% (38 of 48) of those with T2 tumors. Ultimate control of disease for T1 and T2 lesions, including surgical salvage, was 111 (98%) of 113 and 44 (92%) of 48 patients, respectively. The rate of successful surgical salvage was 75% (T1) and 70% (T2). The T2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy. Overall voice preservation was 90%. Our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery, without sacrificing voice. Although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery, these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy. 
Pathologic characteristics of human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-related extranodal orofacial lymphomas. Eleven cases of extranodal orofacial lymphomas (EOFL), consisting of four HTLV-related and seven HTLV-unrelated EOFL, were investigated with respect to the immunohistochemical and clinical features. HTLV-related EOFL were of T-cell phenotype and were associated with a poorer prognosis than HTLV-unrelated EOFL, most of which were of B-cell origin. The appearance of giant cells with cerebriform nuclei was helpful in identifying HTLV-related EOFL. The relatively high incidence of T-cell type EOFL in our series was considered to be related to the high percentage of HTLV carriers in our district, an area endemic for adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma. 
Adverse impact of fibrin clot inhibitors on intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors. Although intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy has proved to be efficacious in the treatment and prophylaxis against tumor recurrence of superficial bladder tumors, its mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated. Previous work has suggested that bacillus Calmette-Guerin organisms attach to the matrix protein, fibronectin, during fibrin clot formation at sites of urothelial disruption and that this attachment was required for the antitumor effect of bacillus Calmette-Guerin to be expressed. Furthermore, drugs inhibiting clot formation were found to abrogate the antitumor effect of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy in a murine bladder tumor model. To examine the effect of inhibitors of fibrin clot formation on the results of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy, a retrospective analysis of 149 evaluable patients receiving intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin for superficial bladder tumors was performed. The over-all response rate free of tumor for 29 patients who concomitantly received inhibitors of fibrin clot formation with bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy was 48%, as compared with 67% for 120 patients who were not receiving these medications (p = 0.0655, chi-square). The most striking difference was noted for patients who failed with recurrent superficial disease. Of the patients who received fibrin clot inhibitors during intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy 35% had recurrent superficial tumors compared to only 8% of those who did not receive these drugs during a mean followup of 29.8 plus or minus 11 months (p = 0.005, chi-square). Our study suggests that inhibitors of fibrin clot formation may have an adverse influence on the results of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors. 
Cadherin cell adhesion receptors as a morphogenetic regulator. Cadherins are a family of cell adhesion receptors that are crucial for the mutual association of vertebrate cells. Through their homophilic binding interactions, cadherins play a role in cell-sorting mechanisms, conferring adhesion specificities on cells. The regulated expression of cadherins also controls cell polarity and tissue morphology. Cadherins are thus considered to be important regulators of morphogenesis. Moreover, pathological examinations suggest that the down-regulation of cadherin expression is associated with the invasiveness of tumor cells. 
Pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma of the radial diaphysis: case report. Solitary enchondromata are rare but well recognised benign bone tumours. They are extremely rare in the radius. We report the case of a pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma in the radial diaphysis and its successful treatment. 
Comparison of STIR and spin-echo MR imaging at 1.5 T in 45 suspected extremity tumors: lesion conspicuity and extent. Short inversion time inversion recovery (STIR) imaging and a double-echo spin-echo (SE) sequence at 1.5 T in 45 sequential patients with suspected extremity tumors were compared to assess the number of lesions detected, subjective conspicuity of lesions, approximate volume of abnormality detected in each lesion, and identification of peritumoral brightening in tissues adjacent to each lesion. STIR sequences enabled detection of all 45 lesions; 44 were detected with the SE sequence. Tumor appeared most conspicuous on STIR images in 35 patients (78%) and was most conspicuous on SE images in 10 patients (22%). Peritumoral brightening, which indicated either peritumoral edema or microscopic tumor infiltration, was detected in 20 patients but was detected only with STIR sequences in nine patients. It is concluded that, although STIR and SE sequences are comparable for lesion detection in the extremities, most lesions appear more conspicuous with STIR. STIR may enable detection of a greater volume of abnormality than SE sequences and may therefore have important implications for local staging and surgical and radiation therapy planning. 
Is DNA ploidy of prognostic significance in stage I cutaneous melanoma? Recent studies have suggested that the presence of DNA aneuploidy in stage I cutaneous melanoma carries a poor prognosis. To see if our experience correlated with these reports, we used DNA analysis by flow cytometry of propidium iodide-stained nuclei disaggregated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of biopsy specimens to retrospectively study 55 patients who had cutaneous stage I melanomas. The patients had been treated from 1977 to 1987 with a mean follow-up of 5.4 years. Thirty-nine (71%) of the 55 histograms were diploid, and 16 (29%) of the histograms were aneuploid. DNA content was significantly associated with other conventional prognostic factors, including growth pattern, ulceration, pathologic stage, tumor thickness, and Clark's level. DNA aneuploidy was significantly related to disease-free survival and predicted a poorer prognosis (p less than 0.05), but when stratified for tumor thickness it lost significance. A multivariate discriminant function analysis of 12 factors in melanoma showed six factors to be independently significant in determining prognosis. DNA content (p = 0.034) ranked fifth in importance behind growth pattern (p less than 0.001), ulceration (p less than 0.001), thickness (p = 0.001), and pathologic stage (p less than 0.005). DNA content, although significantly associated with conventional prognostic factors and disease-free survival, is not the best indicator of biologic behavior of melanomas in this study. Further investigation into its usefulness is necessary before DNA content can become a routine diagnostic modality in the work-up of stage I cutaneous melanomas. 
Diffusion and binding of monoclonal antibody TNT-1 in multicellular tumor spheroids. Tumor spheroids of HT-29 human colon adenocarcinoma and A375 melanoma were established to investigate the uptake and clearance kinetics of TNT-1, a monoclonal antibody that targets necrotic cells of tumors. Our data reveal that there was rapid uptake of TNT-1 and its F(ab')2 fragment in both spheroid models, whereas an antibody of irrelevant specificity, Lym-1, and its F(ab')2 fragment bound poorly to the spheroids. Unlike previously reported monoclonal antibodies to tumor cell-surface antigens, TNT-1 showed 1) a linear uptake that increased over time without saturation in tumor spheroids and 2) an unexpected uptake by a subpopulation of cells in the viable outer rim of the spheroids. These preclinical studies provide important information concerning the therapeutic potential of TNT monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer and micrometastases. 
Carcinoma of the vulva. Clinicopathologic factors involved in inguinal and pelvic lymph node metastasis. Eighty-five women with vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were subjected to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinal and femoral node dissection or to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinofemoral and deep pelvic node dissection. The association between lymph node status (metastatic or not) and several parameters was analyzed: tumor location, size and clinical stage; tumor thickness, histologic grade and mitotic index; blood vessel, lymphatic and perineural infiltration; and lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates. There were no metastases to the pelvic lymph nodes without previous inguinal lymph node involvement. Unilateral vulvar carcinomas did not have contralateral metastatic nodes when there was no ipsilateral nodal involvement. Lymphatic vessel infiltration showed a statistically significant correlation with inguinal node metastases (P less than .05). No correlation was found between lymph node metastasis and tumor size, clitoral invasion, tumor thickness, histologic grade, blood vessel and perineural infiltration, lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates, and mitotic index. 
Implementation of cancer prevention guidelines in clinical practice. Data from several sources, including consumer surveys, physician surveys, and medical record audits, indicate that consumers do not receive cancer screening tests as recommended by the National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society, and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Performance rates are consistently below published standards for all tests except Pap tests. Major reasons physicians do not perform the recommended tests include physician forgetfulness, disagreement with recommendations, lack of time, and patient refusal. Physicians also tend to overestimate their own performance rates. Barriers to screening test performance can be categorized into patient factors, physician factors, test factors, and health care delivery system factors. Interventions, such as computerized reminder systems, physician audits with feedback, and patient education and reminders, can be effective in promoting performance of such screening. Interventions that target both physician and patient may be particularly effective. 
Epitope mapping of human thyroglobulin. Heterogeneous recognition by thyroid pathologic sera. Thyroglobulin is the major Ag of the thyroid gland involved in autoimmune pathologies. Epitope mapping was carried out with a rabbit polyclonal immune serum against fusion proteins expressed in prokaryotic cells. After screening of an initial human thyroglobulin cDNA library and subcloning of immunoreactive clones, seven epitopes were characterized and localized on the human thyroglobulin monomeric molecule. One was close to each extremity of the molecule, and five others were concentrated in the middle, covering a sixth of this 2748-amino-acid chain. The immunoreactivities of 18 autoimmune sera from different thyroid pathologies were tested against the seven previously characterized epitopes. Those from Hashimoto's thyroiditis were the most immunoreactive. Immune responses were heterogeneous for sera from different pathologies as well as for those from the same pathology. The central epitopes and the near-C-terminal epitope, however, were the epitopes most often recognized by the immune sera. These findings show that some autoepitopes overlap accurately with some heteroepitopes characterized by a polyclonal immune serum directed against the mature protein. 
Biologic aggressiveness of palpable and nonpalpable prostate cancer: assessment with endosonography. The biologic aggressiveness of palpable versus nonpalpable prostate cancer was evaluated in 666 patients studied with endosonography over a 24-month period. Biologic aggressiveness was defined by a combined histologic and grade-stage category score. In 314 patients suspected of having prostate cancer 328 biopsies were performed. Carcinoma was detected in 99 patients, by means of both palpation and endosonography (n = 80), endosonography alone (n = 9), and palpation alone (n = 8); two cancers were not detected with either palpation or endosonography. All patients with normal results of digital examination had a combined grade-stage category score lower than 9. Fifty-five of 69 patients (80%) with abnormal results of digital examination and available histologic data had a histologic score of 6 or higher; 38 of these patients (69%) had a combined grade-stage category score of 9 or higher. Although the number of patients is small, these data suggest that nonpalpable cancers are biologically less aggressive than palpable ones and that the advantage of endosonography over palpation in detection of clinically significant cancers is limited. 
Aromatase activity of human granulosa cells in patients with polycystic ovaries treated with dexamethasone. The effect of dexamethasone (DEX) (9 alpha-Fluro-16 alpha-methyl prednisolone) on secretion of steroids by human granulosa luteinized cells was studied by culturing cells from mature follicles of women with polycystic ovarian disease and treated for infertility in the in vitro fertilization program. Patients were treated with DEX 0.5 mg/d until the day of human chorionic gonadotropin administration. The cells were cultured for 24 hours in the presence of androstenedione (10(-7)M). After incubating for 24 hours, the medium was replaced and the cells were incubated for an additional 24 hours. The medium was then harvested and assayed for estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P). Results were compared with those of a control group who was not treated with DEX. Estradiol production by cells was significantly lower in the study group treated with DEX. Progesterone production was not influenced by DEX. Follicular fluid levels, E2, and androgens did not vary with DEX treatment, whereas cortisol levels markedly decreased and P levels increased with the treatment. These findings suggest that glucocorticosteroids can directly influence granulosa luteinized cell function. 
Distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma: an immuno-histochemical approach using a panel of monoclonal antibodies. A panel of six monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) was employed to evaluate antigen expression in pulmonary adenocarcinomas and mesotheliomas. Monoclonal anti-human milk fat globulin (HMFG-2), anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (NP-2), anti-epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), anti-cytokeratin (PKK-1), anti-tumor-associated antigen 72 (B72.3), and anti-human myelomonocytic antigen (Leu M-1) antibodies were used to localize their respective antigens in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors by using the avidin-biotin-complex immunoperoxidase technique. In all, 28 mesotheliomas obtained from Ohio State University Anatomic Pathology files and from a Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) protocol were compared to 22 pulmonary adenocarcinomas by using this MAb panel. None of the mesotheliomas demonstrated positive staining with MAbs NP-2 (anti-CEA) or Leu M-1. However, 95% (21/22) of adenocarcinomas stained with one of these two antibodies. Although neither of these two MAbs stained all adenocarcinomas, each antibody demonstrated positive immunostaining in more than 90% of the adenocarcinomas studied. Therefore, MABs NP-2 and Leu M-1 are, individually, quite useful for distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma. However, in our study, no single MAb could be used to distinguish these two tumor types in every case. MAb B72.3 stained 91% (20/21) adenocarcinomas but also stained 7% (2/28) of mesotheliomas. MAb HMFG-2 reacted positively with 95% of adenocarcinomas, but also stained 39% of the mesotheliomas, usually in a membranous pattern. MAbs EMA and PKK-1 were not found useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma. We conclude that MAbs Leu M-1 and NP-2 were both useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma in that positive staining was demonstrated in adenocarcinomas and not mesotheliomas. 
The technicon H6000 analyzer discriminates chronic lymphocytic leukemia from other B-cell leukemias through automatic assessment of large unstained cells. The separation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B-cell origin from other chronic B-cell leukemias is subjective, being largely based on the morphologic features of the lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood. The percentage of large unstained cells determined with a Technicon H6000 analyzer (an automated blood cell differential analyzer, Technicon Instruments Corp, Tarrytown, NY) was used as a cell volume variable in an investigation of 70 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B-cell origin and of other chronic B-cell leukemias. The significant degree of correlation between the percentage of large unstained cells and morphoimmunophenotypic diagnosis, although obtained for a relatively small number of cases, suggests that this method of cell volume analysis can be used to improve diagnostic reproducibility in chronic B-cell leukemia. 
The tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland. Comparison with the common form of papillary carcinoma by DNA and morphometric analysis. The tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid manifests a more aggressive behavior than the usual form of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid. Morphometric analysis of nuclear features and DNA analysis may yield information predictive of aggressive behavior. Accordingly, the DNA content and morphometric features of the neoplastic cells of the tall cell variant were measured and compared with measurements obtained from neoplastic cells of the usual form of papillary carcinoma. Six of the 11 tall cell neoplasms were aneuploid, as were four of the eight usual papillary neoplasms. Although benign cells were separated from malignant cells in each case, differences between tall and usual papillary carcinoma cells were not observed regarding DNA content, chromatin texture, or nuclear size and shape. Differences in the clinical behavior of these neoplasms will likely need to be explained on the basis of other characteristics. 
Anaplastic large cell (Ki-1) lymphoma with histiocytic phenotype simulating carcinoma. Histiocytic and epithelial cell types share many cytomorphologic and functional characteristics; it is predictable, therefore, that corresponding malignancies might be difficult to distinguish. Described is the case of a 52-year-old woman in whom disseminated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma simulated carcinomatosis by conventional morphologic criteria. Evidence of histiocytic differentiation was derived from immunocytochemical, fine structural, and genetic probe analyses. The diagnosis of histiocytic neoplasia is discussed in relation to categories previously termed malignant histiocytosis, "Ki-1" lymphoma, and regressing atypical histiocytosis, and comparisons are made with animal tumor models. 
A new DNA marker (D10S94) very tightly linked to the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) locus. Combined somatic cell hybrid and linkage studies between D10S94 and five pericentromeric loci (FNRB, D10Z1, MEN2A, RBP3, and D10S15) have localized the new DNA sequence pcl1/A1S-6-c23 at D10S94 to 10q11.2. No recombinants were observed between D10S94 and D10Z1 or MEN2A. D10S94 maps in proximal 10q11.2 very near to MEN2A. There are three possible orders for the six loci that we investigated from the centromeric region of chromosome 10. At present the genetic data do not allow us to order MEN2A with respect to D10Z1 and D10S94. The three possible orders are FNRB-D10Z1-D10S94-MEN2A-RBP3-D10S15, FNRB-D10Z1-MEN2A-D10S94-RBP3-D10S15, and FNRB-MEN2A-D10Z1-D10S94-RBP3-D10S15. In view of the fact that no recombinants between D10S94 and MEN2A or between D10S94 and D10Z1 were observed, the combined haplotypes formed from RFLPs and D10Z1 and D10S94 will increase the informativeness and accuracy of genotype prediction for at-risk members of the families having the MEN 2A syndrome, particularly when the affected parent is female. The localization of D10S94 with respect to MEN2A will prove valuable in experiments directed toward cloning the MEN2A locus. 
Parental age in sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma. Of 104 children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma born between 1945 and 1970, we studied the age of their parents at the birth and compared this age with the mean age of parents at the birth of their children during the same period in The Netherlands. The mean age of fathers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma (33.7 years) was significantly higher than the mean age of fathers at the birth of their children in the general population (32.5 years) (P less than .05, one sided). Similarly, the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma (31.2 years) was significantly higher than the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children in the general population (29.5 years) (P less than .05, one sided). We further analyzed this parental age factor by measuring the relative risk of age groups and comparing the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the various parental age groups with the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the total population. Mothers 35 years of age or older had a relative risk of 1.7 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with mothers in the population in general (P = .006, one sided). Similarly, fathers 50 years of age or older had a relative risk of 5.0 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with fathers in the population in general (P = .04, one sided). No parental age effect was found in children with nonhereditary retinoblastoma. We conclude that a high paternal and a high maternal age are significant risk factors for sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma. 
Drug response of head and neck tumors in native-state histoculture. We describe a chemosensitivity testing of head and neck tumors, in which a native-state histoculture, ie, a three-dimensional culture system that maintains important in vivo properties, including tissue architecture, was used. Fifteen specimens of head and neck tumors were evaluated for sensitivity to the following drugs: cisplatin (DDP) at concentrations of 1.5, 15, and 37.5 micrograms/mL; fluorouracil at concentrations of 4.0, 40, and 100 micrograms/mL; and combinations of cisplatin and fluorouracil in corresponding doses. Growth and measurement of drug responses were successfully completed in 10 specimens (five others were contaminated, four of them prior to instituting rigorous antibiotic washes). The results indicated cisplatin sensitivity in five of 10 patients; fluorouracil sensitivity in four of 10 patients; and fluorouracil-cisplatin sensitivity in seven of eight patients. Our preliminary results indicate that the native-state histoculture technique is feasible to test chemosensitivity of head and neck tumors. 
Late recurrence of a hepatocellular carcinoma in a patient with incomplete Alagille syndrome. In this study, the case of a patient presenting a second hepatocellular carcinoma 13 years after resection of a first tumor of the same type is reported. In this case, etiological investigations remained negative, but an incomplete form of syndromatic Alagille syndrome with paucity of bile ducts in the nontumoral tissue was detected and associated with nodular regenerative hyperplasia and foci of dysplasia. Malignant transformation in Alagille syndrome seems to be extremely rare. The fact that such tumors evolve very slowly could be an argument for partial hepatectomy and, if necessary, liver transplantation. 
Follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in men older than 50 years of age. A DNA flow cytometric study The clinical behavior of follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in elderly men can be difficult to predict on histologic grounds alone. To assess the usefulness of DNA flow cytometry in predicting the metastatic potential of these tumors, the authors studied 44 primary and metastatic follicular neoplasms of the thyroid by DNA flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissue. The neoplasms were obtained from 44 men ranging in age from 50 to 79 years (mean, 60). There were 29 follicular adenomas, 11 primary follicular carcinomas (neoplasms with capsular and/or vascular invasion), and 4 metastatic follicular carcinomas. Follow-up information was available on 40 of the 44 patients. The mean follow-up was 114 months. Twenty-five of the 29 follicular adenomas had a diploid DNA content, 2 (7%) were tetraploid, and the DNA histograms on 2 were not interpretable. All patients with follicular adenomas had no evidence of disease (NED) at last follow-up. Eight of the 11 primary follicular carcinomas were diploid. Six of these patients had NED, one died with carcinoma at 82 months, and no follow-up was available on one. Three (27%) of the primary follicular carcinomas were aneuploid or tetraploid. Two of these patients had NED, and the third died with carcinoma 84 months after diagnosis. Two of the four metastatic follicular carcinomas were diploid and two (50%) were aneuploid or tetraploid. One of the two patients with diploid metastatic follicular carcinomas died with carcinoma, as did one of the two patients with aneuploid metastatic follicular carcinomas. These results suggest the following: (1) follicular carcinomas are more likely to be aneuploid or tetraploid than are follicular adenomas; (2) follicular neoplasms without capsular or vascular invasion may include a small number of aneuploid or tetraploid tumors; and (3) DNA ploidy does not add to the prognostic value of histologic studies alone. 
Different mRNAs code for dopa decarboxylase in tissues of neuronal and nonneuronal origin. A cDNA clone for dopa decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.28) has been isolated from a rat pheochromocytoma cDNA library and the cDNA sequence has been determined. It corresponds to an mRNA of 2094 nucleotides. The length of the mRNA was measured by primer-extension of rat pheochromocytoma RNA and the 5' end of the sequence of the mRNA was confirmed by the PCR. A probe spanning the translation initiation site of the mRNA was used to hybridize with mRNAs from various organs of the rat. S1 nuclease digestion of the mRNAs annealed with this probe revealed two classes of mRNAs. The comparison of the cDNA sequence and published sequences for rat liver, human pheochromocytoma, and Drosophila dopa decarboxylase supported the conclusion that two mRNAs are produced: one is specific for tissue of neuronal origin and the other is specific for tissues of nonneuronal (mesodermal or endodermal) origin. The neuronal mRNA contains a 5' untranslated sequence that is highly conserved between human and rat pheochromocytoma including a GA stretch. The coding sequence and the 3' untranslated sequence of mRNAs from rat liver and pheochromocytoma are identical. The rat mRNA differs only in the 5' untranslated region. Thus a unique gene codes for dopa decarboxylase and this gene gives rise to at least two transcripts presumably in response to different signals during development. 
Morbidity, mortality, and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine In a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years. In a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, stroke, cancer, and death (the status of 99.7% of the initial participants was established). The women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality. Of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981, 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits. These individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease, and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data, with the exception of a slightly higher body mass, taller stature, and lower serum cholesterol concentration. The treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function. We conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy. 
Biphasic reduction and concanavalin A binding properties of serum alpha-fetoprotein in preterm and term infants. Reference values for postnatal serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and concanavalin A (ConA) binding subfractions of AFP in preterm and term infants are presented. Preterm infants had 10-fold higher serum concentrations of AFP than did term infants at birth. The reduction of serum values of AFP was biphasic in both groups and differed significantly between the two groups. The first declining phase continued for approximately 4 months in preterm and for 2 months in term infants, and was related to the degree of prematurity. The AFP values reached adult levels by 12 months in preterm and by 9 months in term infants. The developmental pattern of the carbohydrate moiety of AFP was determined by ConA fractioning. The proportion of the ConA nonreactive subfraction of AFP in preterm and term infants at birth was 6% and 13%, respectively; it increased more rapidly in term than in preterm infants but reached 85% to 95% by the age of 6 months in both infant groups. Our results indicate that the postnatal maturation of AFP synthesis is dependent on gestational age. Malignant recurrences of neonatal sacrococcygeal teratomas were associated with an increase in serum concentration of AFP and a decrease in the proportion of the ConA nonreactive subfraction of AFP. 
Hepatic tumors: signal enhancement at Doppler US after intravenous injection of a contrast agent. Experiments were carried out to detect and establish the origin of Doppler and echo signal enhancement in small vessels of the systemic circulation and of tumors after intravenous injection of a contrast agent. Eight woodchucks (Marmota monax) were studied; each woodchuck had naturally occurring hepatocellular carcinoma. Injections of 0.1-4.0 mL of air-filled human serum albumin microspheres were administered into a hind limb or jugular vein. Ultrasound (US) examination included transabdominal duplex scanning, color Doppler imaging, placement of a Doppler transducer on the exposed tumor, and surgical implantation of pulsed Doppler cuffs. Doppler signals were assessed by recording color Doppler images and results of spectral analysis. While subjective echo level was unaffected within the tumors, dramatic Doppler signal enhancement was recorded in both normal and tumor vessels. At optimum dose levels, a signal gain of approximately 10 dB was recorded from the tumor. Analysis showed that the echo enhancement was due to the presence of the contrast agent in branches of the hepatic artery. These results suggest that tumor detection may be enhanced by intravenous administration of a US contrast agent. 
Characterization of the effect of two 4-methyl piperidine derivatives of hemicholinium-3, A-4 and A-5, on choline transport. A-4 and A-5 are tertiary and N-methyl quaternary 4-methylpiperidine analogs of hemicholinium-3 (HC-3). Previous work in this laboratory has shown A-4 and A-5 to be inhibitors of the sodium-dependent, high affinity choline uptake system (SDHACU). Their effects on choline transport were characterized further using neuroblastoma 41A3 cells. These cells rapidly take up choline through two separate mechanisms: a SDHACU system and a sodium-independent, low affinity uptake system (SILACU). A-4, A-5 and HC-3 decreased 5 microM choline transport in a dose-dependent fashion. The compounds were unable to decrease choline transport at 250 microM choline suggesting that they are inactive with respect to SILACU. All three compounds significantly increased the Km but not the Vmax for the SDHACU system, suggesting a competitive mechanism of inhibition. Ki values ranged from 18 to 25 microM for A-4, 20 to 26 microM for A-5 and 68 to 75 microM for HC-3. Dose-response curves for inhibition of choline transport by A-5 and HC-3 were not changed by a 24-hr pre-exposure of the cells to each inhibitor. However, after a 24-hr pre-exposure to A-4, a significantly different dose-response curve was obtained compared to the dose-response curve for A-4 in untreated cells. After a 24-hr pre-exposure, a 4-hr recovery period was sufficient to remove the effect of each compound. These data suggest that A-4 and A-5, like HC-3, inhibit the SDHACU, competitively and reversibly. 
Syringomatous squamous tumors of the breast. Four cases are reported of syringomatous squamous tumors of the breast occurring in women aged 37 to 70 years. The lesions were characterized histologically by relatively well-circumscribed tumor-like nodules composed of a proliferation of teardrop or comma-shaped islands of squamous epithelium. The squamous epithelial islands contained central lumens lined by eosinophilic cuticles and were surrounded by a densely cellular fibrous matrix, thus closely resembling the growth pattern of dermal eccrine syringomas. The lesions appeared to arise de novo from breast parenchyma without evidence of transitions with the surrounding normal or hyperplastic mammary epithelium and were not associated with the overlying skin or nipple epidermis. In all cases, the surrounding breast tissue showed fibrocystic and benign proliferative changes, and in one case, the lesion was found in the vicinity of a large cyst surrounded by microcalcifications. All patients were treated by local surgical excision and have shown no evidence of recurrence over a follow-up period of 1 to 6 years. The histologic differential diagnosis and the possible pathogenesis of these lesions are discussed. 
Intraperitoneal yttrium-90-labeled monoclonal antibody in ovarian cancer From March 1987 to March 1988, a phase I to II study was carried out in 25 patients with ovarian cancer. They received escalating doses of intraperitoneally (IP) administered yttrium-90 (Y-90)-labeled monoclonal antibody, HMFG1, against a tumor cell-surface antigen. Myelosuppression prevented an escalation of the administered Y-90 activity above 25 mCi. Y-90-labeled antibody was absorbed from the peritoneal cavity into the circulation. Maximum blood Y-90 activity was observed 40 hours after the IP injection with a mean of 21% of the injected activity (range, 14.2% to 26.4%) in the circulation. The radiation dose the bone marrow received from circulating Y-90-labeled antibody (the blood radiation dose) was calculated by applying the Medical Internal Radiation Dose (MIRD) formulation to the measured Y-90 activity in patients blood. Myelosuppression occurred following calculated blood radiation doses to bone marrow of only 10 to 30 cGy. The excessive myelosuppression following such modest radiation doses from circulating Y-90-labeled antibody could be explained by the uptake of Y-90 by bone. In an attempt to reduce bone absorption of Y-90, seven patients received an intravenous (IV) infusion of EDTA (Sinclair Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Godalming, United Kingdom). This increased the urinary excretion of Y-90 from a mean of 11.1% to 32.3% of the injected activity (P = .0001). Fourteen patients had assessable tumor at laparoscopy. Tumor regression was observed in one patient, and palliation of ascites in a further patient. 
Combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy in advanced inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. The final report of a randomized trial. Between 1983 and 1986, the National Institute for Cancer Research in Genoa and affiliated institutions conducted a randomized study to compare two different ways of combining chemotherapy (CT) and radiation therapy (RT). One hundred sixteen patients were randomized to receive neoadjuvant CT followed by definitive RT (treatment arm A) or alternating CT and RT. In treatment arm A, RT consisted of 70 Gy to the involved areas and 50 Gy to the uninvolved neck at 2 Gy/fraction, five fractions per week. In treatment arm B, RT consisted of 60 Gy to involved areas and 50 Gy to the uninvolved neck in three courses of 20 Gy each, 2 Gy/fraction, ten fractions/2 weeks alternated with four courses of CT. CT consisted of vinblastine 6 mg/m2 intravenously followed 6 hours later by bleomycin 30 IU intramuscularly, day 1; methotrexate 200 mg intravenously, day 2; leucovorin rescue, day 3. CT was repeated every 2 weeks up to four courses. The same CT was used in both treatment arms of the study. Fifty-five patients were entered in treatment arm A and 61 in treatment arm B. Complete responses were 7/48 and 19/57 in treatment arms A and B, respectively (P less than 0.03). Four-year progression-free survival was 4% in treatment arm A and 12% in treatment arm B (P less than 0.02), and four-year survival was 10% in A and 22% in B (P less than 0.02). Mucosal tolerance was significantly worse in treatment arm B (P less than 0.00004). The subgroup analysis shows the major improvement of alternating CT and RT in patients with the worst prognostic characteristics. 
Changing demographics in the United States. Implications for health professionals. The coming decade will bring dramatic changes in the composition of the American population. Changes in immigration laws, illegal and legal immigration into this country, and the aging of the "baby boomers" will all result in profound changes in the demographics of this country. These demographic changes will necessitate alterations in all aspects of the health care system. This article focuses on the projected changes that will occur in relation to the elderly, Hispanics, Asian Americans, and the economically disadvantaged, and on the related implications for health care professionals. The cancer incidence and mortality rates for each discussed minority group differ from the rates presently reported for white Americans. Thus, health professionals will have to be aware of the differences among these groups and tailor their primary and secondary prevention efforts accordingly. The future task for all health care providers serving minorities and the elderly will be to familiarize themselves with the special health problems of the population with whom they work and with the ethnocultural barriers that deter proper use and delivery of health services. 
Rectourethral fistula caused by Kaposi's sarcoma. A 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge, pneumaturia and watery diarrhea. Radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula. Perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of Kaposi's sarcoma. The differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of Kaposi's sarcoma are discussed. 
Photodynamic therapy in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Photodynamic therapy is an experimental modality for tumor treatment based on the combined action of the tumor-localizing agent, ie, hematoporphyrin derivative, and red light. From 1985 through 1989, 26 patients were treated using hematoporphyrin-derived drugs and 630-nm light delivered by a tunable dye laser. All patients had biopsy-proved squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, and they had either failed the traditional treatment modalities or refused conventional therapies. Histological complete responses were achieved in 20 (77%) of 26 patients and partial responses in 5 (19%) of 26 patients for periods up to 48 months. Only minimal toxic reaction was noted in the group. As a guide to treatment planning for a patient group with large tumors, we used an optical dosimetry model based on tissue optics. The rate of complete responses to this treatment was 8 (73%) of 11. Our data indicate that photodynamic therapy is capable of inducing significant clinical and histological responses in the majority of those treated, and in some patients a prolonged response is produced. In certain select head and neck malignancies, photodynamic therapy has an important role as a treatment modality. 
Primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder: favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry. Flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985. Of the specimens 10 (26%) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid, 8 (21%) were tetraploid and 20 (53%) were aneuploid. Distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar. Of 38 tumors 35 (92%) showed muscle invasion. One tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder, 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder. Of the urachal origin tumors 80% were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid. At 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70%, respectively, of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease. By contrast, at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12%, respectively, of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression (p less than 0.001 log-rank test). None of the 6 patients with diploid, high grade, high stage, muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression. In contrast, 16 of 17 patients (94%) with high grade, high stage, nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence (p less than 0.0005). Nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder. This test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy. 
The interferon system in carcinoma of the cervix. Effect of radiation and chemotherapy. Thirteen patients with advanced carcinoma of the cervix were studied for parameters of the interferon system compared with 40 age-matched and sex-matched controls. All patients had measurable serum interferon levels; controls did not. All patients had non-antibody-type interferon-inhibitory activity, and controls had none. Interferon-synthesizing potential was higher in controls than in patients. After successful radiation and chemotherapy, these parameters normalized in the patients. No change was seen in one patient who did not respond to therapy. 
Magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents: theory and application to the central nervous system. The theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging contrast agents are reviewed, and their current applications to the central nervous system (CNS) and their future applications are discussed. Profound differences exist between contrast agents used for MR imaging and computerized tomography (CT). In MR imaging, the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten T1 and T2 relaxation times. This in turn results in signal intensity changes. The lanthanide metal, gadolinium, in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine, has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for MR imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine. Initially, it was thought that signal characteristics on MR imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology. It was soon found that MR studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them. The recent development of contrast agents for MR imaging has allowed this modality to surpass CT for the evaluation of most CNS lesions. At present, contrast-enhanced MR imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas, pituitary lesions, meningeal disease, primary and secondary brain tumors, active multiple sclerosis, intradural spinal neoplasms, intramedullary spinal disease, and postoperative states in both the spine and brain. Even when contrast-enhanced CT can detect the same abnormalities, evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on MR imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information, especially prior to surgery. Future developments of contrast material for MR imaging include non-gadolinium compounds, intrathecal contrast media, cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation, and, possibly, antibody-labeled contrast agents. 
Surgical management of 552 carcinomas of the extrahepatic bile ducts (gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded). Results of the French Surgical Association Survey. Five hundred fifty-two cases of primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts (gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded) collected from 55 surgical centers were reviewed retrospectively. Three hundred seven patients (56%) had upper-third lesions (proximal carcinoma), whereas 71 (13%) and 101 (18%), respectively, had middle-third and lower-third bile duct carcinomas. The remaining patients had diffuse lesions. Resectability rates were 32% for upper-third localization compared to 47% and 51% for middle-third and lower-third localization, respectively. The operative mortality rate for proximal carcinomas was significantly lower with resection (16%) compared with palliative surgery (31%) (p less than 0.05). Overall 1-year survival (operative deaths excluded) was 68% after tumor resection compared to 31% after palliative surgery (p less than 0.001). Long-term results after surgical resection correlated with local and regional extension of the disease. The results of this study show that resection of extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas, particularly in an upper-third localization, often is associated with worthwhile long-term survival. 
Final report of the French multicenter phase II study of the nitrosourea fotemustine in 153 evaluable patients with disseminated malignant melanoma including patients with cerebral metastases. One hundred sixty-nine patients with histologic evidence of disseminated malignant melanoma, including patients with cerebral metastases, were entered into a Phase II study of the nitrosourea fotemustine. The treatment regimen consisted of a 100 mg/m2 1 hour IV infusion every week for 3 consecutive weeks, followed by a 4- to 5-week rest period (induction therapy). In responding or stabilized patients, maintenance therapy consisted of 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks until the disease progressed. One hundred fifty-three patients were evaluable for response. Three complete responses and 34 partial responses were observed (according to the World Health Organization criteria), leading to an objective response rate of 24.2% (95% confidence interval: 17.4% to 31.0%). Responses were also documented on cerebral (25.0%), visceral (19.2%), or nonvisceral (31.8%) metastatic sites. The median duration of response was 22 weeks (range, 7 to 80 weeks). The objective response rate in previously untreated patients was 30.7% (19 of 62 patients). The main toxicity was hematologic with delayed and reversible leukopenia and/or thrombopenia. The objective response rate observed (especially in untreated patients), the activity on cerebral metastases, and the small amount of extra-hematologic toxicity encountered suggest that fotemustine is an effective drug in disseminated malignant melanoma. 
Expression of murine renin genes in subcutaneous connective tissue. A renin promoter-large tumor antigen (T antigen) fusion gene was constructed to provide a reporter function for renin expression in transgenic mice. These transgenic mice gave rise to tumors in subcutaneous soft tissue, which was attributed to transgene expression at this site. An immunohistochemical analysis of transgenic fetuses from several independent lines revealed scattered T-antigen-containing mesenchymal cells and fibroblasts in the subcutaneous layer of the skin between the panniculus carnosus muscle of the skin and the skeletal muscle of the body wall. This localization is consistent with the location of overt tumorigenesis in adult mice. This pattern was specific for the renin-T antigen fusion gene as no immunohistochemical staining was observed in transgenic fetuses containing a heterologous promoter-T antigen fusion gene. Northern blot analysis of tumor RNA indicated that most of the tumors expressed both T antigen and the endogenous renin gene Ren-1c. In addition, when multiple renin genes were introduced by crossing transgenic mice with nontransgenic DBA/2J mice, which contain another allele of the Ren-1 locus as well as the duplicated locus Ren-2, the resultant tumors expressed the Ren-2 gene. Northern blots were then used to analyze renin expression in the subcutaneous tissue of normal mice. Fully processed renin mRNA was detected in eviscerated 15.5-day postcoitus fetal and newborn carcasses and in newborn skin. Our data indicate that there is a renin-expressing cell population in fetal and newborn subcutaneous tissue. 
Survival in patients with large-bowel cancer. A population-based investigation from the Melbourne Colorectal Cancer Study. Five-year survival data were obtained in 97 percent or 1105 of 1140 new patients with histologically confirmed colorectal adenocarcinoma during a 12-month period in 1981 and 1982, as part of a large comprehensive population-based study of colorectal cancer incidence, etiology, and survival, The Melbourne Colorectal Cancer Study. Fifteen percent of patients were Dukes' A stage, 32 percent were Dukes' B, 25 percent were Dukes' C, and 29 percent were Dukes' D. At five years after diagnosis, the observed survival rate was 36 percent and the adjusted rate was 42 percent. Dukes' staging was a highly discriminating factor in survival (P less than 0.001). Survival rates were better in women than in men and better for patients with colon cancer than for patients with rectal cancer. Survival by Dukes' staging was not affected by colon subsite or by the tumor being the first and single tumor, metachronous tumor, or synchronous tumor. The survival of younger patients was better for Dukes' stages A, B, and C, and worse for Dukes' D. Survival was worse in the presence of bowel perforation in Dukes' C and D stages. Within Dukes' D (incurable cases), survival was best in the absence of hepatic metastases, slightly worse when only hepatic metastases were present, and poorest in the presence of both hepatic and extrahepatic metastases. Statistical modeling of survival determinants other than staging indicated that cell differentiation had the largest effect (survival decreasing with poor cell differentiation), followed by site (survival worse for rectal cancer than colon cancer), then age (survival better for younger patients), while bowel perforation had the smallest effect on survival. 
The use of probenecid as a chemoprotector against cisplatin nephrotoxicity. Probenecid inhibits cisplatin (CP) secretion in humans and protects against CP-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. The authors conducted a Phase I trial of escalating doses of CP using probenecid as a chemoprotector. Fifty-four courses of CP at doses ranging from 100 to 160 mg/m2 were given by 24-hour infusion to 36 patients. There was no renal impairment at any dose. Ototoxicity, however, became the dose-limiting toxicity; 14 patients experienced a 20 or greater decibel (dB) loss. Seven percent of courses were associated with a leukocyte count of less than 1.5 x 10/microliters, and 19% with a platelet count of less than 50 x 10(3)/microliters. Only three patients developed neurotoxicity. Correlating pharmacokinetic data and toxicity, the authors found that high cumulative dose, area under the curve (AUC) for unbound platinum, and cumulative AUC were associated with ototoxicity and peripheral neuropathy. It was concluded that probenecid may protect against CP nephrotoxicity and warrants further investigation. Its unique mechanism of action and lack of toxicity make it ideal to combine with other chemoprotectors. 
Adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump. We have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump. Because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs, symptoms, or radiologic features, preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult, and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities. 
Primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton: an audit of the Leeds regional bone tumour registry. An audit of the Leeds regional bone tumour registry found that primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton constituted 90 of the 2004 cases (4.5%). Thirty seven per cent occurred in the ribs, 32% in the scapulae, 11% in the thoracic vertebrae, 11% in the sternum, and 9% in the clavicles. Malignant tumours were more common than benign (54 v 36) and occurred in an older population (mean ages 47 and 31 years). The scapula was the most common site for malignant lesions and the ribs the most common site for benign tumours. Chondrosarcoma was the commonest tumour in older patients, fibrous dysplasia and plasmacytoma in the middle age group, and eosinophilic granuloma in children. Presenting symptoms were a poor guide to whether the lesion was malignant or not. This and the small proportion of correct preoperative diagnoses indicate the need for early biopsy. Bone tumour registries provide a valuable source of cumulative information about uncommon tumours and facilitate accurate diagnosis, teaching, and research. 
Squamous cell carcinoma arising in a sternotomy scar. The case of a 73-year-old man in whom squamous cell carcinoma developed in a median sternotomy scar 12 months after coronary artery bypass grafting is presented. A brief review of the literature is included. The etiology of scar carcinoma is discussed and an outline of management given. 
Fallopian tube cancer. The Roswell Park experience. Sixty-four patients with primary fallopian tube cancer treated at Roswell Park Memorial Institute from 1964 to 1987 underwent retrospective clinicopathologic review. In 40 patients fallopian tube cancer was the only primary, but in 24 patients primary fallopian tube cancer was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. Of the 40 patients with unifocal fallopian disease, the median survival was 28 months. Only 15% of patients were alive and disease free with follow-up ranging from 22 to 141 months (median, 90.5 months). Survival was not associated with stage of disease, tumor histology, grade, or depth of invasion in this series. Fourteen patients who received cisplatin-based chemotherapy were evaluable for response. Three patients (21%) responded; two complete and one partial. Twelve patients without clinical evidence of disease underwent second-look procedures, ten laparotomy and two laparoscopy. Four of ten second-look laparotomies were negative. Secondary debulking was done in three of four patients with gross disease, one of which had a negative third-look laparotomy. Negative laparotomy, second-look or third-look, was associated with improved survival (P = 0.016). One of the two laparoscopies was negative, but the patient recurred. In the remaining 24 patients cancer of the fallopian tube was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. In 12 patients tubal disease was invasive, and in 12, it was in situ. Separate primaries occurred in the ovaries (n = 20); uterus (n = 7); and cervix (n = 2). This represents 1.3% of ovarian malignancies treated at Roswell Park Memorial Institute during the study period. Fallopian tube cancer seems as virulent as ovarian cancer with few long-term survivors. It is frequently associated with other sites of upper genital tract malignancy. Second-look laparotomy is an important predictor of survival. Second-look laparoscopy may be useful if positive. 
Boron neutron capture therapy of intracerebral rat gliosarcomas. The efficacy of boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) for the treatment of intracerebrally implanted rat gliosarcomas was tested. Preferential accumulation of 10B in tumors was achieved by continuous infusion of the sulfhydryl borane dimer, Na4(10)B24H22S2, at a rate of 45-50 micrograms of 10B per g of body weight per day from day 11 to day 14 after tumor initiation (day 0). This infusion schedule resulted in average blood 10B concentrations of 35 micrograms/ml in a group of 12 gliosarcoma-bearing rats and 45 micrograms/ml in a group of 10 similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated by BNCT. Estimated tumor 10B levels in these two groups were 26 and 34 micrograms/g, respectively. On day 14, boron-treated and non-boron-treated rats were exposed to 5.0 or 7.5 MW.min of radiation from the Brookhaven Medical Research Reactor that yielded thermal neutron fluences of approximately 2.0 x 10(12) or approximately 3.0 x 10(12) n/cm2, respectively, in the tumors. Untreated rats had a median postinitiation survival time of 21 days. Reactor radiation alone increased median postinitiation survival time to 26 (5.0 MW.min) or 28 (7.5 MW.min) days. The 12 rats that received 5 MW.min of BNCT had a median postinitiation survival time of 60 days. Two of these animals survived greater than 15 months. In the 7.5 MW.min group, the median survival time is not calculable since 6 of the 10 animals remain alive greater than 10 months after BNCT. The estimated radiation doses to tumors in the two BNCT groups were 14.2 and 25.6 Gy equivalents, respectively. Similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated with 15.0 or 22.5 Gy of 250-kilovolt peak x-rays had median survival times of only 26 or 31 days, respectively, after tumor initiation. 
Fetal choroid plexus cysts: a prospective study and review of the literature. To determine the incidence and significance of fetal choroid plexus cysts, a prospective study was carried out at Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham. The incidence of cysts was found to be 0.42% and the size of cysts varied from 3 to 13 mm with a mean diameter of 6.2 mm. Choroid plexus cysts were associated with other fetal abnormalities in three cases, two of which were subsequently found to have a chromosomal abnormality, one Trisomy 18 and one Trisomy 21. A review of the reported cases of choroid plexus cysts reveals an overall incidence of 5.8% for Trisomy 18. We therefore recommend that in patients with choroid plexus cysts a detailed scan should be carried out to look for the ultrasound markers of Trisomy 18. If there is an associated abnormality or cysts are large (13 mm or greater in diameter) and bilateral then a karyotyping should be carried out. 
Epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma. Three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases. All patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes. The histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma. 
Clinicopathologic features of hepatocellular carcinoma in young patients. To investigate clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in young adults, excised tumors from 21 patients younger than 45 years (young group) were compared with findings in tumors from 204 patients older than 45 (old group). In the young group HCC showed (1) a high incidence of positive hepatitis B virus surface antigen (HBsAg) (young 71.4% versus old 20.1%); (2) relatively well-preserved hepatocellular function (indocyanine green test; young 10.7 +/- 8.8% versus old 20.6 +/- 10.8%); (3) low incidence of histologically verified concomitant cirrhosis (young 52.4% versus old 78.4%); and (4) a more advanced stage of the disease in TNM classification (Stage III; young 52.4% versus old 18.1%). With respect to survival rates achieved by surgery, there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. Thus, hepatitis B virus may relate to the occurrence of HCC in the young patients. Despite the advanced stage in the young group, survival rate after surgery was comparable with that achieved in the old group. These observations mean that a close periodic surveillance of young adults with a positive HBsAg is required to detect HCC at an early stage. Treatment of patients with HBsAg using interferon or vidarabine and hepatitis B vaccine should be made to convert HBsAg to negative in these individuals. 
Value of four models for selecting patients for local excision of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. For 75 women with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva who underwent radical vulvectomy and inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy, the authors assessed the efficacy of four models for selecting patients who could have been treated adequately with local excision of the tumor. Each of the three models proposed by Andreasson and Nyboe covered 25% of the patients, none of whom had groin metastases or died of cancer. Local recurrence in the vulva occurred in 10%. A model suggested by the International Society for the Study of Vulvar Disease covered almost 10% of the patients. One of seven patients had groin metastases, none died of cancer, and one of seven developed local recurrence in the vulva. The criteria of the clinically best suited model are tumor not situated on the clitoris and less than 4 cm in diameter, with only slight hyperchromasia. This model ought to be tested in a randomized study. 
The origin of epidermal melanocytes. Implications for the histogenesis of nevi and melanomas. Among the most venerable concepts in dermatopathology is Unna's 19th century notion of Abtropfung, ie, that melanocytes drop off from the epidermis to the dermis during the histogenesis of melanocytic tumors. Paradoxically, however, Unna's basic premise of an epidermal origin for melanocytes has been seriously questioned for over 40 years, based on experimental evidence favoring a neural crest origin for melanocytes. Recent work has strengthened the evidence for a neural crest origin of epidermal melanocytes, and it has been suggested that the concept of Abtropfung be replaced by the concept of Hochsteigerung. The concept of Hochsteigerung holds that melanocytes migrate up from the dermis into the epidermis-not only in normal development, but also during normal tissue maintenance. It now seems likely that the precursor of melanocytes, in both normal and abnormal differentiation, may not be a melanoblast (a primitive cell committed to melanocytic differentiation) but rather a pluripotential cell. Although axon-investing Schwann cells have been the traditional focus as the closest relative of the epidermal melanocyte, recent studies suggest that another nerve sheath cell, the perineural cell, might be a better candidate. These concepts have profound implications for the histogenesis of melanocytic nevi and melanomas. 
Historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy. The performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by Whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery. From the mid- to late 1940s until the last 10 years, the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity. For reasons that are not clear, the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10% and in several centers, less than 5%. Postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients. Furthermore, a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected. Seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation. 
Cystic dilatation of the cystic duct: a new type of biliary cyst. A case of a patient with a congenital cyst that was localized solely to the cystic duct is presented. We propose including this anomaly in the biliary cyst classifications, which currently include choledochal and intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary cysts. The diagnosis and management of this new type of cyst in addition to other types of biliary cysts are discussed. 
Serum tumor markers and patient allocation to good-risk and poor-risk clinical trials in patients with germ cell tumors. The allocation of patients with advanced germ cell tumors (GCT) to different treatment programs based on clinical characteristics is standard in the design of clinical trials today. Studies have shown that substantial differences exist between entry criteria and that these differences could influence the outcome of clinical trials. The factors contributing to these differences are not clear due to patient selection biases. Two hundred five unselected and consecutive patients allocated to and treated in good-risk and poor-risk treatment programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) were reassigned risk status by the Indiana University (IU) Classification. The results were compared with those of the Southeastern Cancer Study Group (SECSG). The results using both criteria indicated substantial agreement in total end results and the identification of good-risk patients. The results in poor-risk patients differed substantially, with 39 patients (19%) classified as poor-risk by MSKCC criteria and 66 (32%) by Indiana criteria. The major discrepancy occurred in IU Stage 7, in which 26 of 32 patients (81%) achieved a complete response. The major factor contributing to this difference in risk assignment was the use of serum tumor markers. Serum tumor markers must be incorporated into risk assignment criteria for GCT clinical trials to minimize the number of good-risk GCT patients in poor-risk trials. 
Melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa. Lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa. They are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions. This article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex, junctional lentigo ("jentigo"), atypical melanocytic hyperplasia (melanoma in situ), and melanocanthoma. The proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed. 
Amplification of oncogenes in mammary carcinoma shown by fine-needle biopsy. A procedure that measures the amplification of oncogenes in human cancer cells is described. The cells were obtained by fine-needle biopsy to allow repeated sampling from individual metastases. A drawback was the low number of cells obtained, but this could be overcome by using a slot-blot hybridization technique to measure gene amplification. Two patients with mammary cancer (primary tumors or metastases), analyzed for the levels of amplification of the oncogene erb-B2, are described in detail. This technique is suitable for analyzing alterations occurring during cancer progression and for identifying subgroups of mammary cancer with different characteristics. 
Primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina. A retrospective review was conducted of 53 women with invasive carcinoma of the vagina and without documented exposure to diethylstilbestrol who were seen at the University of California Irvine Medical Center, Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, and Saddleback Memorial Medical Center from 1976-1988. Forty-seven (89%) had squamous cell carcinoma and six (11%) adenocarcinoma. Thirty-seven (70%) were treated with whole-pelvis irradiation and brachytherapy, nine with surgery alone, and the other seven with a combination of treatments. The crude and corrected 2-year survival rates for the entire group were 47 and 69%, respectively. Those with previous pelvic surgery were more likely to develop serious treatment-related complications. There was a statistically significant correlation between previous hysterectomy and the diagnosis of primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina after the onset of symptoms. Women diagnosed during routine examination, before symptom onset, tended to have a survival advantage. All women, including those who have had hysterectomy, should be counseled to continue gynecologic cancer surveillance regardless of age. 
Frequent mutation of the p53 gene in human esophageal cancer. Sequence alterations in the p53 gene have been detected in human tumors of the brain, breast, lung, and colon, and it has been proposed that p53 mutations spanning a major portion of the coding region inactivate the tumor suppressor function of this gene. To our knowledge, neither transforming mutations in oncogenes nor mutations in tumor suppressor genes have been reported in human esophageal tumors. We examined four human esophageal carcinoma cell lines and 14 human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing for the presence of p53 mutations in exons 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. Two cell lines and five of the tumor specimens contained a mutated allele (one frameshift and six missense mutations). All missense mutations detected occurred at G.C base pairs in codons at or adjacent to mutations previously reported in other cancers. The identification of aberrant p53 gene alleles in one-third of the tumors we tested suggests that mutations at this locus are common genetic events in the pathogenesis of squamous cell carcinomas of the esophagus. 
Marijuana smoking as a possible cause of tongue carcinoma in young patients. A case of T1N0M0 carcinoma of the tongue in a male 23-year-old 'regular' marijuana smoker is described. Hemiglossectomy and complete bilateral neck dissection were carried out. No post-operative radiotherapy was given as the resection margins were histologically negative. The tumour recurred one year later in the left cervical region involving the mandible and surgery was again performed, but after three months, neck disease was still evident. The case described case implies the introduction of marijuana as a possible new risk factor in the development of oral cavity tumours. Resection of the primary lesion has to be as wide as possible even in T1 cases, due to the aggressive biological behaviour of such tumours in young subjects. 
Oral zidovudine, continuous-infusion fluorouracil, and oral leucovorin calcium: a phase I study. A phase I clinical, pharmacologic, and biochemical evaluation of escalating oral zidovudine (AZT) given over 2 days with a fixed dose of continuous-infusion fluorouracil (800 mg/m2 per day X 3 days) and oral leucovorin calcium was performed. Eighteen patients were treated with doses of AZT ranging from 1.0 to 9.0 g/m2 per day. Nausea and vomiting were dose limiting, with a maximally tolerated dose of 7.5 g/m2 per day. Rash and mucositis occurred but were not dose limiting. A dose-related increase in peak plasma levels of AZT was observed, and the alpha half-life of AZT in plasma (75 min) was unaffected by these high doses. At doses above 4.0 g/m2 per day, trough levels significantly increased, perhaps reflecting prolonged absorption from the gut. No responses were observed; however, a significant increase in DNA single-strand breaks was observed in peripheral blood cells after a threshold dose of 4.0 g/m2 per day, confirming a biological effect of AZT in this regimen. Further trials with an intravenous formulation capable of maintaining plasma levels and circumventing dose-limiting toxicity are warranted. 
Psychoneuroimmunology. Implications for oncology? Accumulating evidence indicates that the central nervous system (CNS) may regulate the activity of the immune system. Although the overall significance of the immune system in cancer remains controversial, psychosocial influences on immune function could potentially provide a mechanism to account for some of the reports of an association between psychosocial factors and cancer prognosis. 
Immediate postoperative mammogram for failed surgical excision of breast lesions In a series of 200 consecutive preoperative needle localizations of non-palpable breast lesions, 128 lesions (64%) were calcified and 72 lesions (36%) were noncalcified on preoperative mammograms. Radiographs of the surgical specimen failed to confirm excision of 11 lesions (5.5%), seven calcified and four noncalcified. These 11 patients were taken directly from the surgical suite to the radiology suite, where an immediate postoperative mammogram was obtained. In five patients (2.5%), immediate postoperative mammograms showed surgical failure with the lesion still present. In six patients (3.0%), immediate postoperative mammograms showed that the lesion had been removed, even though the lesion had not been identified on surgical-specimen radiographs. No errors occurred in the interpretation of immediate postoperative mammograms, a fact corroborated by examination of surgical specimens obtained at repeat surgery in three patients and identification of skin calcifications in two patients, and with follow-up mammograms in six patients. Whenever a discrepancy between preoperative localization radiographs and surgical-specimen radiographs exists, the authors suggest immediate postoperative mammography to improve the diagnostic process. 
Transferrin receptor activity as a marker in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. An immunohistochemical staining method was used to study transferrin receptors (TFR) in bladder tissue from 10 patients with benign conditions and 33 with bladder cancer. All patients with bladder cancer were followed up by cystoscopy at intervals of 3 months (mean follow-up period 11 months). The relationship between TFR activity and recurrence rates was investigated. It was not possible to demonstrate TFR in normal bladder mucosa except for the proliferating cells of the basal layer. TFR activity in malignant tissue correlated well with the histological grade and pathological stage of the tumour. Patients with low grade superficial tumours showing TFR activity had a higher recurrence rate than those with no TFR activity. It was concluded that TFR activity in low grade superficial bladder tumours is a useful marker for predicting the recurrence rate. 
Regulation of gene expression with double-stranded phosphorothioate oligonucleotides. Alteration of gene transcription by inhibition of specific transcriptional regulatory proteins is necessary for determining how these factors participate in cellular differentiation. The functions of these proteins can be antagonized by several methods, each with specific limitations. Inhibition of sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins was achieved with double-stranded (ds) phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained octamer or kappa B consensus sequences. The phosphorothioate oligonucleotides specifically bound either octamer transcription factor or nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B. The modified oligonucleotides accumulated in cells more effectively than standard ds oligonucleotides and modulated gene expression in a specific manner. Octamer-dependent activation of a reporter plasmid or NF-kappa B-dependent activation of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) enhancer was inhibited when the appropriate phosphorothioate oligonucleotide was added to a transiently transfected B cell line. Addition of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained the octamer consensus to Jurkat T leukemia cells inhibited interleukin-2 (IL-2) secretion to a degree similar to that observed with a mutated octamer site in the IL-2 enhancer. The ds phosphorothioate oligonucleotides probably compete for binding of specific transcription factors and may provide anti-viral, immunosuppressive, or other therapeutic effects. 
Stress response protein (srp-27) determination in primary human breast carcinomas: clinical, histologic, and prognostic correlations Expression of an estrogen-regulated protein known as the 27,000-d heat-shock or stress-response protein (srp-27) was evaluated in human breast carcinomas and established breast cancer cell lines. Results obtained by Northern and Western blot analyses and immunohistochemical methods were concordant. Immunohistochemical assessment of srp-27 expression in 300 breast carcinomas (with median patient follow-up of 8 years) was performed. Twenty-six percent of lymph node-negative and 45% of lymph node-positive tumors were overexpressors. Univariate analysis demonstrated significant correlations between srp-27 overexpression and estrogen receptor (ER) content, pS2 protein expression, nodal metastases, advanced T stage, lymphatic/vascular invasion, and a shorter disease-free survival period (but not a shorter overall survival) for the study population as a whole. Regression tree analysis showed that srp-27 expression was an independent prognostic indicator for disease-free survival only in patients with one to three positive lymph nodes. The Cox proportional hazards model confirmed the independent prognostic significance of nodal involvement, T stage, and ER content but failed to recognize srp-27 overexpression as a significant independent parameter predictive of patient outcome in the patient population as a whole. The observed associations between srp-27 overexpression and more aggressive tumors suggest a biologic role for srp-27 in human breast carcinomas. 
Castanospermine vs. its 6-O-butanoyl analog: a comparison of toxicity and antiviral activity in vitro and in vivo. Inhibitors of glycoprotein processing, such as castanospermine (1,6,7,8-tetrahydroxyoctahydroindolizine), have been shown previously to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) with acceptable toxicity in cultured human cells. In prior experiments, we have tested the toxicity and antiviral efficacy of castanospermine in mice infected with the Rauscher murine leukemia virus (RLV). When compared with 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT, zidovudine), castanospermine was less effective and more toxic. Since the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine was previously found to have a more favorable activity profile than the parent compound against HIV-1 in cultured cells, we compared the antiviral efficacy of both compounds in parallel in vitro and in vivo in the RLV system. Plaque formation in the XC assay was inhibited with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 2.4 microM for the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine, as compared to 9 microM for castanospermine. For both compounds, concentrations resulting in significant cytotoxicity were about ten times higher. Both compounds significantly decreased HIV-1 env-induced syncytium formation in a novel in vitro assay. In RLV-exposed mice, the 6-O-butanoyl analog showed no advantage over the parent compound: both curves for toxicity as well as antiviral efficacy were super-imposable. We conclude that the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine as well as castanospermine itself are active antiviral agents in mice and that prolonged oral administration is tolerable. However, in comparison to AZT, their antiviral activity profiles are less favorable. 
Adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in persons under 40 years old. A population-based study. Data collected by nine population-based tumor registries participating in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program of the National Cancer Institute were analyzed to characterize the epidemiology of noncarcinoid adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in young adults. Tumors diagnosed in persons under 40 years old between 1973 and 1984 (n = 1736) were compared with those in persons 40 years and older (n = 106,760). This first large U.S. population-based study of colorectal adenocarcinomas in the young shows a higher incidence in blacks than whites and later detection in black males. It also shows a higher proportion of tumors of mucinous and signet ring histological type than in older age groups. Among the younger group, the average annual age-adjusted incidence rate was 34% higher in black males than in white males (12.6 vs. 9.4 per million persons) and 46% higher in black females than in white females (13.0 vs 8.9 per million persons). The proportion of tumors that were right-sided varied by age: 0-29 years, 30%; 30-39 years, 26%; 40-49 years, 22%; 50-59 years, 21%; 60-69 years, 24%; 70-79 years, 30%; and 80+ years, 35%. Males under age 40 were less likely to present with localized disease (whites, 27%; blacks, 21%) than were those aged 40 and older (whites, 39%; blacks, 36%). The proportion of tumors classified as mucinous decreased with age, from 28% among those aged 0-19 years to 5% among those 40 years and older. A similar trend was observed for signet ring tumors. Although this latter type accounted for 10% of large-bowel tumors among subjects aged 0-19 years, this proportion decreased with age to 0.2% in those 40 years and older. 
Colonic polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase activity as markers for adenomas. Polyamine content (putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) or ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity was measured in normal-appearing colonic mucosa from patients undergoing colonoscopy. Comparisons were made between those with and those without adenomatous polyps. Colonic mucosal polyamine content was measured in 44 persons. Mean putrescine content was 1.25 +/- 0.26 (SE) nmol/mg protein in 22 patients with adenomatous polyps compared with 0.53 +/- 0.12 nmol/mg protein in patients without polyps (P less than 0.02). Tissue content of spermidine and spermine did not differ between these two groups. Ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in tissue from 45 patients. Mean ODC activity was 2.84 +/- 0.73 pmol/hr/mg protein in 23 persons with adenomatous polyps compared with 1.15 +/- 0.18 pmol/hr/mg protein in persons without polyps (P less than 0.05). Mucosal putrescine and ODC activity are elevated in patients with adenomatous polyps compared with patients without polyps. These biochemical markers may prove helpful in improving surveillance methods for colorectal cancer and premalignant adenomatous polyps. 
Neuropeptide Y and neuron-specific enolase levels in benign and malignant pheochromocytomas. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) is the isoform of enolase, a glycolytic enzyme found in the neuroendocrine system. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a peptide recently discovered in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Serum NSE and plasma NPY levels have been reported to be increased in some patients with pheochromocytoma. The authors evaluated whether the measurement of these molecules could help to discriminate between benign and malignant forms of pheochromocytoma. The NSE levels were normal in all patients with benign pheochromocytoma (n = 13) and elevated in one half of those with malignant pheochromocytoma (n = 13). Plasma NPY levels were on the average significantly higher in the malignant (177.1 +/- 38.9 pmol/l, n = 16) than in the benign forms of the disease (15.7 +/- 389 pmol/l, n = 24). However, there was no difference in the percentage of patients with elevated NPY levels. These results show that determination of serum NSE may be useful for distinguishing between malignant and benign pheochromocytoma; the measurement of plasma NPY is not useful for differentiating the two kinds of tumors. 
Prospective evaluation of clinical and pathologic detection of axillary metastases in patients with carcinoma of the breast. Complete axillary dissection was performed in 287 patients undergoing modified radical mastectomy between 1984 and 1987 to identify patterns of axillary node metastases, as well as discontinuous axillary node ("skip") metastases. Positive pathologic findings were compared with preoperative clinical examinations in 266 patients and showed only 60 cases (22.6%) clinically suspicious for tumor, in contrast to 131 (45.6%) with pathologically confirmed positive lymph nodes. Axillary contents were classified level I, II, or III based on their relationship to the pectoralis minor muscle. An average of 24.2 nodes was resected per patient (level I, 10; level II, 8.1; and level III, 5.3). Tumors ranged in size from 0.5 to 12.0 cm (mean, 2.6 cm), and increasing tumor size was associated with an increased likelihood of positive nodes. The data on 204 patients with complete clinical and pathologic data show that of 119 patients with negative level I nodes a limited axillary dissection (level I only) would fail to identify 6 with positive level II and 2 with positive level III nodes, whereas of 85 patients with positive level I nodes limited axillary dissection would fail to identify 17 with positive level II nodes, 7 with positive level III nodes, and 27 with positive levels II and III nodes. Complete axillary dissection (levels I, II, and III) should be performed to stage patients accurately, as well as to remove tumor-involved nodes and diminish local axillary recurrences. Clinical examination of the axilla appears to be a poor means of identifying axillary metastatic cancer. 
Response rates in relapsed Wilms' tumor. A need for new effective agents. Three hundred eighty-one children with Wilms' tumor were treated in the United Kingdom Children's Cancer Study Group WT1 Study (1982 to 1986). Seventy-one patients had relapses during or after treatment with surgery and chemotherapy, and radiation therapy, depending on stage and histologic characteristics. Forty-nine patients were evaluable for disease response to second-line chemotherapy alone. Evaluation of response to chemotherapy was impossible in the remaining patients because either surgery or radiation therapy was used at the time of relapse. With second-line combination chemotherapy (which included ifosfamide, etoposide/VM26, cisplatin/carboplatin, bleomycin, melphalan, and Thiotepa [Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, NY]), there were five complete responses and 12 partial responses. In patients with favorable histologic findings, six of nine with Stage I, five of ten with Stage II, none of 11 with Stage III, three of 16 with Stage IV, and one of five with Stage V disease survived. Two survivors were treated with chemotherapy alone; the others received combined treatment with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and/or surgery. For those with unfavorable histologic findings of any stage, only two of 20 survived. The authors conclude that, even for patients with localized disease with favorable histologic findings, the "salvage" rate is little more than 50%, and for all other stages and histologic findings the likelihood of cure after relapse is remote. There is clearly a need for additional effective chemotherapeutic agents for these patients. 
Evidence of a local immune activation in cystic brain tumors. The fluid of cystic brain tumors was characterized with regard to the protein content. In most malignant tumors, the concentrations of immunoglobulins G and M (IgG and IgM) were higher relative to other proteins in the cyst fluid than in the serum of the same patient. A markedly elevated ratio of monomeric to pentameric IgM was detected in the cyst fluid of two patients with glioblastomas. The results indicate a local immunoglobulin synthesis in malignant cystic brain tumors. It is hypothesized that higher-than-expected concentrations of IgG and IgM in cyst fluid as compared to plasma are a sign of an ongoing immune response triggered by the tumor. 
von Willebrand factor in head and neck cancer. Laboratory abnormalities in blood coagulation factors are common in patients with cancer but the significance is unknown. Twenty-eight patients with head and neck cancer were studied at the time of diagnosis. Twenty-five were advanced-stage (III or IV) patients. Levels of clotting factors, antithrombin III, and plasminogen were normal. Levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF), both antigenic and functional (ristocetin cofactor), were elevated. This group of patients were followed for a minimum of 41 months (median, 48 months). Fifteen patients died within the follow-up period. von Willebrand factor levels were significantly higher in these 15 than the 13 survivors. Extreme elevation of ristocetin cofactor (greater than 300 U/dl) was seen in six of the 15 patients who died and in none of the survivors. Plasma vWF is elevated in head and neck cancer and the level measured at the time of diagnosis may have prognostic and potentially therapeutic implications. 
Vagal schwannoma. A patient with a benign encapsulated intrathoracic vagal schwannoma is presented and the literature is reviewed. The right paratracheal tumor was identified incidentally on a chest film and excised using a right thoracotomy. Although rare, vagal schwannomas should be considered for any mediastinal mass along the vagus nerves especially when the paratracheal tumor produces minimal or no respiratory symptoms suggesting a slow-growing, encapsulated process. 
Leucine kinetics in patients with benign disease, non-weight-losing cancer, and cancer cachexia: studies at the whole-body and tissue level and the response to nutritional support. We have performed intraoperative isotopic infusions of carbon 14-labeled leucine in 65 patients to define the abnormalities in protein metabolism at both the whole-body and tissue level in patients with weight-losing and non-weight-losing cancer. Eighteen patients had benign disease, 26 had non-weight-losing cancer, and 21 had cancer cachexia. Samples of plasma and expired breath were taken to determine rates of whole-body protein synthesis (WBPS), whole-body protein catabolism (WBPC), net protein catabolism, and albumin fractional synthetic rates. Tissue samples were taken to determine the fractional synthetic rates (FSR) of protein in muscle, liver, cancer, and the tissue in which the cancer arose. In addition, in 14 patients the effect of nutritional support on protein metabolism was assessed. In all parameters examined we were unable to detect any significant differences between patients with no cancer and the patients with non-weight-losing cancer. In contrast, patients with cancer cachexia had a significant elevation (p less than 0.005) in WBPC compared with the other two groups. WBPS was also elevated (to a lesser extent) in the patients with cancer cachexia, and the rate of net protein catabolism was increased significantly (p less than 0.05). Patients with cancer cachexia also had significantly higher values of FSR of protein in muscle (p less than 0.05), liver (p less than 0.05), and albumin (p less than 0.01) compared with the other two groups. In addition, the protein FSR in the cancer rose progressively when the values for the primary cancer were compared with those for nodal and systemic metastases. Further, although nutritional support resulted in an increase in host muscle protein synthesis (p less than 0.04), there was no promotion of FSR of protein in cancer. We conclude that patients with cancer cachexia are actively losing protein as a result of an increase in WBPC that is only partially compensated for by an increase in WBPS. There are compensatory increases in protein synthesis in muscle and liver, but these increases in host protein synthesis are insufficient to keep pace with the combined effect of the accelerated rate of protein synthesis in the cancer per se and the accelerated rate of net protein catabolism at the whole-body level. In response to nutritional support, there is a significant increase in the muscle protein synthesis, but we could not demonstrate any increase in cancer protein synthesis. 
Gamma-detecting probe and autoradiographic studies of radiolabeled antibody B72.3 in CX-1 colon xenografts. Nude mice bearing CX-1 colon tumors were injected with 50 microCi 125I-labeled monoclonal antibody (MAb) B72.3. Radioactivity in tumors was studied with the gamma detecting probe (GDP) on days 1, 3, 7, and 10 after MAb injection. On each day, two mice were sacrificed and sections were examined with autoradiography (ARG), immunoperoxidase methods (IMP), and routine stains. Mean probe counts showed increasing tumor to background ratios and ARG demonstrated a progressive increase in radionuclide in the tumors. The distribution of 125I was primarily around the vascular spaces on day 1, but by day 3 and progressively it appeared in tumor gland lumina and necrotic areas. A regional correlation was shown between radionuclide in vascular spaces and its sequestration in tumor elements. 
Retroviral transduction of protein kinase C-gamma into cytotoxic T lymphocyte clones leads to immortalization with retention of specific function. The molecular pathways that are responsible for delivering the proliferative signals from the cell surface to the nucleus in T lymphocytes are still unresolved, but recent data implicates protein kinase C (PKC) involvement in the TCR signaling pathway. To further address the role of PKC in T cell activation, the effects of high level expression of the PKC-gamma isoenzyme in murine CTL clones were examined. Unlike the parental cells that required periodic Ag stimulation for cell activation and growth, cells expressing a retrovirally transduced PKC-gamma gene propagated in culture independent of the need for Ag stimulation, although maintaining identical functional specificity to the parental CTL. Constitutive PKC-gamma expression may therefore mimic physiologic PKC activation, thereby abrogating the requirement for TCR-Ag interaction in T cell activation. 
Detection of Epstein-Barr virus DNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of nasopharyngeal carcinoma using polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. The polymerase chain reaction method for amplification of DNA in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections was used to detect Epstein-Barr virus DNA in nasopharyngeal carcinomas from Japanese patients. Thirty-one cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and 8 cases of lymph node metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma were studied. Detection rates of Epstein-Barr virus in various types of nasopharyngeal carcinoma according to the World Health Organization classification were as follows: 10 of 10 undifferentiated carcinomas, 8 of 13 nonkeratinizing carcinomas, and 5 of 7 keratinizing carcinomas. Eight lymph node metastases, for which the primary was positive for Epstein-Barr virus, also contained Epstein-Barr virus DNA. By in situ hybridization using a biotinylated Epstein-Barr virus probe, it was clearly demonstrated that Epstein-Barr virus DNA was localized in the nuclei of the neoplastic cells. The clinical features of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with or without Epstein-Barr virus were not different. These results demonstrate that nasopharyngeal carcinoma in Japanese patients is closely associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection, similar to nasopharyngeal carcinoma of other endemic and nonendemic areas. 
Dentofacial development in long-term survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A comparison of three treatment modalities. Ninety-seven children who were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia before 10 years of age and treated with chemotherapy alone, chemotherapy plus 1800-cGy cranial irradiation (RT), or chemotherapy plus 2400-cGy RT were evaluated for effects of therapy on dentofacial development. All patients were seen at least 5 years postdiagnosis. Dental abnormalities were determined from panoramic radiographs, and craniofacial evaluations were made from lateral cephalometric radiographs. Ninety-one (94%) of all patients and 41 (100%) of patients younger than 5 years of age at diagnosis had abnormal dental development. The severity of these abnormalities was greater in children who received treatment before 5 years of age and in those who received RT. Observed dental abnormalities included tooth agenesis, arrested root development, microdontia, and enamel dysplasias. Craniofacial abnormalities occurred in 18 of 20 (90%) of those patients who received chemotherapy plus 2400-cGy RT before 5 years of age. Mean cephalometric values of this group showed significant deficient mandibular development. The results of this study suggest that the severity of dentofacial-developmental abnormalities secondary to antileukemia therapy are related to the age of the patient at the initiation of treatment and the use of cranial RT. 
Granular cell tumors of the vulva. Granular cell tumor (GCT), although nearly ubiquitous, is seen infrequently in the vulva. A review of the surgical pathology files from Grady Memorial Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia, from 1983 through 1987 identified eight cases of vulvar GCT. Five of the eight patients had more than one skin and soft tissue lesion. Two of the five had biopsy-proven multicentric GCT with a unique clinical course. One of the patients was a 32-year-old woman with multiple vulvar, lingual, laryngeal, bronchial and pulmonary GCT, necessitating multiple excisions and ultimately pneumonectomy. The second patient had multiple GCTs in the vulva and inguinal area and finally in both lungs, resulting in her death at age 39. No dependable microscopic features could be identified to distinguish benign GCT from its more aggressive variant. However, Feulgen DNA histomorphometry demonstrated aneuploidy in the patient with apparent lung metastases, whereas the tumors from patients with a benign course as well as from the patient with multiorgan involvement were diploid. In three of five patients who could be interviewed there was a history of soft tissue tumors in members of the family. The multifocal nature and possible familial component of GCT need to be explored further. 
Clear cell adenocarcinoma of the lower genital tract. Correlation of mother's recall of diethylstilbestrol history with obstetrical records. The written obstetric records of maternal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) were used as a criterion standard and compared with the DES exposure history recalled by mothers of women with vaginal, cervical, or indeterminable vaginal/exocervical clear cell adenocarcinoma. Among cervical cases, the sensitivity of maternal recall was 50% (N = 2), and its specificity was 100%. Among vaginal and vaginal/exocervical cases, this sensitivity was 72%; specificity was 60%; and the majority of these mothers who said they did not take DES were DES positive by written records. Thus investigators should avoid using maternal recall alone to measure DES exposure. Among subjects for whom written maternal obstetric records were available, 88% of vaginal cases and 46% of cervical cases were DES positive. The authors conclude that few cases of vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma should occur in young women as the cohort of women exposed in utero to DES continues to age, whereas cases of cervical origin may continue to occur. 
A self-assembling protein kinase C inhibitor. Previous studies have described a dicationic anticarcinoma agent that can chemically assemble in situ from monocationic phosphonium salts. The chemical combination of these monocationic precursors in the micromolar concentration range, occurring after their uptake by cells, was probably responsible for their synergistic inhibition of cell growth and for their selective cytotoxicity to Ehrlich ascites murine carcinoma cells relative to untransformed epithelial cells. Here, we report that the dicationic product that forms in this assembly reaction is an in vitro inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC) alpha and beta 1 isoforms, exhibiting IC50 values of 20.4 microM and 35 microM, respectively. The monocationic precursors proved to be much weaker inhibitors of PKC (IC50 values greater than 200 microM). When PKC is exposed to combinations of the two precursors, the enzymatic activity decreases steadily as a function of time. Using dose-response data and HPLC kinetic studies, we show that when the two precursor compounds are added as a combination to PKC under these conditions, the rate of formation of the inhibitory product follows the observed time course of decline in PKC activity under identical conditions. We discuss the possibility that antiproliferative effects against carcinoma cells of the preformed dication and of the combined monocationic precursors involve inhibition of PKC. 
Lymphoproliferative disorders associated with carbamazepine. Carbamazepine-induced lymphoproliferative disorders are relatively rare. A 32-year-old woman developed cervical lymphadenopathy while taking carbamazepine. Histologic evaluation of the lymph node biopsy specimen demonstrated near-total effacement of the nodal architecture by a population of pleomorphic immunoblasts. The predominant cell population expressed CD3, CD2, CD5, and CD4, while results of testing for CD8 were negative. On the basis of the morphologic and immunohistologic features, a diagnosis of high-grade, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, T-cell immunoblastic type, was made. Despite the fact that aggressive behavior is usually associated with immunoblastic lymphomas, the patient has done well for 33 months after cessation of carbamazepine in the absence of chemotherapeutic treatment. The clinical features of this patient's illness, therefore, suggest that it is best regarded as a so-called pseudolymphoma. 
Local control of auricular, periauricular, and external canal cutaneous malignancies with Mohs surgery. Three hundred ninety-seven patients with 407 cutaneous malignancies of the auricle, periauricular region, and cartilaginous external ear canal were reviewed. Tumors were most commonly located in the preauricular and postauricular regions, followed by the helix, concha, antihelix, and ear canal. All lesions were excised with Mohs microscopic control of margins. For lesions requiring lateral temporal bone resection, an adaptation of fresh-tissue microscopic control was used to analyze deep and anterior margins suspected of harboring residual tumor. Two-year minimum follow-up of 229 patients with periauricular and auricular tumors (N = 231 tumors) and 14 patients with cartilaginous ear canal tumors (N = 14 tumors) revealed recurrence rates of 6.9% and 14.3%, respectively. Recurrences were most common in cases of large tumors (greater than 2.5 cm), basal cell carcinomas with morphea elements, and multiply recurrent lesions. We conclude that Mohs surgery is comparatively effective, though not uniformly curative, and can be adapted to supplement excision of large tumors in these regions. 
Chemotherapy for medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the posterior fossa. Chemotherapy has only marginal efficacy in adult malignant brain tumors. In contrast, drug therapy is considerably more effective in medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors (MB/PNET) of the posterior fossa, the most common childhood primary central nervous system tumor. At the time of disease recurrence, a variety of different single agents and drug combinations result in tumor shrinkage and increased survival. The addition of chemotherapy to standard radiotherapy improves the rate and length of disease-free survival for those children with MB/PNET who have the most extensive tumors at diagnosis. It remains to be determined which drug or drug combinations are the most effective in MB/PNET, and which patients are most likely to benefit from chemotherapy. Chemotherapy may be useful to reduce or, in selected cases, obviate the need for radiotherapy and reduce treatment-related sequelae. 
Nuclear medicine in otolaryngology. Nuclear medicine has a distinct role to play in otolaryngological practice. Accurate diagnosis of endocrine conditions is now possible using precise in-vitro hormone measurement. Specific clinical questions can be answered using in-vivo investigations. 99mTcO-4/123I scintigraphy is used to evaluate thyrotoxicosis and solitary thyroid nodules. 99mTc/201T1 subtraction scanning is of value in the preoperative localization of parathyroid adenomas and 99mTcO-4 is particularly useful in assessing salivary and lachrymal gland function and drainage. 99mTc-MDP bone scanning is useful in the evaluation of osteomyelitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, bone graft viability and some facial fractures. The role of radioisotopes in the management of differentiated and medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is now well established. Although there are many other agents available to image head and neck cancer, few can actually achieve the required diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. The introduction of monoclonal antibodies into routine imaging has been hampered by distinct practical problems and the search is now on for more sensitive non-specific diagnostic agents. It is now possible to evaluate new 99mTc labelled tumour-imaging agents using animal tumour model systems and the use of radioactivity in all aspects of otolaryngological research adds an extra quantitive dimension. Together with SPECT, and the introduction of positron emission tomography (PET) to image the physiology of normal tissues and tumours, the use of radionuclide investigations can lead only to an increase in ENT diagnostic sensitivity and specificity and, subsequently, to an overall improvement in the way we diagnose, stage and treat head and neck cancer. 
Photochemotherapy alone or combined with interferon alpha-2a in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Eighty-two patients with either mycosis fungoides (MF) or parapsoriasis en plaques were treated with psoralens ultraviolet A light (PUVA). Clinical and histologic parameters were followed for a period from 6 months to 10 years. Complete clinical clearing of lesions was observed in 51 patients (62%) and most of them were in limited-plaque MF group or parapsoriasis en plaque. The mean total dose of PUVA for complete clearing was less for early MF. Thirty-one patients (38%) relapsed and responded to additional PUVA. Patients in early stages of the disease remained clear for up to 68 months after the first course of PUVA. Post-treatment skin biopsies with early MF showed histologic clearing. A new combination therapy for MF is presented in 15 patients. Recombinant interferon alpha-2a (Roferon-A), administered intramuscularly combined with PUVA were tested in a phase I trial. Interferon doses were from 6-30 million units three times weekly. Disease stages ranged from I-B to IV-B. Complete responses were obtained in 12 of 15 patients, and partial responses seen in 2 of 15 patients, for an overall response rate of 93%. The median duration of response exceeded 23 months (range, 3 to 25 months). All responding patients have been maintained on therapy. The dose-limiting toxicities were constitutional symptoms such as fevers and malaise (93.3%), leukopenias (40.0%), mental status changes consisting of depression and confusion (33.3%), and photosensitivity (26.6%). Interferon plus PUVA appear to be highly effective regimens for the treatment of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. 
The ras oncogenes in human lung cancer. The three well-characterized genes of the ras gene family H-ras, K-ras, and N-ras, code for closely related 21-kD proteins that have a role in the transduction of growth signals. The ras proteins acquire transforming potential when a point mutation in the gene leads to replacement of an amino acid in one of the critical positions 12, 13, or 61. Overexpression of the normal protein, usually associated with gene amplification, can have similar effects. The detection of mutationally activated ras genes has been facilitated by the development of oligonucleotide hybridization assays that allow the identification of each possible mutation at the critical sites. Employment of the polymerase chain reaction has greatly increased the sensitivity of these assays. Studies of human lung cancer have shown that adenocarcinoma is the only subtype associated with ras mutations. These occur in about 30% of primary tumors. In almost all cases, the mutation is present in codon 12 of the K-ras gene. No mutations have been observed to date in tumors of nonsmokers, suggesting that the mutation may result from exposure to carcinogenic ingredients of tobacco smoke. Amplifications of ras genes were shown to be very uncommon in clinically early stages of lung cancer. Analysis of the clinical data of patients who were operated on for adenocarcinoma of the lung shows that K-ras mutations are not associated with particular histologic characteristics of the tumors or with specific presenting features. Patients with K-ras mutations, however, had significantly worse survival than did those without an activation. 
A case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. A case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the mediastinum is reported in a 14-year-old boy. Computed tomographic scan of the chest showed a mass of the anterior mediastinum and conspicuous swelling of the lymph nodes in the upper and lower mediastinum. They were grossly resected. The tumor of the anterior mediastinum was histologically diagnosed as true thymic hyperplasia. All of the mediastinal lymph nodes were diagnosed as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, diffuse, mixed small and large cell type. 
Oral cancer: a survey of 566 cases from the University of Connecticut Oral Pathology Biopsy Service, 1975-1986. A survey of the University of Connecticut Oral Pathology Biopsy Service was undertaken to analyze cases of oral cancer accessioned during the 12-year period, 1975 through 1986 inclusive. Of 33,429 total specimens accessioned, there were 546 malignant oral neoplasms diagnosed and reported. Sixty-five (11.5%) originated from out of state. Invasive intraoral squamous cell carcinoma was the predominant tumor (69.7% of total), whereas lip cancer constituted only 2.8% of all malignancies. Minor salivary gland adenocarcinomas accounted for 11% of total malignancies whereas verrucous carcinoma, carcinoma in situ, and miscellaneous other forms of oral cancer accounted for the remainder (4.6%, 5.3%, and 6.6%, respectively). Cases of invasive squamous cell carcinoma were further analyzed by year, sex distribution, location subsite, age at diagnosis, and histologic grade. With the exception of histologic grading, we found that the characterization of cases of squamous cell carcinoma within the biopsy service tended to parallel results from a separate but related statewide analysis of both oral cancer and intraoral squamous cell carcinoma from Connecticut over a much longer time span. We concluded that the picture of oral cancer as characterized by cases within the University of Connecticut Oral Pathology Biopsy Service is generally reflective of the disease on a statewide level. 
Growth of group A rotaviruses in a human liver cell line. Recent observations in children with rotavirus gastroenteritis and in infant mice given rotavirus vaccine by oral administration suggest that this well-known gastrointestinal pathogen may infect the liver. To examine this possibility, the susceptibility of Hep G2 cells to infection with a variety of rotavirus strains was tested. These cells were used because they are considered to be well differentiated and exhibit many liver-specific functions. The Hep G2 cells supported the growth of the simian strain rhesus rotavirus (MMU 18006), a strain currently being used in vaccine trails, but did not support the growth of any human strain (D, DS1, Price or ST3). The rhesus rotavirus infection was cytopathic and resulted in release of lactate dehydrogenase. Rhesus rotavirus growth in Hep G2 cells displayed trypsin-enhanced infectivity and was inhibited by pretreatment of cells with Arthrobacter ureafaciens neuraminidase but not with neuraminidase from Clostridium perfringens. Hep G2 cells were also permissive for another simian strain (SA11), a bovine strain (UK) and single gene substitution reassortants containing VP7 (the major outer capsid neutralization protein) from a human rotavirus strain and the remaining 10 genes from either rhesus rotavirus or UK. In general, UK and its reassortants produced lower levels of antigen than did rhesus rotavirus and its reassortants. Hep G2 cells and other hepatic cell lines may prove to be useful tools to explore the hepatotropic potential of wild-type rotaviruses and candidate vaccine strains. 
Intratumoral oxygen pressure in malignant brain tumor. Oxygen pressure (pO2) in brain tumors, pO2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumors, and PaO2 were measured simultaneously during total resection in 16 patients with previously untreated brain tumors in order to detect hypoxic regions within the tumors. When the inhaled O2:N2O ratio was 1:3 under enflurane anesthesia, mean PaO2 was 109.2 +/- 5.8 mm Hg, a rather high value when compared with that obtained when air is inhaled under atmospheric pressure. The simultaneously measured intratumoral pO2 and pO2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor were 15.3 +/- 2.3 and 59.8 +/- 6.5 mm Hg, respectively. Each intratumoral pO2 value was significantly lower than that of pO2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor (mean less than 30 mm Hg, Wilcoxon signed rank test, p less than 0.005) and influenced the oxygen effects on radiation. These results appear to confirm that there are hypoxic regions within human brain tumors. A comparison between intratumoral pO2 and either the angiographic or contrast-enhanced computerized tomography scans of the tumor vasculature disclosed no correlation. 
Idiopathic and glucocorticoid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis. Pathological overgrowth of the epidural fat in the spine has been described and reported nearly exclusively in patients either with Cushing's syndrome or on chronic intake of glucocorticoids for a variety of clinical disorders. The authors report four patients with documented spinal lipomatosis (three pathologically and one radiologically). Only one of these patients received corticosteroids, and none had an underlying endocrinological abnormality. All four patients were adult males with a mean age at onset of symptoms of 43 years (range from 18 to 60 years). The symptoms ranged from simple neurogenic claudication and radicular pain to frank myelopathy. Myelography followed by computerized tomography were instrumental in the diagnosis of the first three patients; the fourth was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. The thoracic spine was involved in two cases and the lumbosacral area in the other two. The different treatment modalities were tailored according to the symptomatology of the patients. These included weight reduction of an overweight patient with minimal neurological findings in one case and decompressive laminectomy and fat debulking to achieve adequate cord decompression in the remaining three cases. Two patients improved significantly, the condition of one stabilized, and the fourth required a second decompression at other spinal levels. The various modalities of treatment and their potential complications are discussed. 
Peptic ulcer perforation as the presentation of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. We examined the characteristics of patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome who developed a perforation prior to diagnosis to determine whether any clinical features were useful markers of the syndrome. Of 160 patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, perforation occurred prior to the diagnosis being made in 11 (7%). At surgery, perforations were found in the duodenum in six cases and in the jejunum in five. In no case was tumor identified at emergency surgery, and the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome was made only in the postoperative period when excessive gastric secretions were noted. Neither acid output nor serum gastrin concentration were useful predictors for perforation. The patients, six men and five women, were 27-61 years old (median 48) and one had MEN-1. Three patients had no symptoms prior to the perforation. The other eight had symptoms for 1-15 years, with diarrhea occurring in 45% of the cases. Following the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, patients were given medication to control gastric acid hypersecretion. Eight patients remained well, but the three patients who had had a partial gastrectomy had a complicated course despite medical therapy. Although features of perforation in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome are not specific, jejunal perforation or perforation associated with a history of diarrhea is suggestive of the diagnosis. Serum gastrin should be measured in every case and a partial gastrectomy avoided. 
Improved silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions in paraffin wax sections using an inverted incubation technique [published erratum appears in J Clin Pathol 1991 Jun;44(6):528] A new simple modification to the silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions (AgNORs) was devised which, by performing the incubation with the slide inverted, results in minimal undesirable background staining, a persistent problem. Inverted incubation is facilitated by the use of a commercially available plastic coverplate. This technique has several additional advantages over other published staining protocols. In particular, the method is straightforward, fast, and maintains a high degree of contrast between the background and the AgNORs. 
Intra-abdominal "angiosarcomatosis" report of two cases after pelvic irradiation. Angiosarcomas account for only 1% to 2% of all soft tissue sarcomas with the most common site of origin being skin and subcutaneous tissue particularly on the face and scalp of elderly patients. These neoplasms rarely arise in the small or large bowel with presentation as diffuse abdominal "angiosarcomatosis." Two patients are reported who were treated with adjuvant pelvic irradiation for gynecologic malignancies (squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix and adenocarcinoma of the endometrium) in whom diffuse abdominal angiosarcoma of intestinal origin developed 7 and 18 years later. Both patients were treated with standard megavoltage irradiation. The clinical course was rapid in both cases with death due to intra-abdominal hemorrhage and bowel obstruction. The pertinent literature relating to the association between radiation therapy and subsequent development of angiosarcomas of soft tissues and other sites is briefly reviewed. 
All-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemias. II. In vitro studies: structure-function relationship. All-trans retinoic acid induces leukemic cells from patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3) to differentiate in vitro to mature granulocytes which express the CD15 antigen and are capable of respiratory burst function. Of 35 M3 samples, only one failed to respond. In eight cases, we compared the efficacy of two naturally occurring isomers of retinoic acid, all-trans RA and 13-cis RA. Both isomers induce maximal differentiation at 10(-6) mol/L. The maximal response was maintained at 10(-7) mol/L for the all-trans but not for the 13-cis RA. We also observed that the metabolites 4-oxo-all-trans and 4-oxo-13-cis were effective at 10(-6) mol/L. This 1 order of magnitude difference in the in vitro differentiating potencies of all-trans RA and 13-cis RA in the blasts of promyelocytic leukemias predicts a difference in the clinical efficacy of the two drugs. 
Prognostic factors in yolk sac tumors of the ovary. A clinicopathologic analysis of 29 cases. Twenty-nine ovarian cancer patients with yolk sac tumors and germ cell tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of their disease (16 endodermal sinus tumor, 11 mixed germ cell tumors, one embryonal carcinoma, and one polyembryoma) were treated with cytoreductive surgery and combination chemotherapy. Prognostic factors were investigated in this group. Patients with Stage I disease had a more favorable prognosis (P less than 0.003) than those with Stages II and IV disease. The difference in prognosis was significant in cases where residual tumor was absent (P less than 0.003) and in cases where ascites was either absent or less than 100 ml in volume (P less than 0.05). Endodermal sinus tumor with either an intestinal (P less than 0.05) or microcystic pattern (P less than 0.01) was more common in survivors than in those who died. The age, preoperative serum alpha-fetoprotein level, maximum tumor size, and tumor weight had no significant correlation with prognosis. In advanced cases, chemotherapy regimens including cisplatin gave better results than those containing vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (P less than 0.05). The optimal treatment of yolk sac tumors or tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of the ovary is discussed in light of these results. 
Prognosis and treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma secondary to epidermodysplasia verruciformis: a worldwide analysis of 11 patients. Data were collected from three medical centers in the USA, Poland, and Japan regarding 11 patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) secondary to epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV). Analysis was conducted regarding primary tumor location, age at onset of EV, age at diagnosis of SCC, treatment of SCC, history of local tumor recurrence, presence of metastases, and age at death. Three of 11 patients developed both lymph node and visceral metastases and the mean patient age at death was 44 years (N = 6) with no patient to date living past 54 years. Mean patient survival time following metastases was 1.7 years (N = 2). Human papilloma virus typing of nine patients was performed. Current controversies regarding the treatment of patients with advanced SCC in the setting of EV are reviewed. 
An immunohistochemical evaluation of progesterone receptor in frozen sections, paraffin sections, and cytologic imprints of breast carcinomas. Two monoclonal antibodies to progesterone receptor (PR), JZB39 and KD68, were used for the immunocytochemical visualization of PR in different kinds of breast cancer specimens including (1) cryostat sections of tumors frozen at -80 degrees C; (2) paraffin sections of tumors fixed in formalin or in Bouin's fixative for varying periods of time at room temperature or at 4 degrees C; and (3) imprints and cryostat sections prepared from the tissue used for frozen section diagnosis and stored at -80 degrees C after fixation in Zamboni's solution. Sections of conventionally frozen specimens as well as imprints and cryostat sections stored for varying periods of time were stained with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique, whereas the avidin-biotin technique was used for paraffin sections. In all types of specimens the PR immunostaining was localized to the nuclei of carcinoma cells and displayed considerable heterogeneity both in intensity and in distribution of positive cells. Close correspondence was found between the different immunohistochemical techniques as well as between immunostaining and steroid-binding assays. PR staining was more frequently positive in well-differentiated than in moderately or poorly differentiated carcinomas, whereas no meaningful correlation was found between PR staining and extent of the disease. Similar results were obtained with the immunostaining of estrogen receptor in the same material using monoclonal antibodies H222 and D75P3 gamma. Thus, by choosing the technique that best suits the type of specimen available, it is possible to obtain valid information on the receptor status of any breast carcinoma, regardless of its size and clinical presentation. 
Comparisons of diet and biochemical characteristics of stool and urine between Chinese populations with low and high colorectal cancer rates. In an investigation of the roles of diet and stool biochemistry in human colorectal carcinogenesis, 24-hour food, urine, and stool samples were collected from randomly selected participants from two populations with a fourfold difference in colorectal cancer risk: Chinese in Sha Giao, People's Republic of China (low risk), and Chinese-Americans of similar ages in San Francisco County, Calif, in the United States (high risk). The findings supported the hypotheses that colorectal cancer risk is increased by the consumption of high-fat, high-protein, and low-carbohydrate diets and is associated with high levels of cholesterol in stool as well as increased daily outputs of 3-methyl-histidine and malonaldehyde in urine. However, risk does not increase with low stool bulk and low total stool fibers. 
Acral melanoma: a review of 185 patients with identification of prognostic variables. One hundred eight-five patients with acral melanoma treated since 1972 were reviewed. These included 53 subungual lesions, 123 plantar lesions, and 9 palmar lesions. Eighty percent presented with stage I disease. Mean age was 57 years. Males outnumbered females 1.1:1. Seventeen percent (17%) were blacks. Actuarial 10-year survival was 58% for stage I patients and 35% for stage II patients. Univariate Cox regression analyses identified 5 prognostic variables affecting survival: stage at diagnosis (P less than 0.001), race (P less than 0.001), ulceration (P = 0.012), Clark's level (P = 0.014), and thickness of the primary lesion (P = 0.013). Factors unrelated to survival included sex of the patient, site (volar vs. subungual), histology, and treatment with amputation. Multivariate analysis for patients with stage I lesions identified race (P = 0.001) and ulceration (P = 0.018) as significant variables, with thickness approaching significance (P = 0.094). In an additional series of 71 patients with melanomas arising from extremity sites near the junction of glabrous and non-glabrous skin, survival was significantly poorer for those arising from glabrous skin (P = 0.024), and reflects a higher incidence of metastatic disease at diagnosis. Specific active immunotherapy was the principal adjuvant used for these patients, and survival was comparable to that reported with regional perfusion therapy. Acral melanoma a) has a strong racial predilection, b) carries a grave prognosis, and c) arises from glabrous skin. It is a clinical entity distinct from other extremity melanomas. Surgical management with either wide excision or amputation is appropriate for the primary lesion. 
Laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy in the staging of early carcinoma of the cervix. Laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed in 39 patients. An incision of the peritoneum between the round and infundibulo-pelvic ligament on each side gave access to the retroperitoneal space. Subsequently, laparoscopic surgery allowed precise dissection of external and internal iliac vessels, umbilical artery, and obturator nerve. The peritoneum was left open, and the lymph was drained into the peritoneal cavity. No lymphocele was observed. Three to 22 (mean, 8.7) nodes were removed, and there was no significant morbidity. Sensitivity and specificity were 100% in this preliminary experience. It is thus possible to remove the first-line regional lymph nodes of the cervix for pathologic examination. Because "skip" metastases are quite rare in early cervical carcinoma, the risk of missing a positive node is low. Brachytherapy alone, vaginal surgery, or, in microinvasive carcinoma, conization alone can be applied safely without the need of a staging laparotomy in cases with negative nodes. 
An electron and optical microscopic study of juxtaposed odontogenic keratocyst and carcinoma. Odontogenic keratocyst and squamous cell carcinoma commonly occur within the oral cavity; however, the juxtaposition of these lesions is rare. The light microscopic and ultrastructural features of such an event are reported. Although some morphologic similarities between the cyst and tumor were observed, definitive evidence of a common origin was not obtained. 
Bolus versus infusion regimens of etoposide and cisplatin in treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: a study of the North Central Cancer Treatment group In an effort to test clinically the hypothesis that the duration of cellular exposure to etoposide (VP-16) and cisplatin (CDDP) is an important determinant of cytotoxicity, we performed a phase III randomized trial comparing an outpatient bolus regimen of combined VP-16 and CDDP with a sequential infusion over 72 hours of these same two drugs. All patients had stage IV non-small cell lung cancer, and survival was the primary end point. Of 113 patients randomly allocated to the study, 108 were assessable for response, survival, and toxicity. A major response was observed in 20 (37%) of 54 patients on the bolus regimen and in 16 (30%) of 54 patients receiving infusion therapy. The median time to progression was 61 and 88 days for bolus and infusion therapy, respectively. The median survival time was 148 and 157 days, respectively (P = .71). Study results were not consistent with the possibility that infusion therapy could be associated with a 50% improvement in median survival, i.e. from 5 months to 7 1/2 months. Toxicity was primarily myelosuppression and was significantly greater with the infusion regimen. We conclude that infusion therapy as tested in this protocol with VP-16 and CDDP does not offer any advantage in response rate, time to disease progression, or survival as compared with bolus therapy. In addition, infusion therapy is associated with a greater degree of neutropenia and more treatment-related deaths. 
Gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 in salivary gland tumors. Gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 (GCDFP-15) is a 15-kd glycoprotein that is expressed by normal apocrine epithelia and in a majority of breast carcinomas. However, recent studies have demonstrated that this substance is also present in tumors of the salivary glands, sweat glands, and prostate gland. To determine whether the expression of CGDFP-15 might aid in the differential diagnosis of salivary gland lesions, the anti-GCDFP-15 monoclonal antibody D6 was applied to paraffin sections of 133 such neoplasms. Benign tumors (76% reactive) were more often labeled than malignant lesions (28% reactive) by this antibody; overall, 53 (41%) of 133 cases were positive for GCDFP-15. Notably, the tubuloglandular components in 17 (81%) of 21 pleomorphic adenomas were reactive, but no example of either adenoid cystic carcinoma or polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma were labeled. In contrast, 24% of adenocarcinomas stained with this antibody. The apparent expression of GCDFP-15 by a spectrum of salivary gland tumors supports their biologic relationship to lesions of the cutaneous apocrine glands and breast. Furthermore, the demonstration of this determinant may be of use in suggesting the salivary gland nature of poorly differentiated carcinomas of the head and neck, and it may facilitate the separation of pleomorphic adenoma from histologically similar malignant neoplasms in the salivary glands themselves. 
A phase I clinical, plasma, and cellular pharmacology study of gemcitabine. A novel deoxycytidine analog, gemcitabine (2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine [dFdC]), has been studied in a phase I clinical and pharmacology trial. Doses ranging from 10 to 1,000 mg/m2 were administered over 30 minutes weekly times 3 weeks every 4 weeks. The maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 790 mg/m2. The dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression, with thrombocytopenia and anemia quantitatively more important than granulocytopenia. Nonhematologic toxicity was minimal. Two responses in patients with adenocarcinomas of the colon and lung were documented. The maximum dFdC plasma concentration, reached after 15 minutes of infusion, was proportional to the total dose administered. Elimination, due mainly to deamination, was rapid (terminal half-life [t1/2], 8.0 minutes) and dose independent. The deamination product 2',2'-difluorodeoxyuridine (dFdU) was eliminated with biphasic kinetics characterized by a long terminal phase (t1/2, 14 hours); it was the sole metabolite detected in urine. The concentration of dFdC 5'-triphosphate in circulating mononuclear cells increased in proportion to the dFdC dose at infusions between 35 and 250 mg/m2. No further increment in dFdC 5'-triphosphate (dFdCTP) was observed at higher doses, which resulted in plasma dFdC concentrations greater than 20 mumol/L (350 to 1,000 mg/m2), suggesting saturation of dFdC 5'-phosphate accumulation. The recommended dose for phase II clinical trials in solid tumors is 790 mg/m2/wk. 
Time to recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with Cushing's syndrome. The recovery time of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with Cushing's syndrome is poorly documented. Eight consecutive patients were treated with a standardized hydrocortisone replacement strategy after curative resection of a cortisol-secreting tumor and the time to recovery of the HPA axis was determined. Hypercortisolism was documented by elevated 24-hour urinary free cortisol levels. Cure was documented by undetectable postoperative morning serum cortisol levels. Each patient received replacement hydrocortisone after surgery and was reevaluated every 3 to 6 months with an adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. Each patient was also monitored carefully for symptoms and signs of adrenal insufficiency, which was defined as symptoms consistent with this diagnosis that responded to increases in hydrocortisone levels. After surgical resection, each patient was cured of hypercortisolism. Subsequently, despite replacement hydrocortisone, each patient had symptoms of hypocortisolism, and in four of eight patients the dose of hydrocortisone was increased to relieve the symptoms. Patients required a median time of 15 months (range, 9 to 22 months) to recover a normal ACTH stimulation test and 19 months (range, 12 to 24 months) to allow discontinuation of replacement doses of hydrocortisone. The results suggest that surgical resection of a cortisol-secreting adrenal tumor will result in rapid cure of hypercortisolism, but complete recovery of the HPA axis and discontinuation of replacement steroids will require between 1 and 2 years. Normal adrenal function, as assessed by the cortisol response to ACTH, returns despite replacement doses of hydrocortisone, and replacement doses of hydrocortisone can be tapered rapidly or discontinued after a normal ACTH stimulation test. 
Management of superficial G2 (pTa and pT1) bladder cancer. A total of 143 patients with superficial G2 (pTa, pT1) bladder cancer (48 G2pTa; 95 G2pT1) presenting between 1970 through 1987 were reviewed. Of 48 patients with G2pTa followed for up to eighteen years, G3 recurrence developed only in 1 (2.0%), and invasive cancer (greater than pT2) developed only in 2 (4.2%). They both received radiotherapy and have responded completely. There have been no cancer-related deaths. In contrast, in the 95 patients in whom the basement membrane had been breached (pT1), higher grade tumor (G3) developed in 11 (11.5%), and 15 (16%) had recurrences with invasion of muscle (greater than pT2). Among these there were 7 (7.3%) cancer-related deaths. 
Contiguous enlarged dental follicles with histologic features resembling the WHO type of odontogenic fibroma Defective odontogenesis and/or retarded eruption of teeth can be associated with histologic features akin to odontogenic fibroma in the dental follicles. Unerupted mandibular premolar and molar teeth of a 24-year-old man were surgically exposed, yet the teeth failed to erupt. About a year and a half later, radiographs indicated further enlargement of the follicle of the premolar, and both teeth were subsequently surgically removed. Histologically, the follicles were composed of mature collagenous tissue among which epithelial islands and numerous clusters of calcified bodies were present. Indirect immunofluorescence showed positive staining for type I and type III collagen, which exhibited a sparse distribution, but not for the aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen. The hamartomatous nature of the lesions is discussed with emphasis on their histologic resemblance to the WHO type of odontogenic fibroma. 
NB4, a maturation inducible cell line with t(15;17) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3). Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia, cytogenetically characterized by a t(15;17) (q22;q11-12) translocation. In vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid (RA) treatment restores cell maturation. We have isolated the first permanent cell line with t(15;17), derived from the marrow of a patient with APL in relapse. The establishment of the cell line, its morphologic, karyotypic, and immunohistochemical features are reported. RA induced cell line maturation. Cells strongly expressed myeloid markers, but also some T-cell markers. Additional karyotypic abnormalities, a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region (HSR) on 19q+ are discussed both in relation to T-cell (CD2, CD4) and monocyte (CD9) markers, and to the acquired cell growth autonomy. The cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies. 
Interferon-alpha produces sustained cytogenetic responses in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Philadelphia chromosome-positive patients. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the frequency and the course of complete cytogenetic responses in interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha)-treated patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. DESIGN: Two prospective trials in consecutive patients. SETTING: A major tertiary cancer center. PATIENTS: Ninety-six consecutive patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia with disease duration of less than 1 year. INTERVENTION: Patients received partially pure IFN-alpha intramuscularly, from 3 to 9 million U/d (51 patients) or recombinant IFN-alpha 2a (Roferon, Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey), 5 million U/m2 body surface area daily (45 patients). MEASUREMENTS: Hematologic and cytogenetic tests were administered. MAIN RESULTS: Seventy of the patients (73%) achieved hematologic remission (95% CI, 63% to 81%), and 18 (19%) had complete suppression of the Philadelphia chromosome on at least one cytogenetic test. A complete cytogenetic response was induced in 7 of 51 or 14% (CI, 6% to 26%) of the patients treated with the partially pure IFN-alpha and in 11 of 45 or 24% (CI, 13% to 40%) of the patients treated with recombinant IFN-alpha 2a. The difference in complete cytogenetic response between the two groups was 10.7% (CI, - 5% to 26%; P greater than 0.2). Eleven patients had durable, ongoing, complete cytogenetic responses from 6 to more than 45 months (median, more than 30 months). CONCLUSION: This study was the first to show sustained, complete cytogenetic responses in a subset of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia treated with single-agent therapy. The nature of this remission, that is, whether it depends on continuous therapy, requires further study. 
Acute renal dysfunction during interleukin-2 treatment: suggestion of an intrinsic renal lesion. Adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells has been effective in treating some advanced malignancies in animals and humans. One complication of this treatment is a reversible, oliguric, acute renal failure, which has been ascribed to renal hypoperfusion and resultant prerenal azotemia. We serially studied renal function in 10 patients receiving high-dose regimens of recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) to attempt to delineate further the nature of the renal dysfunction caused by IL-2 treatment. Renal plasma flow was computed from iodine 131 (I-131 Hippuran; Mediphysics, Paramus, NJ) orthoiodohippurate, excretion curves, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was determined by creatinine clearance. Studies done prior to and on day 4 of treatment showed that GFR fell in nine of 10 patients, with a mean decrease of 43% +/- 8%, and renal plasma flow fell in five of the 10 patients with a mean decrease of 5% +/- 10%. The average pretherapy filtration fraction was calculated to be 23% +/- 1% and after 4 days of treatment, decreased to a mean value of 15 +/- 2%. The BUN to creatinine ratio also declined in all patients. These findings collectively suggest that IL-2 nephrotoxicity may result from an intrarenal defect in addition to the previously described prerenal azotemia. Additionally, radionuclide studies of renal function are a reliable and reproducible noninvasive method of assessing these changes in renal function. 
The association of selected cancers with service in the US military in Vietnam. III. Hodgkin's disease, nasal cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, and primary liver cancer. The Selected Cancers Cooperative Study Group As part of a series of investigations into the health of Vietnam veterans, we conducted case-control studies involving 310 men with Hodgkin's disease, 48 with nasal carcinoma, 80 with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, 130 with primary liver cancer, and 1776 controls between 1984 and 1988. All men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible as cases; controls were recruited by random-digit dialing. Whereas the study had excellent power (96%) to detect a twofold increase in risk for Hodgkin's disease among Vietnam veterans, its ability to detect a similarly elevated risk in the other cancers was limited, ranging from 38% (nasal carcinoma) to 75% (primary liver cancer). Analyses showed that risks among Vietnam veterans relative to other men were 1.1 (Hodgkin's disease), 0.7 (nasal carcinoma), 0.5 (nasopharyngeal carcinoma), and 1.2 (primary liver cancer). None of these relative risks was significantly different from 1.0. Similar results were obtained if Vietnam veterans were compared with (1) other veterans or (2) men who never served in the military. An examination of several attributes of military service in Vietnam (eg, branch, duration of service, and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of Agent Orange) failed to identify any groups of veterans who were at increased risk for Hodgkin's disease. Small numbers limited further analyses of nasal, nasopharyngeal, and liver cancer. These results provide no evidence that, 15 to 25 years following service in Vietnam, the risk of these malignant neoplasms is higher among veterans. 
Elevated serum bromide concentrations following repeated halothane anaesthesia in a child. A 20-month-old child received 25 brief halothane general anaesthetics over a five-week period to allow cranial irradiation treatments for a posterior fossa ependymoma. Personality change during the last week of the treatment protocol raised the question of possible bromide intoxication. Serum bromide concentrations, using a gold chloride assay technique, were monitored at that time, and at four- and six-week intervals thereafter. Serum bromide concentrations demonstrated a four-fold change during this period ranging from peak levels of 2.2 mEq.L-1 (176 micrograms.kg-1) during the fifth week of treatment decreasing to less than 0.5 mEq.L-1 (less than 40 micrograms.ml-1) six weeks following the end of treatments. This demonstrates the possibility for repetitive, short halothane exposures to result in elevations of serum bromide and the potential of bromide intoxication in paediatric neuro-oncology patients. 
Cisplatin-fluorouracil interaction in a squamous cell carcinoma xenograft. Patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck are treated with cisplatin and fluorouracil according to a schedule based on the findings of clinical studies. A similar schedule showed a supra-additive effect in the treatment of xenografted human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. We sought to ascertain whether this schedule was optimal. A single intraperitoneal injection of cisplatin (7.5 mg/kg) was combined with three injections of fluorouracil given during a 24-hour period (total dose, 150 or 80 mg/kg) before, during, or after cisplatin administration. The combined effect of cisplatin and fluorouracil on tumor growth and toxic effects was schedule dependent. Consideration of both toxic effects and tumor growth inhibition, as assessed by reduction of the area under the growth curve, the optimal administration interval was found to be fluorouracil given 3 days after cisplatin administration. 
Staging and follow-up of breast cancer patients. Staging systems for breast cancer, unlike those of neoplasms in distant or recessed sites, allowed for the early development of clinical staging evaluation. It was established that clinical assessment of the breast lesion was often wrong compared with the pathologic examination (benign vs. malignant); clinical measurement of the tumor in centimeters was often larger than histologic size; and clinical assessment of axillary nodes (clear or metastatic) was incorrect in about 30% of cases. Although both clinical and pathologic staging provide effective discriminants for prognosis of treated patients, prognosis is more accurately determined by the pathologic stage. The single most important prognostic indicator is the axillary nodal status, and when positive, the number of positive nodes. The American Joint Committee on Cancer and the Union International Contra Cancer have agreed on a TNM staging for breast carcinoma, and this is the preferable staging system. Follow-up of treated patients is of most value in detecting local recurrence on the chest wall (after mastectomy) or in the irradiated breast (after lumpectomy), and also in early detection of contralateral breast cancer. Physical examination and periodic mammography are most useful. There is a tendency to overinvestigate asymptomatic patients (with bone scans, blood tests, etc.), but this has been correctly criticized in recent years. 
Reconstitution of high-affinity opioid agonist binding in brain membranes. In synaptosomal membranes from rat brain cortex, the mu selective agonist [3H]dihydromorphine in the absence of sodium, and the nonselective antagonist [3H]naltrexone in the presence of sodium, bound to two populations of opioid receptor sites with Kd values of 0.69 and 8.7 nM for dihydromorphine, and 0.34 and 5.5 nM for naltrexone. The addition of 5 microM guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (GTP[gamma S]) strongly reduced high-affinity agonist but not antagonist binding. Exposure of the membranes to high pH reduced the number of GTP[gamma-35S] binding sites by 90% and low Km, opioid-sensitive GTPase activity by 95%. In these membranes, high-affinity agonist binding was abolished and modulation of residual binding by GTP[gamma S] was diminished. High-affinity (Kd, 0.72 nM), guanine nucleotide-sensitive agonist binding was reconstituted by polyethylene glycol-induced fusion of the alkali-treated membranes with (opioid receptor devoid) C6 glioma cell membranes. Also restored was opioid agonist-stimulated, naltrexone-inhibited GTPase activity. In contrast, antagonist binding in the fused membranes was unaltered. Alkali treatment of the glioma cell membranes prior to fusion inhibited most of the low Km GTPase activity and prevented the reconstitution of agonist binding. The results show that high-affinity opioid agonist binding reflects the ligand-occupied receptor-guanine nucleotide binding protein complex. 
Molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. Nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma. To determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma, and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor, we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients, 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma. We used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques, or dot-blot hybridization of DNA extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues, in situ hybridization, and polymerase chain reaction. Human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients (19%), 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16. The latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma. We speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas. 
Chemotherapy for children with aggressive fibromatosis and Langerhans' cell histiocytosis. Two disorders involving histologically benign proliferations of fibrous tissue or of histiocytes occur preferentially in children and often require combined management by an orthopedic surgeon and a pediatric oncologist. Treatment of young people with aggressive fibromatosis usually begins with wide local excision of the lesion. However, some tumors cannot be completely removed either because of their location or because of the risk of subsequent serious dysfunction. Not infrequently, local recurrence supervenes despite previous wide local excision, and sometimes multiple tumors are present. In these situations a trial of multiple-agent chemotherapy incorporating vincristine, actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide may be indicated in an attempt to control the disease. Radiation therapy may also be useful, but the relatively high dose (5000 cGy or more) needed in a growing child is at times a less attractive alternative. Biopsy of a lytic bone lesion in young patients with Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, formerly known as histiocytosis X, is also indicated for initial diagnosis. Biopsy and curettage are usually curative in the patient with an isolated lesion. Patients with multiple simultaneous or recurrent lesions need chemotherapy if dysfunction of the liver, spleen, or lungs is present. Drug therapy may also be beneficial for children with systemic symptoms. This article outlines suggestions for chemotherapeutic treatment in both diseases. 
A novel metalloproteinase gene specifically expressed in stromal cells of breast carcinomas. A gene has been identified that is expressed specifically in stromal cells surrounding invasive breast carcinomas. On the basis of its sequence, the product of this gene, named stromelysin-3, is a new member of the family of metalloproteinase enzymes which degrade the extracellular matrix. The suggestion is that stromelysin-3 is one of the stroma-derived factors that have long been postulated to play an important part in progression of epithelial malignancies. 
Beta-carotene and cancer prevention: the Basel Study. In 1971-1973 at the third examination of the Basel Study started in 1959, the major antioxidant vitamins and carotene were measured in the plasma of 2974 men. A subsample and their families were reinvestigated in 1977-79. During the 12-y observation period (1973-85) 553 men died, 204 of cancer (lung cancer 68, stomach cancer 20; colon cancer 17, all other malignancies 99). We found significantly lower mean carotene levels for all cancer, bronchus cancer, and stomach cancer (all P less than 0.01) compared with the 2421 survivors. The relative risk of subjects with low carotene (less than 0.23 mumol/L) was significantly elevated (P less than 0.05) for lung cancer (Cox's model). Higher risks were noted for all cancer (P less than 0.01) if both carotene and retinol were low. Low plasma carotene which is known to reflect carotene intake is in our study associated with increased cancer risk. 
Occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection. Angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare. Before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively. We report MRI scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome. MRI was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics, especially chronic hemorrhage. One patient underwent biopsy of the lesion. The other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision. Occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized. The MRI scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions. In certain patients, these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function. 
Carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct. A review of 39 instances of excision of a cyst of the thyroglossal duct performed at St. Paul Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, revealed two patients with carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct. A review of the English literature yielded 146 instances of this uncommon tumor. Eighty-four per cent were papillary adenocarcinoma of thyroid type and 5 per cent were squamous cell carcinoma. The patients were from six to 81 years old with a 2:1 female to male ratio. Metastatic disease to lymph nodes was noted in 11 per cent and invasion of overlying strap muscles was found in 4 per cent. Carcinoma of the thyroid gland occurred in 14 per cent. Preoperative diagnosis was rare. The Sistrunk procedure is recommended for initial surgical therapy with further surgical or adjuvant therapy dependent on associated clinical findings. Prognosis for carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct of thyroid type parallels that of carcinoma of the thyroid gland. 
Ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer. We report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer. Because of previous urethral trauma, a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done. He, therefore, underwent cystectomy, at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a World War II-related injury. This case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms. 
Contemporary management of a potentially lethal fetal anomaly: a successful perinatal approach to epignathus. Prenatal diagnosis of epignathus (a teratoma originating in the oropharynx) has been reported previously. However, in many of these cases the neonates succumbed to acute respiratory distress secondary to airway obstruction at the time of birth. We describe a case of antepartum diagnosis of epignathus using ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as complementary techniques. The ability to accurately define the fetal anomaly permitted us to plan a unique strategy for peripartum management. After cesarean delivery of the infant from the uterus, the umbilical cord was not clamped and the fetoplacental circulation was left undisturbed. A tracheostomy was then performed, after which the umbilical cord was clamped and the infant was stabilized. Several hours later, a debulking procedure was performed in the operating room to remove the tumor from its attachment to the bony palate. Both mother and infant did well postoperatively. The ability to plan and perform a controlled tracheostomy while the infant remained oxygenated and ventilated proved to be lifesaving in this case. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma in a pediatric patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Treatment with radiation therapy. Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma, an otherwise rare pediatric tumor, has been reported with increasing frequency in children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). With current therapy, the outcome of this disease is invariably fatal. The authors present a case of primary CNS lymphoma in a 3.5-year-old girl with AIDS who received treatment with total brain irradiation. After treatment, the patient's mental status improved, the seizures resolved, and she had no further progression of her neurologic symptoms until she died of pneumonia 6 months later. The autopsy revealed a necrotic mass at the site of the original tumor. The brain stem and spinal cord, unirradiated, contained lymphomatous lesions. The patient had extensive fibrinoid necrosis and leukoencephalopathy that were consistent with radiation-induced CNS damage. Coexisting AIDS encephalopathy also contributed to the patient's CNS injury. Effective palliation of CNS lymphoma in children with AIDS may be obtained with cranial irradiation. Pediatric AIDS patients may show more severe tissue effects from irradiation than unaffected children. 
A comparative analysis of three different techniques for the detection of breast cancer cells in bone marrow. Three different methods, morphologic, immunocytochemic, and fluorescence activated cell sorter (FC) analysis, were compared with respect to their efficiency in detecting breast cancer cells in bone marrow. In the first series of experiments, the three techniques were compared using bone marrow cells artificially mixed with a known amount of breast cancer cells, whereas in a second series bone marrow from breast cancer patients with bone metastases were used. The following results were obtained: When mixtures of the first series were analyzed, FC analysis detected from 1% to 10% of breast cancer cells in bone marrow (0.2% was a border line value), the morphologic method detected from 0.05% to 10%, and the immunocytochemic method, which was clearly superior, detected breast cancer cells in all mixtures (from 0.00025% to 10%). It was noted that, with both the morphologic and immunocytochemic methods, the percentage of breast cancer cells detected was 2 to 360 times higher than the percentage of added cells, and enrichment was inversely proportional to the percentage of added cells. This result could be a result of different separation of cells during centrifugation due to the different density of breast cancer cells. The superiority of the immunocytochemic method was confirmed in the second series of experiments. 
Point mutation, allelic loss and increased methylation of c-Ha-ras gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma. Somatic alterations of the c-Ha-ras gene were examined in 21 Japanese patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Restriction endonuclease analysis by double digestion with MspI and HpaII revealed that DNAs from two of 21 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues were affected by nucleotide substitution at the twelfth amino acid coding sequence of the c-Ha-ras gene. DNAs from cirrhotic noncancerous liver tissue, but not leukocytes, of one of these patients possessed the mutation, whereas DNAs from noncirrhotic liver tissue and leukocytes of the other patient did not. In one of the nine patients harboring heterozygosity for c-Ha-ras-related BamHI-fragments, the loss of one allele was demonstrated as a somatic change not only in DNA from the tumor tissue but also in DNA from the cirrhotic nontumorous tissue. In two of the 19 patients comparatively examined for digestion patterns of c-Ha-ras locus with HpaII and MspI, extensive methylation was observed as a somatic modification in both DNAs from the tumor and the cirrhotic nontumorous tissues. These results thus indicate that the genetic lesions affecting the c-Ha-ras gene do occur in human hepatocellular carcinoma and probably serve as one of the multiple steps in the process of hepatic carcinogenesis. 
Basal cell-specific and hyperproliferation-related keratins in human breast cancer. In normal breast tissue and in noninvasive breast carcinomas, various keratin-14 antibodies were reactive predominantly with the basal/myoepithelial cell layer, although mainly in terminal and larger ducts luminal cells sometimes also were stained. A similar reaction pattern was found with an antibody directed against keratin 17, although this antibody was more often found negative than keratin 14 in the pre-existing myoepithelial cells in intraductal carcinomas. Furthermore antibodies reactive with hyperproliferation-related keratins 6 and 16 were used. One of these (LL025) was completely negative in normal breast tissue and noninvasive breast carcinomas. However 10% of the invasive carcinomas were diffusely or focally positive with this latter antibody, while in 18 of 115 cases of invasive breast carcinomas studied, a basal cell phenotype was detected. A relatively high concordance was found between the carcinomas immunostaining with the basal cell and the hyperproliferation-related keratins, but not between these markers and the proliferation marker Ki-67. This supports the conclusion that basal cells in breast cancer may show extensive proliferation, and that absence of Ki-67 staining does not mean that (tumor) cells are not proliferating. 
Colorectal cancer: evidence for distinct genetic categories based on proximal or distal tumor location PURPOSE: To examine studies of normal colon and colorectal cancer for evidence that the location of the primary tumor proximal or distal to the splenic flexure of the colon may determine distinct genetic categories of this disease. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Studies were identified through a manual search of journals, through MEDLINE, and through review of bibliographies in identified articles. STUDY SELECTION: Approximately 300 articles were examined. About 150 articles were excluded because tumor location was not reported or was reported in a way that did not permit correlation with results or conclusions. DATA EXTRACTION: Articles were selected either because the presentation of data permitted correlation of results with anatomic regions of the colon or because they were relevant to inherited colorectal cancer. RESULTS OF THE ANALYSIS: Differences were noted in biologic properties of proximal and distal segments of normal fetal and adult colonic epithelium and in the epidemiologic, pathologic, cytogenetic, and molecular features of proximal and distal colorectal cancer. Some differences correlated with the features of inherited colorectal cancer (proximal, nonpolyposis or distal, and polyposis forms). CONCLUSIONS: Developmental and biologic differences in proximal and distal colon may reflect differing susceptibilities to neoplastic transformation. Differences in proximal and distal colorectal cancer suggest that each may arise through different pathogenetic mechanisms. Proximal tumors appear to represent a genetically more stable form of the disease and may arise through the same mechanisms that underlie inherited nonpolyposis colon cancer. Distal tumors show evidence of greater genetic instability and may develop through the same mechanisms that underlie polyposis-associated colorectal cancer syndromes. 
A comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood: results of a Pediatric Oncology Group study. Two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) were evaluated on a Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) phase III randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies. Induction therapy compared vincristine, cytarabine, and dexamethasone (VADx) with daunorubicin, cytarabine, and thioguanine (DAT). The complete remission (CR) rate using DAT was superior (82% v 61%, P = .02). Postremission therapy consisted of either "standard" two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years. Overall, there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen. The overall complete continuous remission rate (CCR) for the "best" induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 (SE = .06), at 3 years was .35 (.04), and at 4 years was .34 (.05). Analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring DAT induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival. There were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy. These were patients with French-American-British (FAB) M1/M2 (2-year CCR was .20 v .44, P = .01) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis (.32 v .62, P = .004). 
Papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas: radiological and pathological characteristics in 11 cases. Clinical charts, radiological features, macroscopic and microscopic findings, and clinical follow-up data were retrospectively reviewed in 11 patients with papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas (PCNP). The patients were nine women and two men, aged from 13 to 51 years with a mean age of 25 years. The greatest diameter of the PCNPs ranged from 2.5 cm to 14.0 cm with a mean size of 7.5 cm. Six tumours were located in the tail of the pancreas, two in the body and three in the head. Most patients complained of abdominal pain or a mass. Ultrasonographic and/or computed tomography findings showed five solid, four mixed (solid and cystic) and two cystic types of tumour. Angiographically, PCNP was either a hypovascular or mild hypervascular mass with a displacement of the surrounding vessels. No vascular encasement was seen. Macroscopically all 11 tumours consisted of a well defined solid mass with degenerative change of various widths, including haemorrhage, necrosis or dystrophic calcification, and were represented by three radiological types of PCNP. The 11 patients with PCNP survived for from 3 to 253 months after curative resection without any signs of local recurrence or remote metastasis. PCNP usually affects the distal portion of the pancreas of young women. Despite its huge size, PCNP should be explored with aggressive surgical intent because of the inherently good prognosis. 
DNA and RNA flow cytometric study in multiple myeloma. Clinical correlations. Flow cytometric studies of cellular DNA and RNA content using the acridine-orange technique were conducted in 81 patients with multiple myeloma (MM). All patients were treated with the M-2 protocol and clinical response was evaluated according to the criteria of the Chronic Leukemia-Myeloma Task Force. Aneuploid DNA stemlines were found in 38.2% of untreated patients with a median DNA index (DNA-I) of 1.15 in marrow aspirates and 1.22 in biopsy specimens. The median percentage of cells with abnormal DNA content was 31.5 (aspirates) and 35 (biopsy specimens) and a positive correlation with the percentage of bone marrow plasma cells was observed. Significantly higher proliferation (S-phase) was found in marrow biopsy specimens as compared with marrow aspirates. Significantly higher RNA content (RNA index [RNA-I]) was observed in aneuploid versus diploid patients in biopsy material. There was no difference in response to the Memorial Hospital M-2 protocol between diploid and aneuploid patients. In patients with DNA-I greater than 1.15 remission duration was shorter as compared with DNA-I less than or equal to 1.15. Furthermore, no difference in cellular RNA content was noted between responders and nonresponders. This study demonstrates no correlation between cellular RNA content and response, as previously described for patients treated with vincristine, Adriamycin, and dexamethasone (VAD), but DNA aneuploidy appears to be an adverse prognostic factor in MM patients treated with the M-2 protocol. It also demonstrates that prognostic models for MM are not universal but depend on the chemotherapeutic regimen used. 
The growth inhibition of human breast cancer cells by a novel synthetic progestin involves the induction of transforming growth factor beta. Recent experimental work has identified a novel intracellular binding site for the synthetic progestin, Gestodene, that appears to be uniquely expressed in human breast cancer cells. Gestodene is shown here to inhibit the growth of human breast cancer cells in a dose-dependent fashion, but has no effect on endocrine-responsive human endometrial cancer cells. Gestodene induced a 90-fold increase in the secretion of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) by T47D human breast cancer cells. Other synthetic progestins had no effect, indicating that this induction is mediated by the novel Gestodene binding site and not by the conventional progesterone receptor. Furthermore, in four breast cancer cell lines, the extent of induction of TGF-beta correlated with intracellular levels of Gestodene binding site. No induction of TGF-beta was observed with the endometrial cancer line, HECl-B, which lacks the Gestodene binding site, but which expresses high levels of progesterone receptor. The inhibition of growth of T47D cells by Gestodene is partly reversible by a polyclonal antiserum to TGF-beta. These data indicate that the growth-inhibitory action of Gestodene may be mediated in part by an autocrine induction of TGF-beta. 
New findings in treatment of colon cancer. Patients with colon cancer involving regional lymph nodes (stage C disease) have a 5-year survival rate of only 30% to 40%, and the majority die of recurrent disease. Recent trials have shown increased survival rates with postoperative use of fluorouracil plus levamisole. The authors discuss these findings and the implications on treatment recommendations for stage C colon cancer. 
A hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with CDDP two-route chemotherapy--a case report. Massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis. Massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II are reported. 
Secreted or nonsecreted forms of acidic fibroblast growth factor produced by transfected epithelial cells influence cell morphology, motility, and invasive potential. Addition of exogenous acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) to NBT-II epithelial carcinoma cells results in fibroblastic transformation and cell motility. We have generated aFGF-producing NBT-II cells by transfection with recombinant expression vectors containing human aFGF cDNA, or the human aFGF cDNA coupled to a signal peptide (SP) sequence. The effects of the nonsecreted and the secreted 16-kDa growth factor on the morphology, motility, and cell invasive potential (gelatinase activity) were compared. aFGF coupled to a SP was actively secreted out of the producing cells. The secretion of aFGF was not necessary for induction of gelatinase activity, as this was observed in NBT-II cells producing aFGF with or without SP. Production of aFGF, whether secreted or not secreted, resulted in increased in vitro motility of most isolated clones; however, there was no correlation between aFGF level and motility rate. The data suggest that expression of aFGF in NBT-II cells induces metastatic potential through an autocrine or intracrine mechanism. 
Breast self-examination in relation to the occurrence of advanced breast cancer. Two hundred nine female enrollees of the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound who developed advanced-stage breast cancer during the period 1982-1988 were interviewed about their practice of breast self-examination (BSE), use of other breast cancer screening modalities, and medical and reproductive histories. Each subject's description of how she performed the examination was scored according to her mention of up to 10 recommended BSE techniques. A random sample of 433 women without advanced-stage breast cancer from the same population was interviewed for comparison. Relative to women not practicing BSE, the risk of advanced-stage breast cancer among BSE users was 1.15 (95% confidence interval, 0.73-1.81). Frequency of BSE did not differ between women with advanced-stage breast cancer and control subjects, whether in all subjects or in subgroups defined by age, use of mammography, or frequency of clinical breast examinations. While self-described proficiency in BSE was generally low in both case and control subjects, the small percentage of women reporting more thorough self-examinations, regardless of frequency, had about a 35% decrease in the occurrence of advanced-stage breast cancer compared to women who did not perform BSE. These results suggest that, while carefully performed BSE may avoid the development of some advanced-stage breast cancers, BSE as practiced by most Seattle-area women is of little or no benefit. 
Management of local and regional recurrence after mastectomy or breast-conserving treatment. Locoregional failures after primary treatment for breast cancer include a diverse group of lesions that represent different categories of failures with various prognoses. Although patients with chest wall recurrences and regional nodal failures after traditional radical surgery have a poor prognosis, many patients can still achieve a significant degree of palliation and even long-term survival or cure with carefully orchestrated multimodal treatment. In patients who have breast failures after breast-conservation surgery and radiation, long-term salvage and cure can be achieved for the majority with prompt detection and appropriate treatment, which, like treatment for primary breast cancer, includes a consideration not only of local control but also of the risk of subsequent systemic failure and its need for treatment. 
Giant cell tumor of bone. Giant cell tumor is the second most common benign tumor of bone. Plain radiographs may demonstrate distinctive features but can also be misleading. The diagnosis may be aided by the use of other imaging modalities, such as bone scan, computed tomography and angiography. The recurrence rate is high, but some of the newer treatments seem to be associated with better outcomes. 
Indwelling epidural catheters for pain control in gynecologic cancer patients. Seven patients with severe pain caused by an advanced, incurable gynecologic malignancy were treated with an indwelling epidural catheter connected to an implantable subcutaneous port through which morphine was infused. There were few major complications associated with insertion or maintenance of the system. The average usage was 60 days, although the system functioned continuously for 6 months in one patient. Pain distribution in these women ranged from the upper abdomen to the lower extremities. All patients, including one with liver metastases, reported good to excellent pain control with the epidural narcotics. Two subjects with upper abdominal pain occasionally required supplemental oral oxycodone, but the other five patients had adequate pain relief with the epidural system alone. The indwelling epidural system provides excellent analgesia for patients with advanced, incurable gynecologic cancer. 
Pretreatment neuropsychological status and associated factors in children with primary brain tumors. We report on the neuropsychological status of 31 children with primary brain tumors who underwent assessment before receiving therapy. Overall, the children performed within normal limits in all test areas. The exception was the group with anterior hemispheric tumors who demonstrated deficits in executive cognitive functions. Also, when compared according to tumor type, children with midline tumors and hydrocephalus performed more poorly than others on measures of intelligence, executive abilities, visual-motor skills, and fine-motor functions. Although one-half to two-thirds of the children with supratentorial midline and infratentorial tumors had cranial nerve, oculomotor, or cerebellar deficits, only the latter were associated with specific neuropsychological deficits (poorer performance on fine-motor and visual-motor tests). Age did not appear to be a factor in these children's neuropsychological test performances. 
Hemangiopericytoma of the sternum. Hemangiopericytoma of the chest wall is a rare tumor. We describe a patient with malignant hemangiopericytoma of the sternum who was treated with primary surgical resection and discuss the clinical, radiographic, and histologic features of the case. Surgical resection is the primary mode of therapy. High-dose radiotherapy and chemotherapy with a doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing combination may be warranted in certain cases. 
Management of macular puckers associated with retinal angiomas. Monocular visual loss in four patients was caused by epiretinal macular membranes associated with peripheral retinal capillary angiomas or angioma-like lesions. Three patients had solitary vascular lesions and one had two discrete vascular lesions. All patients were in good health, with no evidence of the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. In three patients, spontaneous peeling of the macular membranes and visual improvement occurred 2 to 6 months after obliteration of the angioma-like lesions with cryotherapy (two patients), or cryotherapy combined with argon laser (one patient). The fourth patient underwent a vitrectomy 8 months after the macular pucker had failed to respond to treatment of the vascular lesion. 
Granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient. Granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells. They are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis. Rarely, patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia. The authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma. Only five such cases have been reported previously. Immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells. 
Primary intratemporal tumours of the facial nerve: diagnosis and treatment. Benign primary tumours of the facial nerve are uncommon. A slowly progressive facial palsy should be considered the result of a nerve tumour until proven otherwise. Improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques of the temporal bone have increased the possibility of a correct pre-operative diagnosis but facial nerve tumours remain a frequently ignored or misdiagnosed entity as a consequence of their subtle and protean clinical manifestations. A series of 12 cases of primary facial nerve tumours is presented. The clinical features, diagnostic modalities and treatment are discussed in relation to a review of the literature. 
Structural and functional integrity of ovarian tumor tissue obtained by ultrasonic aspiration. For patients with ovarian epithelial cancer, survival increases when residual disease approaches zero after surgical removal of the tumor. A previous study using the Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator (CUSA) (Cavitron Lasersonic Corp., Stamford, CT) showed the successful removal of ovarian tumors from areas often considered unresectable: the diaphragm, spleen, stomach, and small bowel. However, the CUSA has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for gynecologic surgery except on an experimental basis. This study was designed to test whether ultrasonic irradiation produced by the CUSA caused alterations in cell structure or physiology of gynecologic tissue in adjacent areas. Paired tumor samples, unirradiated and irradiated, were obtained from ten patients, and portions were sent for pathologic structural evaluation and physiologic tissue culture evaluation. Histologic sections, stained with hematoxylin and eosin, showed that CUSA irradiation produced only minor tissue distortion as observed under the light microscope. A correct diagnosis would have been made in all cases had only tissue fragments obtained from the CUSA specimen trap been stained. For nine of ten patients, initial tumor cell viability was similar in the two specimen types. Flow cytometric DNA analysis confirmed that surgical methods produced matched samples. Cells that survived high-frequency ultrasound appeared functionally intact. For five of eight patients, the cells from the CUSA specimen traps survived and/or divided to a greater extent than those from the knife-dissected tumors. Cells from both surgical routes attained a similar number of passages in culture. It seems reasonable to extrapolate these in vitro observations with pelvic tumor tissues to normal surrounding tissue left in situ. Thus pelvic tissue is believed to be uninjured by CUSA ultrasonic irradiation. 
A new phantom for mammography. A new mammography phantom from Du Pont is described. It has a wider range of types of detail than in previous phantoms, including some which closely simulate breast tissues. Experience of its use, and comparisons with an earlier ("Barts") phantom, are reported. The Du Pont phantom appears to have greater sensitivity to changes in tube kV and focal spot size, and better discrimination between different film-screen combinations and between films from different breast screening centres. 
Regulation of pancreastatin release from a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line in vitro. The objective of these experiments was to investigate the influence of activation of three second messenger systems (protein kinase-C, adenylate cyclase-cAMP, and calcium mobilization) on the secretion of pancreastatin (PST) and chromogranin-A (CGA) by a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line (BON) in tissue culture. Stimulation of protein kinase-C by a phorbol ester (0.025-7.5 microM) caused a significant dose-related release of PST (186 +/- 22-4271 +/- 228% over controls). Treatment of BON cells with graded doses of 8-bromo-cAMP (0.14-3.0 mM) and isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX; 0.01-1.0 mM) also stimulated a dose-related release of PST (107 +/- 22-284 +/- 28 and 16 +/- 12-1076 +/- 100% over controls, respectively). Incubation of BON cells with ionomycin (0.134-13.4 microM) increased the release of PST (102 +/- 15-554 +/- 21% over controls) in a dose-related manner. A combination of IBMX and ionomycin resulted in an additive effect, whereas treatment with a phorbol ester plus IBMX resulted in a synergistic effect on PST release. Pretreatment of BON cells with monensin, an agent that prevents processing of precursors to smaller peptides, significantly decreased PST, but not CGA, secretion in response to phorbol ester or ionomycin. These findings indicate that protein kinase-C, cAMP, and Ca2+ mobilization participate in CGA and PST secretion. Although the observation that secretions of PST and CGA in response to theophylline are quantitatively associated, the absence of a quantitative relationship in the release patterns of PST and CGA in response to phorbol ester and ionomycin do not support a simple precursor-product relationship between CGA and PST. The monensin experiments are consistent with the notion that PST is derived from CGA in BON cells. 
Genetic strategies of tumor suppression. The evaluation of the cancer cell is a complex multigene process. Tumor suppressor genes that are lost or inactivated, as well as genes that are overexpressed, play key roles in tumor progression. The identification of overexpressed genes has been expedited by the presence of transforming genes in some animal retroviruses. However, tumor suppressor genes have been difficult to identify and isolate because of their loss or inactivation during tumorigenesis. By a variety of methods, summarized in this review, a few tumor suppressors have been cloned and characterized, and many more have been recognized indirectly. The general finding at this time is that the same tumor suppressors (and oncogenes) are found associated with many different tumors, that several different altered genes are found typically in the same tumors, and that other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes seem to be characteristically altered in particular tumor types as well. Functions of tumor suppressor genes include the control of normal cell activities such as proliferation and differentiation as well as senescence, which is a special kind of differentiation in which cells lose their ability to divide. The genetic basis of senescence and identification of genes involved in overcoming senescence, leading to immortalization (i.e., indefinite growth potential), are important areas of current investigation. Our laboratory is engaged in senescence/immortalization studies as a result of our discovery that normal human mammary epithelial cells can be immortalized by DNA of the human papilloma virus. These new studies are summarized here. 
Management of the pregnant patient with carcinoma of the breast. The diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast during pregnancy poses a challenging dilemma. Although once regarded as incurable, recent reports reveal similar long term survival rates for pregnant and nonpregnant patients who have carcinoma of the breast. When referred to a surgeon, a pregnant woman with a suspicious mammary mass deserves an expedient histologic diagnosis; delay may jeopardize the chances of survival. Once the diagnosis is established, pregnant patients should be treated in a manner similar to nonpregnant patients because there is no evidence that carcinoma of the breast in pregnant women is biologically different than carcinoma of the breast in other premenopausal women. Fears of fetal exposure to radiation should not deter a physician from ordering appropriate preoperative diagnostic tests to stage the patients. Operation may be performed safely when general anesthesia is administered and postoperative adjuvant therapy should be administered when necessary. The involvement of multiple subspecialties in the management of these patients is highly recommended. 
Weight gain with breast cancer adjuvant treatment. Available information suggests that individuals with breast cancer gain weight during adjuvant treatment and that this weight gain may be associated with poor prognosis. Exploration of the factors which affect weight gain may aid in developing weight control interventions for these patients. To determine the factors which are associated with weight gain, 32 women undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy were followed over 2 years from the beginning of adjuvant treatment. Measures of psychologic functioning and self-reports of exercise levels and eating were assessed every 2 months during the course of treatment. Sixty-nine percent of the women gained weight over treatment, resulting in a significant weight gain for the group as a whole. Weight gain was correlated positively with several psychologic measures but not with assessed biologic measures. A multiple-regression equation using psychologic/behavioural measures of emotional discharge, logical analysis, affective regulation, interpersonal sensitivity, average number of symptoms, and obsessive compulsiveness accounted for 58% of the variance in overall weight gain. At 2 years of follow-up, 27 women had gained weight for an average of 6.03 kg. The coping style of logical analysis emerged as a significant predictor of disease recurrence, accounting for 28% of the variance in weight gain at 2 years. The results are discussed in terms of identification of women likely to gain weight during adjuvant treatment, directions for future research, and development of interventions to control weight gain. 
Soft-tissue tumor with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers. Electron microscopic examination of a solitary soft-tissue tumor from the face demonstrated large areas with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers in the neoplasm. The lesion was classified as a benign neoplasm of myofibroblasts and tentatively named a myofibroblastoma. The significance of the amianthoid collagen fibers is unknown. Normal native collagen fibers were found in some parts of the neoplasm. 
Prognostic factors in stage IB squamous cervical cancer patients with low risk for recurrence. About one-half of cervical cancer patients whose tumors recur after radical surgery have negative lymph nodes and clear resection margins. We evaluated 95 patients with squamous cell tumors who underwent radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy between January 1975 and December 1985 and who were thought to be at low risk for recurrence to see whether other clinical or histopathologic factors were predictive of tumor recurrence. Detailed retrospective record review and complete pathology review were accomplished for each case. The 5-year actuarial survival rate was 89%. Nine patients developed recurrent disease (9.5%), of whom eight died. Several clinical features were evaluated as possible prognostic factors: patient age (P = .26), patient race (P = .60), cervical diameter (P = .24), extent of gross cervical involvement (P = .36), and presence of contact bleeding (P = .82). Histopathologic features were examined: depth of invasion (P = .31), number of mitoses (P = .42), character of the tumor-stromal border (P = .15), histologic differentiation (P = .02), lymph-vascular space invasion (P = .56), and width of tumor (P = .23). Depth of invasion did correlate with increasing tumor width (P less than .001). Once node- and margin-positive patients are excluded, differentiation may be the only feature useful in identifying patients at risk for recurrence. Because almost one-half of our patients had poorly differentiated tumors, sole use of this feature as a criterion for adjuvant therapy would have resulted in overtreatment of low-risk patients. 
Effects of treatment on long-term survivors with malignant astrocytomas. We reviewed the records of 160 consecutive patients with glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma to evaluate the long-term consequences of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. We defined long-term survivors as those patients with glioblastoma or anaplastic astrocytoma who lived at least 100% longer than median survival of historical controls, for example, 2 years for patients with glioblastoma and 4 years for patients with anaplastic astrocytoma. There were 9 (5.6%) long-term survivors. Three (30%) became demented and died without evidence of tumor recurrence. One, after survival of 10 years, died of tumor recurrence. Of the remaining survivors, 2 (22%) have significantly impaired short-term memory function and other neurological deficits such as gait apraxia. Three (30%) can function independently. It is likely but cannot be proved that it is radiotherapy and not chemotherapy that is the causal factor of this dismal therapeutic outcome. Our study suggests restraint in the use of radiotherapy for patients with brain tumors that have more favorable prognoses than glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas, such as low-grade astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas. 
Usefulness of serum glycoconjugates in precancerous and cancerous diseases of the oral cavity. Sera from 47 healthy controls, 18 normal individuals with the habit of tobacco chewing, 43 patients with oral precancerous (PC) conditions, and 40 patients with oral cancer (OC) were studied for the levels of total sialic acid (TSA), lipid-bound sialic acid (LSA), mucoid proteins, and protein-bound hexoses (PBH) (galactose and mannose). The changes in the glycoconjugate levels were insignificant between the controls and the normal tobacco chewers. All four parameters were significantly elevated in oral PC patients compared with controls. The levels of PBH and LSA showed significant increase in the oral PC patients compared with the normal tobacco chewers. A significant increase was observed in the levels of TSA, LSA, mucoid proteins, and PBH in OC patients compared with controls, normal tobacco chewers, and patients with oral PC. Increasing levels of all the biomarkers were found with progression of the malignant disease. Elevations in the levels of TSA and LSA were statistically significant in Stage IV patients compared with Stage III patients. The patients with metastases had higher levels of the biomarkers than the patients with primary OC. However, elevations only in LSA levels were statistically significant. These results suggest that evaluations of the serum glycoconjugate levels may be useful in diagnosis of the patients with oral PC or OC. In addition to their value in early detection, they can also help in staging of the disease. 
Expression of platelet-derived growth factors, transforming growth factors, and the ros gene in a variety of primary human brain tumors. Ribonucleic acid was isolated from a wide spectrum of central nervous system tumors to examine the expression of platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) A and B, tumor growth factors (TGF-beta) 1 and 2, and ros messenger ribonucleic acid. Eight glioblastoma cell lines were examined as well as cell cultures from 22 tumor explants. The explants included 6 glioblastomas, 4 anaplastic astrocytomas, 5 astrocytomas, 3 ependymal tumors, 2 meningiomas, 1 medulloblastoma. and 1 ganglioglioma. For comparison, 2 nontumor glial cell cultures were included. The PDGF B-chain was expressed in 5 of 8 glioblastoma cell lines, 2 of 6 glioblastomas, and in 3 of 4 anaplastic astrocytoma explants. There was no PDGF B expression in 4 astrocytomas, 3 ependymomas of varying malignancy, in the remainder of the tumors, or in the nontumor glial cells. The PDGF A-chain was expressed in all of the tumors, with the exception of the malignant ependymoma and in both nontumor glial cell cultures. TGF-beta 1 was expressed in all of the tumors and in nontumor glial cells. The expression of TGF-beta 2 was expressed in many of the benign and malignant tumors and also in both nontumor glial cell cultures. The ros messenger ribonucleic acid was expressed in 1 of 5 glioblastoma cell lines and in 2 of 6 glioblastoma cell explants, but in none of the other tumors or in the nontumor glial cells. 
Ultrastructural evidence for differentiation in a human glioblastoma cell line treated with inhibitors of eicosanoid metabolism. Human glioblastoma cells incubated in the presence of inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis show decreased cellular proliferation without cytotoxicity. We studied the ultrastructural morphology of a human glioblastoma cell line cultured with nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), a lipoxygenase inhibitor, or 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid, a cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase inhibitor. When glioblastoma cells were treated for 3 days with antiproliferative concentrations of either agent, they shared many morphological characteristics, including evidence for increased astrocytic differentiation with only limited signs of toxicity. The inhibited glioma cells demonstrated an increase in the number and length of astrocytic processes containing greater numbers of glial filaments, and the NDGA-treated cells also demonstrated extensive lateral pseudopod formation along the processes. The glioblastoma cell shape also became more elongated, losing the usual nuclear lobularity and nuclear inclusions, especially in NDGA-treated cells. Many cytoplasmic organelles packed the cytosol of the inhibited glioma cells, including prominent Golgi apparatus, dilated smooth endoplasmic reticulum evolving into dilated vesicles, cytoplasmic vacuoles, and numerous concentric laminations. There was limited evidence for toxicity, however, as the mitochondria were more pleomorphic with some mitochondrial distention and disruption of the cristae along with an increase in cytoplasmic vacuolization. We conclude that the inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis, NDGA and 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid, not only suppress glioblastoma cell proliferation, but also induce increased astrocytic differentiation. 
The role of chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer. Approximately 25% of women with early stage breast cancer and negative axillary nodes will eventually die of metastatic disease. Some studies have shown a recurrence rate of 40% or more at 10 years in this relatively good prognostic group. The incidence of breast cancer continues to increase approximately 1% per year with a great increase in the frequency of early stage disease (particularly in situ carcinoma). The increased use of mammography and physical examination with appropriate follow-up will increase the frequency of diagnosis of node-negative patients compared with those with more advanced stages. Women with positive axillary nodes who are premenopausal benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy, whereas those who are postmenopausal have shown a clear reduction in mortality when treated with tamoxifen. It is even more reasonable to speculate that women with node-negative disease could have an even greater benefit from adjuvant therapy because they have a lower tumor burden at the time of diagnosis. Compared with earlier clinical adjuvant trials, more recent studies (1981-89) have shown a disease-free survival advantage for node-negative breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. Hopefully, the differences noticed in disease-free survival will show a similar survival advantage with further observations. The results of these clinical trials suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy may be of benefit to patients with node-negative disease but do not support the contention that all node-negative patients with breast cancer should receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Some prognostic subgroups (tumor size greater than 2 cm) have shown an overall 10-year survival rate of 92% for women who have not received adjuvant therapy. The benefits versus toxicities of adjuvant therapy should be carefully evaluated before the initiation of adjuvant therapy. 
Non-Hodgkins lymphoma of the head and neck: experience in the Grampian area. The records of 44 cases of non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL) presenting to the ear, nose and throat department in the Grampian area from 1980-1988 were examined in relation to site of occurrence, histology, age at presentation, clinical stage, treatment and survival. The median age was 67 years and there was a preponderance of high grade histology, especially in disease affecting the tonsil. Most deaths occurred in the first year; patients with high grade disease and those in stages three and four had a significantly poorer survival during the first year. The site of disease had no influence on survival. 
DNA sequences 3' of the Ig H chain cluster rearrange in mouse B cell lines. A mouse myeloma cell line MPC11 (IgG2b, kappa) and variants derived from it have been used to study DNA rearrangements that occur at the Ig H chain locus. One variant, F5.5, has acquired both VH gene and C epsilon gene rearrangements. Through genomic Southern blot analysis initially directed to mapping the C epsilon gene rearrangement, we observed that the VH region rearrangement was linked, through an inversion event, to sequences that originate 3' of the CH cluster, i.e., 3' of the C alpha gene. Subsequent studies have shown that DNA rearrangements within the region 3' of the C alpha gene are detected in several other mouse myeloma and hybridoma cell lines and are not associated with the expression of specific isotypes. 
Cholecystectomy and right colon cancer in Puerto Rico. A case-control study was undertaken to evaluate the possible relationship between cholecystectomy and right colon cancer. Two hundred patients with adenocarcinoma of the cecum or ascending colon (diagnosed between 1984 and 1989) were compared with 200 matched neighborhood controls. Cholecystectomy history was obtained through interviews using structured questionnaires and subsequently validated from hospital records. A statistically significant association (odds ratio = 2.14) was found between right colon cancer and a history of prior cholecystectomy. The altered bile metabolism which occurs after removal of the gallbladder may have a carcinogenic effect on the right colon. Dietary habits of the colon cancer patients in our study were consistent with prior reports in the literature, showing that this group has a lower intake of vegetables and cereal fiber than the control population. 
Vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction: the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels. Reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced. Everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used. Based on the studies of Cutting et al., Psillakis et al., and Casanova et al., we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap, initially for mandibular reconstruction, but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions. From July of 1987 to December of 1988, 14 patients have been operated on. The experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows: primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma, secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments, bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with Treacher Collins syndrome, and severe sequelae of an already treated Romberg case. Small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating. Some technical details, the experience, the results, and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed. 
Intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy for recurrent locally advanced rectal or rectosigmoid carcinoma. A multimodality approach of moderate-dose to high-dose preoperative radiation therapy, surgical resection, and intraoperative electron beam radiation therapy (IORT) has been used for patients with locally recurrent rectal or rectosigmoid carcinoma. The 5-year actuarial local control and disease-free survival for 30 patients undergoing this treatment program were 26% and 19%, respectively. The most important factor predicting a favorable outcome was complete resection with negative pathologic resection margins. The determinant local control and disease-free survival for 13 patients undergoing complete resection were 62% and 54%, respectively, whereas for 17 patients undergoing partial resection these figures were 18% and 6%, respectively. There did not appear to be a difference in local control or survival based on the original surgical resection (abdominoperineal resection versus low anterior resection). However, the likelihood of obtaining a complete resection after preoperative radiation therapy was higher in patients who had previously undergone a low anterior resection than patients undergoing prior abdominoperineal resection. For the 30 patients undergoing external beam irradiation, resection, and IORT, the most significant toxicities were soft tissue or sacral injury and pelvic neuropathy. Efforts to further improve local control are directed toward the concurrent use of chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil with and without leucovorin) as radiation dose modifiers during external beam irradiation and the use of additional postoperative radiation therapy. 
Systematic computer-aided search of optimal staging system for colorectal cancer. Two hundred and ninety-eight patients with curatively resected colorectal cancer were classified into 12 categories according to the depth of tumour penetration (T1-T4), and lymph node status (N0-N2). Using a computer, these categories were grouped into 2-12 stages in every possible combination, so a total of 146,975 logical classifications were generated. The optimal model was selected for each group of classifications with equal stage number, thus giving the greatest prognostic information on 5-year survival according to the Akaike criterion. The results showed that (1) 13% of the total classifications, including 85% of the 3-stage classifications, were better than the Dukes system in predicting our patients' outcomes; (2) the T-level was a stage-determinant even more important than the N-level; and (3) major changes in prognosis occurred at more advanced stages than the classical "turning points". We conclude that in order to find an optimal staging of cancer, systematic computer-aided search through all the possible classifications is necessary, using the appropriate database. 
Efficacy of interferons on bowenoid papulosis and other precancerous lesions. Preliminary results of an open randomized trial of recombinant interferon gamma in patients suffering from bowenoid papulosis are described. Recombinant interferon gamma was given subcutaneously to 12 patients at a daily dose of 4 X 10(6) I.U. by injection. Four patients each were assigned to one of three treatment groups consisting of continuous therapy (group A) with three subcutaneous injections per week for 13 weeks; intermittent block therapy (group B) with four six-week cycles consisting of five injections on days 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of each cycle; and intermittent single-dose therapy (group C) with six four-week cycles consisting of only one subcutaneous injection on day one of each cycle. At the twenty-sixth week after onset of therapy, complete responses were seen in three of four patients of treatment group A, whereas in the treatment groups B and C only one patient, respectively, responded partially. These results suggest that in contrast to condylomata acuminata bowenoid papulosis lesions respond better to continuous than to intermittent interferon gamma injections. 
Ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion. A curable entity using surgery alone without need for adjuvant therapy. Of 408 negative axillary node (NAN) patients surgically treated at Roswell Park Cancer Institute (Buffalo, NY, 1976 through 1987), 36 (8.8%) presented with ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion (DCISM). In more than 50% of the patients (20/36) the disease was detected solely by mammography (microcalcifications and/or radiological density less than 1.5 cm). Thirty-three patients underwent modified radical mastectomy; three had wide excision +/- axillary dissection. Residual disease after excisional biopsy was found in 22 of 33 mastectomy specimens (67%): 11 (33%) pure ductal carcinoma in situ, five (15%) DCISM, and six (18%) frankly invasive. Of the 22 incidents of residual disease, 50% (11) were multicentric (one third of all specimens). These findings imply a high likelihood of residual cancer after excisional biopsy in these patients. All patients were free of disease for a mean follow-up of 57 months (range, 16 to 137). These findings indicate that DCISM is an entirely curable disease when treated by mastectomy alone, without the need for adjuvant therapy, regardless of the status of other prognostic factors such as tumor size, histologic differentiation, age, or steroid receptor status. 
Thyroid and parathyroid cancer. The epidemiology, etiology, pathology, and management of thyroid and parathyroid carcinoma are discussed. Emphasis is placed on the clinical differences in the management and treatment of the various histologic subtypes of thyroid cancer. The biologic and prognostic differences among the various histologic types of thyroid cancer and their relationship to age are stressed. 
Vaginal removal of the pedunculated submucous myoma. Historical observations and development of a new procedure. A new method of vaginal removal of submucous fibroids was attempted on 151 patients. The procedure involves dilation of the cervix with Laminaria tents and removal of the submucous fibroid by grasping with appropriate instruments. Myomas were removed successfully in 92% of the patients; hysterectomy and abdominal myomectomy were avoided in all but four of them. Perforation occurred in two patients. Morbidity was minimal. The four patients who desired pregnancy conceived. 
The utility of circulating levels of human pancreatic polypeptide as a marker for islet cell tumors. The measurement of plasma levels of human pancreatic polypeptide (hPP) has been reported to be clinically useful in predicting the existence of pancreatic islet cell neoplasms in patients with familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (FMEN-I) and the possible presence of metastatic disease in patients with islet cell tumors. However, these studies have not been prospective and involve small numbers of patients. In this study, fasting plasma samples from 36 patients with biopsy-proved islet cell tumors were analyzed for hPP by radioimmunoassay and compared with age-matched control subjects. Of 13 patients with FMEN-I who had islet cell tumors, 7 (54%) had elevated plasma hPP levels before surgery. After resection of all islet cell tumors, 4 of 12 patients evaluated after surgery still had elevated levels. Fifteen patients had islet cell tumors that were localized (seven insulinomas and eight gastrinomas), but none of these patients had elevated hPP levels, either before or after surgery. Nine patients, including one with FMEN-I, with metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver were studied; three with more advanced disease had elevated hPP levels before surgery. Each of the nine patients underwent resection of all gross disease and the three patients with elevated preoperative levels had normal postoperative hPP levels. Our results indicate that basal plasma levels of hPP were not clinically useful. The hPP levels did not reliably predict the presence of islet cell tumors in patients with FMEN-I, because 46% of patients with tumors did not have elevated plasma levels, and in those with elevated values hPP levels did not reliably predict the resection of all tumor. Plasma levels of hPP have no utility in patients with localized sporadically occurring islet cell tumors and limited utility (33%) in predicting the presence of metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver. 
A newly established human osteosarcoma cell line with osteoblastic properties. A human osteosarcoma cell line, HuO9, was established from a tumor that was heterotransplanted into athymic nude mice. Antiserum against nude mouse spleen cells was added to the early passage cultures to eliminate the host fibroblastic cells. The cell line retained a high activity of liver/bone/kidney-type alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and secreted osteocalcin, i.e., bone gamma-carboxyglutamic acid-containing protein (BGP), into the medium. The addition of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) increased the ALP activity as well as the level of BGP secreted into the medium. The ALP of 1,25(OH)2D3-treated cells has the same inhibition characteristics to heat and amino acids as that of untreated cells. Synthetic human parathyroid hormone stimulated the production of intracellular adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) approximately 100-fold within five minutes. However, the stimulation was not observed with a synthetic human thyrocalcitonin. When HuO9 cells were transplanted into the back of a nude mouse, a tumor with an abundant osteoid formation and mineralization was produced. The results indicate that the HuO9 cell line expresses well-differentiated osteoblastic phenotypes. HuO9 is the first established human cell line to produce BGP, and it provides a useful model for the studies of osteoblasts and the regulatory mechanisms of BGP production. 
Application of the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 on prostate biopsies to assess the fraction of human prostatic carcinoma. The feasibility of using the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 as a proliferation marker in human prostatic carcinoma was studied on aspiration and core biopsy specimens obtained from 50 patients suspected of having prostate cancer. In 32 prostatic adenocarcinomas the Ki-67 index varied from 0.3 to 13.3% (mean 4.3) in cytological smears and from 0.8 to 17.8% (mean 5.1) in frozen sections from histological core biopsies. No significant correlation between the percentage of cells positive for Ki-67 and the histological tumor differentiation could be established. In 18 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia the Ki-67 index varied from 0 to 3.0% (mean 1.2) and from 0 to 3.8% (mean 1.4) in cytological and histological material, respectively. The differences in the observed Ki-67 index between benign and malignant prostatic tissues are of statistical (p less than 0.001) and of clinical significance. Nine patients who underwent endocrine treatment or radiotherapy entered a followup protocol in which the Ki-67 staining procedure was applied to periodically obtained cytological aspiration biopsies. During month 1 after the start of therapy a statistically significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in the Ki-67 index to 58% of the initial values was found, while at 2 and 3 months the proliferative fraction showed a further decrease to 27 and 7%, respectively. As a marker, the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 was shown to provide a reliable method to estimate the proliferative cell fraction of human prostate cancer. 
The role of the physician in the late diagnosis of primary malignant tumors of the small intestine. Survival from primary malignancies of the small intestine has not improved during the last four decades. One reason for this is the advanced stage of disease at the time of surgery. In order to determine why diagnosis is made late, we reviewed the records of all patients with small bowel malignancy diagnosed between 1967 and 1988. The time from the onset of symptoms to the first medical contact and the time from medical contact until diagnosis were evaluated in 77 patients. The average delay in diagnosis attributable 1) to the patient failing to report symptoms was less than 2 months, 2) to the physician not ordering the appropriate diagnostic test was 8.2 months, and 3) to the radiologist failing to make the diagnosis was 12 months. Thus, the major delay in diagnosis was after medical help was sought and not from the onset of symptoms to first medical consultation. Physicians must increase their sensitivity to the subtle but persistent symptoms that necessitate a small bowel evaluation. 
Medullary thyroid cancer. An immunohistochemical and humoral study using six separate antigens The authors investigated the humoral and tissue expression of six antigens associated with medullary thyroid cancer (MTC): calcitonin (CT), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), somatostatin (SRIF), and thyroglobulin (TG). The antigens were studied in the neoplastic C cells using immunohistochemistry with specific antisera and in the plasma using specific radioimmunoassay. Eighteen patients (8 male and 10 female patients, aged 12-72 years) were studied. Mean follow-up was 70.7 months (range, 2-179 months). Nine patients (50%) died of their disease after a mean follow-up of 47.2 months (range, 2-116 months). By immunostaining, primary tumors expressed CT and CEA in all cases and NSE was positive in 90%, CGRP in 66%, SRIF in 63%, and TG in 58%. Metastatic tissues were positive in all cases of CT staining, 92.8% of CEA, 71.4% of NSE, 73.3% of CGRP, 38.5% of SRIF, and only 13.3% of TG staining. In positive cases the percentage of positive cells and the degree of staining were variable among the different antigens. The expression of an antigen in the neoplastic cells was associated with the hypersecretion of the corresponding antigen in the circulation in the case of CT and CEA. The levels of these antigens were elevated in all patients with metastases and could accurately predict the appearance of new metastases or indicate the effective treatment of previous metastases by surgery. In the case of NSE, CGRP, and SRIF, few patients had increased plasma concentrations of the antigens and these usually occurred during very advanced phases of the disease. Detectable levels of serum TG were never observed. When the outcome of the disease was compared with the expression of CT, CEA, NSE, CGRP, and TG, no correlation could be found. On the contrary, SRIF expression in the primary tumor could differentiate two groups of patients with different survival rates. SRIF-positive patients had survival rates of 100% and 50% at five and seven years, respectively, whereas SRIF-negative patients had survival rates of 40% at five years and 25% at seven years. 
Serologic determinants of survival in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Specific circulating serum proteins may reflect unique properties governing the growth and progression of head and neck cancers. One hundred three previously untreated patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were prospectively evaluated for serum IgA, IgG, and IgM and C1q-binding macromolecules. Immunoglobulins were assessed by the immunoturbidimetric technique. C1q-binding macromolecules (C1qBM) were measured utilizing the iodine-125 assay of Zubler et al (J Immunol 1976; 116: 232-5). Neither the level of serum immunoglobulins nor C1qBM values were correlated with the primary site, AJC (American Joint Committee on Cancer) stage of disease, or size of primary lesion. Likewise, comparison of serum IgA with C1qBM values demonstrated that these laboratory parameters were independent variables (r = 0.15 by Pearson linear regression). Univariate statistical analysis, utilizing the Cox proportional hazard model, showed serum IgA and C1qBM values to each contribute significantly to the ability to predict survival in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (p = 0.01 and 0.003, respectively). Furthermore, multivariate analysis reveals that both C1qBM and serum IgA levels contribute significantly to the hazards model beyond staging in predicting survival (p less than 0.001). Predictive results were most apparent in patients with stage IV disease and related to the probability of both regional and distant metastatic recurrences. Conversely, serologic analysis provided no information in patients who were staged early. These results support pretreatment multiparametric serologic analysis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic human endocrine tissues. PTH-like peptide (PLP) is produced by tumors commonly associated with hypercalcemia as well as nonneoplastic tissues and several endocrine glands and tumors. To characterize the distribution of PLP in human endocrine tissues and tumors, we localized PLP in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique with polyclonal antisera. Among peptide hormone-producing tissues, PLP was identified in nontumorous adenohypophysis and pituitary adenomas; medullary thyroid carcinomas; normal, hyperplastic, and adenomatous parathyroids; adrenal medulla and pheochromocytomas; normal pancreatic islets; and endocrine tumors of pancreas, gut, and lung, including small cell carcinomas. In other endocrine tissues PLP was identified in nontumorous thyroid follicular epithelium, colloid nodules, and follicular neoplasms; normal adrenal cortex, adrenocortical adenomas, and carcinomas; nontumorous testicular Leydig cells; normal ovarian granulosa and thecal cells; an ovarian thecoma and a granulosa cell tumor; placental trophoblast; and decidua. These results demonstrate that PLP is localized in many normal and neoplastic endocrine cells, including those not known to influence extracellular calcium homeostasis. The presence of PLP in a variety of endocrine tissues suggests that it may play a local physiological role in the growth or function of endocrine cells. 
Computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration of retroperitoneal lymph nodes in gynecologic oncology. Computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration was performed on 30 retroperitoneal lymph nodes in 29 patients with gynecologic cancer. There were no serious complications. Review of the cytologic material demonstrated malignant cells in 83% of the aspirates. Because the predictive value of a positive aspirate approaches 100%, therapy for metastatic disease can be initiated in these patients with the need for an open biopsy. Among five aspirates in which malignant cells were not seen, the cellularity of the specimen appeared to be the critical factor determining the predictive value of the aspirate. Whereas neither of two patients with negative aspirates of adequate cellularity has developed recurrent disease, two of three patients with hypocellular negative aspirates have. Because a hypocellular negative aspirate from a retroperitoneal lymph node may not be a true reflection of disease status, either repeat aspiration or open biopsy is advisable. 
Endoscopic ultrasonography for the evaluation of smooth muscle tumors in the upper gastrointestinal tract: an experience with 42 cases. Before surgery, 12 patients with suspected leiomyoma and 12 patients with suspected leiomyosarcoma were studied by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), computed tomography (CT), endoscopy, and barium swallow. The results were correlated with surgery and histology. Ten leiomyomas, one benign gastric ulcer, one carcinoid metastasis, eight leiomyosarcomas, two leiomyoblastomas, one mucus secreting adenocarcinoma, and one bronchial carcinoma were diagnosed. Eighteen additional patients suspected to have benign submucosal lesions by endoscopy and barium meal were treated non-surgically, and studied by EUS and CT. EUS was superior to other imaging techniques in the detection, staging, and follow-up of submucosal smooth muscle tumors because of clear imaging of the intramural abnormality and adjacent lymph nodes. 
Homeobox gene expression plus autocrine growth factor production elicits myeloid leukemia. In the murine myelomonocytic leukemia WEHI-3B, proviral insertions have induced expression of the Hox-2.4 homeobox gene and the gene for the myeloid growth factor interleukin 3 (IL-3). To assess their potential oncogenic role, normal bone marrow cells were infected with retroviruses bearing the genes for IL-3 or IL-3 plus Hox-2.4. Unlike the IL-3 virus, the IL-3/Hox-2.4 virus was highly leukemogenic. Infected cells expressing both genes exhibited retarded differentiation in vitro, generated myelomonocytic cell lines, and provoked a rapid, transplantable myeloid leukemia in vivo. The oncogenic action of Hox-2.4 appears to derive from its ability to impede the IL-3-driven terminal differentiation of myeloid cells. The results suggest that homeobox genes can regulate key differentiation processes such as self-renewal capacity and that their inappropriate expression can be oncogenic. 
Elective radical neck dissection in epidermoid cancer of the head and neck. A retrospective analysis of 853 cases of mouth, pharynx, and larynx cancer. A retrospective analysis of 853 patients with cancer of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx operated on over a 30-year period was performed. Four hundred fifty-seven of them had a radical neck dissection (RND) at some point. Five hundred ninety patients had no clinically positive nodes (N-o) necks at the time of primary treatment; 99 of these had elective neck dissection, whereas 95 others had a delayed RND when nodes became clinically involved. Twenty-three percent of all N-o patients had microscopically involved nodes and less than half of these were among those patients selected for elective RND. Furthermore, 58% of those patients who had elective RND did not have positive nodes. Comparative analysis of elective RND, delayed therapeutic RND after clinical appearance of nodes, and composite operations for patients with N1-N3 disease indicates little difference in disease-free survival when the nodes in the elective RND were positive microscopically for tumors (56%, 49% and 47% respectively). It thus seems that elective RND offers no real advantage over a careful watchful waiting approach in most patients. 
Brief intensive chemotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase II study of the weekly CODE regimen. Fifty-three patients, 17 with stage IIIB and 36 with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer, were given CODE (cisplatin, vincristine, doxorubicin, and etoposide) plus antibiotic prophylaxis and an antiemetic regimen in an intensive chemotherapy program emphasizing weekly treatment and a planned brief duration (9-12 weeks); for 45 of these patients, the CODE program also included antifungal prophylaxis and supportive corticosteroids. Of the total study population, 33 patients (62%) responded to treatment, including five (9%) with complete response. The median survival for the entire group was 42 weeks (55 weeks for those with stage IIIB and 39 weeks for those with stage IV). More than 40% were alive at 1 year. Comparison of granulocyte counts of patients receiving prednisone with those of the subgroup to whom no corticosteroids were given showed less granulocytopenia for those receiving prednisone. Use of prednisone thus allowed improved delivery of myelosuppressive drugs. CODE was halted in nine patients because of disease progression. Although more constitutional side effects are associated with weekly chemotherapy than with standard chemotherapy, only 12 of the remaining 44 patients (27%) failed to receive at least 9 weeks of treatment. Serious toxicity was uncommon: There were no treatment-related deaths and only three episodes of neutropenia with fever. CODE is a novel treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer that this pilot study provided entirely in an outpatient setting over a 9-12 week period with an acceptable incidence of toxicity and a promising level of efficacy. Additional testing and comparison with other regimens or supportive care alone are warranted. 
Progression of stage T1 bladder tumors after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin [published erratum appears in J Urol 1991 Apr;145(4):840] Of 221 patients with superficial bladder tumors (stages Ta, Tis and T1) treated by transurethral resection and an initial 6-week course of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) 195 were evaluated after 3 months for local response. Of these patients 17 (8.7%) had a stage T1 tumor, of whom 14 (82%) subsequently had muscle invasion (7), uncontrolled local disease (6) or metastasis (1). The median interval to progression was 8.4 months, which was significantly (p = 0.0001) less than among the other 178 patients with a nonstage T1 lesion or no tumor found at 3 months, of whom 44 (25%) had progression (median more than 5 years). These data suggest that patients with stage T1 tumor 3 months after BCG therapy require additional therapy other than simple tumor resection and meticulous followup. 
Advances in medical imaging for cancer diagnosis and treatment. Over the last several decades, significant "new eyes" have been developed that improve the diagnosis, treatment, planning, and monitoring of human cancer: computer tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET). Innovative advances in both morphologic and functional imaging have led to a dramatic improvement in our ability to diagnose and monitor human cancer. Frequently, anatomic detail can be demonstrated in ways that exceed views at surgery, and functional biochemical imaging is being used to show the metabolic activity and receptor status of normal and pathologic states. In vivo functional and biochemical studies differentiate normal from neoplastic or nonviable tissue, and make it possible to measure progression or regression of the disease. Because physiologic changes often precede morphologic findings in many disease processes, the use of in vivo biochemical probes can demonstrate disease before anatomic abnormalities become evident. Gross changes in anatomy are no longer adequate endpoints for therapy protocols. Today, using physiologic imaging, we can evaluate the response to treatment within hours of administration of therapy. Adjuvant metabolic tumor imaging studies provide complimentary information to morphologic evaluation of human cancers that will ultimately lead to better patient care. 
Improved survival with the use of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of medulloblastoma. Between 1975 and 1989, 108 children with newly diagnosed medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor (MB/PNET) of the posterior fossa were treated at the authors' institution. The patients were managed uniformly, and treatment included aggressive surgical resections, postoperative staging evaluations for extent of disease, and craniospinal radiation therapy with a local boost. Beginning in 1983, children with MB/PNET were prospectively assigned to risk groups; those with "standard-risk" MB/PNET were treated with radiation therapy alone, while those in the "poor-risk" group received similar radiation therapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy with 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU), vincristine, and cisplatin. The 5-year actuarial disease-free survival rate for all patients treated between 1975 and 1982 was 68%, and 73% when patients who died within 2 weeks after operation were excluded. This survival rate was statistically better for patients treated after 1982 (82%) compared to those treated between 1975 and 1982 (49%) (p less than 0.004). There was no difference in disease-free survival rates over time for children with standard-risk factors; however, there was a significant difference in the 5-year survival rate for poor-risk patients treated prior to 1982 (35%) compared to those treated later (87%) (p less than 0.001). For the group as a whole, a younger age at diagnosis correlated with a poorer survival rate; however, this relationship between age and outcome was significant only for children treated before 1983 (p less than 0.001). These results demonstrated an encouraging survival rate for children with MB/PNET, especially those treated with aggressive surgical resection followed by both radiation therapy and chemotherapy. The results strongly suggest that chemotherapy has a role for some, and possibly all, children with MB/PNET. 
Immunological identification and distribution of parathyroid hormone-like protein polypeptides in normal and malignant tissues. Monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies recognizing human parathyroid hormone-like protein (PTHLP) have been produced using a series of recombinant and synthetic PTHLP peptides. These antibodies have been used to develop a two-site immunometric enzyme immunoassay which detects PTHLP[1-87] and PTHLP[1-141] but not PTH. The immunoassay detected PTHLP in extracts of squamous carcinomas and normal tissues at concentrations from 7-515 ng PTHLP[1-87]/mg protein. Immunoblotting of the extract which showed the highest immunoreactivity, a squamous carcinoma of the lung from a patient with hypercalcemia, revealed a major band having an apparent mol wt of 26,500 and several other higher mol wt bands. Similar polypeptides were observed by immunoblotting cell extracts from a cell line, SCaBER, which secretes immunoreactive PTHLP into its medium and also from tumors in nude mice derived from this cell line. Chaotropic agents did not alter the immunoblotting pattern, and antibodies to three different epitopes of PTHLP recognized these bands, indicating PTHLP expression in the extracts. Immunohistochemical staining of normal human tissue with these antibodies revealed several PTHLP-containing tissues and confirmed the results of the immunoassay, suggesting a paracrine role for PTHLP. Staining was observed in several neoplastic tissues including squamous cell carcinomas, lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and adenocarcinoma of the colon. 
Treatment of port-wine stains during childhood with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. Seventy-three patients between the ages of 3 months to 14 years (average age 6 years 2 months) with port-wine stains were treated with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. More than 75% lightening was achieved with an average of 2.5 treatments in 33 patients (45%), 50% to 74% lightening after an average of 1.7 treatments in 31 (42%), 26% to 49% lightening after 2 treatments in 5 (7%), and less than 25% lightening after 1 treatment in 4 (5%). The overall average lightening after one treatment was 53%. The percentage of lightening increased as the number of treatments increased. Three patients had 100% clearance of the port-wine stain. Patients aged between 3 months and 6 years (44 patients) had a better response after the first treatment (55% lightening) than did patients aged between 7 and 14 years (29 patients with a 48% lightening; p = 0.027). Complications included cutaneous depressions in four patients, hyperpigmentation in 16 patients, and hypopigmentation in three patients. All complications were transient and disappeared completely. 
Increased survival of patients with massive lymphadenopathy and prostate cancer: evidence of heterogeneous tumour behaviour. The survival of patients with prostate cancer and radiologically detectable lymph node enlargement has been studied prospectively over an 8-year period. Computed tomography in 108 patients presenting with symptoms, signs or biochemical results suggesting lymphatic spread revealed pelvic or abdominal node masses in 60 patients; in 29 (48%), the masses measured more than 4 cm and the maximum node diameter was 15 cm. Two-thirds of patients had advanced (T3/T4) tumour stage. Following treatment, actuarial survival in all 60 patients with nodal enlargement was 40% at 5 years. Within this group, survival in 22 patients with lymphadenopathy but negative bone scans at diagnosis was significantly better than that of 38 patients with both node and bone disease (70% vs 20% at 5 years). This improvement was related both to an apparent inability of certain tumours initially to progress and seed within bone and to a marked sensitivity of the node masses to subsequent hormonal manipulation. Primary tumour grade was proportionally similar in both groups. Unexpectedly, 6 of the 38 patients with combined disease obtained a complete remission after treatment. The reason for this heterogeneous biological behaviour remains unclear; but these observations underscore the importance of vigorous treatment in all patients with advanced lymph node disease. 
N-[18F]fluoroacetyl-D-glucosamine: a potential agent for cancer diagnosis Positron labeled substrates such as sugars, amino acids, and nucleosides have been investigated for the in-vivo evaluation of biochemical processes in cancerous tissue. Hexosamines are obligatory structural components of many biologically important macromolecules, including membrane glycoproteins and mucopolysaccharide. We evaluated a new synthesized pharmaceutical, N-[18F]fluoroacetyl-D-glucosamine (18F-FAG), which is a structural analog of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. C3H/HeMsNRS mice bearing spontaneous hepatomas were used for the tissue distribution study. At 60 min after injection, high uptakes were found in tumor (5.16, mean value of %dose/g), liver (3.71), and kidney (3.27). The tumor uptake of 18F-FAG showed the highest value in all tissue. In the PET study, VX-2 carcinoma of the rabbit was clearly visualized. Our preliminary results suggest that 18F-FAG has potential as a new agent for tumor imaging. 
Whole-body lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in cachectic patients with esophageal cancer. Whole-body lipolytic rates and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling (reesterification of fatty acids released during lipolysis) were measured with stable isotopic tracers in the basal state and during beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol infusion in five cachectic patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, five cachectic cancer-free, nutritionally-matched control patients, and 10 healthy volunteers. Resting energy expenditure and plasma catecholamines were normal in all three groups. The basal rate of glycerol appearance in blood in the patients with cancer (2.96 +/- 0.45 mumol.kg-1.min-1) was similar to that in the nutritionally matched controls (3.07 +/- 0.28 mumol.kg-1.min-1), but 48% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers (2.00 +/- 0.16 mumol.kg-1.min-1) (P = 0.028). The antilipolytic effect of propranolol and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in the patients with cancer were also similar in the cachectic control group and approximately 50% greater than in the normal-weight volunteers, but the differences were not statistically significant because of the variability in the data. We conclude that the increase in lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in "unstressed" cachectic patients with esophageal cancer is due to alterations in their nutritional status rather than the presence of tumor itself. Increased beta-adrenergic activity may be an important contributor to the stimulation of lipolysis. 
Recent advances in etoposide therapy for non-small cell lung cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) continues to be a major health problem in the US. In 1990, approximately 120,000 new cases will be diagnosed, and the majority of these patients will have either unresectable disease or resected disease that has a relatively low chance of being cured. A variety of chemotherapy treatments have been evaluated in patients with advanced NSCLC. The objective of this review is to summarize the results of the chemotherapy trials in Stage III and IV NSCLC patients. 
T-lymphocytic leukemia expresses complex, branched O-linked oligosaccharides on a major sialoglycoprotein, leukosialin. Leukocytes express a major sialoglycoprotein, leukosialin, of which the apparent molecular weight (mol wt) can be variable according to the differences in O-glycans attached to this molecule. In the present study, we analyzed the structures of O-glycans attached to leukosialin present in various T-lymphocytic leukemia cells. T-lymphoid cells from patients with acute T-lymphocytic leukemia express a large amount of the branched hexasaccharides, NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3(NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----4GlcNAc beta 1----6)GalNAc, which are also expressed in activated normal T lymphocytes, but that are almost absent in resting normal T lymphocytes. T-lymphoid cells from patients with chronic T-lymphocytic leukemia, on the other hand, mainly express the tetrasaccharides NeuNAc alpha 2----3Gal beta 1----3(NeuNAc alpha 2----6)GalNAc on leukosialin, but they also express a small significant amount of the hexasaccharides. The same hexasaccharides can be detected in thymocytes. The increased amount of the hexasaccharides in acute leukemia is associated with increased activity of beta 1----6 GlcNAc-transferase, a key enzyme in forming the hexasaccharides. Immunoblot analysis of cell lysates showed that monoclonal antibody (MoAb) T-305 reacts preferentially with leukosialin of high mol wt containing the hexasaccharides. These findings indicate that T-lymphocytic leukemia cells reexpress the oligosaccharides present in immature cells. 
Metabolic effects of cachectin/tumor necrosis factor are modified by site of production. Cachectin/tumor necrosis factor-secreting tumor in skeletal muscle induces chronic cachexia, while implantation in brain induces predominantly acute anorexia. We have developed a murine model of wasting by injecting intracerebrally cells which continuously secrete h-cachectin/TNF (CHO-TNF) to: (a) determine the effects of cachectin/TNF produced continuously in the central nervous system (CNS), and (b) compare the metabolic effects of cachectin/TNF-secreting tumor in the brain to the cachexia caused by CHO-TNF tumor in peripheral tissue (IM). Intracerebral CHO-TNF tumors produced increased serum h-cachectin/TNF levels with lethal hypophagia and weight loss (mean survival time of 11 d); these changes were not observed in association with nonsecretory control brain tumors. The metabolic consequences of intracerebral cachectin/TNF production were indistinguishable from acute, lethal starvation: whole-body lipid content was decreased significantly but protein was conserved. Although intramuscular cachectin/TNF-secreting tumors caused similar increases of serum h-cachectin/TNF levels, profound anorexia did not develop; wasting developed after a longer period of tumor burden (50 d) with classical signs of cachexia (i.e., anemia and depletion of both protein and lipid). These studies provide a reproducible animal model of site-specific cytokine production and suggest that, regardless of serum levels, cachectin/TNF produced locally in brain influences both the rate of development of wasting and its net metabolic effects. 
Radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain. Congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies, effects of teratogens, errors of histogenesis, or sequelae of infections. The imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality. This review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants. 
Second-line platinum therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with cisplatin. In an effort to critically define the incidence and clinical characteristics of secondary responses to cisplatin-based therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with a cisplatin-based program, a retrospective review was undertaken of patients at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center who received greater than or equal to two cisplatin/carboplatin-based programs. Eighty-two patients were identified who met the entry criteria of having had a cisplatin-free interval (CFI) of more than 4 months between the completion of their first regimen and the institution of a second cisplatin/carboplatin program. Of the 72 assessable patients (10 had no measurable disease, and a laparotomy was not performed to assess response), 31 (43%) responded, including 10 surgically defined complete responses (S-CRs). The overall response rates (and S-CR rate), based on duration of CFI, were 5 to 12 months, 27% (5%); 13 to 24 months, 33% (11%); and more than 24 months, 59% (22%). Twenty-nine patients (35%) received noncisplatin/carboplatin-containing treatments between the cisplatin programs. Patients without any treatment for more than 24 months from the completion of their initial therapy experienced a 77% (17 of 22) response rate and a 32% (seven of 22) S-CR rate. In conclusion, secondary responses to cisplatin/carboplatin-based treatment are common in patients with ovarian cancer who have previously responded to the agents and increase in frequency with greater distance from the initial therapy. 
Angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: a case report and review of the literature. The lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis, polymorphic reticulosis (midline malignant reticulosis, lethal midline granuloma), lymphomatoid granulomatosis, and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions (AIL). Because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the T-cell receptor in these lesions, the AIL are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). NHL associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) represents intermediate or high-grade B-cell malignancies in HIV-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). There have been reports of EBV-associated T-cell NHL, AIL, and large granular lymphocyte (LGL) proliferations, as well as HIV-associated T-cell neoplasia, LGL/T-cell proliferations, and AIL. We describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis (lethal midline granuloma) arising in an HIV-infected individual, who later progressed to AIDS, and review the literature on HIV-associated and EBV-associated T-cell neoplasia, LGL/T-cell proliferations, and AIL. The etiology of this AIL/T-cell NHL, especially in relation to EBV and HIV, is discussed. 
Acute tumor lysis syndrome after intrathecal methotrexate administration. A 44-year-old man had acute tumor lysis syndrome after a single dose of intrathecal methotrexate was administered for lymphomatous meningitis (high-grade, small noncleaved B-cell) in the setting of untreated systemic disease. The metabolic derangements reversed completely with conservative therapy and did not recur with subsequent treatment. Intrathecal methotrexate administration results in potentially toxic systemic methotrexate levels which persist longer than an equivalent systemic dose. Active central nervous system lymphoma may increase the duration of toxic levels in the circulation and contribute to the peripheral effects of the drug. The pathogenesis of tumor lysis syndrome in this patient and the mechanisms of systemic toxicity of intrathecal methotrexate are discussed. 
Repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis. We evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis. The mean age of the patients was 31.1 +/- 4.3 years. At the time of their second operation the disease was stage IV in 14 women, stage III in 25, and stage I in three. After reoperation, the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 +/- 30.3 months. Pain symptoms returned in eight women, dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight, and pelvic pain in seven. Eight of the 28 women (28.6%) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies. The corrected pregnancy rate was 35%, and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7%. A third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months. Conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis. 
Mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer. Microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma. Over 7 years, 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction, 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue, 7 for recurrent tumor, and 6 for other reasons [lymphangioma (1), infection (1), gunshot wound (1), and osteoradionecrosis (3)]. Primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9. All repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula, 5 radial forearm, 3 fibula, 2 serratus, and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery. Mandibular defects included the symphysis alone (7), symphysis and body (5), symphysis-body-ramus condyle (2), body or ramus (13), and bilateral body (1). Fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses. Eight received postoperative radiotherapy. All patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination (28) and positive radionuclide scan (22 of 22). Bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26. One complete flap loss occurred at 14 days. Complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis (3), orocutaneous fistula (3), plate exposure (1), donor site infection (3), fracture of reconstruction (1), and fracture of the radius (1). Microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction--despite previous radiotherapy, infection, foreign body, or surgery--in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent. Bony union, a healed wound, and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula, skin loss, or metal plate or bone exposure. 
Reconstructions after resections of tumors involving the proximal femur. Advances in prosthesis design, the use of allografts, and a systematic approach to the staging and surgical treatment of musculoskeletal tumors have made limb salvage possible in the proximal femoral region. With the use of effective adjuvant therapy, limb salvage is now an option for the majority of patients presenting with locally invasive neoplasms in this area. The increase in functional outcome is sufficient to warrant serious consideration of limb salvage over the corresponding amputation. Preoperative planning is discussed along with surgical techniques. 
Radiation therapy for intraductal carcinoma. Is it an equal alternative? Of 213 consecutive patients with intraductal carcinoma, 109 were selectively treated with mastectomy and 104 with radiation therapy. There were eight local recurrences, seven in patients treated with radiation therapy and one in a patient treated with mastectomy. Histologically, there were 110 comedocarcinomas and 103 noncomedocarcinomas. Seven local recurrences occurred in patients with comedocarcinomas and one in a patient with a noncomedo tumor. Three (38%) of eight local recurrences (all comedo) were invasive. The 5-year actuarial survival for all subgroups was 100%. The median follow-up was 51 months. Intraductal carcinoma is unlikely to metastasize to axillary lymph nodes, and routine dissection is unnecessary. Ductal carcinoma in situ of the comedo variety is more aggressive and more likely to recur than its noncomedo counterpart. We currently view conservative therapy for patients with intraductal comedocarcinoma with caution. 
Imaging modalities in recurrent head and neck tumors. Patients with recurrent neoplasms of the head and neck present perplexing management problems, and accurate preoperative assessment of their disease is crucial. Thirty-eight patients with suspected recurrent neoplasms comprise this study: 30 had computed tomography scans, 4 had magnetic resonance images, and 4 patients underwent both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging to assess the anatomical extent of pathology in 34 malignant and 4 benign tumors. Contrast enhancement was essential for detecting disease on computed tomography scan. Differentiation of recurrent tumor was more difficult when the patient had undergone radiation. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated superior visibility in recurrent parotid and paranasal sinus neoplasm, but was less helpful in laryngeal and pharyngeal recurrences. Computed tomography demonstration of a mass with infiltration of normal fat or tissue planes or lymphadenopathy correlated highly with recurrent disease. Imaging techniques and fine points for determining recurrent neoplasms are presented. 
A clinical and flow cytometric analysis of patients with nasopharyngeal cancer. Abnormal cellular DNA content, a hallmark of malignancy, is known to be an important prognostic factor in many human solid tumors; however, no data have been published on whether cellular DNA content carries prognostic significance for patients with nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC). Archival, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded pathology specimens representing pretreatment tissue biopsies from 55 patients (41 men and 14 women) with NPC were analyzed for cellular DNA content in a retrospective fashion from 1968 to 1988. Individual tumors were classified as either lymphoepithelioma, squamous cell, or anaplastic carcinoma, and were staged according to International Union Against Cancer (UICC) criteria. All patients were treated with curative intent using a 4 to 6 MeV linear accelerator to total doses ranging from 50 to 60 Gy in 4 to 6 weeks. The overall 5-year actuarial survival for all 55 patients was 44.4% (men, 41%; women, 52%). Survival by T stage was as follows: T1, 65%; T2, 51%; T3, 36%; and T4, 27%. Similarly, the 5-year survival rate declined as the bulk of nodal metastases increased: N0, 62%; N2, 50%; N3, 37%; and N1, 25%. Patients who had anaplastic carcinoma had a 5-year survival of 73%, those with lymphoepithelioma had a 60% survival, and those with squamous cell cancer (SCC) had a 30% survival. There was a statistically significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with SCC and those with nonkeratinizing histologies (P less than 0.05). In addition, there was a significant association between patients older than 40 years of age with SCC and patients younger than 40 years of age with nonkeratinizing malignancies (P less than 0.01). Of the 55 tumors successfully analyzed, 22 (40%) were diploid and 33 (60%) were aneuploid. The mean coefficient of variation (CV) of all 55 samples was 6.17%. There was no significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with diploid and those with aneuploid tumors (48% versus 42%). Furthermore, there was no statistically significant survival difference between aneuploid and diploid tumors within any one histologic subgroup. There was also no significant survival difference related to the DNA index. The results indicate that the extent of local tumor spread is still the most important prognostic factor for patients treated with radiotherapy for NPC. The data support the conclusion that patients with lymphoepithelioma and anaplastic carcinomas have a superior survival to patients with squamous cell carcinoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Association between DNA ploidy pattern and cellular atypia in colorectal carcinomas. A new clinical application of DNA flow cytometric study? Fresh tissue specimens from 406 colorectal carcinomas were analyzed by DNA flow cytometric study, and the DNA ploidy pattern was compared with Dukes' stage, histologic grade, and degree of cellular atypia. Sixty-one percent of the carcinomas had a distinct aneuploid DNA pattern. The proportion of aneuploid carcinomas was significantly higher in the advanced Dukes' stages than in the localized ones. A highly significant association was found between DNA ploidy pattern and degree of cellular atypia, whereas no association was demonstrated between DNA ploidy pattern and histologic grade. This finding might indicate that cellular atypia has a stronger prognostic impact than the growth pattern of the tumor. The authors suggest that flow cytometric DNA quantification may replace assessment of cellular atypia in the histologic evaluation. Furthermore, together with earlier findings by others, these results indicate that the degree of cellular atypia may be conserved during the development from adenomas to carcinomas. 
Insulin-like growth factor-I receptors in nonfunctioning thyroid nodules. We have recently demonstrated the production of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) as well as the presence of type I IGF receptors in human thyroid cells in primary culture. The role of IGF-I in the control of thyroid cell growth has been well established. In order to investigate the involvement of IGF-I in abnormal thyroid growth, the density of IGF-I receptors in solitary, cold, micro- and macro-follicular thyroid adenomas, and in extranodular histological normal tissue was studied. Forty-three euthyroid patients with isolated cold nodules were selected for the study. In 30 patients the presence of IGF-I receptors was evaluated by using quantitative immunohistochemistry; in 10 patients by using radioligand binding studies, and in 3 patients by using affinity labeling. Cross-linking and binding studies clearly demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous class of binding sites for type I IGF receptors. Furthermore, radioligand studies did not show any significant differences in receptor density between the 2 types of thyroidal tissues. Conversely, the computerized analysis of 900 fields of nodular and normal thyroid tissues immunostained with the monoclonal antibody alpha-IR3, strongly indicated that higher concentrations of IGF-I receptors were present in the epithelial cells of non-functioning thyroid nodules than in the adjacent extranodular thyroid tissues. These studies strongly suggest that the same type I IGF receptor is present in thyroid follicular adenomas as in histological normal thyroid tissue removed from the same patient. The higher concentration of IGF-I receptors as documented by immunostaining in the adenomas suggests that IGF-I may contribute to the abnormal growth of the neoplasms. 
Predictors of physician nonadherence to chemotherapy regimens. Physician nonadherence to cancer treatment regimens may diminish treatment efficacy and compromise clinical research. The influence of clinical, demographic, and psychosocial patient characteristics on physician adherence to breast cancer chemotherapy was investigated, as was the role of the clinician's attitudes concerning the chemotherapy. One hundred seven women recently diagnosed with breast cancer were followed for 26 weeks of treatment. Fifty-six (52%) of the patients experienced unjustified modification for at least one chemotherapeutic agent. Stepwise multiple regression revealed independent contributions of increased patient age, treatment setting (clinic versus academic or community private practice), and stage of disease to physician nonadherence. Regimen complexity, delay in seeking treatment, and presence of psychiatric disorder did not contribute, in general, to unjustified regimen modifications. Patient psychological and psychiatric factors, however, did influence prescribing behavior for vincristine. Physician awareness of factors contributing to unnecessary treatment modifications may reduce the frequency of such behaviors. 
Pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastoma in nude mice. Two pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastomas, from two children aged 1 and 6 years, were transplanted into nude mice. Two noteworthy observations were made. In one case, the transplanted tumor gave rise to a soft-tissue sarcoma. Moreover, in both cases hepatic metastases were associated with a striking modification of murine hepatocytes, resulting in hyperchromatic and dysplastic nuclei. The latter finding was particularly evident in the hepatic areas surrounding all metastases of pleomorphic (anaplastic) neuroblastoma cells. 
The role of aspiration cytologic examination in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast. A study of 2,000 patients who had undergone fine needle aspiration of a solid lump of the breast was conducted to determine the accuracy of this technique. During the period 1982 to 1989, all patients with a solid mammary mass, presenting to a specialized breast unit were initially investigated by fine needle aspiration cytologic examination (FNAC). To date, we present data on 2,000 consecutive aspirations with matching histologic diagnosis on the excised pathologic specimens. In particular, the relationship between tumor histologic factors and the accuracy of cytologic diagnosis was examined. The sensitivity of FNAC in the diagnosis of a malignant growth was 84 per cent; this represents first aspiration results only. The specificity was more than 99 per cent. The rate of acellular or unsatisfactory aspirations was 12 per cent. We had a positive predictive rate for diagnosis in carcinoma of the breast of almost 95 per cent. The diagnosis of lobular and in situ patterns of disease was questioned, with three of three in situ lesions and ten of 23 lobular lesions missed by FNAC. We do not recommend that FNAC replace excision biopsy and frozen section in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast. 
Late development of a squamous carcinoma in a reconstructed pharynx. We report a case in which a squamous cell carcinoma was found to have arisen from a delto-pectoral skin flap used in pharyngeal reconstruction. The flap had been forming a neo-pharynx for 24 years. No other signs of recurrent disease had developed in this period. This raises the possibility of tumour induction in heterotopic skin used for oropharyngeal reconstruction. 
Melanoma and soft tissue sarcoma in seven patients. Seven patients with both melanoma and sarcoma were seen at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute (Boston, MA) over a 4-year period. Three had additional malignant neoplasms; one of these patients also had the hereditary cutaneous malignant melanoma, dysplastic nevus syndrome. These observations suggest the possibility of a biologic relationship between melanoma and sarcoma, the nature of which remains unknown. 
Short-term tamoxifen plus chemotherapy: superior results in node-positive breast cancer. Three hundred eleven patients with node-positive breast cancer were randomized to one of three adjuvant treatments: cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil; all of the above with tamoxifen citrate; or all of the above with tamoxifen and bacillus Calmette-Guerin vaccination. Local therapy for all patients was a modified radical mastectomy. Estrogen receptors were measured on all primary tumors. Patients were stratified by the number of positive nodes (one to three nodes and more than three nodes) and estrogen-receptor value (less than 3 femtomole/mg and greater than or equal to 3 femtomole/mg). Follow-up is available, with a mean of 9.1 and maximum of 14.2 years. In this study the efficacy of short-term tamoxifen is apparent over that of chemoimmunotherapy alone and continues to be significant with prolonged follow-up. The addition of tamoxifen to chemoimmunotherapy significantly prolonged disease-free survival among patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors who were postmenopausal, who had larger tumors (greater than 3 cm), or who had more extensive axillary node involvement (more than three nodes). Tamoxifen improved overall survival for patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors larger than 3 cm. The addition of bacillus Calmette-Guerin Cytoxan, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, and tamoxifen did not significantly alter disease-free or overall survival. 
Human macrophage colony-stimulating factor induces macrophage colonies after L-phenylalanine methylester treatment of human marrow. Macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) has well-known effects on murine bone marrow, but its colony stimulating activity for human bone marrow is controversial. After treatment of human bone marrow with L-phenylalanine methylester (PME), macrophage-colonies (CFU-M) were induced by M-CSF in a dose-dependent fashion. The optimal concentration of recombinant human-macrophage colony stimulating factor (rhM-CSF) was 1,000 U/mL. Purified human urine M-CSF had colony stimulating activity similar to rhM-CSF. Further studies were performed to determine the factors responsible for the enhanced CFU-M formation from PME treated marrow. Compared with nylon wool and carbonyl iron monocyte depletion methods, PME eliminated significantly more monocytes and myeloid cells. This observation suggested that these cells may release hematopoietic inhibitory factors for CFU-M. Low concentrations (1%) but not normal (10%) concentrations of blood monocytes were inhibitory (mean inhibition, 48%) to CFU-M. High concentrations of monocytes (50%) augmented CFU-M colonies. HL-60 conditioned media was used to simulate secretory products of early myeloid cells. HL-60 conditioned media (1%) inhibited CFU-M formation but not granulocyte macrophage or granulocyte colonies. We conclude that M-CSF has colony stimulating activity for human marrow that can be recognized after removal of inhibitory cells by PME treatment. 
Hemangioma of the temporalis muscle. A rare case of an intramuscular hemangioma of the temporalis muscle is reported. The clinical examination, carotid arteriogram, computed tomographic scan, and aspiration cytology suggested the vascular nature of the tumor, but an exact diagnosis could only be made after histopathologic examination. Temporary occlusion of the ipsilateral external carotid artery and subperiosteal dissection permitted complete, wide excision without much bleeding. 
Different patterns of gene expression in ras-resistant and ras-sensitive cells. We have shown previously that nontumorigenic NIH 3T3 cells can be made tumorigenic and metastatic by transfection and expression of activated ras, whereas in LTA cells, which are tumorigenic but nonmetastatic, the degree of malignancy is not altered by ras. To investigate possible mechanisms of natural ras resistance, we compared the expression patterns of several genes thought to be involved in ras-induced metastatic progression in LTA (ras-resistant) and NIH 3T3 (ras-sensitive) cells, before and after constitutive expression of transfected T24-H-ras. We examined the expression of the nuclear "early-response" genes jun and fos and the "tumor-suppressor" retinoblastoma (Rb) gene, as well as genes involved in invasion (major excreted protein [MEP], tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases [TIMP]), and cell adhesion (secreted phosphoprotein 1 [SPP1; also known as osteopontin]). We found distinct differences in both the basal and ras-induced levels of expression of most of these genes in LTA versus NIH 3T3 cells. High levels of MEP and low levels of TIMP were induced in ras-transfected NIH 3T3 cells, whereas LTA cells showed intermediate levels of MEP and high levels of TIMP that were only marginally affected by the expression of transfected ras. Similarly, SPP1 expression was strongly induced by ras in NIH 3T3 cells but was repressed by ras in LTA cells. Enzymogram assays for functional gelatinase activity showed an increase in 67-kd and 62-kd bands in NIH 3T3 cells in the presence of ras. LTA cells showed no gelatinolytic activity in the presence or absence of ras. Data from an in vitro assay for chemoinvasiveness showed a pattern as predicted from the expression of invasion-related genes; chemoinvasiveness in ras-transfected NIH 3T3 was greater than in LTA and ras-transfected LTA cells, which was greater than in NIH 3T3 cells. Differences in expression of the genes examined are believed to contribute to the ras responsiveness of NIH 3T3 cells and the ras resistance of LTA cells. 
Remission of precancerous lesions in the oral cavity of tobacco chewers and maintenance of the protective effect of beta-carotene or vitamin A. Participants in the intervention trials were fishermen (Kerala, India), who chewed tobacco-containing betel quids daily before and throughout the study period. Frequency of oral leukoplakia, micronuclei in oral mucosal cells, and alterations in nuclear textures were used as endpoints. Administration of vitamin A (60 mg/wk) for 6-mo resulted in complete remission of leukoplakias in 57% and a reduction of micronucleated cells in 96% of tobacco-chewers. beta-carotene (2.2 mmol/wk) induced remission of leukoplakia in 14.8% and reduction of micronucleated cells in 98%. Vitamin A completely suppressed and beta-carotene suppressed by 50% formation of new leukoplakia within the 6-mo trial period. After withdrawal of vitamin A or beta-carotene treatment, oral leukoplakias reappeared, frequency of micronuclei in oral mucosa increased, and nuclear textures reverted to those present before the administration of chemo-preventive agents. The protective effect of the original treatment could be maintained for at least 8 additional months by administration of lower doses of vitamin A or beta-carotene. 
Colonic stenoses: use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies. Forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations, without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction, were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session. All patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination. The authors describe the technique, as well as the clinical and radiologic findings, that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon. In all patients, oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes, with no complications. In seven patients, there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel, and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients. If a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon, additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium. This practice is safe if precise criteria are applied. 
Ureterosigmoidostomy: long-term results, risk of carcinoma and etiological factors for carcinogenesis. We followed postoperatively 75 patients who underwent ureterosigmoidostomy between 1942 and 1987. Of the patients 30 were asked to undergo routine examination, including fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy with biopsy and analysis of a urine-feces slurry for nitrate, nitrite and nitrosamines in comparison to 20 control volunteers. After a mean observation of 14 years 7 months (1 to 46 years) 64.5% of the patients had bilaterally normal kidneys without any previous complications, 77.5% of the renal units being normal. Sigmoidoscopic biopsy revealed 3 carcinomas at the ureterocolonic junction resulting in an 8.5 to 10.5-fold increased risk of colon carcinoma compared to the general population. The excretion of nitrite and N-nitrosamines was increased, and nitrate excretion was decreased compared to healthy control volunteers, suggesting endogenous formation of nitrosamines by bacterially reduced nitrate and endogenous amines. The urological long-term results of ureterosigmoidostomy are similar to those of conduits. However, the increased incidence of colon carcinoma is not yet proved to be higher than in conduits. 
Receptors for epidermal growth factor and steroid hormones in primary laryngeal tumors. The authors investigated the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF-R), estrogen (ER), progesterone (PR), and androgen (AR) receptors in 42 laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas and 20 normal laryngeal mucosa specimens. EGF-R were expressed in all tumor specimens analyzed, with significantly higher levels in tumor samples compared with normal mucosa (P less than 0.05). The immunohistochemical study demonstrated the presence of EGF-R in basal and parabasal cells of normal mucosa and in most of the cancer cells. There was no correlation between EGF-R and tumor localization or T classification. On the other hand, the authors did find an interesting correlation between EGF-R levels and grading, EGF-R levels being significantly higher in G3 than in G1-G2 tumors. Moreover, the three patients whose tumors expressed the highest EGF-R levels had disease recur within 8 months. Among tumor specimens, 9.5%, 35.7%, and 9.5% expressed very low but detectable ER, PR, and AR levels, respectively. No statistically significant difference was found between the levels of steroid receptors in the tumor and normal mucosa specimens, and neither was there any correlation of ER, PR, and AR with the pathologic findings. The authors' results suggest that the EGF-R system may play a role in regulating the growth of laryngeal cancer. Additional studies should demonstrate whether, as in other tumor types, EGF-R expression may have prognostic significance in human laryngeal cancer. 
Loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 17 and 18 in breast carcinoma: two additional regions identified. The loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at specific regions of the human genome in tumor DNA is recognized as evidence for a tumor-suppressor gene located within the corresponding region of the homologous chromosome. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of a panel of primary human breast tumor DNAs has led to the identification of two additional regions on chromosomes 17q and 18q that frequently are affected by LOH. Deletions of each of these regions have a significant correlation with clinical parameters that are associated with aggressive breast carcinomas. Previous restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this panel of tumors has uncovered several other frequently occurring mutations. LOH on chromosome 18q frequently occurs in tumors with concomitant LOH of loci on chromosomes 17p and 11p. Similarly, tumors having LOH on 17q also have LOH on chromosomes 1p and 3p. This suggests that certain combinations of mutations may collaborate in the development and malignant progression of breast carcinomas. 
Prospective study of the frequency and size distribution of polyps missed by colonoscopy. An important determinant in interpreting the results of colorectal polyp chemoprevention trials is the rate of polyps missed during colonscopic examination. We prospectively examined 90 patients by tandem colonoscopy performed by two alternating examiners. In 69 (76.7%) patients, 221 neoplastic lesions were documented histologically. Of a total of 58 lesions detected in 31 patients, no neoplastic lesion greater than or equal to 10 mm in size was missed; 16% of diminutive (less than or equal to 5 mm) neoplastic polyps and 12.3% of medium-sized (6-9 mm) neoplastic polyps were missed by the first examiner. We conclude that an experienced colonoscopist will miss about 15% of colorectal neoplastic polyps less than 10 mm in size in the setting of adequate bowel preparation. Large (greater than or equal to 10 mm) polyps were rarely missed, however, with the "miss" rate in our study equal to 0, with a 95% confidence limit of 4.64%. 
Detection of human papillomavirus type 16 DNA in carcinomas of the palatine tonsil. Twenty eight tonsillar carcinomas of various histological types were investigated for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), and human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, and 16 by in situ hybridisation using highly stringent procedures. In six cases an autoradiographic signal was obtained in the tumour cell nuclei with the HPV type 16 specific probe. No signal was obtained with any of the other probes. Immunohistochemical investigations with mouse monoclonal antibodies directed against the L1 protein of HPV type and a rabbit antiserum that detects common protein determinants of HPV gave negative results, thus indicating latent infection. Furthermore, a series of tonsils from controls with comparable age distribution was negative by both in situ hybridisation and immunohistology. These results indicate a possible role for HPV 16 in the aetiology of a proportion of tonsillar carcinomas. 
Osteosarcoma in young children. The clinicopathologic features of osteosarcoma in 12 children younger than 16 years of age treated at The Children's Hospital and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, during a 70-year time period are presented. Only one of six children treated before 1972 is a long-term survivor. Four of six children (67%) treated after 1972 are disease-free with an average follow-up of 8.8 years. The year 1972 marked the onset of use of effective chemotherapy in osteosarcoma, namely, high-dose methotrexate and leucovorin rescue. It would appear that the pathologic features and behavior of osteosarcoma in young children is similar to that of osteosarcoma in older children and adolescents. A combination of complete (wide) surgical resection or amputation and aggressive chemotherapy offers the best chance of long-term survival. 
Colorectal carcinoma: preoperative TNM classification with endosonography. Transcolorectal endosonography (TES) with use of both a nonoptic instrument and an echocolonoscope was performed in 91 patients with colorectal carcinomas (61 rectal and 30 colonic). Correlation of results at TES with results of histologic analysis of resected specimens according to the 1987 TNM classification demonstrated that TES allowed accurate staging of all tumors except T2 carcinomas, which were often accompanied by peritumoral inflammation or abscesses. Overall, the accuracy of staging rectal and colonic carcinomas with TES was 81% and 93%, respectively; overstaging occurred in 13% and understaging in 2%. For regional lymph nodes, the accuracy of staging with TES was 70%, the sensitivity was 94%, and the specificity was 55%. Correlations between findings at TES and the Dukes classification were as follows: for rectal carcinoma, 48% for class A, 50% for class B, and 96% for class C; for colonic carcinoma, 67% for class A, 46% for class B, and 91% for class C. Overall accuracy was 67%. With the addition of abdominal computed tomographic or ultrasonographic examinations to evaluate distant metastases, TES should become an important imaging technique for clinical TNM staging of colorectal carcinomas. 
Mohs micrographic surgery. Mohs micrographic surgery is a versatile technique for the treatment of nonmelanoma skin cancers, especially recurrent, invasive, or infiltrating basal cell carcinomas. It provides unsurpassed cure rates by using 100% surgical margin control, and it achieves maximal preservation of normal tissue. At the conclusion of tumor extirpation, the defect is ready for immediate reconstruction. With better understanding of the Mohs micrographic surgery technique, it can be more effectively used as part of a coordinated multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of patients with difficult cutaneous and paracutaneous neoplasms. 
Limb reconstruction with vascularized fibular grafts after bone tumor resection. Limb-salvage operations are being used with increasing frequency for patients with malignant bone tumors. For children, when a biologic reconstruction is desired, the choice is often between conventional and vascularized fibular grafts. An experimental study was performed in dogs to compare the two types of fibular grafts for bridging segmental defects in the radius and ulna. Twenty-six adult dogs were divided into two groups and studied at intervals of two, three, four, six, and 12 months after transplantation. The conventional grafts healed by creeping substitution i.e., they were first partially resorbed before new bone was laid down. In contrast, the vascularized fibulae maintained their normal structure and hypertrophied by subperiosteal new bone formation. The conventional fibulae eventually hypertrophied but much later than the vascularized grafts. The vascularized grafts were stronger at four and six months. Between six and 12 months, both grafts remodeled to resemble the size and shape of the forearm bones they were replacing. These experimental results have influenced the treatment of patients. Vascularized fibular grafts are ideal for diaphyseal defects greater than 10 cm long, especially in very young children, a poorly vascularized bed, or when bone healing is delayed by chemotherapeutic agents. To maximize hypertrophy, an external fixator is used to immobilize the graft rather than a plate, which acts as a stress shield. 
Cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil for advanced locoregional and metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Seven patients with advanced locoregional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin were treated with cis-daimminedichloroplatin (cisplatin) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Responses were seen in six of seven patients (three partial responses [PR] and three complete responses [CR]). One patient is alive and disease-free at 2 years. These results indicate that cisplatin and 5-FU is an effective combination regimen that should be used in future clinical trials in squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. 
Mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes: identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome. Translocations involving chromosome 11, band q23, are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia. We used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23: t(4;11)(q21;q23), t(6;11)(q27;q23), t(9;11)(p22;q23), and t(11;19)(q23;p13). The location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations. Of the cosmid clones containing known genes, CD3D was proximal and PBGD, THY1, SRPR, and ETS1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23. Hybridization of genomic DNA from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs), that carry 320 kilobases (kb) of human DNA including CD3D and CD3G genes, showed that the YACs were split in all four translocations. These results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these YACs; whether the breakpoint within the YACs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown. 
Flow cytometric DNA analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma. The prognostic value of nuclear DNA content was studied retrospectively using flow cytometry in 203 cases of resected hepatocellular carcinoma. The occurrence of DNA aneuploidy, which was detected in 50% of patients, correlated significantly with tumor size and the presence of vascular invasion or intrahepatic metastasis. Overall, patients with DNA aneuploid tumors had a significantly worse prognosis than those with DNA diploid tumors (P less than 0.001) and, also in subdivided groups by tumor size (P less than 0.01). Among DNA aneuploid patients, the survival times were significantly shorter for patients with a low DNA index (less than 1.5) than for those with a high DNA index (greater than or equal to 1.5) (P less than 0.05). In a Cox multivariate analysis, nuclear DNA content provided significant prognostic value (P = 0.008), as did vascular invasion (P = 0.001) and intrahepatic metastasis (P = 0.005). These results indicated that nuclear DNA content has an important prognostic value in hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Factors affecting recurrence in lumpectomy without irradiation for breast cancer. Between 1980 and 1988, 122 women with operable invasive breast cancers underwent wide excision and axillary dissection without subsequent irradiation. During the follow-up period of 1 to 8 years (median, 4 years), recurrences were observed in 23 patients (19%), 22 occurring in the breast and one in the axilla. This is a significant rate of recurrence and supports the need for breast irradiation after conservative surgery. The incidence of recurrence in the breast did not appear to be related to the presence or absence of axillary nodal metastasis. No recurrences were noted in 20 patients whose primary tumors were smaller than 1 cm. The incidence of recurrence was directly correlated to the increasing size of the tumor, but it also appeared to decrease with advancing age. In 31 patients over 70 years of age, only one (3%) recurrence was observed. If these early findings are confirmed, it is likely that patients with tumors smaller than 1 cm or patients over 70 years of age may be spared breast irradiation after wide excision. 
Oncocytic renal tubular adenoma (so-called oncocytoma) in seventeen-year-old girl. Renal tubular neoplasms (adenomas or adenocarcinomas) are rare in children or young adults. Herein, we report an oncocytic renal tubular adenoma (so-called oncocytoma) that was found in a seventeen-year-old girl. Preoperative evaluation included aspiration of this tumor, and we suggest that preoperative aspiration is an important procedure in the diagnosis and management of suspected renal tumors in children and young adults. 
Ocular adnexal Kaposi's sarcoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We examined histopathologically 18 ocular adnexal Kaposi's sarcoma lesions related to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. These lesions were classified into three types. Type I consisted of thin, dilated vascular channels lined by flat endothelial cells with lumen-containing erythrocytes. Type II featured plump, fusiform, endothelial cells, often with a hyperchromatic nucleus and foci of immature spindle cells and occasional slit vessels. Type III was characterized by large aggregates of densely packed spindle cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, occasional mitotic figures, and abundant slit spaces often containing erythrocytes in between. Clinically, type I and type II tumors were patchy and flat (less than 3 mm in height) and of less than four months' duration. Type III tumors were nodular and elevated (greater than 3 mm in height). We describe the clinical and histopathologic types of Kaposi's sarcoma that may help in diagnosis. 
Fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis and management of fibroadenoma of the breast. Cytological and histological biopsies were obtained on 75 breast lumps clinically diagnosed as fibroadenomas. Of these, 95 per cent of lesions were benign. In 51 (68 per cent) confirmed as fibroadenomas histologically, cytology was benign in 78 per cent, but inadequate for diagnosis in 16 per cent. The remaining 24 lesions included three breast cancers and one lymph node with Hodgkin's disease. In this group cytology was inadequate for diagnosis in 54 per cent, including one breast cancer. No lesion with benign cytology was subsequently shown to be malignant. The study supports the view that clinical diagnosis and cytology are accurate in the diagnosis of benign breast disease of this type. Breast cancer may rarely present with the clinical features of a fibroadenoma and too few lesions have been studied to assess fully the performance of cytological biopsy in detecting these small mobile lesions. A non-excisional policy should therefore include prolonged follow-up and repeat biopsy. 
Pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma with pseudosarcomatous mural nodules. A report of a case with immunohistochemical study. A case of pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma (PMC) with two pseudosarcomatous mural nodules (PMN) is described. These nodules have not been previously described in this type of tumor. In ovarian mucinous tumors (OMT), similar nodules have been reported, the nature of which has been discussed in detail. Here the similarity between the tumor described here and ovarian tumors is stressed. The immunohistochemical study carried out disclosed in the nodules strong positive staining for vimentin and moderate positivity for keratin and epithelial membrane antigen. These findings, along with histologic details, favor the epithelial nature of the nodules. It was concluded that the nodules are foci of anaplastic carcinoma with high proliferative cell rate, which could explain the coexpression of vimentin and keratin. 
Genetic construction and characterization of a fusion protein consisting of a chimeric F(ab') with specificity for carcinomas and human IL-2. A genetic construct was created incorporating gene fragments encoding the H chain V region of the human carcinoma specific antibody L6, the CH1 domain of human IgG1, a linker region, and human IL-2. This construct was cotransfected with a chimeric L6 L chain construct into the murine myeloma cell line Ag8.653 for expression. First round clones produced the fusion protein at an estimated 5 to 10 micrograms/ml based on idiotypic reactivity. Dual binding activity was demonstrated through specific interaction with the L6 Ag on human tumor cells and the IL-2R on activated human T cells. The IL-2 portion of the molecule was shown to support the growth of the IL-2-dependent T cell line CTLL2, and the qualitative nature of the IL-2 signal was found to be the same as rIL-2 with respect to induction of tyrosine-phosphorylation of intracellular protein substrates. Tumor cells coated with the fusion protein were shown to cause T cell proliferation and the presence of the fusion protein was found to enhance cell-mediated destruction of human tumor cells. 
Synergistic effects of nerve growth factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor on human basophilic cell differentiation. We have recently shown that nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes human granulopoiesis, specifically augmenting basophilic cell differentiation observed in methylcellulose hematopoietic colony assays of human peripheral blood. Because the NGF effect was seen in the presence of conditioned medium derived from a human T-cell line (Mo-CM) containing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), we examined interactions of purified NGF and recombinant human GM-CSF (rhGM-CSF) on granulocyte growth and differentiation. rhGM-CSF stimulated a dose-dependent increase in methylcellulose colony growth at concentrations between 0.1 U/mL and 10 U/mL, and in the presence of NGF at 500 ng/mL this effect was enhanced. The number of basophilic cell colony-forming units (CFU-Baso) and histamine-positive colonies increased synergistically when NGF was added to rhGM-CSF. Furthermore, because Mo-CM acts with sodium butyrate to promote basophilic differentiation of alkaline-passaged myeloid leukemia cells, HL-60, we also examined the interaction of NGF and Mo-CM or rhGM-CSF using this assay. In the presence of NGF, Mo-CM at concentrations of 0.5% to 20% vol/vol, and rhGM-CSF at concentrations of 0.1 U/mL to 100 U/mL synergistically increased histamine production by butyrate-induced, alkaline-passaged HL-60 cells; this was associated with the appearance of metachromatic, tryptase-negative, IgE receptor-positive cells. The effects of rhGM-CSF or Mo-CM were completely abrogated by a specific anti-rhGM-CSF neutralizing antibody in methylcellulose, with or without NGF; the NGF synergy with rhGM-CSF in the HL-60 assay was also inhibited by either anti-rhGM-CSF or anti-NGF antibody. These studies support the notion that differentiation in the basophilic lineage may be enhanced by NGF acting to increase the number of GM-CSF-responsive basophilic cell progenitors. 
Circulating C1q-binding macromolecules and their relationship to radiographic characteristics of laryngeal cancer. Circulating macromolecules capable of binding the first component of complement (C1qBM) may represent subcellular components of tissue/tumor debris generated from rapidly proliferating invasive disease. Thirty-eight patients were randomly selected from 74 untreated patients with laryngeal cancer on the basis of disease stage and C1qBM levels. C1qBM levels were correlated with computed tomographic evidence of tumor necrosis and/or thyroid cartilage destruction. Results show that patients with stage III/IV disease with tissue necrosis and/or cartilage invasion had demonstrably higher C1qBM levels than did individuals with similarly staged disease with no evidence of these radiographically defined characteristics (120 +/- 81 micrograms/mL vs 18 +/- 15 micrograms/mL); the strongest association was reflected by the area of necrosis within regional lymph metastases. Elevated C1qBM level in patients with stage III/IV laryngeal cancer thus reflects highly aggressive disease, which is less responsive to therapeutic intervention. 
Prostatic duct adenocarcinoma. Findings at radical prostatectomy. Previous studies of prostatic duct adenocarcinoma have reported a poor prognosis, but they included few patients treated by radical prostatectomy. The authors studied 15 cases treated with radical prostatectomy to define more completely their pathologic features and determine the clinical outcome in these surgically treated patients. The study included morphometry and DNA image analysis using the CAS-200 system. The most common presentation was urinary outlet obstruction (n = 9), and most patients were clinical Stage B with palpable prostatic lesions (n = 12). Compared with acinar cancers of similar clinical stage, duct cancers were large (tumor volume, 8.4 +/- 10.0 cc) and occupied a large portion of the gland (23 +/- 21%). Duct cancers were in an advanced final pathologic stage with 93% having capsular penetration, 47% positive margins, 40% seminal vesicle invasion, and 27% positive pelvic lymph nodes. The DNA analysis on cells disaggregated from paraffin revealed that 54% of cases were diploid, 15% tetraploid, 8% aneuploid, and 23% tetraploid/aneuploid. On clinical follow-up, eight patients had no evidence of tumor at intervals ranging from 1 to 28 months, and seven patients (47%) had persistent tumor at intervals of 3 to 18 months. This study demonstrates that duct cancers are in an advanced pathologic stage by the time of presentation and have a much higher short-term failure rate after radical prostatectomy compared with acinar cancers. 
Needs and recommendations for behavior research in the prevention and early detection of cancer. Because life-style patterns affect many cancer risks, research on health-risk behavior and behavior change is critical to cancer prevention. This report recommends priorities for the next decade of psychosocial research on cancer prevention and detection. The leading priority for future research is to fill gaps in basic knowledge left by the rush to intervention and outcome studies. Such research must be theoretically driven and should aim to develop broad principles applicable to diverse health behaviors. Studies that include relevant process data on various stages of behavior change are considered more desirable than simple outcome studies. Epidemiologic investigations should be expanded to include measures of relevant behaviors, so that their impact on clinical outcomes might be established. More research is needed on lay perception of health risks and on individual and health-system barriers to effective cancer prevention and detection. Studies that address the needs of minority and underprivileged populations are crucial. Funding agencies' narrow categorical mandates impede interdisciplinary research on multiple risk factors and their interactions; these boundaries must be relaxed to promote such approaches. Funding agencies should also consider basic research as a long-term investment towards the development of effective interventions. 
Reliability of colposcopy and directed punch biopsy A group of 118 women underwent laser cone biopsy. Data were collected routinely on proforma case notes and entered into a computerized database. The histology of the cone biopsies was compared with that of previous, colposcopically directed punch biopsies, with the cytology of smears taken in the clinic and with the colposcopic diagnosis. The punch biopsy had a 54% false negative rate and neither of the two microinvasive carcinomas biopsied in this way were detected by the biopsy. Ten of 24 women with negative punch biopsies had CIN III in the cone. When the punch biopsy showed CIN II or worse, the cone biopsy confirmed the presence of CIN in 86%. There was some evidence of false negative cone biopsies. The data suggest that management should not be based solely upon the punch biopsy result but should include consideration of the cytology and colposcopy findings. Excisional methods of treatment are more likely to reveal early invasion and adenocarcinoma-in-situ. 
Lack of neural control and reactivity to vasoactive agents in malignant glioma arteries. Vessels in malignant brain tumors have a defective blood-brain barrier. It is important to know if tumor vessels respond to vasoactive agents, since systemic administration of vasodilatory agents together with chemotherapy could increase the access of these drugs to the tumor. It was found that arteries in human malignant gliomas have no neural control and are totally nonreactive to various vasoactive agents. The vessels lose their reactivity within 1 to 2 mm outside the visible tumor front. 
P-31 spectroscopy study of response of superficial human tumors to therapy. Studies were performed to characterize phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance (MR) spectra obtained from 10 superficial human tumors outside the brain and to determine whether P-31 MR spectroscopy could allow detection of a response to therapy before a change in tumor size was measured. The ratio of phosphomonoester to adenosine triphosphate peak intensities (PME/ATP) was unusually large in all tumors studied. The average PME/ATP in lymphomas (1.8 +/- 0.5) was greater than in nonlymphoma cancers (1.1 +/- 0.15). The average PME/ATP for all tumors studied (1.4 +/- 0.5) was much greater than that of underlying skeletal muscle (0.23 +/- .09). Eight of the tumors were studied before and after therapy. Responders were distinguished from nonresponders on the basis of changes in tumor size. PME/ATP decreased during therapy in three lymphomas that responded to therapy. In an adenocarcinoma and Ewing sarcoma that did not respond to therapy, PME/ATP increased. PME/ATP remained constant in two squamous cell carcinomas that responded to therapy and decreased in one squamous cell carcinoma that decreased in size by 40% but was classified as a nonresponder. Changes in PME/ATP did not always parallel changes in tumor size during therapy. In two patients, a decrease in PME/ATP preceded a decrease in tumor size. In four patients, PME/ATP increased transiently during periods when tumor size remained constant. 
Clinical and prognostic assessment of patients with resected small peripheral lung cancer lesions. One hundred fifteen patients with small (less than or equal to 2 cm in diameter) peripheral lung cancer lesions underwent surgical treatment in the Department of Surgery, The Research Institute for Chest Diseases and Cancer, Tohoku University, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. The authors investigated several prognostic factors of these cases. The 5-year survival rate of these 115 patients was 70%. Various factors such as histologic type, nodal involvement, pleural involvement, pathologic stage, and curativity of the operation were revealed to affect survival significantly. In patients with and without nodal involvement, there was no significant difference between the survival rate of patients with lung cancer lesions smaller than 2 cm and those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm. However, the rate of lymph node metastasis was significantly different in the group with lesions smaller than 2 cm compared with those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm (21% versus 43%, respectively). 
The distribution of residual cancer in radical prostatectomy specimens in stage A prostate cancer. To assess the volume and distribution of residual cancer after transurethral resection of the prostate in stage A cancer patients 42 step-sectioned radical prostatectomy specimens were examined, and the volume, location, grade and extracapsular extension of the residual tumor were recorded. A total of 13 patients had stage A1 tumors (5% or less tumor in the transurethral resection specimen and a Gleason sum of 7 or less) and 29 had stage A2 disease. Residual cancer was present in the radical prostatectomy specimen in 41 patients (98%) with a mean volume of 1.28 cc. The location of residual cancer, that is multifocal (76%), peripheral (81%) and distal to the verumontanum (66%), makes complete removal or even identification of residual tumor (restaging) by repeat transurethral resection improbable. Of the stage A1 cancer patients 4 (30%) had more than 1 cc residual tumor volume, extracapsular extension or seminal vesicle invasion. On the other hand, 14 of the stage A2 cancer patients (48%) had less than 1 cc residual tumor completely confined to the gland. Foci of residual cancer were found in the transition zone in 67% and in the peripheral zone in 90% of the patients. The grade of the residual peripheral zone cancer was significantly higher than that of the transition zone cancer in the same gland (p = 0.0004). Eight of 13 instances of extracapsular extension and all 5 of seminal vesicle invasion were directly attributable to peripheral zone cancer. These observations imply that the greatest threat to patients with stage A prostate cancer may be a separate, associated cancer in the peripheral zone rather than the primary transition zone cancer incidentally removed at transurethral resection. 
Extramammary Paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium. We report the first case, to our knowledge, of extramammary Paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium. The tumor displayed Paget's cells scattered within the bronchial epithelium in most of the lesion, but infiltrating into the bronchial submucosa and pulmonary parenchyma with microglandular and papillary patterns in some area. In addition to the histologic findings of coexistence with adenocarcinomatous components, in situ involvement into bronchial glands and ducts by Paget's cells was observed, suggesting that extramammary Paget's disease of the bronchial epithelium may be a variant of pulmonary adenocarcinoma, which is associated with bronchial glands. 
Endoscopic laser surgery for early glottic carcinoma: a clinical and experimental study. The purpose of this study is to define the indications for using the CO2 laser for the treatment of early glottic cancer. For this purpose, 52 consecutive laser resections of Tis to T2 vocal cord carcinomas were studied prospectively. In addition, laser resection was performed in eight human cadaver larynges, which were then examined histologically using whole organ sections. Both tumor size and tumor location had important influences on tumor resectability by laser. All of the Tis, 78% of T1, and one of four T2 carcinomas were successfully treated by laser surgery alone. Of the 10 carcinomas involving the anterior commissure, only four could completely be resected with the laser; of these four, two recurred in the anterior commissure. This finding is corroborated by the histologic study, which clearly shows that anterior commissure resection poses problems. The only laser resection complication of early glottic cancer was persistent hoarseness in one third of the patients. It is concluded that CO2 laser resection is a safe and effective alternative treatment for patients with Tis and T1 glottic carcinoma, provided the anterior commissure is free of tumor. 
Human interleukin-3 mRNA accumulation is controlled at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. Interleukin-3 (IL-3) is a hematopoietic growth factor that regulates the differentiation of multilineage and committed progenitor cells and the functions of some mature blood cells. The expression of human IL-3 appears to be restricted to stimulated T lymphocytes. We have investigated the kinetics and mechanisms involved in the induction of IL-3 expression in the human T lymphocytic tumor cell line Jurkat. We show that accumulation of IL-3 mRNA is controlled at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level. Transcription of the IL-3 gene in these cells appears to be constitutive but no IL-3 mRNA was detected in unstimulated cells, indicating that in resting cells IL-3 mRNA is highly unstable. Treatment with phytohemagglutinin (PHA) induced a small and transient increase in the IL-3 gene transcription rate and led to the production of detectable levels of IL-3 mRNA and protein. Optimal induction of IL-3 expression required a second stimulus. Costimulation of Jurkat cells with both phorbol myristate acetate and PHA caused both a transient increase in IL-3 gene transcription, which is dependent on new protein synthesis, and also a transient increase in mRNA stability. 
Recurrence of resected esophagogastric adenocarcinoma: results of re-resection. Isolated local recurrence following potentially curative resection for carcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction does not necessarily imply pending systemic disease and early demise. While radiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy is standard treatment for such patients, resection is another available option. Resection may also be a consideration should localized disease persist after non-operative therapy in the absence of metastases. A 5 year retrospective review was performed examining 204 resections performed prior to 1989. Only 5 patients underwent resection of locally recurrent esophagogastric (EG) adenocarcinoma during this period. No squamous carcinoma recurrences were resected. One patient is well 15 months later while another died at 18 months of other causes without recurrence. Recurrence after re-resection occurred at 8, 11, and 24 months in the 3 other patients. Although there were no postoperative deaths, major complications occurred in 4 patients. All 5 patients swallowed normally after operation. 
Prognostic implication of ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Ecto-5'-nucleotidase (5'-N) activity was determined in 191 patients (71 children and 120 adults) with acute leukemia. Elevated values for 5'-N were registered in common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but blast cells of T-cell ALL (T-ALL) and common ALL antigen-negative non-T-ALL had low enzyme activity comparable with the values of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia. Dependence of remission duration on 5'-N activity was analyzed in 74 adults with ALL, treated similarly in a prospective multicenter trial. The remission curves for ALL patients with 5'-N activity lower than 10 nmol/h x 10(6) cells were substantially and significantly better than those of patients with high activity (greater than 10 nmol/h x 10(6) cells). This difference was also evident in the immunologic subclass common ALL. Statistical evaluation showed that an interaction between immunologic subtype of the blast cells and their 5'-N activity had prognostic significance for remission duration. In addition to the independent factor, initial age, this interaction was also prognostic for survival. 
Proliferative mass found in the gingiva. The clinical course of peripheral ossifying fibroma is slow and the growth of most lesions is limited in size, usually up to 1.5 cm. Complaints are rare unless the surface becomes ulcerated, or the lesion compromises oral function or esthetic appearance. Treatment is surgical excision with close postoperative follow-up. Tooth extraction is seldom necessary. Proper surgical intervention, which includes excision of reactive tissue down to periosteum, affords a low recurrence rate of 14% to 16%. 
Lymphocele: the spectrum of scintigraphic findings in lymphoceles associated with renal transplant. Lymphocele is a well recognized complication of renal transplant surgery. We performed a retrospective review of 305 renal transplant patients with over 2,500 scintigraphic exams to describe the pattern of activity on technetium-99m-DTPA blood flow and dynamic imaging, and iodine-131-OIH studies. Diagnostic criteria for a lymphocele were ultrasonic evidence of a perirenal fluid collection and analysis of that fluid that demonstrated BUN, creatinine, and electrolytes similar to the patient's plasma. Scintigraphic findings were attributed to a lymphocele if abnormalities were in the same area as the ultrasound fluid collection. Scintigraphic findings attributable to lymphocele resolved in all patients following surgical drainage or peritoneal window placement. Six of the 11 documented lymphoceles demonstrated a cold defect on initial dynamic images that "filled in" to equal background activity and another exceeded background. Three cases showed a rim of increased activity surrounding the lymphocele ("rim sign"). 
Salivary flow rates in patients with head and neck cancer 0.5 to 25 years after radiotherapy. In this clinical study at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, unstimulated and stimulated salivary flow rates were obtained from 47 patients with head and neck cancer who had received mantle, unilateral facial, or bilateral facial field radiotherapy from 0.5 to 25 years earlier. The magnitude of salivary flow rate reduction compared with a healthy control group was primarily related to the radiation dosage and the amount of salivary gland tissue included in the irradiated fields. Flow rates were lower for women in all groups, but these differences were not statistically significant. 
The role of cellular maturation in neutrophil heterogeneity. Previous studies have shown that many neutrophil (PMN) characteristics are heterogeneous but the origin of PMN heterogeneity is unknown. It is unclear if PMN functional heterogeneity is secondary to maturational differences or due to distinct subpopulations of cells that possess different functional capacities. The PMN 31D8 antigen is a useful probe for evaluation of PMN subpopulations. The majority of PMNs (approximately 85%) exhibit a high intensity fluorescence after 31D8 monoclonal antibody (MoAb) labeling (31D8 enriched or "bright" PMNs) as determined by flow cytometric analysis. These cells are more functional than cells with low intensity fluorescence (31D8 diminished or "dull" PMNs). Various immunologic, clonogenic and functional techniques were used to study the expression of the 31D8 antigen in HL-60 cells and myeloid cells in order to evaluate antigenic and functional heterogeneity during morphologic maturation. The results of this study indicate that the percentage of 31D8 antigen positive (31D8 antigen enriched and diminished) bone marrow cells increases from 20 +/- 11% in myeloblast cells to 68 +/- 10% in promyelocytes, 93 +/- 2% in myelocytes and 99 +/- 1% in bands and PMNs. 31D8 antigen enriched cells first appear at the myelocyte stage (32 +/- 10%) and increase in bands (52 +/- 13%), marrow PMNs (62 +/- 13%) and peripheral blood PMNs (88 +/- 4%). These data indicate that the heterogeneous expression of 31D8 antigen in PMNs is due, at least in part, to maturational differences within the PMN population and raise the possibility that other heterogeneously expressed PMN characteristics are also maturationally derived. They also suggest that 31D8 antigenic expression may be a more precise indicator of myeloid functional maturation than maturation as identified by cellular morphology. 
Systemic toxic effects associated with high-dose verapamil infusion and chemotherapy administration. Aside from its more conventional uses as a cardiovascular drug, the calcium channel blocker verapamil has recently been added to chemotherapeutic regimens to reduce drug resistance in B-cell and other neoplasms that express the P-glycoprotein. We recently treated patients with continuous-infusion verapamil (0.15 mg/kg per hour to 0.60 mg/kg per hour) over a 5-day period in combination with continuous-infusion vincristine and doxorubicin plus oral dexamethasone. Seventy-one courses involving 35 hospitalized patients were prospectively studied for cardiovascular and other side effects. Cardiovascular side effects were observed most frequently and consisted of first-degree heart block, hypotension, sinus bradycardia, and junctional rhythms. We observed higher degree heart block, but the QRS interval remained narrow and the ventricular escape rate remained relatively normal. Effects on mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and PR interval were both time and dose related. Severe, symptomatic congestive heart failure was rarely observed. The most common noncardiovascular side effects were constipation, peripheral edema, and weight gain. All systemic toxic effects observed were easily treated or disappeared with either temporary or permanent discontinuation of the verapamil infusion or by a decrease in the dose of verapamil. We conclude that the cardiovascular side effects associated with continuous, high-dose intravenous verapamil therapy are significant and dose limiting but are rapidly reversible. Less cardiotoxic chemosensitizers are needed to reverse multidrug resistance in cancer. 
Teniposide (VM-26) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside for initial induction failure in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A Pediatric Oncology Group pilot study. Twenty-six evaluable children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who failed to achieve initial remission after receiving two to seven drugs for at least a 4-week period were given teniposide (VM-26) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). Twenty-two received 150 mg/m2 of VM-26 on days 1 and 2 with 100 mg/2 of Ara-C as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 5; a second shortened course was given on day 14 to eight patients who had evidence of some antileukemic effect or were clinically judged able to tolerate a second course. The last four patients received three daily doses of VM-26 and a 7-day infusion of Ara-C at the same daily dosages. Twelve (48%) achieved complete remission (CR) of ALL. There was a trend toward decreasing response rates with an increasing number of drugs used in the initial induction regimen, i.e., five CR among seven patients with a prior two-drug induction attempt, six CR among 14 patients with a prior three- to four-drug induction attempt, and one CR among four patients with a prior five- to seven-drug induction attempt (P = 0.14). Ten of 17 non-T-cell patients and two of nine T-cell patients achieved remission (P = 0.10). The median time required to achieve a complete remission from the initiation of treatment was 26 days (range, 14-72 days). This period was shorter in those who required one course compared with those who required two induction courses, i.e., 25 days median vs. 44 days median. Toxicity was significant and due mainly to marrow aplasia and infection; one patient had severe prolonged VM-26-induced hypotension. Of the 12 patients entering remission, two were removed for marrow transplant and one was removed due to parental request. In the remaining nine patients, median remission duration was only 2 months (range, 1-18 months). All nine patients relapsed in the marrow. Among the entire group of 26 patients, only one patient is alive and a long-term event-free survivor (after allogeneic marrow transplant). Due to the current use of more aggressive initial induction regimens and the extremely poor prognosis in children who fail to achieve initial remission, more intensive regimens of continuation therapy or alternative therapies, such as bone marrow transplant, should be considered. 
Surgical management of pulmonary metastatic leiomyosarcoma with gross endobronchial extension. Metastatic leiomyosarcoma occasionally is seen with gross endobronchial extension without invasion of the bronchial wall. These patients have major airway obstruction and partial or total atelectasis of the lung. Precise bronchoscopic assessment coupled with intraoperative bronchotomy allows the surgeon to determine the origin of the tumor and to save uninvolved pulmonary parenchyma. Our experience with 4 such patients illustrates the possibility of saving lung tissue despite total bronchial obstruction. 
Genital human papillomavirus infection Human papillomavirus is one of the most common causes of sexually transmitted diseases. In the past ten years, 60 different types of papillomavirus have been identified. Although the virus often causes asymptomatic genital infection, it has been strongly associated with lower genital tract carcinoma; therefore, its detection and eradication are important. All patients with evidence of human papillomavirus infection should undergo colposcopy and, depending on the extent of infection and the type of histology, should receive definitive treatment. 
Comparative in situ hybridisation study of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis in Papua New Guinea and Australia. A comparative study of cases of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis from Papua New Guinea (n = 3) and Brisbane, Australia (n = 9) was carried out. In situ hybridisation reactions for human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6 and 11 occurred in 11 cases. All three cases from Papua New Guinea and eight from Australia gave positive signals. A negative reaction was observed in one Australian case. The intensity of the reaction was strong in seven cases, moderate in one, and weak in three. An equivocal reaction was also noted with probes for types 16 and 18, and types 31, 33, and 35 in two cases from Australia and one from Papua New Guinea. It is concluded that as similar staining patterns and intensities occurred in cases from both areas, the aetiology is the same. The equivocal reactions noted in three cases were probably due to cross hybridisation rather than multiple infection. 
Low metastatic potential of clone from murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 increased by transfection of activated c-erbB-2 gene. We investigated the effect of an activated c-erbB-2 gene (also known as ERBB2) on metastatic potential. The c-erbB-2 gene was activated by mutation of the valine at position 659 within the transmembrane domain to glutamic acid. The activated c-erbB-2 expression vector was transfected into low-metastatic-potential NL-4 cells, which were established from a metastatic variant of murine colon adenocarcinoma 26. All 10 clones produced lung metastases in BALB/c mice injected via the tail vein. Eight of the 10 clones expressed messenger RNA (mRNA) of activated c-erbB-2 and showed morphological alteration; seven of the eight produced significantly enhanced experimental metastatic activity compared with that of untransfected NL-4 or NL-4neo cells, and one had metastatic ability similar to that of NL-4 cells. Two clones did not express c-erbB-2 mRNA and did not show morphological alteration or highly metastatic phenotype. Five of the 10 clones subcutaneously implanted in the flank failed to produce metastasis in the lungs or other organs of the mice. The metastatic ability of the other five clones was not determined. These results indicate that the activated c-erbB-2 gene can enhance experimental but not spontaneous metastatic potential in NL-4 cells, suggesting participation of the gene in the metastatic process after initial arrest and lodgement in the capillary bed. 
Chronic oral etoposide. Etoposide is an important drug that has been recently incorporated with other agents in the curative treatment of patients with advanced neoplasms, including germ cell tumors, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL), and small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Etoposide demonstrates remarkable schedule dependency. A randomized comparison has shown an impressive survival difference for patients with extensive SCLC receiving a 5-day course versus those receiving a 1-day course. Because of these and previous clinical and laboratory data, etoposide is now given intravenously or orally in a 3-day to 5-day schedule. It is generally accepted that approximately 50% of the orally administered drug is absorbed. The authors have initiated several etoposide studies using an extended administration schedule, believing that a prolonged schedule may be superior to the standard 3-day to 5-day schedule. This was initially tested in a Phase I study. Results showed that etoposide (50 mg/m2/d) given over 21 days was feasible and was associated with only moderate toxicity. Several Phase II studies have been completed or are nearing completion, including studies in patients with SCLC, NHL, germ cell tumors, soft tissue sarcoma, renal carcinoma, and ovarian carcinoma. Responses have been seen in all of these groups, particularly in patients with SCLC, lymphoma, and germ cell tumors. In these groups we saw responses in patients who were clearly resistant to etoposide plus cisplatin given in a standard schedule or in some patients who were resistant to high-dose etoposide with bone marrow transplantation. Investigators at Indiana University Medical Center who studied oral etoposide in a similar fashion in patients with advanced germ cell tumors and SCLC achieved results similar to those reported here. The authors have initiated a number of combination chemotherapy programs using the chronic oral form of etoposide. These include patients with SCLC, non-small cell lung cancer, and elderly patients with high-grade and intermediate forms of NHL. In addition, chronic intravenous oral etoposide is being used in salvage approaches for patients with acute myelocytic leukemia and recurrent resistant intermediate-grade and high-grade NHL. Preliminary pharmacokinetic data suggest that a 50-mg/m2 oral dose is highly bioavailable (91% to 96%). Therefore, during a prolonged oral course at 50 mg/m2, many patients maintain a minimum plasma concentration of 1 microgram/ml. Further studies of multiple dose or continuous infusion etoposide to maintain a potentially critical plasma level are in progress. Etoposide administered in this way could represent a "new" drug because many of its features are different, and its activity spectrum may be broader. 
Progress and challenges in psychosocial and behavioral research in cancer in the twentieth century. Research in the psychosocial and behavioral aspects of cancer has shown steady growth since the 1950s, and its course of development has paralleled the history of medical techniques in treating cancer. Table 1 outlines this parallel evolution from the 1850s to the 1960s. The roles of the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in spearheading and nurturing research in this area are documented. Interest in psychooncologic questions can be traced back for centuries to the search for etiologic factors and psychologic variables that would explain individual vulnerability to cancer. The first psychologic studies of cancer patients were reported in 1951 and 1952 from the Massachusetts General Hospital and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, respectively. The 1970s saw new interest in psychosocial and behavioral research with many issues being addressed for the first time: better care of the terminally ill through more humanistic approaches including better means of pain control; ethical concerns related to patient rights and their status as subjects in experimental protocols; trying to measure quality of life for cancer patients on protocols; seeing the need for multidisciplinary collaborative groups to make up for the absence of formal training in this area; and the need to design valid, accurate measuring scales specific to the symptomology of patients with cancer. Table 4 outlines how the 1980s gave increasing recognition and support to the psychosocial dimensions of cancer. This period produced a series of key conferences that examined a broad research and education perspective and produced recommendations that remain a benchmark in regard to instrumentation, conceptual models, pitfalls of psychosocial research, training, and education, and the organization of research efforts. New precision has been added to the field in the past 6 years: studies measuring concurrent psychologic, endocrine, and immune function; use of statistical modeling to incorporate quality of life data as a correction factor in survival data (TWiST and QALY); and broadened definitions of medical outcome to include functional status, thus allowing advances in psychiatric measurements to help answer questions in cancer. The challenges for the 1990s are identified in a summary in Table 9. Especially noteworthy is the observation that the comprehensive research needed today cannot be carried out by any one discipline alone. New approaches call for areas of the social sciences formerly inactive in cancer research (e.g., anthropology) to contribute the tools and expertise required to address the problems. 
High-dose etoposide and marrow transplantation. Etoposide underwent conventional Phase I testing in the 1970s. The dose-limiting toxicity in these studies was mild myelosuppression; other toxicities were infrequent. If a greater degree of myelosuppression is accepted, higher than standard doses could be given. This approach takes advantage of the steep dose-response relationship for most chemotherapeutic agents, including etoposide, as shown in early in vitro and clinical studies. Thus, etoposide was considered an ideal agent for further dose-escalation studies, given its wide range of clinical antitumor activity at standard doses, steep dose-response curve, mild bone marrow suppression, and few nonmyeloid side effects. The high-dose etoposide studies that followed used improved and more intensive hematologic supportive care, including, in some trials, autologous marrow transplantation. When etoposide was used as a single agent in these high-dose trials, mucositis, and, to a lesser degree, hepatic dysfunction were dose-limiting. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in this setting was 2.4 to 3.0 g/m2. Multi-agent Phase I trials with etoposide and cyclophosphamide, total body irradiation, carmustine, or carboplatin also resulted in dose-limiting mucosal toxicity, with liver and lung problems appearing more often than with high-dose etoposide alone. The toxicity and MTD can be influenced markedly by the schedule of administration. Etoposide as a continuous intravenous infusion can be given at doses of 4.2 g/m2 (with 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide) with similar toxicity, but without marrow support. The antitumor results in the lymphomas set the stage for treatment of solid tumors, where treatment of patients with "sensitive" relapses had the best outcome. Lymphoma patients had an 80% response rate; overall, long-term (greater than 2 years) disease-free survival was approximately 40%. Germ cell tumors were also responsive, and the same pattern of sensitive relapses and improvement in responding patients was seen (50% to 75% of patients greater than 1 year). In breast cancer and small cell lung cancer (SCLC), high-dose etoposide-containing regimens were used to intensify standard therapy. The results in these settings were not quite as good (breast cancer, 30% disease-free survival at 2 years; SCLC, 10% at 2 years). 
Multimodality preoperative treatment for advanced stage IV (MO) cancer of the head and neck. Sixty-three patients with advanced unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with a combination of chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery. We observed a 75% response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The 5-year survival rate for all 63 patients was 20%, and only 3 patients were alive at 8 years. The 5-year survival rate for patients who completed the treatment plan and received chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery was 43% compared with 20% for those who had chemotherapy and radiation but refused surgery. Development of a second primary cancer was the cause of death in 62% of the patients who survived more than 24 months. 
Tissue-specific transformation by epidermal growth factor receptor: a single point mutation within the ATP-binding pocket of the erbB product increases its intrinsic kinase activity and activates its sarcomagenic potential. Avian c-erbB is activated to a leukemia oncogene following truncation of its amino-terminal, ligand-binding domain by retroviral insertion. The insertionally activated transcripts encode protein products that have constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and that can induce erythro-leukemia but not sarcomas. We have found that a single point mutation within the ATP-binding pocket of the tyrosine kinase domain in this truncated molecule can increase the ability of this oncogene to induce anchorage-independent growth of fibroblasts in vitro and fibrosarcoma formation in vivo. Associated with this increased transforming potential is a corresponding increase in the kinase activity of the mutant erbB protein product. The mutation, which converts a valine to isoleucine at position 157 of the insertionally activated c-erbB product, is at a residue that is highly conserved within the protein kinase family. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a point mutation in the ATP-binding pocket that activates a tyrosine kinase. 
Vulvar Paget's disease. Is immunocytochemistry helpful in assessing the surgical margins? From January 1977 to December 1988, 19 patients with biopsy-proven Paget's disease of the vulva underwent simple or radical vulvectomy at the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center. All vulvectomy specimens were evaluated immunocytochemically for the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and low-molecular-weight keratins 8 and 18 (LMK), both in areas containing neoplastic cells and in histologically negative surgical margins. Neoplastic Paget's cells stained positively for CEA in all cases; they were positive for EMA and LMK in 18 and 17 cases, respectively. In all eight cases with underlying in situ or invasive carcinomas, CEA, EMA and LMK were localized in the underlying tumors as well. None of the histologically proven negative margins reacted for CEA, EMA or LMK on immunocytochemistry. CEA appears to be a valuable immunocytochemical marker for extramammary Paget's disease; EMA and LMK are also expressed by the majority of such cases. None of these markers, however, is of added value in identifying Paget's cells in surgical margins if those margins appear negative on routine hematoxylin-and-eosin staining. 
Rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body. Rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common malignant orbital tumor of childhood. It has twice been reported to arise within the globe from the iris. In addition, teratoid medulloepithelioma, a tumor arising from the ciliary epithelium, can contain a rhabdomyoblastic component, often in combination with other heteroplastic elements. The authors report what may be the first recorded case of an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body, possibly representing a one-sided differentiation of a malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma. 
Access to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. The American Cancer Society Hearings on Cancer and the Poor made visible to the nation the harsh realities and consequences of lack of access to health care among the poor and uninsured in America. Access to care is more than mere availability; it is also financial accessibility, effectiveness, acceptability, appropriateness, and comprehensiveness of care. The problems and consequences of lack of health care access and its impact on the cancer problem among poor Americans are explored, and ways practitioners and public advocates can improve access are suggested. Local communities have risen to action to make health care more accessible. Successful programs have done their research to document access problems; then they have taken their findings to county governments to request additional funding and to health care institutions to request institutional policy and service changes to make health care more available and accessible. 
Changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice. Forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied. Thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis, and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. Twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included. In hepatitis patients, the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC) and the high density lipoprotein (HDL)-phospholipid/phospholipid (HDLPL/PL) ratio were reduced, and HDL-cholesterol (HDLC), HDL-phospholipid (HDLPL) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol (PL/TC) ratio were normal, while total phospholipid (PL) levels and the HDLC/TC ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values. In patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol, phospholipid and HDLC levels were elevated, and HDLPL/PL, HDLPL, HDLC/TC and PL/TC remained normal compared to the control values. A comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma TC, PL and HDLC levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients. The mean plasma levels of HDLPL, HDLC/TC and PL/TC did not show any significant variation within the patient groups. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) correlated positively with TC, and total protein correlated negatively with TC and HDLPL, while albumin correlated negatively with TC, HDLC and HDLPL in cholestatic jaundice. Alanine amino-transferase (ALAT) also correlated positively with PL in cholestatic jaundice, while albumin correlated positively with TC in hepatitis. The results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis. 
Peritoneal mesothelioma: an unusual cause of esophageal achalasia. Secondary esophageal achalasia due to malignancy is a rare condition; only 53 such cases have been reported to date. Sixty-two percent of the cases were due to gastric adenocarcinoma. Mesothelioma of the peritoneum is an uncommon neoplasm. The usual presenting symptoms are abdominal pain, abdominal mass, or abdominal distention. The patient we are reporting had peritoneal mesothelioma which presented with dysphagia and weight loss, in addition to the radiological and manometric picture of achalasia. Secondary achalasia was suspected clinically, and was confirmed by computed tomography and laparotomy. The diagnosis of peritoneal mesothelioma was made only by histopathological examination. We are not aware of any other report documenting the association of peritoneal mesothelioma and achalasia. 
Early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy. It has previously only been described as a late phenomenon. We report an early presentation within the first week. The pathophysiology, clinical features and treatment are discussed. 
Orofacial metastasis of pulmonary giant cell carcinoma. A patient was admitted to the hospital with multiple skin nodules of recent origin and signs and symptoms suggestive of acute pulmonary infection. Because one of the skin masses was located overlying the left mandibular body region, the patient was referred to the hospital dentistry clinic for evaluation. Historical, clinical, and radiographic assessments were consistent with reactive lymphadenopathy, and an intraoral excisional biopsy was performed. The biopsy results were indicative of giant cell carcinoma, which was confirmed by biopsy results from a similar skin lesion on the shoulder and by malignant cells recovered in the sputum and pleural fluids. Although this carcinoma has been shown to rarely metastasize to the skin and lymphatics of the neck, this is the first case report of metastasis to facial lymphatics. 
Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. A case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, bombesin-, and cholecystokinin-producing tumor. A 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment, and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of Vater (VA) was found. The tumor was studied with light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. The neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms. It is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin, and bombesin; however, unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in VA, no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found. 
The incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in renal cell carcinoma. This retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in 218 renal cell carcinoma patients during the last 20 years. Of 218 patients 20 (9.2%) were hypercalcemic, with serum calcium levels ranging from 10.7 to 16.0 mg./dl. The respective incidence of humoral hypercalcemia was 3% in patients with stage I, 5.9% with stage II, 14.1% with stage III and 18.9% with stage IV disease without bone metastasis. The survival curves between the hypercalcemic and eucalcemic groups among stages I to III cancer patients showed no statistical significance (p greater than 0.05). The survival curve deteriorated significantly in stage IV cancer patients with humoral hypercalcemia (p less than 0.005), with a median survival of 45.0 +/- 39.7 days versus 286.4 +/- 27.6 days in eucalcemic patients. No specific correlation was found between pathological cell type and humoral hypercalcemia. 
Needle-localized mammographic lesions. Results and evolving treatment strategy. From January 1981 to December 1987, 932 needle-localization breast biopsies were performed at our institution for mammographically detected abnormalities. We reviewed 531 needle-localization breast biopsy procedures performed during two periods (January 1981 to June 1984, n = 311; and January to August 1987, n = 220) to compare results and treatment patterns, and to determine the prevalence of the missed lesions. Mammographic abnormalities detected on routine screening accounted for a larger proportion of needle-localization breast biopsies in the later series (94 [30%] of 311 vs 94 [43%] of 220). However, the rate at which carcinoma was identified remained constant at 29% as did the percentage of cancers that were invasive (46% vs 51%). Overall, the rate of malignant diagnoses after needle-localization breast biopsy was lowest in asymptomatic women undergoing routine screening mammography (44 [24%] of 188) and significantly higher in women undergoing mammographic follow-up of the contralateral breast after treatment for breast cancer (28 [43%] of 65). There were seven missed lesions in 531 needle-localization breast biopsies, necessitating a second procedure in six and interval mammograms in one. 
The use of interferon alpha-C in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma arising in a congenital solitary kidney. Three cases of renal cell carcinoma in a congenital solitary kidney are presented. Treatment with recombinant interferon alpha-C was administered in two cases. A subjective response occurred in one case. The literature is reviewed with respect to treatment options and prognostic factors. 
Selenium. Nutritional, toxicologic, and clinical aspects Despite the recent findings of environmental contamination, selenium toxicosis in humans is exceedingly rare in the United States, with the few known cases resulting from industrial accidents and an episode involving the ingestion of superpotent selenium supplements. Chronic selenosis is essentially unheard of in this country because of the typical diversity of the American diet. Nonetheless, because of the growing public interest in selenium as a dietary supplement and the occurrence of environmental selenium contamination, medical practitioners should be familiar with the nutritional, toxicologic, and clinical aspects of this trace element. 
Adjuvant, specific, active immunotherapy for resectable squamous cell lung carcinoma: a 5-year survival analysis. In 1976 Stewart et al. (Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 277:436-466) reported the effectiveness of adjuvant specific active immunotherapy of lung carcinoma in improving the postoperative survival of stage I lung carcinoma patients in a phase II study using lung carcinoma-associated antigen (TAA) and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). A phase III study was then designed by the authors to see the effects of specific active immunotherapy compared to the conventional management (no treatment) and to nonspecific immunotherapy. From 1976 to 1981, 85 patients with resectable (stages I and II) squamous cell lung carcinoma were entered into a randomized study: 1) control group; 2) specific immunotherapy group--three monthly doses of 500 micrograms of TAA emulsified with CFA; 3) nonspecific immunotherapy group--three monthly doses of CFA emulsified in saline. All the patients in the study received skin tests with 100 micrograms of the same TAA used for the immunotherapy. Recently, a 5-year follow-up of all the patients became available: The life table 5-year survival of group 1 was 34%, of group 2 was 75%, and of group 3 was 53%. The median survivals for the three groups were group 1, 38 months; group 2, 106 months; and group 3, 71 months. The difference was significant at P = .007 (Cox-Mantel test). 
Tumor-antigen 4. Its immunohistochemical distribution and tissue and serum concentrations in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and esophagus. The immunohistochemical distribution and concentrations of tumor-antigen 4 (TA-4) in tissues and serum were determined in patients with benign and malignant diseases, including 27 patients with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC; 15 in the lung and 12 in the esophagus). Tumor-antigen 4 immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm of many SCC tissues, especially in the hyperparakeratotic region, and in the cytoplasm of differentiated squamous cells of the intermediate layer of normal epithelia of various organs, but not in those of other types of lung cancers or benign pulmonary diseases. Consistent with the results of immunostaining, the TA-4 concentrations in SCC tissues of the lung, esophagus, and normal squamous epithelia were much higher than in those of lung cancer other than SCC, benign pulmonary diseases, normal lung, and submandibular gland tissues. The TA-4 concentration in SCC tissue tended to increase with increasing grades of differentiation. Serum TA-4 was elevated in 15 of 27 patients with SCC but in no patients with other types of lung cancer or benign diseases. These results indicate that TA-4 is an antigen related to the differentiation of squamous cells and that tumor cells of SCC can release a large amount of TA-4 into circulation whereas normal squamous epithelia cannot. 
Expression of VHIII-associated cross-reactive idiotype on human B lymphocytes. Association with staphylococcal protein A binding and Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I stimulation. It has been demonstrated that staphylococcal protein A (SPA) has an "alternative" binding site with specificity for human Ig H chain V region of the VHIII subgroup. Because the major mitogenic component of Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I (SAC) is SPA, it is possible that SAC stimulates a subpopulation of B cells expressing Ig of the VHIII H chain subgroup. In the present study, we have investigated further the relationship between SPA binding and the expression of VHI- or VHIII-associated cross-reactive idiotype (CRI) on the surface of tonsillar B lymphocytes enriched for the expression or nonexpression of the CRI, and we examined the Ig secreted by cell lines established from these populations of B cells by EBV transformation. The VHIII CRI (D12)-enriched population yielded 21 cell lines, with 67% of them secreting SPA-reactive Ig; in contrast, only 6% (1 of 16) of VHI CRI-expressing lines secreted SPA-reactive Ig. The CRI-negative B cell population yielded 54 cell lines, of which 20% secreted SPA-reactive Ig, as might be anticipated because a majority of VHIII Ig+ B cells will be CRI-. SAC stimulation of CRI+ and CRI- populations showed preferential stimulation of the D12 population. These data support the proposal that SAC stimulation of human B cells is mediated through binding of SPA by its alternative binding site to IgV regions of the VHIII subgroup. 
Dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis for sternal tumor defect: an autopsy report. A 38-year-old housewife with solitary plasmacytoma of the manubrium who underwent a subtotal sternectomy treated by resection of the lesion is reported. This was followed by replacement with a Dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis. The Dacron fabric was sutured to the surrounding tissues, and then the clavicle was passed through the cylindrical-shaped Dacron fabric to form a sternoclavicular joint capsule. The patient returned to her daily life 3 months after the operation. She had no trouble in her daily living, without any dislocation of the sternoclavicular joints or any displacement of the artificial sternum. The autopsy examination about 1 year after the operation showed that the Dacron fabric enveloping the artificial sternum became stronger with time. The sternoclavicular joint also was stably fixed, and the Dacron fabric fulfilled its function as an artificial articular capsule and biologic fixation of the surrounding supporting tissues. 
A critical analysis of the largest reported mass fecal occult blood screening program in the United States. Fecal occult blood testing for the detection of colon cancer remains controversial. We performed a mass screening program from January 24, 1988, to February 19, 1988, with intensive media promotion, including 121 minutes of televised air time. A total of 5,000 primary practitioners were notified by mail. Hemoccult-II tests were distributed to 156,000 individuals; 55,051 (35%) were returned. Ninety-five percent of the respondents were informed of the program by television. A total of 3,375 persons (6%) tested positive for fecal occult blood; of these, 2,469 (73%) informed the center that they saw their physician to initiate a work-up. Information from physicians regarding work-ups was returned on only 1,356 (55%) patients. Diagnostic tests numbered 2,227 (1.6 tests per patient). However, 5% had no testing, 16% had a repeat Hemoccult only, and 35% had neither a barium enema nor colonoscopy performed. Thirty-six colorectal cancers and 212 polyps were identified. The predictive value (i.e., number of cancers per number of patients who tested positive) increased directly by decade. Thirty-three of 36 patients (92%) with cancer underwent either a barium enema or colonoscopy versus only 185 of 438 (42%) patients with a "negative" work-up. Cancers found were carcinoma in situ in 10 patients (29%), Dukes A in 12 (35%), Dukes B in 4 (12%), and Dukes C in 8 (24%); distant metastases were not found in any participant. Thirty-six percent of the tumors were located in either the right or transverse colon. We conclude that: (1) Screening identified early cancers. All were potentially curable and 64% were limited to the bowel wall. (2) Massive Hemoccult distribution was possible over a short interval, but patient and physician compliance was disturbingly low. (3) Total colonic evaluation is mandatory, since at least 36% of tumors were beyond the reach of the flexible sigmoidoscope. (4) Many work-ups were unnecessary (repeat Hemoccults) or inadequate, indicating a need for physician education. 
Two-drug therapy in patients with metastatic germ cell tumors. Eighty-two patients with metastatic germ cell tumors (GCT) treated with two-drug therapy consisting of etoposide and cisplatin were evaluated for late relapse. Good-risk GCT was defined using Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) criteria. Etoposide was given at 100 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 and cisplatin was given at 20 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5; therapy was recycled at 21 days with delays up to 7 days for a leukocyte count of less than 3000/microliters or a platelet count of less than 100,000/microliters. Drug doses were not attenuated for myelosuppression. Seventy-six of 82 evaluable patients achieved a complete response (CR). Seventy-two patients had a CR to chemotherapy alone. Forty-six (56%) patients had excision of residual abnormalities: 11 had teratoma in the resected specimen, 31 had necrotic debris or fibrosis, and 4 had a CR after chemotherapy plus complete excision of residual viable GCT. Six patients had an incomplete response to chemotherapy; one of these patients had unresectable mature teratoma and remains progression-free. The median etoposide dose (+/- standard deviation [SD]) was 500 mg/m2/course (+/- 35 mg/m2) and the median cisplatin dose (+/- SD) was 100 mg/m2/course (+/- 6 mg/m2). Nine patients experienced a relapse at 6 to 17.5 months; two patients with nonseminomatous GCT were salvaged by chemotherapy and one patient with seminoma was salvaged by chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The three patients who were salvaged by additional therapy are disease-free at 59 to 63 months. Seventy-one patients (87%) remain disease-free with a median follow-up time of 63 months (range, 33 to 92 months). No relapses have occurred beyond 17.5 months. Etoposide and cisplatin therapy at these doses and schedule results in durable CR without late relapse. 
Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. The authors studied the clinical and pathologic features of 38 small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. Most were located in the right colon. Overlying adenomas were present in 45% and squamous differentiation in 21% of tumors. Endocrine differentiation was present in all tumors by at least one method; neuron-specific enolase, dense-core granules, and synaptophysin were present in most cases. Seventy-one percent of tumors metastasized to the liver; 64% of patients were dead at five months follow-up. Twenty-one poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated carcinomas of the large intestine accessioned during the same period showed less endocrine (7 of 21) and squamous differentiation (1 of 15) and fewer liver metastases (4 of 15) than did small cell carcinomas. Among all 59 tumors studied, small cell histologic characteristics correlated better with liver involvement than did endocrine markers or other histologic features. Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine are aggressive tumors with a propensity for early liver involvement. Although there is a spectrum of squamous, endocrine, and glandular features in large bowel tumors of low degrees of differentiation, the identification of a small cell component appears to be most clinically relevant. 
Review of hepatic imaging and a problem-oriented approach to liver masses. We believe that imaging of the liver is complicated. The sporadic appearance of incidental benign lesions and variability in scanning techniques, equipment and artifacts add difficulties to the evaluation of liver masses. Therefore we emphasize the need to define the problem for which the patient is being imaged. This information helps in choosing the procedure of choice and the technique needed to give the most expedient, accurate answer. This will also help apply the lowest risk and most cost-efficient care. Imaging algorithms vary depending on the suspected pathological conditions. Dynamic bolus-enhanced CT is the modality of choice in most situations. Tc99m sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scans are helpful in patients with suspected FNH, and Tc99m-tagged-RBC-SPECT scans are recommended to confirm cavernous hemangiomas. Cysts are easily confirmed by US. Although MRI is competitive with CT, it has not become a primary modality because of cost, availability, patient selection and variability of scanner capabilities among the many manufacturers and models. It is hard to predict what future development of imaging techniques will bring. Many feel that significant advances have plateaued. Time and money will more likely be concentrated on improving image resolution, speed of scanning and ability to transfer this information to sites outside of the radiology department. In addition to faster scanning, we expect to soon have available safe intravenous and enteric contrast agents for MRI. Certainly this will lead to a new round of investigations to compare MRI with CT scanning. 
Characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor in normal and neoplastic human endometrium. Growth factors, including epidermal growth factor (EGF), have been implicated in the growth of several types of cancer. This study compares EGF receptors in normal and neoplastic endometrium. Membrane fractions were isolated from surgical specimens. Radioreceptor assays demonstrated the presence of receptors with a dissociation constant of 0.64 nmol/l in normal endometrium. Affinity cross-linking revealed receptor molecular weight of 150 to 170 kiloDaltons (KD). A survey of samples (n = 37) revealed progressive decrease of EGF receptors in cancers of increasing grade: Grade 1-2 adenocarcinoma decreased 34% from control (n = 6, P less than 0.01), whereas Grade 3 adenocarcinoma decreased 90% (n = 7, P less than 0.01) and sarcoma decreased by 72% (n = 3, P less than 0.01). The dissociation constant and molecular weight of the receptor in neoplastic endometrium did not differ significantly from normal. The inverse relationship with grade suggests receptor alteration or down regulation by hormones and/or growth factors. 
Longitudinal study of women with negative cervical smears according to endocervical status A longitudinal study of 20,222 women who received negative cervical smear reports in 1987 showed that the incidence of definite or equivocal cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) was not significantly different between those whose first smear lacked an endocervical component and those whose smear included an endocervical component. The incidence of definite cytological evidence of CIN was significantly lower in women whose first smear did not include an endocervical component. It is concluded that women whose smears are reported as negative but lack an endocervical component should not be rescreened any earlier than women with negative smears that include an endocervical component. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma presenting with pyrexia and leukocytosis: report of five cases. In the past 26 years we have encountered five patients with primary liver malignancy clinically characterized by high remittent fever and leukocytosis mimicking liver abscess. Two patients underwent exploratory laparotomy, and drainage was carried out in another. The clinical courses went rapidly downhill. The liver was cirrhotic in two patients. The interior of the main mass was almost totally necrotic in four cases. Histologically, the malignant cells in the main portion resembled sarcoma, but in some areas cells appeared epithelial with eosinophilic cytoplasm and were in a trabecular arrangement, except for one case not subjected to autopsy in which histological study was inadequate because of extensive necrosis. It seems that these neoplasms were very poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas rather than combinations of sarcoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. These patients, therefore, may represent a distinct clinicopathological type of hepatocellular carcinoma that is very rare in Japan but perhaps more common in South Africa, where similar cases have been clinically described in larger numbers. 
Predictive value of tumor estrogen and progesterone receptor levels in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer treated with toremifene. The predictive value of estrogen receptor (ER) concentrations was evaluated in a group of 113 postmenopausal patients with estrogen-receptor-positive (ER greater than 7 fmol/mg protein) advanced breast cancer. In 103 patients, tumors were also sampled for progesterone receptor (PgR) determination. All patients were treated with toremifene, a novel antiestrogen, 60 mg daily. The median ER in 51 responders was 78 fmol/mg protein, and in 62 nonresponders, 51 fmol/mg protein; the median PgR levels were 40 and 37 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The response rate in patients with ER less than 50 fmol/mg protein was 38%, and 51% in the group with ER greater than 50 fmol/mg protein (not significant [NS]). The response rate in patients with PgR less than 10 fmol/mg protein was 42%, and in patients with greater than 10 fmol/mg protein, 44%. The duration of response in patients with ER greater than 50 fmol/mg protein was significantly longer than with lower ER levels (P = 0.002). PgR was not associated with the duration of response. In Cox's multiple regression analysis, ER was an independent prognostic factor (P = 0.005) for response duration. Thus, the ER concentration of tumor tissue predicts the duration of response but not the response rate to toremifene in patients with advanced breast cancer. The PgR status does not predict the response rate or the duration of response. 
Adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus. A clinicopathologic study of 65 cases. The natural history of Barrett's esophagus, particularly the prevalence and incidence of malignant changes in it, remains controversial. Furthermore the prognosis of surgically treated patients with carcinoma in Barrett's esophagus has not been elucidated fully. To examine these and other issues, the records of 65 patients with carcinoma in Barrett's esophagus presenting at the Lahey Clinic Medical Center from January 1973 to January 1989 were reviewed. During this period, 241 patients with documented Barrett's esophagus were seen, for a prevalence of carcinoma of 27%. Adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus accounted for 30% of the surgically treated carcinomas of the thoracic esophagus during this period. All but four of these patients were men. Symptoms of chronic reflux were present in less than one half of the patients and dysphagia was often the presenting symptom. In eight patients the carcinoma was discovered on routine surveillance endoscopy, and in four patients progression of disease from benign columnar epithelium to dysplasia to carcinoma was documented. Tumors developed in six patients who had undergone previous antireflux surgery, and in four other patients a second carcinoma developed in residual Barrett's epithelium after a previous resection. Of the 65 patients, 61 (94%) were considered to have operable disease, all of whom underwent resection. Two patients (3.3%) died within 30 days of operation. The resected specimens were staged as follows: stage 0, 4; stage I, 10; stage II, 17; stage III, 25; stage IV, 4. Of the resected specimens, 73% showed areas of dysplasia adjacent to the tumor. The overall adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate was 23.7%. The 3-year survival rate was 100% for patients with stage 0 carcinoma, 85.7% for patients with stage I carcinoma, 53.6% for patients with stage IIA carcinoma, 45% for patients with stage IIB carcinoma, 25.2% for patients with stage III carcinoma, and 0% for patients with stage IV carcinoma. The premalignant nature of Barrett's esophagus requires endoscopic surveillance to detect early carcinoma because symptoms often occur late or are absent. Antireflux surgery does not protect against the development of carcinoma. All of the Barrett's epithelium must be resected because a second carcinoma may develop in residual columnar epithelium. Severe dysplasia should be considered an indication for resection. Although operability and resectability rates are high, long-term survival is not. Early detection is mandatory if long-term survival is to be achieved. 
Suddenly symptomatic brain tumors at altitude. High-altitude cerebral edema can present with a wide variety of neurologic manifestations; these symptoms resolve with descent. The persistence of neurologic symptoms after descent suggests an intracranial lesion. Brain tumors suddenly becoming symptomatic at altitude have not been reported previously. We report three cases of previously unsuspected brain tumors that suddenly became symptomatic at high altitudes. 
Infarct of the conus medullaris simulating a spinal cord tumor: case report. A 71-year-old woman had the sudden onset of a neurogenic bladder and a stepwise increase in paraparesis that left her unable to stand or walk. Magnetic resonance imaging showed what appeared to be a tumor in the conus medullaris. After laminectomy, the lesion was localized by ultrasound examination, and a biopsy was performed. The deficits remained unchanged postoperatively. Microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen showed necrosis and pathologic changes consistent with infarction of the conus medullaris. An anomalous arterial supply of the conus medullaris is the most likely cause of this unusual problem. The patient gradually regained her ability to walk, but the neurogenic bladder persists. 
Radioimmunoscintigraphy using iodine-131-anti-CEA monoclonal antibodies and thallium-201 scintigraphy in medullary thyroid carcinoma: a case report. This case report demonstrates the use of thallium-201 (201Tl) scans versus iodine-131- (131l) anti-CEA F(ab')2 scans in a patient with high serum CEA levels due to metastases of medullary thyroid carcinoma in the suprarenal region and sacroiliacal region. Scintigraphy using monoclonal antibodies directed against CEA showed a higher tumor uptake (0.26% dose and 0.64% dose, respectively) than a thallium scan and is believed to be promising for future radiotherapeutic applications. 
Early gastric cancer. Endoscopic diagnosis of depth of invasion. In order to decide on a treatment strategy against gastric cancers, an accurate preoperative evaluation of the depth of cancer invasion is essential. Preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of the depth of invasion was compared with pathological results of the resected specimen in 206 early gastric cancers and 32 early-like advanced gastric cancers. The endoscopic distinction between early and early-like advanced cancers was correctly made in 83.6% of the cases. Among the early gastric cancers, mucosal and submucosal invasion was correctly presumed in 71.9% of the cases. When the tumor was an elevated type, or located in the antrum, the endoscopic diagnosis tended to be deeper than the true depth. The size of tumor contributed little to the depth diagnosis. Pathomorphological changes on the tips of converging folds were the important clue for diagnosing depth. 
Rapid inactivation and phosphorylation of pyroglutamyl peptidase II in Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells after exposure to phorbol ester. Pyroglutamyl peptidase II (EC 3.4.19.-), a membrane-bound metalloproteinase, is a highly specific TRH-degrading enzyme. Exposure of Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells to 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA) decreased the activity of this enzyme in a time- and concentration-dependent manner (IC50 5 x 10(-9) M). After 15 min of TPA treatment, only 10% of pyroglutamyl peptidase II activity remained. TPA treatment did not affect the activity of the cytosolic enzyme pyroglutamyl peptidase I (EC 3.4.19.3) or the membrane-bound enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV (EC 3.4.19.3). Pretreatment of the cells with the protein kinase C inhibitors H-7 or sphingosine prevented the inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase II by TPA. The time course of the TPA-mediated effect paralleled the time course of translocation and activation of protein kinase C in this cell line. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase II was not due to dissociation or internalization of this enzyme molecule. Incubation of TPA-activated Y-79 cell membranes with gamma-[32P]-ATP followed by immunoprecipitation revealed a time-dependent phosphorylation of a 48 kilodalton subunit of pyroglutamyl peptidase II. These studies indicate that the phorbol ester effect is mediated by protein kinase C, and reveal a mechanism of potentiation of the action of TRH at its target sites. 
Immunohistochemical investigations of estrogen receptors in normal and neoplastic squamous epithelium of the vulva. Atrophic disease of the vulvar epithelium can be treated with steroids, but carcinoma of the vulva cannot be influenced with any hormone therapy. Seventy-one vulvar specimens were tested for estrogen receptor (ER) content by means of immunohistochemistry. Slight ER staining was found in nonkeratinizing squamous epithelium in 17 of 22 cases. A weak ER reaction in the basal and parabasal layers was found in only 2 of 17 specimens of keratinizing squamous epithelium. However, no ER was found in any neoplastic tissue of the vulva or the adjacent stroma. The loss of ER in neoplastic cells could explain the clinical experience that antihormonal treatment of vulvar carcinomas produces no appreciable improvement. 
A phase I study of a new cisplatin derivative for hematologic malignancies. DWA2114R (DWA) is a new derivative of platin compounds that is currently being used in Phase II studies of solid tumors in Japan. The dose-limiting factor is myelotoxicity with mild extramedullary toxicity. This Phase I study consisted of adult patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies. Eight patients received a total of 15 treatment courses of DWA. The starting dose was 800 mg/m2 over 24 hours by continuous infusion. The dose was first increased to 1200 mg/m2 and then to 1600 mg/m2. Clinical toxicity and urinary excretion studies of DWA suggested that 1200 mg/m2/d for successive days would be the best type of administration. When 1200 mg/m2/d was given for 5 days, Grade 2 to 3 diarrhea and nausea and vomiting were encountered requiring parenteral fluids and nutritional support. This suggested that the dose-limiting factor with this schedule was gastrointestinal toxicity. Myelotoxicity was severe, as expected, but tolerable. One of the five patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) entered into complete remission and one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in crisis returned to the chronic phase. A Phase II trial of DWA is warranted for hematologic malignancies, especially in myeloid diseases. 
Giant cell tumor of bone. A clinicopathologic and DNA flow cytometric analysis. Flow cytometric DNA analysis was performed on 60 cases of giant cell tumor of bone and the results were correlated with the clinicopathologic features. Tumors studied were from 31 men and 29 women whose ages ranged from 18 to 62 years (median, 29 years). The most common sites were the distal end of the femur and proximal end of the tibia, accounting for 75% of the lesions. Treatment consisted of resection in 29 patients (48%), curettage with bone chip packing in 15 patients (25%), or curettage with cement packing in 16 patients (27%). Ten patients (17%) had local relapse within 1 to 3 years, and two had lung metastases. Forty-two patients (70%) exhibited tumors with a diploid DNA content, 16 aneuploid (27%), and two tetraploid (3%). Six (37.5%) of the aneuploid patients had relapses: one of those had been treated by resection of the tumor and five by curettage. Of the remaining ten (62.5%) unrelapsed aneuploid patients, nine had been treated by resection of the tumor and one by curettage. Four of the 42 diploid patients (9.5%) had relapses; all had been treated by curettage of the tumor. The two tetraploid tumors were treated by resection and none relapsed. Histologic parameters did not correlate with relapse rate or DNA pattern. Although relapse was more common among aneuploid tumors, our study shows that this appears to be influenced by the treatment modality rather than the ploidy status. Based on this study the DNA analysis of giant cell tumor of bone has a limited utility for predicting the tumor's biologic behavior. 
Complete remission in refractory anaplastic adult Wilms' tumor treated with cisplatin and etoposide. A 61-year-old woman underwent a left radical nephrectomy for Stage II anaplastic Wilm's tumor. She received no adjuvant therapy. One year later computerized tomography (CT) of the abdomen revealed a mass in the left renal fossa and retroperitoneal adenopathy. A CT-guided needle biopsy was nondiagnostic. The patient had progressive disease after treatment with dactinomycin, doxorubicin, and vincristine, but achieved a complete response after treatment with cisplatin and etoposide. The therapy of Wilms' tumor in adults is discussed. 
Staging of ureteral transitional cell carcinoma by CT and MRI. Intravenous urography and retrograde pyelography are the primary radiologic studies for detecting ureteral carcinoma but give limited information regarding stage of disease. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) delineate the extent of ureteral carcinomas with a high degree of accuracy by depicting the periureteral fat and presence or absence of lymphadenopathy. In selected cases, CT and MRI are valuable for assessing the presence or absence of tumor in a ureteral stump and for the differential diagnosis of ureteral obstruction. Five cases of ureteral carcinoma and 2 cases of stump carcinoma are presented with preoperative CT and/or MRI evaluation and staging. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer. I. Correlation of receptor expression with prognostic factors in patients with ovarian cancer. Previous studies in breast and bladder cancer have suggested that epidermal growth factor receptor is expressed by only a proportion of cancers and is associated with poor clinical outcome. We used a monoclonal antibody specifically reactive with the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor to localize this receptor immunohistochemically in frozen sections of normal ovary and epithelial ovarian cancer. Normal ovarian epithelium was found to express epidermal growth factor receptor in all cases. Among 87 ovarian cancers, however, 23% did not express immunohistochemically detectable receptor. Epidermal growth factor receptor expression was not related to histologic grade or stage, but was associated with poor survival (p less than 0.05). The median length of survival of patients with tumors that did not express epidermal growth factor receptor was 40 months compared with 26 months in patients with tumors that did express epidermal growth factor receptor. As in breast and bladder cancer, expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in ovarian cancer appears to be a poor prognostic factor. 
Prognostic factors for outcome of and survival after second-look laparotomy in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. In ovarian cancer stages IIB-IV, pre-treatment variables and variables obtained intraoperatively at second-look laparotomy were investigated for their prognostic influence on the outcome of 109 patients and survival after second-look laparotomy in 131 patients. The subjects came from a randomized trial of sequential versus alternating combination chemotherapy. The overall median survival after second-look laparotomy was 62 months. Logistic regression analysis identified stage and hysterectomy plus bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy as significant prognostic covariates for second-look laparotomy outcome. Based on a Cox multivariate stepwise analysis, independent prognostic factors for survival after second-look laparotomy were secondary residual tumor size, pre-treatment histologic differentiation grade, and performance status. A high differentiation grade and a good performance status at the start of therapy thus still had a prolonging effect on survival after second-look laparotomy. The prognostic power of these pre-treatment variables was increased substantially by the addition of the secondary residual tumor size variable. The 3-year survival rate after second-look laparotomy for high- and low-risk patients was 15 and 87%, respectively. Second-look laparotomy thus provides prognostic information in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma, but the benefit in terms of survival is still unclear. 
Flexible Nd:YAG laser palliation of obstructive tracheal metastatic malignancies. Flexible Nd:YAG endoscopic laser surgery may become an effective new modality for palliation in patients with obstructive endotracheal metastatic malignancies. We report the results of the treatment of two patients with severely obstructing intraluminal tracheal metastatic melanoma and medullary thyroid carcinoma, using the neodymium-YAG laser via the flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope. Both patients complained of significant dyspnea, orthopnea, cough, and hemoptysis and were not candidates for rigid bronchoscopy because of underlying medical contraindications and anatomical problems. Multiple treatment sessions were used with treatment intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. All treatments were performed in the operating room under sedation, without intubation, with topical lidocaine and standard superior laryngeal nerve block. Successful relief of airway obstruction with complete regression of the endotracheal masses was achieved and no recurrences were seen after 9 months' follow-up. Flexible Nd:YAG laser bronchoscopy offered an alternative for the relief of obstructing endotracheal or bronchial malignancies in patients in whom the rigid bronchoscope could not be passed. it seemed to prolong survival in selected cases, and provided definite improvement in quality of life. 
Functional character and augmentation of lymphocytes in regional lymph nodes of patients with lung cancer. It appears that lymph node metastases are more frequent in lung cancer than in other cancers because of impaired defensive mechanisms in the regional lymph nodes. However, little is known about the immunologic function of regional lymph node lymphocytes (RLNL) in patients with lung cancer. We have studied the immunologic properties of RLNL in comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). We measured the natural killer (NK) cell activity of RLNL and PBL in patients with lung cancer and found that the NK activity was significantly more depressed in the RLNL than in the PBL. In contrast, interleukin-2 (IL-2) production was markedly higher in the RLNL than in the PBL. The cytotoxic effect of RLNL in nonmetastatic lymph nodes on target cells (such as K562 cells) or PC-3 and PC-10 cells (NK-resistant, human lung cancer of adenocarcinoma and epidermoid carcinoma, respectively) was significantly enhanced by in vitro incubation with recombinant IL-2 (rIL-2). Furthermore, we clarified that both rIL-2 and OK-432, which is a biologic response modifier and IL-2 inducer as well, augmented the cytotoxicity of RLNL and that these effector cells were lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. The depletion of lymphocyte subsets by pretreatment with specific monoclonal antibody showed that the LAK activity in RLNL was mediated by CD3+ and CD8+ cells, whereas the lymphocyte subsets contributing the LAK activity in PBL were CD3+ and CD16+ cells. It was concluded that a majority of the effector cells in RLNL were LAK cells of the cytotoxic T cell population. 
Solitary fibromatosis of bone. A rare variant of congenital generalized fibromatosis. Congenital generalized fibromatosis is part of the spectrum of the fibromatoses of infancy and childhood. The lesions are usually multiple and fibrous in nature. They may appear in virtually every organ outside the central nervous system. Congenital generalized fibromatosis can be limited to the skeleton and rarely manifests itself as a solitary bone lesion. Solitary osseous lesions often behave differently than multiple osseous lesions. Solitary lesions often do not regress without treatment and can have a high incidence of recurrence with less than marginal excision. Multiple osseous lesions often regress without treatment. 
Glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity. Glucagonomas, considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms, produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema, diabetes mellitus, glossitis, anemia, and weight loss. This report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution. All seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations, present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis. Five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation, three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery, whereas the other two had biopsy only. The remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each, underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively. Earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival. Aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission. 
Crystal-storing histiocytosis and crystalline tissue deposition in multiple myeloma [published erratum appears in Arch Pathol Lab Med 1991 Aug;115(8):806] Systemic distribution of crystal-storing histiocytes, increasing in number, and widespread crystalline tissue deposition were found in a 75-year-old man with a 5-year history of IgG-kappa-type multiple myeloma associated with corneal opacity and chronic renal failure. Characteristic crystalline inclusions were present not only in myeloma cells but also in cornea, epithelial cells of glomeruli, tubuli, Bowman's capsules, and choroid plexus. Histiocytes had particularly infiltrated the renal interstitium. These inclusions were positive by immunofluorescence for kappa light and gamma heavy chains. By electron microscopy, the inclusions were filled with fine crystalline hexagonal columns, each possessing a core structure. Of various factors generally considered responsible for renal failure in multiple myeloma, marked infiltration of histiocytes and the nephrotoxic effects of light chain appeared most relevant in the present case. 
Clinoidal meningiomas. Anterior clinoidal meningiomas are frequently grouped with suprasellar or sphenoid ridge meningiomas, masking their notorious association with a high mortality and morbidity rate, failure of total removal, and recurrence. To avoid injury to encased cerebral vessels, most surgeons are content with subtotal removal. Without total removal, however, recurrence is expected. Recent advances in cranial-base exposure and cavernous sinus surgery have facilitated radical total removal. The author reports 24 cases operated on with vigorous attempts at total removal of the tumor with involved dura and bone. This experience has distinguished three groups (I, II, and III) which influence surgical difficulties, the success of total removal, and outcome. These subgroups relate to the presence of interfacing arachnoid membranes between the tumor and cerebral vessels. The presence or absence of arachnoid membranes depends on the origin of the tumor and its relation to the naked segment of carotid artery lying outside the carotid cistern. Total removal was impossible in the three patients in Group I, with postoperative death occurring in one patient and hemiplegia in another. Total removal was achieved in 18 of the 19 patients in Group II, with one death from pulmonary embolism. In the two patients in Group III, total removal without complications was easily achieved. 
Gemistocytic astrocytomas: a reappraisal. Although gemistocytic astrocytomas are considered slow-growing astrocytomas, they often behave aggressively. To clarify the biological and clinical behavior of these rare tumors, the authors retrospectively identified 59 patients with gemistocytic astrocytoma whose tumors were diagnosed and treated between June, 1976, and July, 1989. Three patients who were lost to follow-up review were excluded, as were two whose original slides could not be obtained and three whose tumors were diagnosed at recurrence or at autopsy. The pathological material of the remaining 51 patients was reviewed using two sets of histological criteria. Thirteen patients (Group A) had "pure" gemistocytic astrocytoma, defined as a glial tumor with more than 60% gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of fibrillary astrocytes. Fifteen patients (Group B) had "mixed" gemistocytic astrocytoma, defined as a glial tumor with 20% to 60% gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of anaplastic astrocytes. Twenty-three tumors did not meet these criteria and were excluded from analysis. The median age of the patients was 48.5 years in Group A and 38.3 years in Group B (p less than 0.05). In both groups, the median Karnofsky Performance Scale score was greater than 90%. All patients underwent surgical procedures (four total and 19 partial resections, and five biopsies) and postoperative radiation therapy. The majority also had interstitial brachytherapy, chemotherapy, or both. Ten patients had one reoperation for tumor recurrence and one had two reoperations; other treatments for recurrence included brachytherapy, chemotherapy, and repeat irradiation. All four patients who originally underwent gross total resection are still alive; all five who had a biopsy have died. There was no significant difference in median survival times between groups: 136.5 weeks in Group A (range 10 to 310+ weeks) and 135.6 weeks in Group B (range 31 to 460+ weeks). Analysis of all 28 patients showed a better prognosis for patients less than 50 years of age (185 vs. 36 weeks survival time; p less than 0.001), patients with preoperative symptoms lasting for more than 6 months (228.1 vs. 110.2 weeks survival time; p less than 0.05), and patients with seizures as the first symptom (185.7 vs. 80 weeks survival time; p less than 0.01). Survival time did not correlate with the presence of perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. The authors conclude that the presence of at least 20% gemistocytes in a glial neoplasm is a poor prognostic sign, irrespective of the pathological background. It is proposed that gemistocytic astrocytomas be classified with anaplastic astrocytomas and treated accordingly. 
Papillary carcinoma of thyroid with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma. Report of three cases. Three examples of an unusual morphologic variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) are reported. The presence of a prominent stromal component resulted in low-power microscopic appearances resembling fibroadenoma, phyllodes tumor, or fibrocystic disease of the breast in two cases. The carcinomatous component grew in the form of anastomosing narrow tubules, clustered glands, solid sheets with or without squamous differentiation, and/or papillae, and exhibited the typical nuclear features of PTC. The abundant stroma had a nodular fasciitis-like quality and was composed of short fascicles of spindle cells separated by varying amounts of mucoid matrix, collagen, and extravasated red blood cells; this was interpreted as an exuberant mesenchymal reaction to the carcinoma. The importance of recognizing this variant of PTC is that, when one encounters a fibroproliferative lesion of the thyroid, a diligent search should be made for papillary carcinoma. This variant also must be distinguished from the vastly more aggressive papillary carcinomas with anaplastic transformation and the so-called carcinosarcomas. 
Attributes and survival patterns of multiple primary cutaneous malignant melanoma. From a series of 1495 patients with primary cutaneous malignant melanoma (PCMM), 26 patients (1.73%) had multiple primary cutaneous malignant melanoma (MPCMM). This report describes the attributes and survival patterns in this small, but important, subgroup of patients with PCMM. Of 26 patients, 23 had two primaries, two had three primaries, and one had six primaries. Five patients had synchronous and 21 patients had metachronous MPCMM. The median interval between the occurrence of the first and subsequent PCMM in these patients was 1.93 years. The estimated 5-year survival rate from the first melanoma was 83.5%; that from the last melanoma was 53.1%. In summary, MPCMM is a distinct biologic phenomenon. A second or subsequent malignant melanoma should be treated like a primary melanoma. 
Cerebellopontine angle lipoma in a teenager. Lipomas of the cerebellopontine angle are very rare lesions. To date, 18 patients have been reported, 17 of whom were adults. A second child is described with cerebellopontine angle lipoma. 
Prognostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in colorectal carcinoma. Serum levels before and after resection and before recurrence. The use of carcinoembryonic antigen was evaluated in 425 patients with a mean follow-up of 48 months. The preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels were predictive of recurrence and survival independent of the tumor stage. In a multivariate regression analysis of age, location, tumor stage, and preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels, the latter three factors were significant prognostic variables with respect to the adjusted survival. Recurrent disease was found in 42% of patients, excluding patients with stage IV disease. The carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was greater than 5 ng/mL in 79% of the patients and in 89% of the intra-abdominal recurrences. Carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was not predictive of postrecurrence survival except in the subgroup of locoregional disease. The life span in patients with liver and lung metastases was not influenced by carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence. Preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels can indicate a poorer prognostic group of patients with colorectal cancer who may benefit from adjuvant treatment. The carcinoembryonic antigen at recurrence can be used effectively to diagnose intra-abdominal recurrences and project survival after development of local/regional disease. 
Capillary hemangiomas and treatment with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser Strawberry, or capillary, hemangiomas are common vascular neoplasms, with an incidence of approximately 2.6% in neonates. They usually develop in the first few weeks of life, so that between 1 month and 1 year the incidence rises to between 8.7% and 10.1%. These lesions may grow quite large in the first year of life, and they may ulcerate or obstruct a vital organ or function. The great majority will spontaneously regress after the first year of life. Parents are often alarmed at the sight of these hemangiomas and need reassurance that the great majority will regress spontaneously. Treatments such as cryosurgery, irradiation, radium instillation, corticosteroid therapy, or surgical excision are often ineffective or cause significant morbidity. We describe 10 children with capillary hemangiomas treated with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser. The patients ranged in age from 7 weeks to 5.5 years at the beginning of laser therapy. The patients underwent 3.1 +/- 1 (mean +/- SD) laser treatments, with a mean regression of the lesions of 69.9% +/- 4.5%. All patients demonstrated some diminution in the size and color of their hemangiomas after the treatments, and there were no ill effects, such as ulceration, hemorrhage, infection, or scarring. There was no evidence of hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation. Pulsed dye laser therapy should be considered as an option in the treatment of capillary hemangiomas, preferably prior to their full evolution. It is also a useful therapeutic approach in those hemangiomas that are slow to regress in older children. 
Urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease. Procoagulant activity (PCA) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years. Although tissue factor (TF) is produced by certain tumours, and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes, the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer. We have measured urinary PCA in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease (n = 79), in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (n = 8), inflammatory bowel disease (n = 19), colorectal cancer (n = 70) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy (n = 50). Urinary PCA was higher (P less than 0.001) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Fourteen (88 per cent) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile, compared with 8 (24 per cent) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy (P less than 0.001). TF inhibitors confirmed the nature of the PCA and Western blotting studies indicated a urinary TF molecular weight of approximately 38,000. These studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary TF may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy. 
Cells immunoreactive for neuropeptide in human thymomas. The presence of opioid peptides, bombesin, and substance P was investigated by immunohistochemistry in tissue sections from six human thymomas. The number of immunoreactive cells seemed to vary from one case to another. Ultrastructural investigation, showing the presence of desmosomes in labelled cells, allowed these cells to be classified as epithelial lineage cells. The occurrence of cells containing neuropeptide in thymomas suggest that peptide molecules could have modulated the behaviour of this tumour, given the reported influence of these molecules on immune functions and their growth promoting activity on several cell types, including mesenchymal and epithelial cells. 
Characteristics and biological role of steroid hormone receptors in neuroepithelial tumors Tissue samples from 57 patients with neuroepithelial tumors (25 glioblastomas, 18 anaplastic astrocytomas, and 14 astrocytomas) were analyzed in order to evaluate the presence of estrogen, progesterone, glucocorticoid, and androgen receptors. Glucocorticoid- and androgen-specific binding proteins were present in 38.6% and 21.6% of the cases, respectively. Only a few tumors showed estrogen or progesterone receptors. A correlation was found between grade of anaplasia, patient's sex and age, and presence of glucocorticoid and androgen receptors. The biological role of these two receptors was investigated in 10 primary cell cultures derived from neuroepithelial tumors. For this purpose, dexamethasone and testosterone were added to culture medium at different concentrations (from 50 to 0.016 micrograms/ml). A significant stimulation of the cell growth was observed in four of five glucocorticoid receptor-positive cultures when dexamethasone in doses ranging from 2 to 0.016 microgram/ml was added to the culture. No modulation of the growth was observed in glucocorticoid receptor-negative cultures at the same doses. Higher dexamethasone doses induced a significant decrease of the growth index independently from the glucocorticoid receptor status. All of the cultures tested for testosterone activity were negative for androgen receptors. This hormone induced an inhibition of the growth index at doses ranging from 50 to 0.4 micrograms/ml. The data suggest that neuroepithelial tumors contain specific glucocorticoid and androgen binding proteins. Glucocorticoid receptors modulate the growth of cultured neuroepithelial tumors in the presence of different concentrations of dexamethasone. 
Reasons why mastectomy patients do not have breast reconstruction. Breast reconstruction after mastectomy is valuable, yet only a small percentage of eligible patients ever have reconstruction. Little has been done to determine why so few patients proceed with reconstructive surgery. A homogeneous population of mastectomy patients, some of whom underwent breast reconstruction while others did not, were surveyed regarding their attitudes about breast reconstruction. A total of 245 women were surveyed. One-hundred and fifty-eight (64 percent) responded, 71 of whom had been reconstructed while 87 had not. Comparison of the responses of the two groups suggests factors that play a role in determining whether the mastectomy patient will accept or decline the option of breast reconstruction. Considerations that made it less likely that a woman would pursue reconstruction included advanced age at the time of mastectomy, concern about complications from further surgery, uncertainty about outcome, and fear about the effect of reconstruction on future problems with breast cancer. Marital status, receiving chemotherapy, or knowing a patient who had a bad result from reconstruction did not affect the decision. An awareness and understanding of these factors may be helpful to physicians in counseling patients and in increasing the number of women who enjoy the benefits of breast reconstruction. 
Growth of cultured human cerebral meningiomas is inhibited by dopaminergic agents. Presence of high affinity dopamine-D1 receptors. We have found that microM concentrations of the dopamine agonist bromocriptine significantly decrease the proliferation rate of human meningioma cells in culture (25-56% inhibition). This effect was also seen with direct application of dopamine, as well as the dopamine-D1 agonist (+)-SKF-38393 (both applied in microM concentrations) to meningioma cell cultures. Receptor studies with the dopamine-D1 ligand (125I)SCH-23982 (dopamine-D1 antagonist) indicated that dopamine-D1 binding sites were present in the membranes of meningioma tissue. The mean dissociation constant (Kd) was 325 ( +/- 74.5 SEM) pM and the receptor density (Bmax) was 25.4 ( +/- 1.5 SEM) fmol/mg pellet protein in 5 human meningiomas. The pharmacological specificity was proven by (+)-SKF-38393, ( +/-SKF-83566 or (+)-butaclamol and their inactive isomers (-)-SKF-38393 and (-)-butaclamol in a 1000 fold excess. These results provide evidence that human meningiomas possess high affinity dopamine-D1 receptors and that dopamine agonists have an antiproliferative effect on these tumors in culture. We conclude that the proliferation of cerebral meningiomas may be under dopaminergic control and that dopamine agonists may have a role in the medical treatment of patients with meningiomas. 
Analysis of interferon-inducible genes in cells of chronic myeloid leukemia patients responsive or resistant to an interferon-alpha treatment. Recombinant human interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) can induce a hematologic remission in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. However, some patients are resistant and others develop late resistance to the IFN-alpha treatment. To understand the molecular mechanism of this resistance, we have analyzed the expression of 10 IFN-inducible genes in the cells of three resistant patients, two responsive patients, and six healthy controls. Northern blot hybridizations showed that all the genes were induced in in vitro IFN-alpha treated peripheral blood cells of the patients and healthy controls. These genes were also inducible in peripheral blood and bone marrow cells of two out of two resistant patients administered an injection of IFN-alpha. We conclude that the resistance to the IFN-alpha treatment of the chronic myeloid leukemia patients we studied is not due to (1) the absence of induction of any of the 10 IFN-inducible genes we studied, including the low-molecular-weight 2'-5'oligoadenylate synthetase; (2) the presence of an antagonist of IFN-alpha in the peripheral blood or bone marrow cells; and (3) the presence of neutralizing anti-IFN-alpha antibodies. 
Hepatic dynamic sequential CT: section enhancement profiles with a bolus of ionic and nonionic contrast agents. The enhancement characteristics in different portions of the liver during dynamic sequential bolus computed tomography (CT) with iodinated contrast material (DSBCT) were prospectively evaluated in 75 patients by using iothalamate meglumine, iopamidol, and iohexol (25 patients received each agent). After baseline noncontrast CT was performed, DSBCT was performed with a 180-mL intravenous bolus administered at 2 mL/sec. Scanning was started 25 seconds after the bolus was initiated, by using a 3-second scan time and rapid cephalocaudal table incrementation, yielding contiguous 8-mm-thick sections at a rate of nine sections per minute. On postcontrast images, peak enhancement was 115% for iopamidol and 117% for iohexol, both of which were superior to iothalamate meglumine at 95% (P less than .05). After peaking, enhancement then decreased for all three contrast agents, although the decline was more precipitous for iothalamate meglumine. Enhancement on the more caudal sections with both iopamidol and iohexol was superior to that with iothalamate meglumine (P less than .05). The data suggest that the enhancement characteristics for the two nonionic agents may be more optimal for detection of focal hepatic lesions than the ionic agent. 
Anxiety levels and cancer fear in patients admitted for elective operations. Patients who are to have elective operations project varying degrees of anxiety, and many spontaneously express fear (without basis) that their operation involves a diagnosis of malignancy. To measure total, covert, and overt anxiety objectively, we gave the Institute for Personality and Ability Testing anxiety test to 125 consecutive patients admitted for elective general surgical procedures. A simple survey of cancer fear was also completed. Chi-square and Fisher's exact test were used to compare categoric data, and linear regression and analysis of variance were used where appropriate. Total anxiety scores were in the upper quartile compared to the general population. Scores indicating fear of cancer were elevated in 75% of patients who had no history of or reason to suspect malignancy. Covert anxiety scores correlated with cancer fear scores, and both significantly decreased as age increased (P less than .05). Also, as age increased, the cancer fear scores decreased (P less than .002). Obese patients had higher scores of cancer fear than all other patients (P less than .0001). 
A risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy: effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome. A bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer. The assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy. Published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect. This fact could affect the overall outcome. Decision analysis techniques with Markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy. Results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease, breast cancer, and osteoporotic fracture. The decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance. When compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect, oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries. When actual drug-taking behavior is considered, retaining the ovaries results in longer survival. This analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed. 
In vitro evaluation of bleomycin-induced cell lethality from plastic and glass containers. To optimize cancer chemotherapy, a considerable amount of research has been expended to study pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, biochemical, and pharmaceutic properties of antineoplastic agents. However, published data on the stability and compatibility of these agents in various administration fluids and containers are few in number. Evidence of a significant decrease in stability as shown by high-performance liquid chromatography has been reported when bleomycin was infused in plastic containers for prolonged periods (over 24 hours) as compared with the same procedure with glass containers. Because administration of bleomycin is usually given as a continuous infusion, we undertook this study to determine whether the drug loss of stability that occurs in plastic containers results in a therapeutic loss of efficacy (cytotoxicity). By using a tumor stem-cell assay we compared the quantitative effects of bleomycin in plastic and glass containers on cell lethality. The results from our assay showed no significant difference in cell lethality by bleomycin from its aqueous solution stored in glass and plastic containers over the time periods observed. If these results had been statistically significant, the tumor stem-cell assay may have been shown to be a more sensitive means of determining the clinical significance of these stability studies. 
Giant eccrine acrospiroma. Four cases of large eccrine acrospiroma (three benign, one malignant) are reported. The benign tumors involved the lower extremities of two women and one man (73 to 89 years of age). The duration of the lesions ranged from 10 to 20 years. The malignant tumor involved the left side of the chest of a 60-year-old man. Its occurrence in a lesion that had been present for 40 years suggested malignant transformation of a pre-existing benign eccrine acrospiroma. Each tumor showed little to no cellular atypia. Mitotic rates (mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields) varied both between and within lesions. Average mitotic rates did not differentiate the benign from the malignant tumors. The most important distinguishing features of large benign eccrine acrospiromas are the relative circumscription, the lack of cellular atypia, and the absence of stromal, perineurial, and angiolymphatic invasion. 
Increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations in hyperthyroid states. Serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were determined in 21 untreated hyperthyroid patients (12 with Graves' disease, and nine with toxic nodular adenoma) and in 20 healthy controls. All subjects had normal serum creatinine concentrations and urine analysis. Both total and free thyroid hormones were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid groups than in controls. Beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were significantly increased in both groups of hyperthyroid patients compared with controls. No difference was found in the thyroid hormone and beta 2-microglobulin concentrations between both sets of patients. The beta 2-microglobulin and thyroid hormone concentrations were not correlated. These data show that hyperthyroidism is another cause of increased beta 2-microglobulin production along with viral infections, immunologically mediated diseases, and malignant neoplasms. The increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentration in thyroid hyperfunction is probably related to metabolic rate, even if autoimmunity might contribute to its overproduction. 
Association between extent of colonic mucosal sialomucin change and subsequent local recurrence after curative excision of primary colorectal cancer. Two interrelated studies were carried out to determine whether extent of sialomucin change adjacent to a primary colorectal carcinoma predicted local tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence. In the first, depth of tumour penetration was correlated with the length of the sialomucin band adjacent to 72 primary colorectal cancers. There was a significant (P less than 0.05) increase in sialomucin band length adjacent to tumours invading adjacent structures compared with those which had not (Mann-Whitney U test), although there was no overall correlation between depth of penetration, Duke's classification or degree of differentiation (Kruskal-Wallis test). A sialomucin band of greater than 3 cm was associated with a 70 per cent probability of adjacent structure (T4) invasion. These observations were then tested prospectively in a second study involving 256 patients to determine whether the presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band could predict local recurrence. Presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was a significant (x2 = 7.12, d.f. = 1, P less than 0.001) and independent predictor of local but not distant recurrence. In addition both the interval to local recurrence and survival were significantly shorter if a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was present. However the accuracy of greater than 3 cm sialomucin band as a predictive test for local recurrence was only 70 per cent. The extent of sialomucin adjacent to a primary colorectal cancer does provide a crude assessment of tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence. 
HIV infection: clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with Kaposi's sarcoma. The clinical findings of patients with oral Kaposi's sarcoma are reviewed. These oral findings commonly included candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), periodontitis, and other symptoms, including xerostomia. The other common symptoms of HIV disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group. Treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral Kaposi's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation, with more than 50% regression of the lesions in 80% of the patients treated. 
Limb-salvage surgery in the treatment of osteosarcoma in skeletally immature individuals. Sacrifice of major growth plates during resection and fixed-length reconstruction of a limb in a skeletally immature child with osteosarcoma may result in a significant limb-length inequality as growth progresses. A limb-length discrepancy in the humerus may cause minor cosmetic problems but does not generally result in a significant functional deficit. In the lower extremity, tumors about the knee, including the distal femur and proximal tibia, usually present the dilemma of whether limb salvage by arthrodesis, osteoarticular allograft, or endoprosthetic replacement would result in a significant limb-length inequality and whether amputation of the extremity is a preferable procedure. The techniques of rotationplasty and an expandable endoprosthesis have been successfully used for treating skeletally immature patients with osteosarcoma of the distal femur. With regard to survival and function, the results obtained with these innovative methods are favorable compared with those of a high above-knee amputation. 
Phase I trial of piritrexim capsules using prolonged, low-dose oral administration for the treatment of advanced malignancies. A phase I trial of piritrexim was conducted by use of a prolonged, low-dose oral schedule. A number of different regimens were tested, including daily dosing for 21 days followed by 7 days of no drug therapy; continuous dosing; and daily dosing for 5 of 7 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a week of rest. Dose escalation was accomplished by increasing the dosing frequency from once a day to twice a day and then to three times a day and by increasing the number of days of administration. Fifty-one patients with advanced cancer were entered in the study. One hundred twenty-four (96%) of 129 courses were considered assessable. Myelosuppression proved to be the dose-limiting toxic effect. Other toxic effects included stomatitis, nausea and vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea, skin rash, fatigue, and elevation of liver transaminase levels. Antitumor activity was observed in patients with melanoma and bladder cancer, and disease stabilization occurred in those with sarcoma and pheochromocytoma. The recommended dosing schedule for phase II clinical trials is 25 mg three times a day for 5 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by 1 week of no drug therapy. 
High-grade dysplasia in the columnar-lined esophagus. Abnormal columnar lining of the esophagus is a well-recognized premalignant condition. The management of patients with high-grade dysplasia without evidence of carcinoma remains controversial. Esophagectomy is proposed by some investigators, whereas others favor follow-up endoscopy and biopsy until microinvasive malignancy is documented. We reviewed our experience with nine patients referred with high-grade dysplasia on endoscopic biopsies without evidence of carcinoma. Eight patients had the columnar lining extending orad from the cardia, and one patient had heterotopic columnar epithelium in the cervical esophagus. All were white men ranging in age from 19 to 76 years (median: 47 years). Eight patients underwent esophagectomy with colon interposition. A sleeve resection of the cervical esophagus was done in one patient. Multifocal carcinoma was found in three patients, all of whom had severe dysplastic changes throughout the columnar lining. The patient with heterotopic columnar epithelium had microinvasive carcinoma. All four patients with carcinoma had negative nodes and are long-term survivors. No carcinoma was found in the resected specimens of the remaining five patients. High-grade dysplasia is an important marker of malignancy in patients with a columnar-lined esophagus. Esophagectomy is indicated in suitable candidates since carcinoma was found in 45% of our patients. 
Management of stage A prostate cancer. Transrectal ultrasonography has defined a new category of stage A disease, namely nonpalpable lesions diagnosed by needle biopsy. How this type relates to classic stage A disease is unclear. Stage A1 carcinoma becomes clinically significant only in a distinct minority of patients, and even in this group, progression does not necessarily mean significant morbidity or death from prostate cancer. An aggressive approach is not justified. In contrast, stage A2 cancer is usually virulent, and aggressive therapy with curative intent is justified in patients of appropriate age and health. Both radical prostatectomy and external irradiation appear to provide long-term survival rates superior to those obtained with observation alone, but nearly 20% of these patients will die of cancer despite therapy. Unfortunately, forecasting the outcome in an individual case is still not possible, and efforts to identify prognostic features must continue. In the meantime, emotional arguments in favor of the treatment of all discovered cancers must be suppressed by an informed and objective understanding of the natural history of nonpalpable prostate cancer and the potential impact of treatment. 
Low incidence of asymptomatic brain metastases in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma are uncommon. The present study was undertaken to determine the value of routine computerized tomographic (CT) scanning of the brain in patients with renal cell carcinoma. A review of 106 patients with renal cell carcinoma who had undergone CT scan of the brain revealed brain metastases in only 13.2 percent. Brain metastases were accompanied by central nervous system (CNS) symptoms in 78.6 percent of patients, with headaches constituting the most common presenting symptom (64.3%). Brain metastases were detected in only 3.3 percent of patients who had no CNS symptoms at the time of evaluation. It is concluded that CT scanning of the brain should be performed routinely only for those patients who report CNS symptoms at the time of evaluation. 
Lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. A new association. We describe cases of severe odynophagia, extensive oral ulcerations, and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis. Such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis. In addition, deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis. We review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine, interferon alfa, and H2 blockers in our patients. Based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era, we postulated an association between these two entities. 
Window operation: an alternative treatment method for Bartholin gland cysts and abscesses Recently, we developed the "window operation" as a more effective way to treat Bartholin gland cysts and abscesses. The window operation was used to treat 25 Bartholin cysts and 22 Bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1989. Under local anesthesia, a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape, and suturing was performed along the excised margin. Postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation. A new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup. No complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period. The window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for Bartholin gland cysts or abscesses. 
Interaction of chloramphenicol and metabolites with colony stimulating factors: possible role in chloramphenicol-induced bone marrow injury. We have recently demonstrated that two chloramphenicol (CAP) metabolites known to be produced by intestinal bacteria, dehydro-CAP (DH-CAP) and nitrophenylaminopropane (NPAP), are much more cytotoxic to bone marrow in vitro than CAP itself. Since colony stimulating factors (CSFs) play an essential role in hematopoietic cell growth, toxicity from CAP metabolites could also involve interaction with CSF or CSF-producing cells. In the present study, we found that increasing concentrations of rhGM-CSF or rhG-CSF completely reversed the inhibitory effect of CAP (2 x 10(-4) M) on human CFU-GM growth and on the growth of KG-1 cells. GM-CSF also reversed the inhibitory effect of CAP on HL-60 cells. Inhibition by DH-CAP (50% at 5 x 10(-7) M), nitroso-CAP (NO-CAP) (60% at 5 x 10(-6) M) and NPAP (35% at 10(-5) M) was not affected by either CSF. In addition to their inhibitory effect on cell growth, DH-CAP (5 x 10(-6) M) and NO-CAP (5 x 10(-6) M) inhibited CSF production by buffy coat cells 50-70% without affecting cell viability. Neither CAP nor NPAP inhibited CSF production. It is suggested that the dual toxic-inhibitory effect of some intestinal metabolites of CAP such as DH-CAP on hematopoietic cell growth on the one hand, and on CSF production on the other, renders them very potent as potential mediators of CAP induced aplastic anemia. 
Outpatient percutaneous central venous access in cancer patients. A 1-year experience of percutaneous subclavian catheterization in outpatients with cancer was reviewed to document reliability, safety, and cost. There were 763 catheter insertions attempted with prospective documentation of complications in 664 consecutive patients. Catheter insertion was successful in 722 attempts (95%). There were only 13 pneumothoraces (2%). Thirty catheters required repositioning (4%). The average catheter duration was 191 days (range: 0 to 892 days). Fifty-six catheters (8%) were removed because of suspected infection. Documented catheter sepsis occurred in 21 patients (3%); catheter site infection occurred in 8 patients (1%). Thus, only 0.22 infections per catheter year occurred during this 382 catheter-year experience. The estimated cost of catheter insertion was $562, which is one-third the estimated cost for tunneled catheters ($1,403) and for reservoir devices ($1,738). In our experience, percutaneous subclavian catheterization is a reliable, cost-effective method compared with tunneled or reservoir devices, with an equivalent incidence of catheter-related infections. The cornerstone of our success with this program is a staff dedicated to catheter care and intensive patient education. In centers where a large number of patients require central venous access, percutaneous catheterization should be the technique of choice. 
Sunlight and dysplastic nevus risk. Results of a clinic-based case-control study. The dysplastic nevus (DN) is the most important risk factor and precursor for malignant melanoma. The authors compared the responses of 132 consecutive cases of DN, 186 consecutive cases of cutaneous melanoma, and 239 controls attending the same subspecialty clinic to questions regarding sun sensitivity, sun exposure, and other possible risk factors. Dysplastic nevus cases were younger than controls and were of a higher social class, as indicated by more years of formal education. Sun sensitivity (assessed by reported depth of tan after multiple exposures) was associated with both DN risk and melanoma risk after controlling for age and education in logistic regression analysis (P = 0.009 and 0.03, respectively), but for DN risk this association was nonlinear: the relative risks (versus deep tan) were 2.3 for average tanners, 2.8 for light tanners, and 1.6 for those who reported practically no tan. Sun exposure measures were not associated with DN risk after controlling for age and education, whether or not depth of tan was controlled in the analysis. These observations suggest a role for either sunlight or a trait linked with sun sensitivity in the development of dysplastic nevi. 
Rapid, nonradioactive detection of clonal T-cell receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid neoplasms. Southern blot hybridization analysis of clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements has proved to be a valuable adjunct to conventional methods for diagnosing lymphoid neoplasia. However, Southern blot analysis suffers from a number of technical disadvantages, including the time necessary to obtain results, the use of radioactivity, and the susceptibility of the method to various artifacts. We have investigated an alternative approach for assessing the clonality of antigen receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens. This approach involves the amplification of rearranged gamma T-cell receptor genes by the polymerase chain reaction and analysis of the polymerase chain reaction products by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. By use of this approach, clonal rearrangements from neoplastic lymphocytes constituting as little as 0.1-1% of the total cells in the tissue are detected as discrete bands in the denaturing gel after the gel is stained with ethidium bromide and viewed under ultraviolet light. In contrast, polyclonal rearrangements from reactive lymphocytes appear as a diffuse smear along the length of the gel. Our findings suggest that polymerase chain reaction combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis may offer a rapid, nonradioactive, and sensitive alternative to Southern blot analysis for the diagnostic evaluation of lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens. 
Identification of a cDNA encoding a second putative prohormone convertase related to PC2 in AtT20 cells and islets of Langerhans. PC2 and furin are two recently identified members of a class of mammalian proteins homologous to the yeast precursor processing protease kex2 and the bacterial subtillisins. We have used the polymerase chain reaction to identify and clone a cDNA (PC3) from the mouse AtT20 anterior pituitary cell line that represents an additional member of this growing family of mammalian proteases. PC3 encodes a 753-residue protein that begins with a signal peptide and contains a 292-residue domain closely related to the catalytic modules of PC2, furin, and kex2. Within this region 58%, 65%, and 50% of the amino acids of PC3 are identical to those of the aligned PC2, furin, and kex2 sequences, respectively, and the catalytically important Asp, His, and Ser residues are all conserved. On Northern blots, PC3 hybridizes to two transcripts of 3 and 5 kilobases. Tissue distribution studies indicate that both PC2 and PC3 are expressed in a variety of neuroendocrine tissues, including pancreatic islets and brain, but are not expressed in liver, kidney, skeletal muscle, and spleen. The high degree of similarity of PC3, PC2, and furin suggests that they are all members of a superfamily of mammalian proteases that are involved in the processing of prohormones and/or other protein precursors. In contrast to furin, PC3, like PC2, lacks a hydrophobic transmembrane anchor, but it has a potential C-terminal amphipathic helical segment similar to the putative membrane anchor of carboxypeptidase H. These and other differences suggest that these proteins carry out compartmentalized proteolysis within cells, such as processing within regulated versus constitutive secretory pathways. 
Regulation of the truncation of luteinizing hormone receptors at the plasma membrane is different in rat and mouse Leydig cells. Regulation of the truncation of LH receptors was investigated in two types of mouse tumor Leydig cells (MA10 and MLTC-1), rat testis Leydig cells (RTL), and a rat tumor Leydig cell (R2C). Receptor numbers were measured by binding [125I]hCG to the cells cultured in monolayers. Addition of 3.3 nM LH for 2 h at 34 C had no detectable effect on binding sites in RTL or R2C cells, but in MA10 and MLTC-1 cells it caused a loss in binding sites. The effect on MA10 and MLTC-1 cells could be mimicked by inhibiting receptor internalization with 5 mM NaN3 and prevented by the addition of protease inhibitors. Incubating RTL and R2C cells with protease inhibitors caused a 2- to 3-fold increase in binding sites and a 2- to 3-fold increase in LH (0.033 and 0.33 nM)-stimulated cAMP production. When RTL and MA10 cells were incubated in the presence of [125I]hCG, a radioactive protein complex with an approximate mol wt of 80,000-90,000 was released into the incubation medium. We conclude that LH receptors are regulated by proteolysis at the plasma membrane in both mouse and rat Leydig cells. Furthermore, truncation of the LH receptor in the mouse Leydig cells is involved in down-regulation, whereas in the rat it is a continuous process. 
Achievement of life goals by adult survivors of modern treatment for childhood cancer. To assess the impact of the diagnosis and modern treatment of childhood cancer on achievement of adult goals, the authors evaluated employment, health and life insurance coverage, marriage, divorce, and reproduction in 227 former pediatric cancer patients. Each area was evaluated in relation to a common set of disease and demographic factors that included age at follow-up, age at diagnosis, gender, marital status, history of disease recurrence, and diagnosis. Patients were younger than 20 years of age at diagnosis, and their diagnoses were made between January 1, 1960, and December 31, 1984. The median age at diagnosis was 11.4 years, and the median age at follow-up was 26.6 years. The percentage of unemployed male respondents did not differ from population norms. The percentage of unemployed female respondents, however, was slightly higher than that of the United States population. Approximately 11% of the survivors reported some form of employment-related discrimination, a level significantly lower than that of prior reports. Company-offered health insurance was provided to 92.4% of full-time and 90.0% of part-time employed respondents. Life insurance was purchased by 60% of full-time employed men and 55% of women. These percentages were lower than those reported for the United States population. Twenty-four percent of those with life insurance had difficulty obtaining it. Fifty-eight percent of the subjects were married or lived as married. The percentages of married men and women were significantly lower than United States norms. Twenty percent of those who were married or lived as married have divorced or separated or no longer live as married. Women aged 20 to 24 years were less likely to marry, and women aged 35 to 44 years had a significantly higher frequency of divorce than similarly aged United States women. In general, the history of childhood cancer did not influence the decision to marry or live as married but was occasionally (20%) important in the decision to dissolve a marital relationship. Many former patients indicated that their diagnosis and treatment for childhood cancer influenced their decision to have children. The current study suggests that most former pediatric cancer patients achieve adult life goals. Additional research is necessary to define those populations at greatest risk of failure to achieve these goals. 
Concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor (TATI) in pleural effusions. We measured the concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor (TATI) in plasma and pleural fluid of 84 patients with pleural effusions of various causes. We observed elevated (greater than 30 micrograms/L) TATI levels in pleural fluid in 45 percent of patients with pleural effusion associated with malignant disease and in 15 percent of patients with benign disease. Similar results were obtained for TATI in plasma. The concentration of TATI in pleural fluid closely parallelled that in plasma. In patients with renal insufficiency and in patients with biliary obstruction, the TATI levels were elevated both in plasma and pleural fluid. A positive correlation was seen between the concentration of TATI and the activity of alkaline phosphatase in plasma. The results show that simultaneous determination of TATI in plasma and pleural fluid improves the diagnosis of cancer only marginally. Our results also support the hypothesis that elevated TATI levels may reflect an acute phase reaction caused by inflammatory disease or tissue destruction associated with cancer not only in inflammatory conditions, but also in malignant disease where the tumor itself is not producing TATI. 
A study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome. Sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine (Periactin, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, West Point, PA) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily. Usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth, but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting. Most patients had significant relief of diarrhea, frequently associated with weight gain. Relief of flushing was uncommon. The therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) excretion in these patients was not reduced. Although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy, this was not observed in any of these 16 patients. Cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome. An appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects. 
Human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient. Human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV 16) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas, particularly those involving the anogenital tract. The authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine A and prednisone. The carcinoma was resistant to treatment, and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation. Molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral DNA probes were done. In situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of HPV 16 DNA in the tumor cells. DNA dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of HPV 16 DNA within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue. Southern blot analysis suggested that the HPV 16 DNA was integrated into the tumor cell genome. With increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of HPV type 16 infection, a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency. 
The human immunodeficiency virus type 2 vpr gene is essential for productive infection of human macrophages. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) genetic determinant(s) responsible for tropism in human T cells or macrophages are not well defined. We studied the role of the HIV type 2 (HIV-2) nef and vpr genes in viral tropism. HIV-2 mutants, lacking either vpr or nef genes, or both vpr and nef, were obtained by site-specific mutagenesis of a biologically active HIV-2 proviral clone (HIV-2sbl/isy), which is infectious in both human T cells and macrophages. Viral progeny carrying mutations of nef, vpr, or of both nef and vpr genes replicated more efficiently than the parental virus in primary human peripheral blood cells and in the human Hut 78 T-cell line. In contrast, the HIV-2 nef- mutant infected human macrophages as efficiently as the parental virus, whereas viruses lacking the vpr gene either alone or in conjunction with the lack of the nef gene did not replicate in macrophages. Thus, some lack of nef in HIV-2 enhances viral replication in T cells and does not interfere with viral replication in primary macrophages, whereas vpr is essential for replication of HIV-2 in human macrophages. Because the parental HIV-2sbl/isy cloned virus also infects rhesus macaques, the use in animal studies of these HIV-2 mutants with differences in cell tropism and rates of replication will be highly useful in understanding the mechanism of viral infectivity and possibly pathogenicity in vivo. 
Cytomegalovirus in the brain: in vitro infection of human brain-derived cells. Models for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) brain infection have been developed in a variety of brain-derived cells in which the factors governing virus infectivity might be studied in vitro. Studies were initiated with brain endothelial cells, the likely portal of entry for virus into the central nervous system. Primary explant cultures of brain endothelial cells, derived from homogenates of healthy human brain, supported complete viral gene expression and cytopathic effect (CPE). Endothelial cells do not appear to be a barrier for HCMV passage into the central nervous system. Astroglial lines (primary explant or tumor-derived) varied in their ability to support HCMV replication. Some (T98G) supported incomplete (immediate-early) gene expression while others (A-172) did not support any detectable gene expression. Some astroglial lines (HS-683) supported extensive virus replication with minimal viral CPE. Neuronal cell lines (SK-N-MC) were fully permissive. The more differentiated glial lines (astrocytoma) were fully permissive to HCMV infection; however, the less differentiated glial lines (glioblastoma) were partly or nonpermissive. 
Androgen response to endogenous insulin secretion during the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test in normal and hyperandrogenic women. Women with ovarian hyperandrogenism frequently have insulin resistance, whose underlying mechanism remains to be determined. In the present study we have investigated the relationship between insulin sensitivity and the acute effect of endogenous insulin secretion on circulating androgen levels. Insulin sensitivity, glucose-mediated insulin release, and glucose/insulin-stimulated androgen responses were determined during a frequently sampled iv glucose tolerance test in a group of 19 women with clinical evidence of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and 9 age- and weight-matched controls. Insulin (I), glucose, androstenedione, testosterone (T), free T, and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) levels were measured before and during the 3 h following iv administration of glucose (300 mg/kg). Intravenous tolbutamide (300-500 mg) was injected 20 min after the glucose injection. Insulin sensitivity (SI) was calculated by application of the minimal model of glucose kinetics. Fasting androstenedione, T, free T, and I concentrations were significantly higher in the women with PCOS than in controls (P less than 0.02). In PCOS subjects, fasting I was correlated with both T (r = 0.51; P less than 0.05) and DHEA (r = 0.706; P less than 0.01). SI was significantly lower in PCOS subjects [SI, 68.35 +/- 8.34 min-1/(nmol/mL] than in control subjects (SI, 133.36 +/- 21.7 min-1/(nmol/mL)]. A significant decline in DHEA levels was observed in control subjects 3 h after glucose administration (from 28.4 +/- 3.0; final, 16.2 +/- 2.4; P less than 0.02). PCOS women with normal insulin sensitivity [SI, greater than 75.0 min-1/(nmol/mL)] showed a similar fall in DHEA (from 20.3 +/- 2.5 to 12.8 +/- 1.8 nmol/L; P less than 0.02). No significant change occurred in insulin-resistant PCOS subjects [SI, less than 75.0 min-1/(nmol/mL)]. Other androgen levels showed a modest nonsignificant decline during the study in PCOS and control groups. These findings confirm the weight-independent insulin resistance of some hyperandrogenic women. The failure of glucose-stimulated endogenous insulin secretion to significantly depress DHEA levels in insulin-resistant women with PCOS may account in part for their androgen excess. 
5-year results of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion in head and neck cancer. As part of the developmental process for the Head and Neck Intergroup trial of adjuvant chemotherapy for advanced resectable head and neck carcinoma, in 1981 the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group, Philadelphia, Pa, conducted two nonrandomized pilot studies using chemotherapy consisting of three courses of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion. Chemotherapy was administered prior to surgery in 42 patients (induction) and after surgery in an additional 29 patients (sequential). The populations were roughly comparable with respect to tumor site and stage. Twelve of the 42 patients in the induction group and seven of the 29 in the sequential group are alive and with no evidence of disease at the last reported follow-up. The median survival was 31 months in the sequential group vs 20 months in the induction group. Only two of the 26 patients with less than a complete clinical response following induction chemotherapy are still alive. Twenty-seven of the 42 patients who received induction chemotherapy did not undergo surgery as initially planned. Despite the lack of surgery, at 5 years the survival between the two groups was not significantly different (27% for the induction group vs 23% for the sequential group). 
Ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of neck nodes. The assessment of nodal involvement in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is still a major diagnostic problem. Although the sensitivity of imaging techniques for detection of neck nodes is gradually improving, the specificity for metastases remains low. Cytologic examination could, theoretically, supply additive information. Computed tomographic-and magnetic resonance-guided aspiration techniques have been described, but these were not efficacious and laborious. In 1984, we developed a technique for ultrasound-guided (UG) fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB). This technique is described herein, and the value of UGFNAB is compared with conventional FNAB. All statistical characteristics of UGFNAB appeared to be superior to conventional FNAB (sensitivity, 98% vs 88%; specificity, 95% vs 82%; positive predictive value, 98% vs 93%; negative predictive value, 95% vs 74%; and accuracy, 97% vs 87%). Furthermore, UGFNAB was characterized by less nondiagnostic aspirations. It is concluded that UGFNAB is a reliable technique for differentiation between benign nodes and cervical lymph node metastases and it may, therefore, contribute to a more accurate assessment of the neck in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Choroidal osteoma (osseous choristoma): an atypical case. A case of choroidal osteoma presenting in a 22-year-old girl is reported. The tumour, unilateral and in a juxtapapillary site, appeared markedly elevated on the retinal plane, not flat or slightly elevated as in previous reports. Visual acuity was not affected, and there was a complete absence of subjective symptoms. Echography, fluorangiography, computerised tomography, and visual field tests were performed. Echography is the best method for identifying and differentiating this lesion from a malignant tumour. 
Childhood blindness in Peru. A survey of childhood blindness in Peruvian children was done. Although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions, measles accounted for almost 10% of blindness. With widespread measles immunization, this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced. 
Neuroendocrine carcinoid tumours of the breast: a variant of carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation. Carcinoid tumours most frequently develop in the gastrointestinal tract but have been described in many organs of the body. In 1977 the first cases were reported in the mamma, followed by descriptions of argyrophilic carcinoid-like, neuroendocrine mammary tumours by many investigators who performed immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examinations. The existence of true carcinoids in the mamma is still a controversial issue. Eight mammary neoplasms with monomorphous cytonuclear features, five of the small cell carcinoid-like variety and three composed of larger cells, were examined by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination. We believe this kind of tumours are ductal or lobular carcinomas with focal or more extensive neuroendocrine features and are the result of a dual differentiation of neoplastic precursor stem cells along epithelial and endocrine lines. Consequently, we consider that treatment of such cases should not be different from that of the ordinary type of mammary carcinomas. 
Fibromatous epulis in dogs and peripheral odontogenic fibroma in human beings: two equivalent lesions. This article compares the clinical and histopathologic features of the peripheral odontogenic fibroma in human beings and the fibromatous epulis in dogs. They are apparently equivalent lesions. Both are odontogenic tumors of limited growth potential that do not recur if adequately excised; both occur in middle and late adulthood of the species concerned. The one difference is that the peripheral odontogenic fibroma is a rare condition, whereas the canine fibromatous epulis is common. 
Nuclear shape as a prognostic discriminant in colorectal carcinoma. In search for a more reliable prognostic discriminant, a retrospective analysis of 100 cases of colorectal carcinoma having undergone curative resection and followed for at least 5 years were assessed by nuclear morphometry. Each case was staged according to the Dukes' classification as well as graded histologically. For all patients in this series, the perimeter, area, and nuclear shape factor of 50 interphase nuclei were determined for each carcinoma. The information was obtained through the use of an image analysis system by tracing the nuclear profiles (magnification 1000x) as digitized on a video screen. The nuclear shape factor was defined as the degree of circularity of the nucleus, a perfect circle recorded as 1.0. A nuclear shape factor greater than 0.84 was associated with poor outcome. Multiple regression models showed that the single nuclear parameter of the shape factor was the most highly significant predictor of survival (P less than 0.0001). This variable remained highly significant even when corrected for sex, age, histologic grade, and Dukes' classification. These findings indicate that a nuclear shape factor greater than or equal to 0.84 as determined by nuclear morphometry is an independent morphometric nuclear variable of great importance in the prognosis of large bowel carcinoma. 
Hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma. Foramen magnum tumours are rare. They may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions. We report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness, never previously described in the literature. Voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma. 
Extragonadal and poor risk nonseminomatous germ cell tumors. Survival and prognostic features. One hundred forty-nine patients with poor risk nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (NSGCT) treated between 1975 and 1988 were studied. Patients were considered poor risk if they had an extragonadal primary site or testicular NSGCT with low predicted probability of achieving a complete response (CR). Primary sites were the testis (99 patients), retroperitoneum (18 patients), and mediastinum (32 patients). Patients with mediastinal NSGCT had lower human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) (P less than 0.0001) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels (P less than 0.0001), and more frequent yolk sac elements (P = 0.002). CR rates were 38% for mediastinal, 61% for retroperitoneal, and 38% for testicular primary sites. Mediastinal NSGCT patients more frequently required resection of residual malignancy to attain a CR (6 of 12). Mediastinal NSGCT had the worst event-free survival (P = 0.02). Cox regression analysis identified brain or liver metastases as the most important predictor of event-free survival in poor risk patients. Retroperitoneal NSGCT often have a poor outcome due to advanced presentation, but the likelihood of a CR to therapy can be predicted using criteria applicable to testicular primary tumors. Therefore, not all retroperitoneal NSGCT are poor risk, and retroperitoneal tumors are probably of occult testicular origin. Mediastinal NSGCT have distinct clinical and pathologic features, do not respond as well to chemotherapy, relapse more frequently, and have the worst survival. The likelihood of a CR cannot be predicted using criteria developed for primary testicular tumors, suggesting that mediastinal primary NSGCT is a distinct clinical entity. 
A prospective clinical evaluation of autogenous vein grafts used as a nerve conduit for distal sensory nerve defects of 3 cm or less. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of autogenous vein grafts as nerve grafts (AVNC) for bridging of small peripheral sensory nerve gaps as compared with direct repair and with conventional nerve grafting techniques (ANG). Patients with painful neuroma or segmental nerve injury of 3 cm were chosen as the test group. Those amenable to direct repair were classified as controls. Between 1982 to 1988, a total of 22 patients were enrolled in this study. A total of 34 nerves were repaired, 15 with a venous nerve conduit, 4 with a sural nerve graft, and 15 with direct repair. Significant symptom relief and satisfactory sensory function return were uniformly observed. The two-point discrimination measurements indicated superiority of direct repair and probably of conventional nerve grafting. However, the universally favorable patient acceptance and the return of measurable two-point discrimination indicates the effectiveness of autogenous vein grafts as nerve conduits when selectively applied to bridge a small nerve gap (less than or equal to 3 cm) on nonessential peripheral sensory nerves. 
Relationship between blood plasma prostaglandin E2 and liver and lung metastases in colorectal cancer. The relationship of prostaglandin E2, of which a large amount is produced in various neoplasms, and hematogenous distant metastases was investigated in a total of 44 colorectal cancer patients because of its varied pathophysiologic potentials. The authors found significantly high levels of PGE2 in local venous blood draining the carcinoma and in peripheral blood in cases with liver or lung metastasis, as well as a significantly large amount of PGE2 production in the carcinoma tissue. The results suggest that increased local blood PGE2 could enhance the metastasis formation, and increased peripheral blood PGE2 may be useful in the detection of such metastasis in colorectal cancer. 
Clinical trials. A family physician's perspective. Primary care specialists diagnose and manage a wide variety of problems. Cancer is one relatively small part of the practice of these clinicians. Patients with newly diagnosed cancer usually are referred to surgical specialists. Primary care physicians often determine future events after surgical care. Oncologists may or may not be consulted depending on tumor type and past experiences of the physician, patient, and patient's family. Many primary care physicians think that chemotherapy regimens given empirically have little if any scientific evidence to support their use. Side effects of cancer treatment regimens often cause suffering and profoundly effect quality of life. There is a lack of communication between oncologists and primary care physicians. Dialogue between oncologists and primary care doctors may help solve communication problems. Clinical trials help determine which treatments are effective. Many clinical trials are conducted at the community hospital level. Most primary care physicians support clinical trials once they know about them. Education activities should be directed at promoting patient referral for participation in clinical trials. 
Ampullary tumor caused by metastatic renal cell carcinoma. In this paper we report the case of a renal cell carcinoma (RCC) metastatic to the ampullary region. The patient presented with severe anemia due to blood loss from the ampullary tumor 11 years after nephrectomy for the primary renal cancer. The diagnosis was established by means of endoscopy and biopsy. 
Epidemiologic perspectives on life-style modification and health promotion in cancer research. The clinical, patient-oriented focus of medicine and psychology is contrasted with the epidemiologic (public health) approach in assessing the role of life-style factors and health promotion in cancer research. The unifying host-agent-environment epidemiologic paradigm is applied to contemporary cancer prevention issues, principally smoking cessation and dietary modification, to demonstrate differences in inferences, prevention strategies, and research opportunities. An integration of population-based approaches with the dynamics of patient behavior and risks for cancer is especially salient when considering the role of psychosocial stress and personal and social resources. The social epidemiologic perspective, the study of the psychosocial determinants of physical health status, offers one approach for resolving the outlined differences in perspectives and is particularly relevant for understanding the etiology of life-style behaviors and how they might be altered. 
Lack of effect of chronic administration of oral beta-carotene on serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. Previous studies suggest that chronic oral administration of retinol and other retinoids causes elevation of plasma triglyceride concentrations. The effects of chronic oral administration of beta-carotene, a carotenoid partially metabolized to retinol, on plasma lipid concentrations have not been well studied; therefore, we studied 61 subjects over 12 mo while they were enrolled in a skin-cancer-prevention study in which patients were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (n = 30) or 50 mg beta-carotene/d orally (n = 31). At study entry and 1 y later, fasting blood samples were obtained for measurement of triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, retinol, and beta-carotene. Retinol concentrations changed minimally in both groups; beta-carotene concentration increased an average of 12.1 +/- 47 nmol/L in the placebo group and 4279 +/- 657 nmol/L in the active-treatment group. Both groups experienced similar small increases in triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations and small decreases in HDL cholesterol. Daily oral administration of 50 mg beta-carotene/d did not affect plasma lipid concentrations. 
Diagnosis of malignant cardiac disease by endomyocardial biopsy Among oncology patients, endomyocardial biopsy has been used primarily for the evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity. In addition, however, endomyocardial biopsy may be useful for the detection of malignant cardiac neoplasms. Between 1982 and 1989, metastatic involvement of the heart was diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy in seven patients at our institution. All except one of these patients were older than 50 years of age and had dyspnea as an initial symptom, and all had a known malignant lesion. Results of endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac involvement by a hematologic malignant lesion in four patients and metastatic melanoma in two patients. In one patient, who had a history of breast cancer and lymphoma, a metastatic neoplasm of uncertain differentiation was observed. Myocyte damage was evident in endomyocardial biopsy specimens from two of the four patients with hematologic malignant disease. Endomyocardial biopsy was performed to confirm the possibility of metastatic involvement in five patients; in the other two, endomyocardial biopsy was performed to determine whether anthracycline cardiotoxicity was present, and metastatic involvement was unanticipated. 
In vitro rosetting, cytoadherence, and microagglutination properties of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes from Gambian and Tanzanian patients. To understand the molecular mechanisms that lead to sequestration of red blood cells infected with mature stages of Plasmodium falciparum and to examine the relevance of earlier studies on adherence properties of laboratory-derived P falciparum parasites to the natural parasite population, we analyzed Gambian and Tanzanian isolates for in vitro cytoadherence and antibody-mediated microagglutination. Eighteen cryopreserved isolates of ring-stage parasites were cultured for 20 to 30 hours in vitro, in the patients original erythrocytes, to the trophozoite and schizont stage. All parasites were positive in the microagglutination assay with at least one of four African hyperimmune sera. In a rosetting assay, only 2 of the 18 isolates were strongly positive (35% and 41% of parasitized erythrocytes with more than two uninfected cells bound). Thirteen isolates showed either intermediate (5% to 18%) or low (less than 5%) rosetting while three isolates did not form rosettes. Infected cell-binding of the different isolates to immobilized CD36 or thrombospondin, or C32 melanoma cells correlated with the percentage of mature parasites in the blood samples (r = .932 for CD36, r = .946 for thrombospondin, and r = .881 for C32 melanoma cells). There was a high correlation between binding to CD36 and thrombospondin (r = .982). The extent of infected cell rosetting with uninfected cells in these blood samples was not correlated with these other receptor properties. We also observed coexpression of rosetting and cytoadherence receptors on the same parasitized erythrocytes. 
Combination hormonal therapy with tamoxifen plus fluoxymesterone versus tamoxifen alone in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. An updated analysis. A randomized trial was performed to determine if therapy with tamoxifen (TAM) plus fluoxymesterone (FLU) was more efficacious than TAM alone for postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. Patients failing TAM could subsequently receive FLU. The dose of both drugs was 10 mg orally twice daily. Objective responses were seen in 50 of 119 (42%) TAM patients and 64 of 119 (54%) TAM plus FLU patients (two-sided P = 0.07). Time to disease progression was better for TAM plus FLU (medians: 11.6 versus 6.5 months; Cox model, P = 0.03). Duration of response and survival were similar in the two treatment arms. Among 97 patients with estrogen receptor (ER) of 10 or greater and 65 years of age or older, there were highly significant advantages for treatment with TAM plus FLU in both response rate and time to progression. Of particular note is that in this patient group TAM plus FLU showed a survival advantage (Cox model, P = 0.05). Although these data require confirmation in a prospective randomized trial, they suggest that there is a substantive therapeutic advantage for TAM plus FLU over TAM alone in elderly women with ER of 10 fmol or greater. 
Sialosyl-Tn. A novel mucin antigen associated with prognosis in colorectal cancer patients. Colon cancers typically produce mucin. However, it is not known whether tumor mucin plays a biological role in cancer cell behavior. To address this issue, the expression of a mucin-associated antigen, sialosyl-Tn, was examined by immunohistochemical study in 128 primary colorectal carcinoma specimens from 137 patients who underwent curative surgical resection. Antigen expression was correlated with disease-free and overall 5-year survival. Sialosyl-Tn antigen expression occurred in 112 (87.5%) tumors, and was independent of age, gender, tumor location, Dukes' stage, depth of invasion, degree of differentiation, and ploidy status. Survival at 5 years for patients with sialosyl-Tn-negative versus sialosyl-Tn-positive tumors was 100% versus 73% (P less than 0.05) and disease-free survival was 94% versus 73%, respectively (P = 0.12). Although more advanced Dukes' stage, deeper invasion, and aneuploidy were all associated with poorer overall 5-year survival, antigen-negative tumors within each of these groups had much better prognoses than antigen-positive tumors. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that tumor ploidy (P less than 0.001) and sialosyl-Tn expression (P less than 0.05) were the two variables of most importance for predicting both disease-free and overall survival. The authors conclude that sialosyl-Tn expression is an independent predictor of poor prognosis in colon cancer, and therefore suggest that qualitative mucin alterations may reflect important differences in the biological behavior of these neoplasms. 
Comparison of DNA content in gastric cancer cells between primary lesions and lymph node metastases. Cytophotomtric DNA contents of tumor cells in primary lesions and the corresponding metastatic lymph nodes were compared in 61 cases of gastric cancer to determine whether the DNA content remains stable during lymph node metastasis. The DNA distribution patterns were grouped into three types, according to the proportion of aneuploid cell population. Changes in DNA patterns between primary and metastatic lesions were evident in 36 of 61 patients (59.0%); in the remaining 25 (41.0%), the same DNA distribution patterns were noted for both lesions. In 33 of these 36, DNA pattern in the primary carcinoma was transformed into a more narrowly scattered one in the metastatic lesion of the lymph node. Mean and modal values and the frequency of cells over tetraploid (4c) or hexaploid (6c) were significantly higher in the primary lesion compared with findings in the metastatic lesions. This reduction in DNA content in the metastatic lesions was a more frequent occurrence in differentiated (18 of 23) than in undifferentiated adenocarcinoma (15 of 35) (P less than 0.01). Therefore, in primary lesions with a widely scattered DNA ploidy, the tumor cells with a smaller DNA ploidy frequently metastasized to lymph nodes, particularly in cases of a differentiated carcinoma. Such observations may be pertinent in future designing of treatment protocols. 
Current urinary mass screening for catecholamine metabolites at 6 months of age may be detecting only a small portion of high-risk neuroblastomas: a chromosome and N-myc amplification study. We studied 96 infants and children with untreated neuroblastomas. Chromosomes of tumor cells were analyzed in 68, and N-myc copy numbers were determined in 67 patients. Patients found by a mass screening program for 6-month-old infants (group A1, 39 patients) or those less than 12 months of age found clinically (group A2, 13 patients) were rarely in the disseminated stage (A1, three of 39; A2 one of 13); their tumors usually had near-triploid (3n) or hypertetraploid (greater than 4n) karyotypes (A1, 28 of 37; A2, nine of 11), and never had N-myc amplification (A1, zero of 34; A2, zero of 11). In contrast, children 12 months or over (group B, 27 patients) were usually in the disseminated stage (19 of 27) (P less than .0001); their tumors usually had near-diploid (2n) or near-tetraploid (4n) karyotypes (16 of 20) (P = .0027), and often had N-myc amplification (nine of 22) (P less than .0001). Of the 40 clinically found patients (A2 and B), six had undergone the screening with a negative result at the age of 6 months. Two of the six patients had N-myc amplification in the tumors. Most tumors found by the screening showed known characteristics predicting a good prognosis, and the majority of tumors showing characteristics predicting a poor prognosis were found in patients aged between 12 and 36 months. Our chromosome and N-myc amplification studies suggest that a low-risk tumor does not usually evolve to a high-risk tumor. Thus, the current mass screening program may be detecting only a small portion of highly malignant neuroblastomas at the earliest stage. Infants should be screened twice, at 6 months as well as at 12 months of age, for the early detection of high-risk neuroblastomas. 
Upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer. Is routine intravenous urography worthwhile? The incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy, 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter. Ten patients developed upper tract tumours; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria. Six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months. In this series, all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions. Routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy. 
A phase II study of combined methotrexate and teniposide infusions prior to reinduction therapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. Teniposide (VM-26) can increase intracellular methotrexate (MTX) and its polyglutamate derivatives in vitro and thus has the potential to improve the therapeutic index of regimens containing MTX. In this phase II study, children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first or second marrow relapse were randomly assigned to receive either simultaneous (n = 11) or sequential (n = 12) continuous infusions of MTX and VM-26 prior to reinduction. Infusions of VM-26 were begun 12 hours after completion of MTX infusion in the sequential group. Dosages were individually adjusted to maintain plasma concentration levels of 10 microns for MTX and 15 microns for VM-26; total infusion times were 24 and 72 hours, respectively. Significant toxicity in the first six patients who received the scheduled 72-hour VM-26 infusion (including one drug-related death) prompted a 50% reduction in infusion duration. The reduced dose was associated with similar but more manageable toxicity. Examination of bone marrow aspirates 10 days after therapy was begun showed one complete and two partial marrow remissions; a fourth patient who had an aplastic marrow on day 10 received no further chemotherapy and had a complete remission (CR) documented on day 31. There was no obvious clinical advantage associated with either infusion schedule, although small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions. The 17% response rate to the MTX/VM-26 therapeutic window in patients with refractory disease suggests the need for further investigation to evaluate alternative schedules and concomitant therapy for this drug combination. 
Results of multiple pulmonary resections for metastatic osteogenic sarcoma after two decades. A 20-year follow-up of children who had complete resection of pulmonary metastases from osteogenic sarcoma of the extremities was undertaken. Four of six 10-year survivors survived more than 19 years even with multiple metastases and as many as nine thoracotomies. Fifty percent of the 10-year survivors developed second primary cancers during the second decade of follow-up. 
Resection of the superior vena cava for primary lung cancer: 5 years' survival. We describe a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the right lung that required a resection of the superior vena cava combined with a tracheal sleeve pneumonectomy. The superior vena cava was totally replaced with a polytetrafluoroethylene graft with 115 minutes cross-clamping of the superior vena cava. The patient remains healthy and the polytetrafluoroethylene graft remains patent 5 years 4 months after operation. 
Association of expression between N-myc gene and major histocompatibility complex class I gene in surgically resected human neuroblastoma. Amplification of the N-myc gene in neuroblastoma correlates with advanced stage and poor prognosis. Association of the expression between N-myc and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes in 33 neuroblastomas obtained from Japanese children was investigated. Amplification of the N-myc gene was observed in two of five cases in Stage III, six of 11 cases in Stage IV, and one of five cases in Stage IV-S. In each case, the expression of N-myc gene was significantly increased. The expression was also increased in cases without amplification of the N-myc gene, the origin being from the suprarenal region. Expression of the MHC class I gene was significantly decreased in five of these nine with a high level of N-myc expression with amplification. These results suggest that the down-modulation of the MHC class I expression may be associated with the high level of expression and amplification of N-myc gene in the advanced stage of neuroblastoma. 
The importance of anatomic site in prognosis in patients with cutaneous melanoma. To determine the prognostic relevance of the anatomic site of origin of cutaneous melanoma to survival, we retrospectively analyzed a computerized database of 3428 patients with stage I and II cutaneous melanoma. Patients were stratified by the recognized prognostic variables of stage of disease, Clark's level of invasion of the primary lesion, and the nodal involvement at the time of lymphadenectomy. Melanoma arising in skin of the upper part of the back, back of the arms, neck, and scalp (BANS) region occurred more frequently in male than female patients. There were no statistically significant differences in the distribution of Clark's level of invasion of BANS and non-BANS region primary melanomas or in the extent of nodal involvement in patients with stage II disease. The 5-year actuarial survival of patients with stage I BANS region melanomas was 87%; stage I non-BANS, 89%; stage II BANS, 38%; and stage II non-BANS, 69%. The BANS region appears to have prognostic significance in cutaneous melanoma and, particularly, in patients with stage II melanoma. 
Ubiquitin hybrid protein gene expression during human colon cancer progression. Ubiquitin is involved in cell-cycle control and DNA replication through a specific proteolytic pathway. Our previous studies demonstrated selected higher expression of a gene encoding ubiquitin-ribosomal protein S27a in poorly differentiated colon carcinoma cell lines. In this study, we evaluated this ubiquitin hybrid protein gene expression in surgical specimens of colon cancers. Northern blot analysis showed that ubiquitin hybrid protein messenger RNA was overexpressed in primary colon cancers compared with adjacent normal colon mucosae in 17 of 20 patients. Dot blot analysis of RNA of 27 tumor samples revealed significantly greater expression in higher Dukes' stage primary colon tumors and liver metastases. These data imply that protein translation machinery is highly activated during progression and metastasis of colon tumors, and that ubiquitin hybrid protein may be useful as a marker of biological aggressiveness. 
Central odontogenic fibroma: clinicopathologic features of 19 cases and review of the literature. The odontogenic fibroma is a benign neoplasm infrequently reported in the literature (20 cases). Nineteen additional examples are reported. This lesion occurs most frequently in the maxilla anterior to the molars and displays a striking female predilection. On occasion, it may be associated with an unerupted mandibular third molar. Histomorphologically, it is not encapsulated. A spectrum of fibrous connective tissue stroma is present: from myxoid to densely hyalinized and from relatively acellular to cellular. Calcification may or may not be present. It is distinguished by the presence of sparse cords and islands of inactive odontogenic epithelium. Enucleation or surgical curettage is appropriate therapy and recurrence is low. As there appears to be no correlation of histologic pattern with clinical behavior, it seems unnecessary to try to separate the tumor into two variants. 
Bone marrow stromal cell changes in haematological malignancies. Stromal cell numbers from subjects with no haematological disease and those with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), chronic granulocytic leukaemia (CGL), acute lymphatic leukaemia (ALL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) were compared to determine their role in malignancy. Frozen sections of trephine biopsy specimens from iliac crests were stained for endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity, endogenous acid phosphatase activity, and, using immunocytochemical methods, for endothelial cells (anti-factor-VIII related antigen) and macrophages and related cells (EBM/11). In granulocytic malignancies, whether acute or chronic, alkaline phosphatase positive reticulum cells (AL-RC) and vascular endothelial cells were generally increased. In lymphoid malignancies, the numbers of AL-RC were generally reduced. Numbers of vascular endothelial cells seemed to be normal in ALL but reduced in foci of NHL. Macrophages are numerous in normal marrow, and their numbers seemed to be normal in granulocytic lesions but were more variable and sometimes reduced in ALL and NHL. Lymphoid malignancies, therefore, have a destructive effect on some stromal elements; granulocytic malignancies are associated with normal or increased numbers of stromal cells. A possible consequence of depleted stromal cells might be slower reconstitution of normal haemopoiesis after treatment. The large numbers in granulocytic malignancies raises the possibility of synergistic stimulation between stromal and neoplastic cells. 
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radical surgery in locally advanced cervical cancer. Prognostic factors for response and survival. Between January 1986 and September 1988, 75 patients with locally advanced cervical carcinoma (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics [FIGO] Stages IB-III) received three courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC), including cisplatin, bleomycin, and methotrexate (PBM). Fifteen percent of patients achieved a complete response (CR) and 68% a partial response (PR). Pretreatment characteristics were analyzed for response to NAC. Significantly lower response rates were found in patients with tumor size more than 5 cm in diameter and bilateral parametrial involvement to the pelvic side wall. None of the biological parameters studied was related to chemoresponsiveness. Patients achieving CR or PR had a significantly improved 3-year survival rate compared with those who did not respond. After NAC, radical surgery was possible in all responding patients. The median number of lymph nodes removed was 60. A lower than expected incidence of lymph node metastases was detected. None of the clinical and pathologic features considered was significantly correlated with the lymph node status. Twelve of the 62 operated patients had disease recurrence. Pathologic parametrial involvement and cervical infiltration equal to or deeper than 5 mm were found to be significant prognostic factors for recurrence. A 3-year, disease-free survival of 89%, 73%, and 43% for Stage IB-IIA, IIB, and III, respectively, was found. Among the operated patients these rates increased to 100%, 81%, and 66% for Stage IB-IIA, IIB, and III, respectively. A prospective randomized trial comparing NAC and surgery with radiotherapy alone is in progress. 
Increase in incidence of disease due to diagnostic drift: primary liver cancer in Denmark, 1943-85. OBJECTIVE--To examine the extent to which changes in diagnostic methods and classification are responsible for the striking increase in incidence of primary liver cancer in Denmark since 1943. DESIGN--Analysis of the time trends in sex specific, age standardised incidence of primary liver cancer and unspecified liver cancer (either secondary without known primary cancer or not specified as primary cancer) in the entire population from 1943 to 1985. By review of the 727 notifications from three periods of 5 years (1948-52, 1963-7, and 1978-82) the changes in histological diagnosis and classification were assessed. SETTING--Denmark. SUBJECTS--Notifications of liver cancer to the Danish cancer registry. RESULTS--Concomitant with the increase in primary liver cancer, the incidence of the unspecified liver cancer declined. The proportion of histologically diagnosed primary liver cancer rose from 85% to 98%, whereas the proportion for unspecified liver cancer rose from 12% to 51%. When the proportion of primary versus unspecified liver cancer obtained by histological diagnosis was extrapolated to all cases, the annual incidence of primary liver cancer was 4.4 rather than 1.6 per 100,000 population in 1948-52 and 6.0 rather than 5.5 per 100,000 in 1978-82. CONCLUSION--The increase in the incidence of primary liver cancer may be much smaller than the numbers of registered cases indicate. This example emphasises the need to consider diagnostic drift in time trend studies of disease incidence. 
Induction of cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes by pedal subcutaneous administration of interleukin-2 in patients with renal cancer. The authors attempted to increase the cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes in ten patients with renal cell carcinoma by administration of recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) into the subcutaneous tissue of the instep. A total of 5000 to 21,000 units was given over 3 to 12 preoperative days. Mononuclear cells separated from the lymph nodes excised from the renal hilum at surgery served as the effector cells. Fresh autologous tumor cells and three cultured cell lines, K562, Raji, and ACHN, served as the target cells. Cytotoxicity was measured by a chromium-releasing assay. The results showed that the mononuclear cells from the lymph nodes of the patients given IL-2 became cytotoxic to all target cells. Surface markers of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes were unchanged. Peripheral blood lymphocytes showed increased cytotoxicity only against Raji cells. Adverse effects were mild or moderate and included local redness, high fever, liver dysfunction, and toxic erythema. 
Malignant melanoma of the biliary tract: a case report. A 58-year-old man was seen with obstructive jaundice and discomfort in the upper abdomen. Computed tomographic and ultrasound examinations revealed a soft-tissue mass in the gallbladder. Cholecystectomy and choledochotomy revealed a soft black mass in the gallbladder and a second one in the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct. Each was diagnosed as malignant melanoma. Subsequently, a Whipple resection of the pancreas, duodenum, and distal bile duct revealed a melanoma circumferentially invading and obstructing the distal common duct. No lymph node or distant metastasis was identified. Repetitive searches for another primary site have been negative. The tumor apparently originated in the biliary tract. The patient remains almost well 2 years after diagnosis. 
Tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma: echocardiographic characterization. We report a tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma initially detected by transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography and subsequently characterized by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. The mass was excised during open heart operation, and the diagnosis was verified grossly and histopathologically. Transesophageal echocardiography usually provides images far superior to those from transthoracic echocardiography and may be a useful adjunct for intraoperative localization of intracardiac tumors for excision. 
Phase II trial of piritrexim in metastatic melanoma using intermittent, low-dose administration. A phase II trial of piritrexim (2,4-diamino-6[2,5-dimethoxybenzyl]-5-methyl pyrido-[2,3d] pyrimidine, 301U74; PTX) was conducted for patients with metastatic malignant melanoma using an intermittent, low-dose oral administration schedule. PTX was administered at a starting dose of 25 mg orally three times per day for 5 days weekly for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of rest. Thirty-one patients were entered onto the study. Among 31 patients assessable for response, there were two complete responses (CRs) and five partial responses (PRs) for a response rate (CR plus PR) of 23% (95% confidence limit, 10% to 42%). Five responses occurred in soft tissue lesions, and two responses occurred in lung lesions. The initial dose schedule was well tolerated. The dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression. PTX administered in this schedule appears to be active against malignant melanoma. Further clinical trials to confirm these results are underway. 
Radiation therapy of laryngeal cancer: a twenty year experience. This paper reviews a 20 year experience of radiation treatment of 286 laryngeal cancers and presents results with a minimum five year follow-up. All cases presented had glottic or supraglottic squamous cell carcinomas with no clinical evidence of nodal metastasis. A policy of primary radiotherapy with surgery for salvage of treatment failures, produced control of primary disease and prevention of metastases superior to most other regimes documented in the literature. 
Characterization of the morphonuclear features and DNA ploidy of typical and atypical carcinoids and small cell carcinomas of the lung. The authors analyzed several cytomorphonuclear parameters related to chromatin distribution and DNA ploidy in typical and atypical carcinoids and in small cell lung cancers. Nuclear measurements and analysis were performed with a SAMBA 200 (TITN, Grenoble, France) cell image processor with software allowing the discrimination of parameters computed on cytospin preparations of Feulgen-stained nuclei extracted from deparaffinized tumor tissues. The authors' results indicate a significant increase in DNA content--assessed by integrated optical density (IOD)--from typical carcinoids to small cell lung carcinomas, with atypical carcinoids showing an intermediate value. Parameters related to hyperchromatism (short and long run length and variance of optical density) also characterize the atypical carcinoids as being intermediate between typical carcinoids and small cell lung cancers. The systematic measurement of these cytomorphonuclear parameters seems to define an objective, reproducible "scale" of differentiation that helps to define the atypical carcinoid and may be of value in establishing cytologic criteria for differential diagnosis. 
Lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum: an unusual intraoperative finding. Lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina. He was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances. The diagnosis was made on frozen section. 
Chemoprotective effects of recombinant human IL-1 alpha in cyclophosphamide-treated normal and tumor-bearing mice. Protection from acute toxicity, hematologic effects, development of late mortality, and enhanced therapeutic efficacy. In this study, recombinant human IL-1 alpha (rhIL-1 alpha) was used to protect normal and tumor-bearing BALB/c mice from the acute toxicity caused by lethal doses of cyclophosphamide (Cy) and 5-fluorouracil. Pretreatment of mice for 7 days with 10,000 U/day of rhIL-1 alpha protected 70 to 100% of mice from the acute death induced by lethal doses of both Cy (380 mg/kg) and 5-fluorouracil (250 mg/kg). In contrast, post-treatment of mice with single or multiple doses of rhIL-1 alpha was not chemoprotective. Pretreatment of mice with rhIL-1 alpha increased the acute LD90 of Cy from 380 mg/kg to greater than 500 mg/kg in normal mice, an LD90 dose-modifying effect of at least 1.25, was accompanied by a more rapid recovery from neutropenia and a less severe reduction in the number of bone marrow single lineage monocyte, myeloid, or myelomonocytic colonies. Some of the mice (10 to 50%) that were successfully protected by pretreatment with rhIL-1 alpha died after day 50. These mice consistently presented with extensive pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis at death. Mice bearing murine renal cancer (Renca) were also protected from the acute toxic effects of Cy (450 mg/kg) by pretreatment with rhIL-1 alpha. Renca-bearing mice pretreated with rhIL-1 alpha and either sublethal (300 mg/kg) or lethal (450 mg/kg) doses of Cy exhibited enhanced survival times over those of untreated Renca-bearing mice. Interestingly, the cause of death in Renca-bearing mice that ultimately failed treatment with rhIL-1 alpha plus 300 mg/kg Cy was recurrent tumor, whereas most mice treated with rhIL-1 alpha plus 450 mg/kg Cy had no detectable tumor, although several died from late pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis. Thus, the dose escalation of Cy in rhIL-1 alpha-pretreated mice results in greater antitumor effects of Cy. However, the dose escalation of some cytotoxic agents allowed by the use of myelostimulatory agents can result in late fatal complications not detected in acute toxicity testing. 
Genetic counselling in retinoblastoma: importance of ocular fundus examination of first degree relatives and linkage analysis. We report an unusual family pedigree segregating the retinoblastoma predisposition gene. Expression of the phenotype in different individuals in this family ranges from asymptomatic gene carriers, regressed tumours, through unifocal to bilateral multifocal lesions. Because of the unusual pattern of inheritance in this family, initial genetic counselling at a local hospital did not take into account the possibility of incomplete penetrance of the gene, and complete ophthalmological examination of unaffected family members was not undertaken. We have used DNA probes from within the retinoblastoma predisposition gene for unequivocal identification of gene carriers. The subsequent demonstration of regressed tumours in founder members of the family confirmed the diagnosis of a dominantly inherited disease. The circumstances of the management of this family emphasises the need for specialist ophthalmic examination of first degree relatives and detailed genetic analysis of all such families with DNA probes. 
The operative management of coexisting thyroid and parathyroid disease. Three hundred eight patients who underwent operation for hyperparathyroidism were studied. Fifty-two (17%) were identified who had a concomitant thyroid nodule. All 52 underwent parathyroidectomy and thyroid resection in a single operation. Eleven of these patients (21% of those with a thyroid nodule) had differentiated thyroid cancer. One patient with parathyroid hyperplasia developed permanent hypocalcemia. None had permanent vocal cord paralysis and none required tracheostomy. Thorough visual inspection and palpation of the entire thyroid gland should be performed during operations for hyperparathyroidism. Incidentally discovered thyroid nodules should prompt formal lobectomy with frozen section diagnosis; unanticipated thyroid malignancies should then be treated as independent entities. Treating simultaneous hyperparathyroidism and nodular thyroid disease with a single operation can be done safely; it avoids the expense and risk associated with neck reexploration and can detect unsuspected cancers. 
DNA ploidy in the primary tumor from patients with nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumors clinical stage I. The DNA stemline ploidy was assessed in paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed primary tumor tissue from 68 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell cancer (NSCGT) clinical Stage I (CS I). Forty-three patients had a single aneuploid (greater than 1C) DNA stemline, whereas 24 patients had multiple aneuploid stemlines. In one tumor there was no evidence of an abnormal DNA stemline. Most DNA stemlines had DNA indices around the 3c value. In 13 patients there was a good correlation between the DNA stemline values observed in the primary tumor and in the retroperitoneal lymph node metastases. No correlation was found between the DNA index and the histologic subclassification or the metastatic behavior. The size of the S-phase fraction did not appear to be predictive of subclinical metastases. In CS I patients with NSCGT determination of DNA stemline values does not yield information of predictive or prognostic significance but may contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of NSCGT. 
Cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes. T cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases. Articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans. We studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes, because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures, based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases. A striking T cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. This reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process. Clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood T cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes. This response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the T cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells. In contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid T cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes, but also to fibroblast membrane material. However, there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes. Normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation. These data indicate that there is a strong T cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders, and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases. 
Management of stage D1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate: the Johns Hopkins experience 1974 to 1987. There is no consensus on the proper management of men with stage D1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Although cure is unlikely, many men survive for long intervals apparently free of metastatic disease. Thus, effective palliation of the local lesion with low morbidity is desirable. From 1974 to 1987, 120 consecutive men with stage D1 prostate cancer were treated with 3 primary modes of therapy (mean followup 48 months): 1) expectant therapy (35), 2) external beam radiotherapy (21) and 3) radical prostatectomy (64). These patients were statistically homogeneous as determined by Gleason grade but not by extent of metastatic disease. The over-all 5 and 10-year projected actuarial survival rates for the radical prostatectomy patients were 97 and 62%, respectively, and the apparent clinical survival free of disease at 5 years and 80 months, respectively, was 83 and 68%. The direct disease-specific 10-year survival free of disease was 46%. However, only 3 of 27 patients followed for 3 years or longer had undetectable levels of prostate specific antigen. Using a Cox univariate proportional hazards model several factors appeared to have significant prognostic value including volume of lymph node metastases (macroscopic greater than 2 mm.), percentage of positive lymph nodes sampled and frozen section diagnosis. Gleason grade, clinical stage and the number of positive nodes did not have significant prognostic value. Local recurrence requiring an operation was noted in 8 of 35 patients (23%) treated expectantly, 5 of 21 (24%) treated with radiotherapy and 2 of 64 (3%) treated with radical prostatectomy. Significant gastrointestinal or genitourinary complications occurred in 33% of the men treated with radiotherapy and 1.5% of those undergoing radical prostatectomy. Since the introduction of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in 1982, potency resumed in 55% of the 33 patients who were potent preoperatively and have been followed 1 year or longer. These data suggest that in properly selected patients radical prostatectomy, although not curative, can provide excellent palliation of the local lesion with acceptable morbidity and that symptomatic local recurrence of prostatic cancer achieved with radiation therapy is identical to the results in men who were managed expectantly. 
Terminal duct adenocarcinomas of salivary tissues. Terminal duct adenocarcinoma is recommended as an encompassing diagnostic designation for a preponderantly intraoral salivary gland carcinoma that has also gone under the names of polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma, lobular carcinoma, and low-grade papillary adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma is biologically low grade, with its papillary phenotype manifesting a more aggressive behavior than nonpapillary forms. 
A meta-analysis of the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on the risk of breast cancer [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Sep 11;266(10):1362] To quantify the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on breast cancer risk, we combined dose-response slopes of the relative risk of breast cancer against the duration of estrogen use across 16 studies. Using this summary dose-response slope, we calculated the proportional increase in risk of breast cancer for each year of estrogen use. For women who experienced any type of menopause, risk did not appear to increase until after at least 5 years of estrogen use. After 15 years of estrogen use, we found a 30% increase in the risk of breast cancer (relative risk, 1.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2 to 1.6). The increase in risk was largely due to results of studies that included premenopausal women or women using estradiol (with or without progestin), studies for which the estimated relative risk was 2.2 (CI, 1.4 to 3.4) after 15 years. Among women with a family history of breast cancer, those who had ever used estrogen replacement had a significantly higher risk (3.4; CI, 2.0 to 6.0) than those who had not (1.5; CI, 1.2 to 1.7). 
Systemic chemotherapy for urothelial cancer in patients with ureteric obstruction. The aims of this study were to document the toxicity of systemic chemotherapy and response rates in patients with ureteric obstruction caused by urothelial cancer. The study group included 91 patients who received cisplatin and methotrexate; 36 (40%) had upper tract dilatation, 9 of whom had drainage by stenting or nephrostomy and 55 (60%) had normal upper tracts. The response rate was documented in 65 patients (71%) who had measurable primary or metastatic disease. No significant differences were found between the dilated/drained group, the dilated/undrained group and the normal group in biochemical measurements of renal function during or after the courses of chemotherapy. Serious haematological toxicity occurred in 10% (10/104 cycles) of the dilated/undrained group and in 6% (12/200 cycles) of the normal group. The complete response rate in the dilated group was 15% compared with 41% in the normal group. No increased chemotherapy toxicity was observed in patients with upper tract dilatation and a significant complete response rate was found in patients with upper tract dilatation without renal impairment. 
Histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms: I. Mucoepidermoid carcinomas. Histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms has been done with various degrees of success and hence various degrees of acceptance among pathologists and otolaryngologists-head and neck surgeons. Given their histopathologic diversity, three carcinomas--mucoepidermoid, adenoid cystic, and acinic cell--would seem to be suitable candidates for grading. In this, the first of a three-part series, the authors present a three-level grading scheme for mucoepidermoid carcinomas. It combines histocytologic and growth features of the carcinomas that independently or together, in other grading proposals, have shown prognostic value. 
Significance of positive margins in oral cavity squamous carcinoma. Three hundred ninety-eight consecutive, previously untreated patients undergoing surgery for epidermoid carcinoma of the oral cavity from 1979 to 1983 were reviewed. One hundred twenty-nine patients were classified as having positive surgical margins. Of these, 83 patients had tumor within 0.5 mm of the surgical margin, 9 had premalignant changes at the margin, 9 had in situ carcinoma at the margin, and 28 had invasive cancer at the margin. The remaining 269 patients had uninvolved margins. The significance of positive margins relating to survival, subsequent clinical course, local recurrence, and patterns of treatment failure was examined, along with the impact of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy on positive margins. The percentage of patients having positive margins progressively increased with increasing T stage: 21% in T1 versus 55% in T4 primary cancer. The overall 5-year survival for patients with negative margins was 60%. For patients with positive margins, 5-year survival was 52%. This difference was statistically significant. The incidence of local recurrence in patients having positive surgical margins was twice as much as in those with negative margins (36% versus 18%). Metastasis rates in the neck and at distant sites were not significantly influenced by the status of the surgical margin. Of the 129 patients with positive margins, 49 received postoperative radiotherapy. In those patients so treated, a trend toward lower recurrence rates was noted. Differences were not statistically significant. This retrospective review confirms the importance of adequate resection of the primary tumor as well as the relative ineffectiveness of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy in the improvement of local control in patients with positive surgical margins. 
Incidence of hairy cell leukemia, mycosis fungoides, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in first known HTLV-II-endemic population. Unlike human T cell leukemia-lymphoma virus type I (HTLV-I), HTLV-II has not been convincingly linked to a malignancy. In the first 10 months of serologic screening for HTLV-I/II among blood donors in New Mexico in 1988-1989, HTLV-I/II infection was found in 27 donors. HTLV-I/II infection was present in 1.0%-1.6% of American Indian and 0.16%-0.27% of Hispanic donors compared with 0.009%-0.06% of non-Hispanic white donors. HTLV-II was identified by DNA amplification in 12 of 13 samples from Indian and Hispanic seropositive donors. Despite apparent endemic HTLV-II infection in these populations, New Mexico Tumor Registry data showed that the incidences of hairy cell leukemia, mycosis fungoides, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were comparable among the three ethnic groups. A population with endemic HTLV-II infection has been identified, and there is no evidence of increased risk for these three malignancies in the endemic groups. 
Fluorescent cytochemical detection of estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast fine-needle aspirates. Estrogen and progesterone receptors were studied in fine-needle aspiration biopsy specimens of 56 patients with primary, recurrent, or metastatic breast carcinoma. The ligands, 17 B-estradiol-6-carboxymethyloxine-bovine serum albumin fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC-BSA estradiol) and hydroxyprogesterone hemisuccinate bovine serum albumin tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate (TMRITC-BSA progesterone), were used in the fluorescent cytochemical method. The findings obtained from the aspirated cells with the use of the fluorescent cytochemical technique were compared with results obtained from the cell population of the same tumor after removal with the use of both the fluorescent cytochemical technique and the biochemical dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) assay. For the needle aspirates, there was 89% concordance for estrogen receptor and 86% concordance for progesterone receptor between biochemical and cytochemical results. A high degree of correlation was also demonstrated between fine-needle aspirates and imprint preparations with the use of the cytochemical technique. This study suggests that the fluorescent cytochemical technique is an effective tool in assessment of estrogen and progesterone receptor content in fine-needle aspirates of primary and metastatic breast cancer. The fluorescent cytochemical technique can be performed easily at community hospitals and is well suited for specimens of insufficient size for biochemical assay. 
Current strategies in the management of locoregional and metastatic gastric carcinoma. Gastric carcinoma remains a significant cause of death worldwide. A patient's prognosis depends on the degree of gastric wall penetration, presence of lymph node metastases, and location of the primary site. Metastatic gastric carcinoma is currently incurable. However, chemotherapy continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Active agents include 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), doxorubicin, cisplatin, methotrexate, mitomycin, and etoposide. Combination etoposide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (EAP) has been reported to result in encouragingly high response rates, including a 10% complete response rate in patients with metastatic gastric carcinoma. Trials are now under way to confirm these results. Similarly, another etoposide-based combination, etoposide, leucovorin, and 5-FU (ELF), has resulted in an equally good response rate but less toxicity than EAP. The 5-FU, doxorubicin, and methotrexate (FAMTX) regimen, previously reported to have an excellent response rate, is also being investigated further. For patients with locoregional carcinoma, curative resection rate is often unsatisfactorily low; however, curative resection is consistently associated with improved survival (between 23 and 26 months). In patients with potentially resectable carcinoma, two significant problems must be recognized: (1) a low rate of curative resection and (2) the development of widespread carcinoma despite curative resection. Despite many attempts, the postoperative strategies of adjuvant chemotherapy have been ineffective. New strategies must be investigated aggressively. Combination etoposide, 5-FU, and cisplatin (EFP) has been administered preoperatively and postoperatively to patients with resectable gastric carcinoma, resulting in an encouraging curative resection rate (greater than 70%) and manageable toxicity. Based on promising results reported with EAP in patients with unresectable locoregional carcinoma of the stomach, a trial of preoperative and postoperative EAP in potentially resectable carcinoma of the stomach is now under way. 
The role of interleukin-2 in cancer immunotherapy. The arena of cellular immunotherapy is an emerging field of study. The field has strong foundations in numerous animal tumor models, which provide avenues of research for refinements in human immunotherapy. Experience from a number of research centers can be generalized: LAK cell trials in humans have demonstrated that PBMCs activated with IL-2 possess reproducible antitumor activity in vitro. Exogenous IL-2 administration to patients is required to maintain the biologic activity of the activated cells, although the requirement for LAK cells in tumors like melanoma is not clear-cut. Overall, the response rate to immunotherapy in humans is approximately 30%. The toxicity of immunotherapy, which is related to the dose of systemic IL-2, can be significantly reduced. The next generation of trials of cellular immunotherapy in humans will use TILs. Murine experiments indicate that this population of cells is more powerful and potentially more specific for tumor than LAK cells. Like LAK cells, TILs also require exogenous IL-2 for optimum performance in vivo. The difficulty in reproducible TIL growth can be overcome by the use of monoclonal antibody activation and IL-2. Improvements in TIL therapy are anticipated from the use of TILs combined with hybrid antibodies, the addition of other biologic response modifiers, and the implementation of genetically engineered cells and cell products. 
Clinical management of port-wine stain in infants and young children using the flashlamp-pulsed dye laser. The flashlamp-pulsed dye laser (FLPDL) at 585 nm, a wavelength well absorbed by oxyhemoglobin, causes highly selective vascular injury. In addition, the 450 microsecond pulse duration produced by this laser approximates the thermal relaxation time for dermal blood vessels thereby confining the energy to the target. This new laser effects excellent lightening of port-wine stain (PWS) in infants and young children without the adverse complications of hypertrophic scarring, permanent pigmentation abnormality, or textural changes, complications often seen with conventional laser systems. The FLPDL now permits treatment of this patient population expected to gain the most benefit from early laser therapy in a much safer manner, before the psychological complications of being a "marked" person develop. The purpose of this report is to: (1) describe the theoretical considerations behind achieving selective removal of PWS that can be understood and used by a nonsurgically-oriented practitioner; and (2) describe the practical application of the device used in the clinical management of infants and young children. 
Piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat. This study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat. Forty female Wistar rats received a 2250-cGy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon. Twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure; 20 rats served as irradiated controls. All animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year. At killing, colons were removed for light microscopic examination. One year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality, vascular changes, acute inflammation, colitis cystica profunda, or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups. However, at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group. The first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation. Histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group. The authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation. 
Prostate specific antigen in hormonally treated stage D2 prostate cancer: is it always an accurate indicator of disease status? The clinical significance of serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) values in hormonally treated prostate cancer patients and the effect of hormonal therapy on the serum PSA concentration, independent of the response observed from its antitumor activity, are not well defined. To elucidate further the influence of antiandrogen therapy on serum PSA expression, 81 randomly selected patients with stage D2 prostate cancer were evaluated with respect to serum PSA concentration. These patients were divided into 2 groups on the basis of previous hormonal therapy. Group 1 consisted of 43 patients 55 to 89 years old (mean age 71 years) who had received no prior therapy for prostate cancer. Group 2 included 38 men 58 to 84 years old (mean age 72 years) who had received only androgen deprivation therapy with either bilateral orchiectomy or diethylstilbestrol. The mean interval between initiation of antiandrogen therapy and evaluation of these patients was 14 months (range 8 to 31 months). At the time of PSA determination both groups were similar in all respects, including tumor grade, disease symptoms and bone scan findings. The median serum PSA concentration was 96.0 ng./ml. in group 1 and 16.5 ng./ml. in group 2 (p less than 0.001), despite both groups having similar symptoms and widespread metastatic disease on radionuclide bone scan. In group 1 only 1 patient (2%) had a serum PSA level less than 4.0 ng./ml., whereas 13 men (34%) in group 2 had a serum PSA concentration below 4.0 ng./ml. (p less than 0.001). Of the patients in group 1, 2% and of the men in group 2, 45% had a serum PSA concentration less than 10 ng./ml. (p less than 0.001). These findings demonstrate that the serum PSA level in prostate cancer patients treated hormonally may have a significantly different meaning than the same serum PSA value in patients without hormonal therapy. In addition, these observations suggest that PSA expression may be under hormonal regulation and that androgen deprivation therapy may have a direct effect on the serum PSA concentration, independent of the response obtained from any antitumor activity. However, the exact mechanism of this androgenic influence on PSA expression awaits further investigation at the cellular level. 
Chemical shift imaging of human brain: axial, sagittal, and coronal P-31 metabolite images. Multivoxel magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and novel data analysis techniques were developed to obtain high-quality phosphorus-31 metabolite images from the human brain and to overlay each metabolite distribution directly onto corresponding hydrogen-1 MR images. The P-31 MR spectroscopic data were acquired by means of three-dimensional chemical shift imaging (phase encoding in three spatial dimensions) on a 1.5-T clinical instrument equipped with a specially designed quadrature P-31 birdcage coil constructed in the authors' laboratory. Axial, sagittal, and coronal metabolite images based on the area for any one of five peak regions (phosphodiester; phosphocreatine; gamma, alpha, and beta adenosine triphosphate) were generated from 8 X 8 X 8 or 12 X 12 X 8 CSI arrays with voxel sizes of 27 cm3 and 12 cm3, respectively. The positions of these images were aligned with anatomic features by means of the voxel-shifting capability of the Fourier transform. Direct overlays of these metabolite images on corresponding proton images demonstrated excellent correlation with anatomy, factors indicating the utility of this technique for viewing P-31 metabolite levels in all areas of the brain simultaneously. 
Technetium-99m(v) dimercaptosuccinic acid planar scintigraphy in head and neck cancer: clinical, scintigraphic and radiological study. Technetium-99m (Tc99m)(v) Dimercaptosuccinic Acid (DMSA) is an imaging agent which has been proposed as a scintigraphic marker for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Fifty-four patients were studied of whom 51 had a head and neck tumour. All patients were examined and then imaged using Tc99m(v) DMSA scintigraphy and computerized tomography. Scintigraphy was less sensitive than clinical examination in the detection of patients with cancer, patients with primary tumours and patients with metastatic neck disease. CT was as sensitive and as accurate as clinical examination but more sensitive than Tc99m(v) DMSA in detecting patients with cancer and with primary tumours. CT was more sensitive and more accurate than both clinical examination and Tc99m(v) DMSA scintigraphy in predicting which patients had metastatic neck disease. Although Tc99m(v) DMSA is accumulated by squamous cell carcinoma, its inability to detect low volume disease and apparent low specificity means it has no role to play in the management of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. 
Effects of epidermal growth factor and analogues of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tyrosine residues of specific protein substrates in various tumors. Analogues of somatostatin (SS) and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) activate tyrosine phosphatases in MIA PaCa-2 human pancreatic cancer cell line membranes and inhibit growth. We compared the substrates phosphorylated by epidermal growth factor (EGF) to those dephosphorylated by the SS analogue RC-160 (D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Lys-Val-Cys-Trp-NH2) and [D-Trp6]LH-RH in cancer cell lines such as MIA PaCa-2 (human pancreatic cancer), HCPC (hamster cheek pouch carcinoma), A-549 (human lung cancer), HT-29 (human colon cancer), and R3230AC (breast cancer). EGF phosphorylated proteins of 170, 65, and 60 kDa and analogues of SS and LH-RH promoted the dephosphorylation of these proteins in MIA PaCa-2 and HCPC cell lines. The EGF receptor is 170 kDa. pp60src (60 kDa) is known to be a substrate for EGF receptor. The LH-RH receptor is also 60 kDa. The effects of RC-160 and [D-Trp6]LH-RH were quantitatively different. Examinations of HT-29, A-549, and R3230AC cancer cell lines revealed no phosphorylation by EGF or dephosphorylation by RC-160 and [D-Trp6]LH-RH. In addition to the 170-, 65-, and 60-kDa proteins, 35-kDa proteins were also phosphorylated in some cancer cell lines. This work demonstrates that analogues of SS and LH-RH can reverse the effects of EGF biochemically as well as functionally. 
Influence of age and endocrine factors on the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia. To determine whether endocrine factors influence the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), 23 hormonal factors were measured in the serum of 64 men ages 42 to 71 years with low volume prostatic cancer and these levels were correlated with the volume of benign hyperplastic tissue in their radical prostatectomy specimens. With age there was a significant increase in the volume of BPH. Also with age there was a significant decrease in the serum levels of free testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandronsterone (DHA), dehydroepiandronsterone sulphate (DHA-S), delta 5-androstenediol, and 17-hydroxypregnenolone, and a significant increase in sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), LH, and FSH. When BPH volume and hormone levels were corrected for age, BPH volume correlated positively with free testosterone, estradiol, and estriol. These data indicate that with age patients with larger volumes of BPH have higher serum androgen and estrogen levels suggesting that serum androgen and estrogen levels may be factors in the persistent stimulation of BPH with age. If so, therapeutic attempts at lowering plasma testosterone levels, reducing estrogen levels, or blocking androgenic stimulation through other mechanisms may interfere with the progression of BPH with age. Conversely, the fact that androgen production declines gradually with age may explain the observation that only 20 to 30% of men who live to age 80 require surgical treatment for urinary obstruction from BPH. 
The diagnosis of ovarian cancer by pathologists: how often do diagnoses by contributing pathologists agree with a panel of gynecologic pathologists? The Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study, a multicenter, population-based, case-control study of ovarian, breast, and endometrial cancer in women 20 to 54 years of age, permitted the diagnoses of contributing pathologists to be compared with those of a panel of three gynecologic pathologists. A diagnosis of ovarian cancer was made by contributing pathologists on 477 subjects. Agreement between the two groups of pathologists was 97% for primary epithelial ovarian cancer and 89% for primary nonepithelial ovarian malignancies. Agreement on diagnosis of major cellular subtypes of ovarian malignancy ranged between 73% for endometrioid cancer and 100% for clear cell carcinomas. We conclude that the diagnosis of pathologic features of primary ovarian cancer is highly predictable. Nonetheless, diagnosis by histologic type varies sufficiently that a review process should be considered for clinical or investigative decisions involving specific histologic diagnoses of ovarian cancer. 
Prevalence of common and dysplastic naevi in a Swedish population. The naevus profile was examined in a Swedish population that was randomly selected from a census file. The participation rate was considered high at 82%. The number of common naevi (CN) and the prevalence of dysplastic naevi (DN) were investigated in 379 subjects (aged 30-50 years). The mean total body count of CN greater than or equal to 2 mm was 67 (range 1-300). As many as 22% of the population had 100 naevi or more and only 18% had less than 25. The counts were not influenced by age or sex. DN were diagnosed clinically in 18% (CI 14-22%) of the subjects and histologically in 8% (CI 5-11%). Subjects with dysplastic naevi had a significantly larger number of common naevi and a more sun-sensitive skin type than subjects without DN, P less than 0.001. 
Matched group study of surgical resection versus cobalt-60 plaque radiotherapy for primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma. We report the results of a nonrandomized, matched-group, survival and visual preservation study of patients with a choroidal or ciliary body melanoma managed by microsurgical resection of the tumor versus cobalt-60 episcleral plaque radiotherapy. Each treatment group consisted of 30 patients. All patients were matched on a case-by-case basis in terms of tumor size (largest linear tumor dimension), location of the anterior tumor margin relative to the ora serrata, location of the posterior tumor margin relative to the equator, and age at the time of treatment. Although the estimated actuarial 5-year survival probability was slightly greater in the resection group (85.2%) than in the cobalt plaque group (81.8%), this difference was neither clinically impressive nor statistically significant. In contrast, there was a substantially higher rate of early posttreatment severe visual loss in the resection group (P = .0008, Mantel-Haenszel test). 
Depression of serum melatonin in patients with primary breast cancer is not due to an increased peripheral metabolism. Serum melatonin and its main metabolic product 6-sulfatoxymelatonin were determined in 17 patients with breast cancer (BC) with either a fresh primary tumor (nine) or a secondary tumor (eight) as well as in four patients with untreated benign breast disease (controls). Circadian rhythms were detected in all groups with acrophases around 2 AM for melatonin and around 3 AM for 6-sulfatoxymelatonin. The nocturnal melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin concentrations were significantly depressed in the group of patients with primary breast cancer compared with controls (P less than 0.01, P less than 0.025). The circadian amplitudes of melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin were also depressed by 81% (P less than 0.01) and 63% (P less than 0.01). In contrast, patients with secondary BC had nocturnal melatonin and 6-sulfatoxymelatonin concentrations and amplitudes similar to controls. These results demonstrate that the depression of circulating melatonin in patients with primary BC is not due to an enhanced degradation to 6-sulfatoxymelatonin in the liver but must be due to a reduced activity of the pineal gland. 
Salvage chemotherapy for patients with germ cell tumors. The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center experience (1979-1989). Twenty-eight of 124 (23%) advanced germ cell tumor (GCT) patients who were treated on four successive platin-based induction regimens and who failed to achieve a durable complete response (CR) remain alive (median follow-up, 50 months). An analysis of prognostic factors for response and survival was conducted on the 94 patients who received salvage chemotherapy. Survival and/or response to salvage therapy were significantly enhanced for patients with a prior CR to induction chemotherapy, treatment with a cisplatin-based salvage regimen, a testis primary site, a normal serum human chorionic gonadotropin level, a normal serum lactate dehydrogenase level, one site of metastasis, and an Indiana Class of 6 or less. Patients with a prior incomplete response (IR) had a particularly poor prognosis (P = 0.00007) with only 4 of 52 (9%) patients alive (median follow-up, 37 months) compared with 15 of 42 (36%) patients with a prior best response of a CR (median follow-up, 35 months). The poor survival of patients who fail to achieve a durable CR to induction chemotherapy warrants the continued investigation of new salvage therapy. The identification of prognostic features may direct salvage therapy and aid in the interpretation of clinical trials of salvage regimens. 
Monoclonal antibody-purged autologous bone marrow transplantation therapy for multiple myeloma. Eleven patients with plasma cell dyscrasias underwent high-dose chemoradiotherapy and anti-B-cell monoclonal antibody (MoAb)-treated autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT). The majority of patients had advanced Durie-Salmon stage myeloma at diagnosis, all were pretreated with chemotherapy, and six had received prior radiotherapy. At the time of ABMT, all patients demonstrated good performance status with Karnofsky score of 80% or greater and had less than 10% marrow tumor cells. Eight patients had residual monoclonal marrow plasma cells and 10 patients had paraprotein. Following high-dose melphalan and total body irradiation (TBI) there were seven complete responses, three partial responses, and one toxic death. Granulocytes greater than 500/mm3 were noted at a median of 21 (range 12 to 46) days posttransplant (PT) and untransfused platelets greater than 20,000/mm3 were noted at a median of 23 (12 to 53) days PT in 10 of the 11 patients. Natural killer cells and cytotoxic/suppressor T cells predominated early PT, with return of B cells at 3 months PT and normalization of T4:T8 ratio at 1 year PT. Less than 5% polyclonal marrow plasma cells were noted in all patients after transplant. Three of the seven complete responders have had return of paraprotein, two with myeloma, and have subsequently responded to alpha 2 interferon therapy. Eight patients are alive at 18.9 (8.9 to 43.1) months PT and four remain disease-free at 12.3, 17.5, 18.9, and 29 months PT. This preliminary study confirms that high-dose melphalan and TBI can achieve high response rates without unexpected toxicity in patients who have sensitive disease, and that MoAb-based purging techniques do not inhibit engraftment. Although the follow-up is short- and long-term outcome to be determined, relapses post-ABMT in these heavily pretreated patients suggest that ABMT or alternative treatment strategies should be evaluated earlier in the disease course. 
Examination of HTLV-I integration in the skin lesions of various types of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL): independence of cutaneous-type ATL confirmed by Southern blot analysis. The various clinical features of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) are frequently accompanied by skin eruptions. Recently, a cutaneous type of ATL has been proposed by clinical studies. We analyzed the viral integration of human T-cell leukemia virus-I (HTLV-I) and monoclonal rearrangement of T-cell receptor (TCR) gene in blood lymphocytes and the cutaneous infiltrated cells of nine ATL patients with various clinical features and skin eruptions. We classified them by the results of Southern blot analysis and propose a cutaneous-type ATL accordingly. In two of them, we could detect the monoclonal integration of HTLV-I and T-cell monoclonality only in the skin but not in the peripheral lymphocytes. We also demonstrated the time course study in one patient. Clinicians should be aware of the HTLV-I positive cutaneous T cell lymphoma that can be named cutaneous-type ATL. Examination of viral integration and T-cell monoclonality in skin lesions is required to make an exact diagnosis of cutaneous ATL. 
Molecular methods to detect the Philadelphia chromosome. The Ph1 chromosome has two molecular subtypes: a bcr-positive seen in CML and some cases of ALL, and the bcr-negative subtype mainly seen in ALL. In CML, because of the restriction of chromosome 22 breakpoints to the bcr, Southern analysis to detect bcr rearrangements also can be used to detect the Ph1 chromosome. In contrast, the translocation breakpoints on the Ph1 chromosome are scattered in ALL, so that other methods such as PFGE and PCR are necessary to detect the Ph1 chromosome. In both CML and ALL, use of these methods to detect molecular abnormalities may be superior to cytogenetics in detecting chromosomal abnormalities. Southern analysis also can be used in CML to map breakpoint locations within the bcr. This may offer prognostic information as to the length of chronic phase, but there is conflicting information as to the validity of this approach. The modified PCR (using cDNA from mRNA) can be used to detect the Ph1 chromosome and to define which of the molecular subtypes are present. The exquisite sensitivity of this method, which is capable of detecting as little as a single abnormal molecule of RNA or DNA, makes it suited for the detection of minimal residual disease in both CML and ALL. This is particularly useful after intensive therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation. Whether these low levels of fusion gene expression are of prognostic significance is still unclear. 
Clinical recognition and evaluation of peptic ulcer disease. When a patient has epigastric pain that worsens 1 to 3 hours after meals, the possibility of peptic ulcer disease should be considered. Completely typical clinical presentations in patients younger than age 50 justify empirical therapy when no physical or laboratory findings suggest a mimicking disorder. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy should be undertaken when response to therapy is incomplete, symptoms recur quickly, or dyspeptic symptoms present for the first time in a patient older than age 50. When gastric ulcers are diagnosed radiographically, endoscopy and biopsy at multiple sites should be done to exclude malignant disease. Intractable duodenal ulcers may necessitate endoscopic biopsy of antral and duodenal mucosa to rule out an associated Helicobacter pylori infection, which may modify therapeutic approaches. Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is rare but should be suspected when ulcer disease presents atypically or aggressively or in families. Diagnosis is not difficult to confirm. 
Surgical treatment of cardiac myxomas: long-term results. Between 1965 and 1988, 22 patients underwent 24 operations for cardiac myxomas. Two patients had the complex myxoma syndrome. Mitral valve replacement was required at initial operation in 2 patients. One patient died perioperatively, and 5 others died subsequently. The 16 surviving patients recently underwent evaluation at a mean duration of 9 years after operation. Ten are asymptomatic and 6 have New York Heart Association class II symptoms. Nine patients continue to be employed. Eleven are in sinus rhythm, 3 have permanent pacemakers, and 2 have chronic atrial arrhythmias. Echocardiography showed atrioventricular valve insufficiency in 3 patients and reduced contractility in 4, but no new tumor recurrences. The long-term prognosis of this relatively large group of patients with cardiac myxomas has been good. Patients without the complex myxoma syndrome had no recurrence, whereas 2 patients did require reoperation for mitral valve replacement. Long-term disability and chronic arrhythmias have been infrequent, and functional status and employability of these patients have been very good. 
Multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma. Twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive (AFP+) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality Phase I, II program. Induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cGy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days. Hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin (IA-CDDP) was then administered at monthly intervals. Twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of IA-CDDP. Twelve-month cumulative survival was 52% for all 28 patients and 69% for the 21 patients completing induction and IA-CDDP. Median survival has not yet been reached. Response rate (complete and partial) was 36% overall and 48% among the 21 patients who completed treatment. The improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy. 
Single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor. A case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented. The rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed, as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion. 
Induction of DNA fragmentation in chronic B-lymphocytic leukemia cells. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B cell type (B-CLL) is a neoplastic disorder characterized by the accumulation of small resting lymphocytes in the periphery. The phenotype of these cells suggests that they are "frozen" at an early stage of maturation. Glucocorticoid hormones are commonly used to treat patients with B-CLL, resulting in a reduction in the peripheral lymphocyte count by an undefined mechanism. Here we report that glucocorticoids stimulate DNA fragmentation characteristic of a suicide process known as apoptosis or programmed cell death (PCD) in suspensions of cells from patients with B-CLL. The effects can be mimicked by Ca2+ ionophore and involve a sustained increase in the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration. Specific antibodies binding to membrane-associated IgM on the leukemic cells can also induce PCD by a similar mechanism. Phorbol esters block DNA fragmentation and cell killing in response to all of the agents, suggesting that activation of protein kinase C desensitizes the cells to PCD. Targeting the B-CLL cells with antibodies that induce an unbalanced, sustained Ca2+ increase may therefore represent a rational strategy for the destruction of leukemic cells. 
Increased DNA synthesis and repair-enzyme expression in lymphocytes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia resistant to nitrogen mustards. Resistance to the nitrogen mustards in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) correlates with an enhanced removal of melphalan-induced DNA interstrand cross-links. This finding suggests that DNA repair enzymes may be involved in this process. The activity of 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase, which can release altered bases, including adducts at the N-7 position of guanine, was increased significantly in lymphocytes from patients with resistant CLL compared with those from untreated CLL patients. Since glycosylase activity varies with cell proliferation, the amount of [3H]thymidine incorporated into DNA was determined and found to be elevated almost threefold in lymphocytes from patients with resistant CLL. The ratio of glycosylase activity to level of thymidine incorporation did not differ between these two groups of patients. Northern blot analysis of ERCC1 gene (a putative DNA repair enzyme involved in nucleotide excision repair) expression in lymphocytes from patients with CLL revealed multiple gene transcripts (1.1, 3.4, and 3.8 kilobases). In addition, analysis of two samples revealed the presence of a 2.6-kilobase transcript. The 2.6-kilobase transcript was recognized by specific RNA probes that hybridize to antisense ERCC1 transcripts. Levels of expression of the 1.1-kilobase protein encoding transcript in lymphocytes from patients with resistant CLL were increased twofold to threefold above those of untreated patients with CLL. These results indicate that increased expression of ERCC1 and increased activity of 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase occur with the development of resistance to the nitrogen mustards in patients with CLL, suggesting a role for enhanced DNA repair in this process. 
Relationship between lung asbestos fiber type and concentration and relative risk of mesothelioma. A case-control study. Lung tissue from 221 definite and probable cases of malignant mesothelioma reported to the Australian Mesothelioma Surveillance Program from January 1980 through December 1985 and from an age-sex frequency matched control series of 359 postmortem cases were examined by light microscopic (LM) and analytical transmission electron microscopic (TEM) analysis and energy dispersive x-ray analysis (EDAX). Concentrations of total fibers (coated and uncoated) (LM), crocidolite, amosite, chrysotile, and unidentified amphibole (TEM) (fibers/g dry lung tissue) were measured. Fiber concentrations less than 10 microns in length and greater than or equal to 10 microns in length were separately quantified. By comparing cases (221) and controls (359 LM, 103 TEM), odds ratios for increasing fiber concentrations compared with less than 15,000 fibers/g (LM) and less than 200,000 fibers/g (TEM) (the respective detection limits) were calculated. Univariate analyses showed statistically significant dose-response relationships between odds ratio and fiber concentration for all fiber concentration measures. The relationship between log(odds ratio) and log(fiber concentration) was linear. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that a model containing crocidolite greater than or equal to 10 microns, amosite less than 10 microns, and chrysotile less than 10 microns as explanatory variables best described the data. The odds ratios for a X10 increase in fiber concentration (fibers/micrograms) were as follows: crocidolite greater than or equal to 10 microns, 29.4 (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.6 to 241); chrysotile less than 10 microns, 15.7 (95% CI, 6.1 to 40); amosite less than 10 microns, 2.3 (95% CI, 1.0 to 5.3). An additive risk model gave similar results. In a subgroup of cases and controls with only chrysotile in the lungs, a significant trend in odds ratio with increasing fiber content was found. 
Transcatheter oily chemoembolization in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis: results of a Western comparative study in 60 patients. Transcatheter oily chemoembolization is widely used as palliative therapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma in high-incidence Asiatic areas. To assess its usefulness in the Western form of this cancer, 30 French patients were treated between 1987 and 1990 by intraarterial hepatic injection of a Lipiodol-doxorubicin emulsion followed by embolization with 0.5 to 1 mm gelatin sponge particles. The number of procedures ranged from one to five. All patients had advanced, symptomatic and inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (Okuda's staging: I, n = 8; II, n = 14; III, n = 8); none was found under systematic screening. All had underlying cirrhosis (Child-Pugh's class: A, n = 15; B, n = 12; C, n = 3) that was alcoholic in origin in 27 cases and posthepatitic B in origin in 3 cases. The results of the treatment were assessed by comparison with a group of 30 untreated patients admitted to the same unit between 1984 and 1987. Patients of both groups were closely matched for clinical presentation, global disease staging and precise anatomical extension. The overall 1- and 2-yr survival rate was 59% and 30%, respectively, for the treated patients vs. 0% at 1 yr for the untreated patients. The latter all died from local disease with end-stage liver failure and/or uncontrollable variceal bleeding. In the former, the three patients with Child's class C cirrhosis died after the first procedure. During the follow-up (range = 3 to 26 mo), 11 additional patients died, 8 from metastatic generalization. 
Incidence, causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in Hong Kong. To determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in Hong Kong, all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin, and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated. Plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients. Repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183. The main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy (72.1 per cent), tuberculosis (6.0 per cent), and primary hyperparathyroidism (5.5 per cent). In the malignant hypercalcaemia group, carcinoma of lung was the most common (31.8 per cent) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon (3.0 per cent). Secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours. In order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated. Increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver (none of whom had bony metastases) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus. We conclude that in Hong Kong (a) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon, (b) tuberculosis is an important cause and (c) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia. 
Comparison of neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in long-term survivors of childhood leukemia given cranial radiation or parenteral methotrexate: a prospective study. We prospectively compared neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in 49 consecutive childhood leukemia patients in long-term continuous complete remission (CR) who had received two different regimens of CNS prophylaxis by random assignment. Twenty-three patients were treated with 1,800 cGy cranial radiation and intrathecal methotrexate (RT group) and 26 with parenteral methotrexate only (MTX group). Over half of the RT group had somnolence syndrome, and four developed cerebral calcifications late in their clinical course. Abnormal electroencephalograms (EEGs) were seen in 15 patients in the MTX group, and six had early, transient white-matter hypodensities apparent on computed tomographic (CT) scans. Mean scores on standard tests of intelligence and academic achievement, administered after remission induction and again at a median of 6 years after treatment cessation, did not differ significantly between the two groups. However, statistically significant decreases in overall and verbal intelligence quotients (IQs) and in arithmetic achievement were found within both treatment groups. Sixteen of 26 in the MTX group and 14 of the 23 in the RT group had clinically important decreases (greater than or equal to 15 points) on one or more neuropsychologic measures. These changes did not correlate with findings on CT scans, EEGs, or other clinical signs of neurotoxicity. We conclude that 1,800 cGy cranial radiation and parenteral methotrexate, as used in this study, are associated with comparable decreases in neuropsychologic function. 
Carcinoma of the male breast: a review of 41 cases. We reviewed the cases of 41 consecutive men treated for breast carcinoma from 1950 through 1987 at Vanderbilt University Affiliated Hospitals to examine controversies in and methods of therapy for this disease. Twenty-two patients (52%) had stage I or II lesions potentially curable by operative therapy. The overall 5-year survival rates were 100% for stage I, 65% for stage II, 56% for stage III, and 0% for stage IV. Radical mastectomy offered no advantage over modified radical mastectomy in terms of survival or rate of recurrence. Diagnosis at an early clinical stage and no finding of disease in axillary lymph nodes were important factors in survival in this series of patients. All tumors evaluated for hormone receptors were positive. Although experience was limited, encouraging results were obtained with the use of tamoxifen citrate in adjuvant as well as palliative roles. With the exception of a predominance of centrally located lesions and a uniquely high frequency of positive hormone receptor status, carcinoma of the male breast appears biologically similar to the disease in women, and treatment should be guided by similar principles. 
Power drills to fenestrate exposed bone to stimulate wound healing. Power drills can be used to stimulate the formation of granulation tissue over exposed cortical bone. These tools allow for the rapid fenestration and selective abrasion of large areas of exposed bone; fenestration and abrasion create the multiple bleeding points essential for the production of granulation tissue. The granulation tissue thus produced is allowed to grow out through the holes to cover bone. This procedure can be performed in an outpatient setting, usually without the need for either local or general anesthesia; it is particularly useful for patients considered to be poor risks for general anesthesia. Healing by granulation tissue is a somewhat slow process, but it has a high success rate, causes few complications, and produces very good cosmetic results. Two cases illustrate the method of fenestration of exposed cranial bone to stimulate granulation tissue. Specific instructions describe the needed care of exposed bone. 
Inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene in human lymphoid neoplasms. The absence of wild type retinoblastoma (Rb) gene expression in a wide variety of human solid tumors suggests an etiologic role for this tumor suppressor gene in human cancer. We have evaluated the involvement of Rb gene inactivation in the pathogenesis and progression of human lymphoma and leukemia. We examined the genomic configuration and transcription of the Rb gene in cultured cell lines and primary cases of T- and B-cell lymphomas and leukemias. By Southern analysis, abnormalities of the Rb locus were identified in 1 of 5 T-cell acute lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-ALL) cell lines, 1 of 26 primary cases of T-ALL, 1 of 40 primary cases of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma/well-differentiated lymphoma (CLL/WDL), and 1 of 15 primary cases of intermediately differentiated lymphoma (IDL). By Northern analysis, markedly reduced or abnormal expression of the Rb gene was identified in 2 of 5 T-ALL cell lines, 1 of 7 primary cases of T-ALL, 1 of 5 primary cases of CLL/WDL, and 1 of 6 primary cases of IDL. These findings show that Rb gene inactivation can be associated with a broad range of lymphoid neoplasms and that loss of the tumor suppressor function of Rb may influence the pathogenesis and progression of lymphoma/leukemia. 
Metastatic small cell tumor of bone with 'true' rosettes and glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity. A 15-year-old black girl was admitted to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital with a lytic lesion involving the right fourth metacarpal bone with a solitary metastasis to the ipsilateral axillary lymph node. Histologic examination of both the primary lesion and metastasis revealed a primitive small round cell lesion. Abundant rosettes with central lumina were present in the metastasis. Immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the metastasis were strongly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and negative for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), S-100 protein, and Leu-7. Electron microscopic examination of the metastasis revealed lumen formation with apical microvilli and juxtaluminal junctional complexes. This tumor exhibits features that are suggestive, but not definitive, of primitive ependymal differentiation and further expands the morphologic and immunophenotypic range of small round cell tumors of bone. 
A simple and sensitive microtiter plate estrogen bioassay based on stimulation of alkaline phosphatase in Ishikawa cells: estrogenic action of delta 5 adrenal steroids. We have developed an estrogen bioassay using the Ishikawa human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line growing in 96-well microtiter plates. Alkaline phosphatase enzyme activity (AlkP) in these cells is markedly stimulated by estrogens, and this enzyme can be easily quantified in situ using a chromogenic substrate. These cells are very sensitive to estrogens; estradiol induces AlkP at levels as low as 10(-12) M. Antiestrogens completely block the action of estradiol. Various estrogens stimulate AlkP with potencies comparable to those achieved in vivo. The induction of AlkP is specific for estrogens; no other type of steroid, including androgens, progestins, mineralocorticoids, or glucocorticoids produce this effect. The stimulation of AlkP in Ishikawa cells is specific for estrogens, is highly reproducible and sensitive, and permits large numbers of samples to be assayed with ease. We have used this assay to investigate the estrogenic action of the adrenal delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroids. While pregnenolone is inactive, dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate ester induce AlkP slightly. However, the C19 steroid, 5-androstene-3 beta, 17 beta-diol is considerably more estrogenic in this assay, although it stimulates Ishikawa AlkP with a potency of 1/30,000 that of estradiol. The stimulation by 5-androstene-3 beta,17 beta-diol is inhibited by antiestrogens, but it is not blocked by the delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid isomerase/dehydrogenase inhibitor, cyanoketone, or by the aromatase inhibitor, 4-hydroxy-androstenedione. Thus, neither conversion to a delta 4-3-ketone nor aromatization is required for the action of this unusual estrogen. 
Undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands. Undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands are those epithelial malignancies whose light-optic histopathologic features are not sufficient to place them in other defined classes of carcinoma. They are ultrastructurally heterogeneous and can manifest neuroendocrine differentiation. With or without the latter, the carcinomas are biologically high-grade and rank with salivary duct and high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas in terms of morbidity and mortality. 
Kaposi's sarcoma of the rectum in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We retrospectively reviewed eight patients with biopsy-proven anorectal Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) treated between 1984 and 1989 at San Francisco General Hospital. All patients were homosexual men with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The average age was 34 years. Three patients had primary rectal KS without metastases. Five patients had disseminated KS with lesions throughout the alimentary tract, viscera, skin, or local lymph nodes. Three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy. Five patients had disseminated KS with lesions throughout the alimentary tract, viscera, skin, or local lymph nodes. Three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy. Five patients with advanced AIDS received no specific treatment for anorectal KS. Follow-up ranged from 1 month to 5 years. Three of the untreated patients and the three patients treated with chemotherapy or radiotherapy were alive 1 month to 5 years after diagnosis. Aggressive surgical treatment of anorectal KS is not indicated. 
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer: the evolving role of surgery. The role of an operation in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for clinically localized but invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder currently is evolving. An operation is essential for case selection and evaluation of local response but it also contributes to bladder preservation and survival. The procedure that is necessary to select for and assess response to chemotherapy may itself alter the actual or proceed to evolution of invasive bladder cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a reasonable therapeutic strategy in selected patients but it remains to be seen whether the results will prove to be superior to those achieved with standard endoscopic and open operations. 
Malignant melanoma presenting as nasal obstruction. Mucosal melanomas arising in the nasal cavity are rare tumors comprising less than 1 percent of all melanomas. Often, the common clinical symptom is nasal obstruction. Grossly, they may or may not be pigmented and frequently attain large sizes. Histologic diagnosis of these tumors may be difficult, requiring immunohistochemical or electron microscopic confirmation. Aggressive surgical management is the treatment of choice in clinical stage I disease. Subsequent surveillance for recurrence is mandatory. Markers such as 5-S-cysteinyldopa may prove useful in staging, prognosticating, and postoperative surveillance for early recurrence, but their exact role has yet to be delineated. Ultimate prognosis is poor. 
Application of 1 nm gold probes on paraffin wax sections for in situ hybridisation histochemistry. An in situ hybridisation technique that uses 1 nm immunogold reagents and silver enhancement was devised to detect biotinylated DNA viral probes in formalin fixed, paraffin wax sections of human cervix. DNA probes labelled with biotin-11-deoxyuridine triphosphate were detected after hybridisation to nucleic acid sequences by an antibiotin antibody, followed by a gold labelled secondary antibody. Silver enhancement then permitted visualisation of the signal at the light microscopic level. The method was reliable and produced less background staining than previously described methods. The signal could be enhanced by epi polarisation microscopy. Furthermore, biotinylated DNA probes may be detected directly by a 1 nm gold labelled goat antibiotin antibody without loss of labelling intensity, and this may be preferable to the longer two layer technique, previously described. 
Plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy. Plasma cell granuloma is a rare, benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years. Although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites, this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity. The tumor was initially resected, but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up. Because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring, 40-Gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique. Most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control. Surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected. However, irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease. 
Nasal midline masses in infants and children. Dermoids, encephaloceles, and gliomas. Nasal dermoids, gliomas, and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development. We have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions. In view of the potential intracranial connection, patients are at risk for intracranial infection, and early surgical correction is thus imperative. Neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement. 
Successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin, vinblastine, bleomycin, and etoposide chemotherapy. Thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia. Thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis. Complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported. A 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy. Additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered. The patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis. Cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma. 
Disseminated Kaposi's sarcoma not associated with HIV infection in a bisexual man. We report a 42-year-old white bisexual man with disseminated Kaposi's sarcoma limited to the skin and gastrointestinal tract. Results of several serum tests for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibodies have been negative. The CD4/CD8 ratio has remained normal, and his Kaposi's sarcoma has had a benign clinical course during 30 months of follow-up. Similar reports of disseminated Kaposi's sarcoma with a benign clinical course in homosexual or bisexual men without demonstrable HIV infection are reviewed. Some cellular immune impairment that might be more prevalent in the homosexual population may be implicated in the pathogenesis of this type of Kaposi's sarcoma. 
Vestibular papillae of the vulva. Lack of evidence for human papillomavirus etiology. Vestibular papillae of the vulva are usually considered as anatomical variants of the vestibular mucosa. Clinically, however, they are quite often interpreted as condylomata acuminata and recent studies have suggested that they could be related to human papillomavirus infection. This prompted us to search for human papillomavirus DNA using the Southern blot hybridization technique, by analyzing biopsy specimens taken from 29 patients who presented with papillae of the vestibular mucosa. Human papillomavirus sequences were detected only in two (6.9%) cases. By the same technique, human papillomavirus sequences were detected in 24 (96%) of 25 vulvar warts used as the control specimens. Thus, it appears unlikely that vestibular papillae are related to human papillomavirus infection. They are usually distinguishable from condylomata acuminata by clinical examination alone. 
Combined hepatic and vena caval resection with autogenous caval graft replacement. Right-sided and caudate hepatic lobectomy with resection of the retrohepatic vena cava were performed in a 34-year-old woman with recurrent adrenal carcinoma. The vena cava was replaced with a graft constructed from autogenous superficial femoral vein. Included herein is a review of the literature detailing the three previously reported cases of combined hepatic and caval resection; to our knowledge, there are no prior reports of the use of an autogenous vein graft in this setting. With surgical and anesthetic techniques, including total vascular exclusion of the liver and venovenous bypass, methods that were developed in large part through experience in liver transplantation, this type of surgery can be performed with a high rate of success. 
Treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal. Progress in the prognosis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal has followed the use of multimodality therapy. From 1977 to 1985, 42 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal were treated with mitomycin C (15 mg/m2) and 5-fluorouracil (750 mg/m2) on day 1, 5-FU (750 mg/m2/d) alone on days 2 to 5, and radiation therapy (3000 cGy) on days 7 to 28. They were evaluated 4 to 6 weeks after completion of the chemotherapy/radiation therapy protocol and received local excision, abdominoperineal resection, or both. Patient follow-up times ranged from 7 to 161 months, with a mean follow-up time of 71 months. Pathologic examination showed no residual carcinoma in 19 (45%) patients. The authors could not predict, based on clinical evaluation, which patients would have a complete response. Of the patients with a complete clinical response, 44% had tumor in the pathology specimen. Wide local excision was the most common initial operation (23 of 42 patients; 55%), with five of these patients subsequently requiring abdominoperineal resection. Anal continence was retained in 18 of 42 (43%) patients. Eleven patients experienced recurrent disease: six local recurrences, one distant, and four both local and distant. The 5-year overall survival rate was 82% and the 5-year disease-specific survival rate was 87%. There were no treatment related deaths. Preoperative tumor size was the only factor significantly related to survival. Contrary to other reports, tumor in the pathology specimen did not adversely affect long-term survival. Hence, patients should be treated after chemotherapy/radiation therapy with surgical therapy sufficient to control local disease. 
Chordoma: a 20-year clinicopathologic review of the experience at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town. Eighteen chordomas (11 females and 7 males) were seen over a 20-year period; 61% of the tumors occurred in the sphenoid region. The youngest patient was 3 years old and had a family history of chordoma. Histologically, the tumors were divided into classical (epithelial) and chondroid variants, which in this series, had no effect on outcome. Follow-up on 12 patients ranged from 3 to 170 months, and they were treated with various combinations of surgery and radiotherapy. One patient was administered the neutron beam and died after 94 months. The mean survival of this series is 73.4 months, with a survival rate of 50% (6 out of 12 patients alive). Surgical resection offers the best chance of survival, but chordomas have a propensity to metastasize, hence have a poor prognosis. 
Characterization of astrocytomas, meningiomas, and pituitary adenomas by phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Phosphorus magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy allows noninvasive measurement of phosphate-containing compounds and pH within brain cells. The authors obtained localized phosphorus MR spectra from 10 normal brains, four low-grade astrocytomas, six glioblastomas, four meningiomas, and three pituitary adenomas and found differences in the spectra of each tumor type. Compared to normal brain, the spectra from low-grade astrocytomas showed a significant reduction of the phosphodiester (PDE) peak. Glioblastomas were characterized by a significant reduction of the PDE peak, elevation of the phosphomonoester (PME) peak, and a relatively alkaline intracellular pH. The spectra from meningiomas and pituitary adenomas were markedly different from the glial tumors. Meningiomas showed significant reductions in phosphocreatine, PDE, and inorganic phosphate, as well as a relatively alkaline pH. Pituitary adenomas resembled meningiomas, but had a much higher PME peak. Although the number of tumors studied was small, there appears to be a characteristic spectrum associated with these different tumor types. The present findings can be useful in the preoperative identification of these tumors and in furthering understanding of their growth and metabolism in vivo. 
AIDS-associated polyclonal lymphoma: identification of a new HIV-associated disease process. High-grade non-Hodgkins B-cell lymphoma is one of the principle malignancies that occurs in individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1). Immunoblastic lymphomas that arise in immunosuppressed transplant patients have been described as both monoclonal and polyclonal, and occur in association with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. To test whether polyclonal lymphoma occurred in patients with AIDS we studied tumors from multiple sites in three patients who died with widespread AIDS-associated large cell or large cell immunoblastic lymphoma. All biopsy specimens contained invasive lymphoma. Tumor cells were mature IgM-positive immunoblasts by immunohistochemical analysis, with the same B-cell phenotype observed in all tumor sites. Only a minority of sites from all patients analyzed were monoclonal as measured by immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, with one case having several foci of monoclonal disease with other histologically identical metastases showing no evidence of monoclonal proliferation. Similar to the transplant-associated polyclonal B-cell proliferations. EBV gene sequences were present in multiple sites from one autopsy. In the other two autopsies, polyclonal B-cell proliferations occurred in the absence of EBV involvement except at one site, where a minor clone of EBV-infected cells was found. In contrast to HIV-associated Burkitt's lymphoma, no c-myc rearrangements were found at any site. These studies describe the occurrence of polyclonal lymphoma in AIDS and suggest that EBV-negative polyclonal lymphoma may be a distinct disease entity unique to HIV-infected individuals. 
Bronchial anomaly of the right upper lobe. This case report presents a rare anomaly of right upper lobe bronchial anatomy. During routine right upper lobe resection for carcinoma, a common right upper and middle lobe bronchus was found. The resection was completed as a right upper and middle bilobectomy. Knowledge of this uncommon variant was beneficial in performing the pulmonary resection. A review of the literature is presented. 
The significance of low-grade prostate cancer on needle biopsy. A radical prostatectomy study of tumor grade, volume, and stage of the biopsied and multifocal tumor. Twenty-one cases showing only low Gleason grade prostate carcinoma on needle biopsy were identified. In 15 cases radical prostatectomy was performed with the entire prostate embedded for thorough evaluation of grade, volume, and stage of tumor at the needle biopsy site as well as of multifocal tumor. Eight specimens had solitary low grade and low volume tumor, with only one of these cases showing minimal capsular penetration and the others confined to the prostate. Four cases had low-grade tumor at the biopsy site, yet multifocal higher grade tumor. All of these tumor nodules were low volume and confined to the prostate. In three cases there was both low-grade and high-grade tumor in the nodule sampled by needle biopsy. In two of these cases the tumor was large and in the third it was small but mostly higher grade, with two of these cases showing capsular penetration. Although transrectal ultrasound and repeat needle biopsy would most likely have identified either the tumors' large size or high-grade component in these latter three cases, it is unlikely that these techniques would have identified the cases of multifocal higher grade tumor because of their relatively small size. Furthermore, preoperative serum prostate specific antigen levels and clinical stage failed to distinguish those cases with higher grade tumor. Because of the difficulty in identifying these areas of high-grade tumor preoperatively, it is uncertain whether expectant therapy could be recommended even for patients with very low-grade cancer on needle biopsy. 
Lymph nodes in incipient adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma with Hodgkin's disease-like histologic features. Lymph nodes were examined from four patients with incipient adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma (ATLL) who had mild lymphadenopathy, fatigue, no or a few atypical lymphocytes in their peripheral blood, and integrated proviral human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type I (HTLV-I) DNA in the nodes. The HTLV-I DNA was detected by southern blot analysis and/or polymerase chain reaction in the lymph nodes of all cases. The nodal architecture was preserved. Some scattered or aggregated highly lobular, cerebriform, or Reed-Sternberg-like giant cells were observed, with occasional mitoses and diffuse infiltration of small to medium-sized lymphocytes, with no or minimal nuclear abnormalities in the enlarged paracortex. The giant cells were usually positive for Ki-1 and also for UCHL-1 and other T-cell markers but negative for Ber-H2. Rearrangement and/or deletion of T-cell receptors were found in three of four patients. All patients died within 2 years, with transformation to overt leukemia-lymphoma occurring in three patients, and pulmonary carcinoma in one. The incipient or prelymphomatous phase of ATLL should be differentiated from Hodgkin's disease because of the distinctly different prognoses of these two diseases. 
Long-term (5 to 20 years) Evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias. The Cooperative Group for the Study of Aplastic and Refractory Anemias. In the presence of aplastic anemia (AA), therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement, but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life. We report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey (5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis (40% of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis). Between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up, 21 patients died of various causes either related to AA or to its treatment: 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia (6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [PNH]); 5 of leukemia; 1 of a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; 2 of late side effects following transfusion (1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic B hepatitis); and a single case of myocardial infarction (the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy). Thirteen patients in total developed PNH (among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths, and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities). Few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed. Adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women's fertility. No malignant hepatoma occurred. This survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement (between 5 and 10 years of evolution). This occurred in 50% of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis. Although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution. 85% of patients had a normal red blood cell count, 80% a normal polymorphonuclear count, and 66% a normal platelet count. All patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life. 
The influence of drug interval on the effect of methotrexate and fluorouracil in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer The importance of the interval between methotrexate (MTX) and fluorouracil (5-FU) was studied in 168 patients with previously untreated, measurable, advanced colorectal cancer. They were randomized to receive MTX 200 mg/m2, followed by 5-FU 600 mg/m2 either 24 hours (arm A) or 1 hour (arm B) after MTX. All patients received leucovorin (LV) 24 hours after MTX, 10 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for six doses. The regimen was repeated every 2 weeks, with 5-FU escalation as tolerated. Arm A was significantly better than arm B with respect to overall response rate (29% v 14.5%, P = .026), time to progression (TTP; median, 9.9 months v 5.9 months, P = .009), and survival (median, 15.3 months v 11.4 months, P = .003). Significant differences between arms were not found in response rate, median TTP, or median survival for the subgroup of patients with rectal primaries who comprised 20% of the patients in each arm. Significant factors prognostic for survival were performance status and number of metastases, as well as treatment. Age did not influence survival. Toxicity was similar in both arms and was primarily gastrointestinal. More mucositis was seen in arm A. There were four toxic deaths secondary to neutropenia and infection (one from arm A and three from arm B) and three other deaths (two from arm A and one from arm B) that were possibly drug-related. The combination of MTX with LV rescue and 5-FU is an active regimen in advanced colorectal cancer; its efficacy is increased in colon, but not rectal cancer, when the interval between MTX and 5-FU is long (24 hours) rather than short (1 hour). 
Sphincter preservation in rectal cancer by local excision and postoperative radiation therapy. The authors report the preliminary results of 14 patients with localized, mobile, resectable rectal cancer treated with local excision and postoperative radiation therapy (RT). All had negative surgical resection margins and two received 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The median follow-up was 29 months (4-43 months). The 3-year actuarial survival was 88%. The incidence of local failure was 7% (only site of failure) and 21% (component of failure). The incidence of local failure increased with T stage (T1, 0/3 [0%]; T2, 1/7 [14%]; and T3, 2/4 [50%]) and tumor size (greater than 3 cm, 33%, versus less than or equal to 3 cm, 0%). Three patients developed local failure at 6, 15, and 21 months. Three underwent a salvage abdominoperineal resection and were locally controlled at 2 and 28 months following salvage surgery. One patient underwent an abdominoperineal resection for a clinically presumed local failure; however, no tumor was found in the specimen. Therefore, the 13 patients who either were initially locally controlled or underwent salvage or nonsalvage surgery had no evidence of disease in the pelvis at the time of last follow-up. Local excision and postoperative RT may be an alternative to standard surgery in selected cases. However, additional follow-up and more experience are needed in order to determine if this approach will ultimately have local control and survival rates similar to those of a low anterior resection or an abdominoperineal resection. 
Status of sex steroid hormone receptors in large bowel cancer. To determine the potential role of sex steroid hormones in the development of colorectal tumors in humans, specific androgen (AR), estrogen (ER), and progesterone (PGR) receptors were investigated in normal mucosa (NM) and in tumor (T) paired biopsy specimens from 94 patients. Androgen receptors were detected in 98% and 96% of NM and T samples, ER in 91% and 83% of NM and T biopsy samples, whereas PGR were detected only in 14% and 10% of NM and T specimens, respectively. These incidences are independent of the sex and age of the patients. They are not related to tumor localization, histologic grade, or stages of Dukes' classification. Scatchard analysis of labeled ligand binding indicated the existence of one single class of high affinity binding sites; the calculated dissociation constant (Kd) was 1.7 +/- 0.6 10(-9) molar concentration (M) for 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and 0.6 +/- 0.3 10(-9) M for estradiol (E2). These values were identical in NM and T tissue for both AR and ER. The binding capacity for DHT was 148 +/- 67 and 93 +/- 43 fmol/mg of cytosol protein in NM and T tissues, respectively (P less than 0.05). The ER content was lower and similar in NM and T biopsy specimens: 19 +/- 9 and 18 +/- 10 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The PGR content was 10 +/- 4 in NM versus 17.5 +/- 6 fmol/mg protein in T specimens. It is observed that the elevated AR in normal mucosa is not related to any known function for androgens in the digestive tract. The receptor pattern observed in tumors does not support the hypothesis previously raised in the case of chemically induced colonic tumors in rodents. 
The efficacy of comprehensive neck dissection with or without postoperative radiotherapy in nodal metastases of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper respiratory and digestive tracts. Neck recurrence-free curves corrected for local recurrence were compared for 494 patients who underwent 565 comprehensive neck dissections. In 42 dissections, no radicality could be obtained. Of the 523 histologically radical dissections, examination revealed tumor in 352 cases. Patients in whom three or more positive nodes or extranodal spread in one or more nodes were found received postoperative radiotherapy. In the histologically N0 group, the incidence of neck recurrence after 5 years was 3%; in the N+ group as a whole, it was 10%. Analysis of the influence of extranodal spread and the number of positive nodes showed that the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread (that did not receive postoperative radiotherapy) did not statistically differ from the other groups. This suggests that the results of the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread can be improved by postoperative radiotherapy. 
The prognostic value of modal deoxyribonucleic acid in low grade, low stage untreated prostate cancer. We selected for a prospective surveillance study 167 patients with untreated grades 1 and 2 prostate cancer. The tumors were classified regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid value (ploidy) by flow cytometry, cytological grade by transrectal fine needle aspiration biopsy and local tumor stage. Of the patients 146 could be evaluated. Mean followup was 50 months. The initial ploidy was statistically correlated to cytological grade but not to initial local tumor stage, prostatic acid phosphatase activity or patient age. Initial ploidy and cytological grade had a prognostic value regarding local tumor progression when considered as single predictors and in combination. Two patients with diploid and 8 with nondiploid tumors initially had metastases during the surveillance. Five patients (1 with diploid and 4 with nondiploid disease) died of prostatic cancer. Modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological grade were of prognostic value in untreated prostate cancer. 
Two distinct loci on the short arm of chromosome 16 are involved in myeloid leukemia. We report a case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) M5 with the characteristic t(8;16)(p11;p13). The breakpoint in the short arm was regionally localized using nonradioactive in situ hybridization with a series of cosmids of chromosome 16. The results show that a difference exists between the breakpoint in chromosome 16(p13) in this t(8;16) and the breakpoint involved in the short arm in the characteristic inversion 16 (p13;q22)) that occurs in ANLL M4eo. Two different loci appear to be involved in these chromosomal rearrangements. 
Oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus. A case report. The risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point. Many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus. We report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred. There is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population. This suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites. 
The pattern of intrathoracic Hodgkin's disease assessed by computed tomography. Computed tomography (CT) was used to define the sites of intrathoracic abnormality in Hodgkin's disease, determine a pattern of progression of disease in the thorax, and establish the place of this pattern of spread in the differential diagnosis of thoracic abnormalities. One hundred eight patients with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease were studied by chest CT. Seventy-seven patients had intrathoracic abnormalities. The pattern seen was one of contiguous spread from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area to the other mediastinal lymph node groups (aortopulmonary, subcarinal, posterior mediastinal, and internal mammary), to the hila, and then into the lung by extension or as discrete nodules. Involvement of the pleura, pericardium, or chest wall occurred only after the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal mass had enlarged to greater than 30% of the thoracic diameter. The probability that this pattern of contiguous lymph node spread occurred by chance alone was very small. Hodgkin's disease spreads from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area in a contiguous manner. Exceptions are unusual enough that when they occur, diagnoses other than Hodgkin's disease are more likely. 
Perioperative blood transfusion adversely affects prognosis of patients with stage I non-small-cell lung cancer. It has been speculated that blood transfusion might adversely affect prognosis in cancer patients by immunosuppression. To avoid the confounding affect of advanced disease, we tested this hypothesis in 117 patients with stage I non-small-cell lung cancer. Mean and median follow-up were 49.7 months and 47 months, respectively. Patients who died during the postoperative period were not included. Perioperative transfusion was defined as administration of whole blood or packed cells within 30 days of operation. The overall cumulative 5-year disease-free survival rate was 67%. In patients with transfusion, it was 53% and in patients without transfusion it was 81% (p = 0.0055). A multivariate analysis was performed that included patient age, race, sex, cell type, extent of operation (pneumonectomy versus lobectomy/segmentectomy), operative blood loss, admission hematocrit, discharge hematocrit, and the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion. The only variable that significantly correlated with 5-year disease-free survival was the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion (p = 0.0278), and this effect was not related to the number of transfusions. Retrospective analysis of long-term results of patients surviving curative operation for stage I lung cancer shows that any perioperative transfusion significantly worsens the patient's prognosis and suggests very strongly that this association is due to an adverse effect of the transfusion rather than the transfusion serving as a marker for another risk factor. 
Constitutional symptoms in patients with germ cell neoplasms. A patient with a mediastinal germ cell neoplasm evidenced fever, weight loss, pruritus, and painful adenopathy on ingestion of alcohol. Retrospective review revealed that 9 percent of 104 patients with advanced germ cell neoplasm evidence constitutional symptoms at presentation. 
A case of dyschondroplasia associated with brain stem glioma: diagnosis by stereotactic biopsy. We present a 24-year-old patient with multiple chondromas of both hands, the pelvis, the left leg, and an associated brain stem glioma. There was no evidence of hemangioma or dyschromia, and the condition was diagnosed as Ollier's disease, a special type of dyschondroplasia like Maffucci's syndrome and Kast's disease. An increased overall risk for development of malignant skeletal and nonskeletal tumors is associated with Maffucci's syndrome. The risk of malignant degeneration is lower in Ollier's disease. A glioma in the pons and the right lobe of the cerebellum was found in this patient. The literature describes an association with gliomas in only 12 cases of dyschondroplasia and an infratentorial localization in just one case. Signs of malignancy were histologically confirmed in 7 cases without significant preponderance of any one type. Our patient had a low-grade brain stem astrocytoma with fibrillar and gemistocytic components. A stereotactic serial biopsy made it possible to rule out malignant degeneration. Stereotactic brain tumor biopsy as a routine neurosurgical procedure is particularly valuable for deep space-occupying processes and forms the basis for therapy. In the present case, irradiation was not recommended. 
Invasive migration of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma cells in vitro. Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a low grade malignant neoplasm which shows invasive growth and often occurs in immunosuppressed patients with the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS; epidemic KS). It is also found in elderly men where it is usually limited to the skin (classic KS). The present study investigated the chemotaxis and invasive migration of epidemic KS cells in vitro and compared them to cells grown from classic KS lesions and to fibroblasts. Epidemic KS cells demonstrated invasive migration through reconstituted basement membrane (Matrigel) as well as through interstitial connective tissue (collagen I) in early passages, whereas fibroblasts did not invade either barrier. Epidemic KS cells in late passages did not show any invasive migration. Following pretreatment with tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) there was no enhanced migration through the Matrigel and collagen I for epidemic KS cells, whereas classic KS cells showed an increased migration through the type I collagen barrier. 
Pancreatic involvement in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Involvement of the pancreas by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has not been adequately addressed and is the object of this review. I analyzed the English language literature, including single case reports of pancreatic involvement and larger series reporting detailed pathological findings of patients with HIV infection. Nonspecific pathological changes in the pancreas are frequently seen at autopsy of HIV-infected patients, but are not more common than in controls. Several types of infections (mainly cytomegalovirus, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Mycobacteria) and neoplasms (lymphoma and Kaposi's sarcoma) can involve the pancreas because they are usually disseminated. Although the serum amylase may be elevated, the patient remains asymptomatic. Occasional instances of severe and even fatal pancreatitis have been reported with HIV infections and attendant drug toxicity. Pentamidine has a predictable incidence of hypoglycemic episodes and 2',3'-dideoxyinosine provokes pancreatitis in a minority of treated patients. Such drug toxicity seems to deserve greater clinical concern than opportunistic infections or neoplasms. 
Oral or intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunoprophylaxis in bladder carcinoma. A total of 71 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor. All patients had stage pTa or pT1 transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ without other concurrent malignancies. The patients were assigned to 3 treatment groups: control group--transurethral resection discontinued within the study, oral bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus BCG (Moreau) and intravesical BCG group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus BCG. Of 9 patients in the control group 8 (89%) experienced tumor recurrence during a mean followup of 20 months. Of the 28 patients in the oral BCG group 11 (39.3%) had recurrence during a mean followup of 36 months. Of the 34 patients in the intravesical group 6 (18%) had recurrence in a 24-month mean followup. The incidence of complications was higher in the intravesical (41.2%) than in the oral BCG group (28.5%). These results show that intravesical BCG is a more effective immunotherapy; however, oral BCG can be used in patients who do not accept intravesical BCG administration. 
Risk factors for breast cancer. Despite the numerous risk factors for the development of breast cancer that have been investigated, only a few demonstrate a clear association with breast cancer development. Female gender and increasing age are the most important factors, followed by factors involving a woman's menstrual, reproductive, and family history. The risks related to menstruation and reproduction are probably related to the duration of estrogenic breast stimulation. The relationship of family history and breast cancer risk is unclear, but there may be a true genetic basis. The previous occurrence of breast cancer (invasive or in situ), the presence of proliferative pathological changes, especially with atypia, and the presence of other malignancies (e.g., primary ovarian and endometrial cancer) are histological risk factors for the development of new or recurrent breast cancer. Radiation exposure, the use of exogenous estrogens (both estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives), diet (especially fat consumption), and alcohol intake may all play a role in cancer risk. Certain medications as well as patient demographics may also have a weak association. Cigarette smoking, caffeine consumption, and stress presently have little support for an association with breast cancer risk. It should be noted that in only one in four patients can breast cancer be accounted for by the known risk factors. This demonstrates that although presently known risk factors may help in screening for the early detection of breast carcinoma, in its possible prevention by modulation of influenceable factors, and in advising patients about their risks, these factors are merely strong associations with breast cancer incidence and not actual causations. The mechanisms of the development of breast cancer are as yet unknown. 
Increased expression of the laminin receptor in human colon cancer. It has been proposed that among the various cell-surface proteins capable of interacting with laminin, the 67-kd high-affinity laminin receptor plays a crucial role during tumor invasion and metastasis. In this study, the expression of laminin-receptor-precursor messenger RNA (mRNA) and 67-kd protein was analyzed in human colon adenocarcinoma. In 22 of 23 patients with colon cancer, we found a 2- to 23-fold increase in levels of laminin-receptor-precursor mRNA in the cancer tissues compared with those in matched normal adjacent colonic mucosa. In 10 of 11 cases studied, the level of 67-kd laminin receptor, detected by affinity-purified anti-laminin-receptor synthetic peptide antibodies on immunoblots of matched tumor and normal tissue extracts, was higher in the colon carcinoma tissue. Immunodetection of laminin receptor in tissue sections using anti-laminin-receptor-peptide antibodies confirmed that the increased expression of laminin receptor was specifically associated with the cancer cells. In a series of 72 paraffin sections of colon lesions, we observed a correlation between the expression of the laminin receptor and the Dukes' classification. Our observations indicate that increased expression of laminin-receptor-precursor mRNA is associated with enhanced levels of the 67-kd laminin receptor as well as with the invasive phenotype of colon carcinoma. Detection of this metastasis-associated gene product may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of human colon cancer. 
Monomorphic adenomas of the major salivary glands: clinicopathological study of 44 cases. We report 44 cases of monomorphic adenoma (MA) of the major salivary glands observed during the years 1979-1989. All of these tumours were reviewed and classified on the basis of the World Health Organisation (WHO) criteria. Histological type, site, sex and age were considered. 34 cases of adenolymphoma were observed, all of them located in the parotid glands; 10 MA without lymphoid stroma were located in both parotid and submandibular glands. Distinctive histological and clinico-pathological features of the latter group of tumours are discussed, as well as the diagnostic criteria in distinguishing these tumours from pleomorphic adenoma and adenoid-cystic carcinoma. 
Allograft reconstructions of the shoulder after bone tumor resections. Large skeletal defects resulting from tumor resections about the shoulder create reconstructive challenges for the orthopedic surgeon. Bone allografts offer several advantages compared with other reconstructive techniques, and functional outcomes are generally satisfactory. They may be used either as osteoarticular grafts, intercalated segments to create an arthrodesis, or in combination with standard proximal humerus metallic implants. Patient expectations and specific oncologic factors must be considered when selecting the optimal method of reconstruction. 
Surgical prophylaxis of malignant melanoma. A review of a 14-year experience with prophylactic pigmented skin lesion removal is presented. Data obtained during a 4-year interval of this 14-year experience is analyzed specifically. During this 4-year interval, 250 patients with melanoma were seen. Of these patients, 75 with a history of stage I (localized) melanoma and three patients with stage II (history of controlled regionally metastatic melanoma) underwent removal of multiple skin lesions on a prophylactic basis. Of the removed lesions, 28% showed hyperplasia, atypia, dysplasia, or melanoma. Nine unsuspected in situ, or level I melanomas, and three unsuspected invasive melanomas were removed from these 75 melanoma patients while excising lesions prophylactically during the 4-year interval. It is estimated that four to six additional melanomas were prevented by excision of precursor lesions. During the same 4-year interval, an additional 112 of approximately 1000 patients without a previous history of melanoma underwent prophylactic lesion removals. In 31% of the 112 patients, there was a history of melanoma in a first-degree relative. In 22% of the removed lesions there was hyperplasia, atypia, or dysplasia. Three cases of melanoma in situ were detected and it is estimated that an additional three to five cases of melanoma were prevented. Atypical findings occurred in 71, or 63%, of the patients biopsied, which represented 7% of the approximately 1000 patients screened. During the 4-year interval, an average of 17.7 lesions were removed from each of the 190 melanoma and nonmelanoma patients undergoing prophylactic skin lesion excision. This was accomplished in one to four sessions per patient. This average reflects only those patients who underwent one excision or more and does not include those patients treated without operation. When including the nonoperated patients screened during this interval, the average number of lesions removed was 2.7 per patient. Death from new melanomas was prevented during the 14-year period of this study as evidenced by the fact that no patient died or developed metastatic disease from a cutaneous melanoma that was not apparent or known about at the time of first examination. 
Detection of loss of heterozygosity in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor specimens by the polymerase chain reaction. A polymerase chain reaction-based procedure was used for the detection of DNA length polymorphisms generated by naturally occurring genetic deletions or insertions of known sequence. This method consists of a simple one-step assay that does not require any restriction enzyme analysis or Southern blot hybridization, allowing identification in ethidium bromide-stained gels. The procedure described here was used to detect loss of heterozygosity at various loci, including the Hbb beta-globin gene cluster, in chemically induced mouse skin tumors, using a variety of tissue preparations, including microdissection of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens, short-term cultures, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting of epithelial populations. This approach may be useful in detecting tumor-specific reduction to homozygosity at polymorphic chromosomal loci, allowing the mapping of putative tumor-suppressor loci involved in carcinogenesis. 
Brain tumors. Recent advances in experimental tumor biology are being applied to critical clinical problems of primary brain tumors. The expression of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, which are sparse in normal brain, is increased as much as 20-fold in brain tumors. Experimental studies show promise in using labeled ligands to these receptors to identify the outer margins of malignant brain tumors. Whereas positron emission tomography has improved the dynamic understanding of tumors, the labeled selective tumor receptors with positron emitters will enhance the ability to specifically diagnose and greatly aid in the pretreatment planning for tumors. Modulation of these receptors will also affect tumor growth and metabolism. Novel methods to deliver antitumor agents to the brain and new approaches using biologic response modifiers also hold promise to further improve the management of brain tumors. 
Cancer mortality in workers exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin BACKGROUND. In both animal and epidemiologic studies, exposure to dioxin (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, or TCDD) has been associated with an increased risk of cancer. METHODS. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of mortality among the 5172 workers at 12 plants in the United States that produced chemicals contaminated with TCDD. Occupational exposure was documented by reviewing job descriptions and by measuring TCDD in serum from a sample of 253 workers. Causes of death were taken from death certificates. RESULTS. Mortality from several cancers previously associated with TCDD (stomach, liver, and nasal cancers, Hodgkin's disease, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma) was not significantly elevated in this cohort. Mortality from soft-tissue sarcoma was increased, but not significantly (4 deaths; standardized mortality ratio [SMR], 338; 95 percent confidence interval, 92 to 865). In the subcohort of 1520 workers with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency, however, mortality was significantly increased for soft-tissue sarcoma (3 deaths; SMR, 922; 95 percent confidence interval, 190 to 2695) and for cancers of the respiratory system (SMR, 142; 95 percent confidence interval, 103 to 192). Mortality from all cancers combined was slightly but significantly elevated in the overall cohort (SMR, 115; 95 percent confidence interval, 102 to 130) and was higher in the subcohort with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency (SMR, 146; 95 percent confidence interval, 121 to 176). CONCLUSIONS. This study of mortality among workers with occupational exposure to TCDD does not confirm the high relative risks reported for many cancers in previous studies. Conclusions about an increase in the risk of soft-tissue sarcoma are limited by small numbers and misclassification on death certificates. Excess mortality from all cancers combined, cancers of the respiratory tract, and soft-tissue sarcoma may result from exposure to TCDD, although we cannot exclude the possible contribution of factors such as smoking and occupational exposure to other chemicals. 
trans-Activation of genes encoding activation-associated human T lymphocyte surface proteins by murine retroviral sequences. The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause T lymphocyte leukemias or lymphomas after a long latent period are not understood. We report here that infection of human T lymphocyte lines with a murine leukemia virus results in up-regulation of a number of lymphocyte-specific cell surface Ag. These proteins include CD2, CD3, CD4, the TCR, and MHC class I Ag. The expression of other cell surface proteins, such as LFA-3, are unaffected by the presence of the retrovirus. This up-regulation occurs at the level of the mRNA transcripts encoding these proteins, and is the result of increased transcription of the respective genes. The increases in transcription are the result of a trans-activation process by the leukemia virus. The transient introduction of chimeric genes consisting of MHC class I gene promoter sequences attached to the reporter gene CAT into human T cells containing murine retrovirus produces stimulated transcription of the reporter gene. Subgenomic portions of the murine leukemia virus containing the long terminal repeats and the 5' untranslated region are sufficient to produce transactivation of the same set of T cell genes as the whole leukemia virus. The finding that murine leukemia viruses enhance transcription and expression of a group of T cell surface proteins, all of which have been reported to be capable of transducing an activating signal to the lymphocyte, may be relevant to the pathophysiologic mechanisms whereby these viruses induce leukemias and lymphomas. 
Pattern of urological malignancy in Zambia. A hospital-based histopathological study. The pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of Zambia (determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period) is presented. A total of 6514 malignancies were observed, of which 784 (12%) were of urological origin. Bladder carcinoma, predominantly squamous type, was the commonest urological tumour (51%), followed by carcinoma of the prostate (26%), carcinoma of the penis (18%), renal tumours (4.3%) and testicular malignancy (0.7%). In nearly 32% of the bladder tumours, bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically. Nephroblastoma accounted for 70% of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma. A brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries. 
A recurrent pelvic desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen. A case of recurrent retroperitoneal desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen (Nolvadex tablets, ICI Pharma, Division of ICI Americas, Wilmington, DE) is reported. The patient presented late in her second pregnancy with a large retroperitoneal pelvic desmoid tumor that was treated with surgical excision and megestrol acetate. When the tumor recurred 12 months later, it was again treated with surgery, this time followed by radiation therapy. The desmoid tumor quickly recurred. The patient was then treated with tamoxifen, resulting in a complete tumor regression that has remained stable for 27 months. Tamoxifen should be considered as first-line therapy in recurrent desmoid tumors. 
Quantitative analysis of antibody localization in human metastatic colon cancer: a phase I study of monoclonal antibody A33. A33 is a mouse immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) monoclonal antibody (mAb) that detects a heat-stable, protease- and neuraminidase-resistant epitope. The antigen is homogeneously expressed by virtually all colon cancers and in the colon mucosa but not other epithelial tissues. The biodistribution and imaging characteristics of iodine-131 (131I)-mAbA33 were studied in colorectal carcinoma patients with hepatic metastases. Antibody labeled with 2 to 5 mCi of 131I was administered intravenously (IV) 7 to 8 days before surgery at five dose levels, ranging from 0.2 mg to 50 mg, with three or more patients entered at each dose level. In addition, three patients received 2 mg 131I-mAbTA99 (an isotype-matched control mAb) together with 125I-mAbA33. Evaluation included whole-body imaging with a gamma camera, technetium-99 (99mTc)-human serum albumin blood pool scans, liver/spleen scans, abdominal computed tomographic (CT) scans, hepatic arteriograms, antibody pharmacokinetics, and assessment of antibody distribution in biopsied malignant and normal tissues. Selective mAbA33 localization to tumor tissue was demonstrated in 19 of 20 patients, and external imaging correlated with surgical inspection, pathologic examination, and tissue radioactivity. One week after antibody administration, tumor:liver ratios ranged from 6.9:1 to 100:1 and tumor:serum ratios from 4.1:1 to 25.2:1. 99mTc-albumin blood pool studies showed that liver metastases were hypovascular, emphasizing the selective localization of mAbA33 despite poor tumor-blood flow. Control mAbTA99 studies showed mAbA33 localization was antigen-specific; tumor:liver ratios were 2.3- to 45-fold higher for specific antibody. In metastatic lesions, radioisotope was localized primarily in the viable periphery; however, even the necrotic tumor core concentrated specific antibody. External imaging showed isotope visualization in some patients' large bowel; whether this represents specific antibody uptake or gastric iodine secretion is unclear. 
A randomized trial of the effect of three non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents in ameliorating cancer-induced fever. Paraneoplastic fever is well known, and is not an uncommon problem in daily practice. In an effort to ameliorate tumour-induced fever we randomized 48 patients to receive three different non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs: Naproxen (500 mg d-1), Indomethacin (75 mg d-1) or Diclophenac sodium (75 mg d-1). All patients had solid tumours, and microbial infection had been excluded. All three drugs were equally effective in bringing the temperature down to normal for a period of 30-33 d. Naproxen had the most rapid effect. In cases of fever relapse with the first drug, when the other two drugs were given instead, both proved equally effective. No side-effects were observed. We conclude that Naproxen, Indomethacin and Diclophenac sodium are equally effective in ameliorating paraneoplastic fever. In relapse, a second drug given subsequently can be effective as well. 
Primary lymphoma of bone: a clinicopathologic study of 25 cases reported over 10 years. Twenty-five cases of primary lymphoma of bone (PLB) reported over a 10-year period were reviewed. The presenting symptom was related to involvement of a single bone with or without regional nodal disease. None showed dissemination of lymphoma in the subsequent six months. Patients affected were 7-65 years of age. An equal predilection for the axial and appendicular skeleton was noted. Histologically, the commonest subtype was diffuse histiocytic lymphoma (DHL, 17 cases), whereas four were poorly differentiated lymphocytic (PDL) type and another four were unclassifiable. Follow-up was available in 18 out of 25 patients for periods ranging from 7 months to 8 years. On clinicopathologic correlation we found that 75% of disease-free patients had a DHL whereas 60% of those alive with disease had a PDL. This study reiterates the view that PLB has a good prognosis and the DHL subtype is especially amenable to complete eradication. 
Brake mechanics, asbestos, and disease risk. Health risks posed by inhalable asbestos fibers are known to exist in a variety of industrial and nonindustrial settings. Although early studies described an increased risk of asbestosis, lung cancer, and mesothelioma in asbestos-industry workers, subsequent research revealed the existence of a potential asbestos-related health hazard in nonasbestos industries such as the textile and railroad industries. Brake mechanics and garage workers constitute a large work force with potential exposures to levels of asbestos capable of producing disease. Unfortunately, the health risk faced by these workers has received little attention. This article briefly discusses currently available information on the asbestos health risks of workers in this setting, and highlights the need for further investigations of this occupational group. 
Preoperative cytology and mammography in patients with single-duct nipple discharge treated by surgery. Microdochectomy has been the routine management for single-duct nipple discharge. Our review of 176 consecutive patients surgically treated between 1975 and 1988 revealed eight patients with in situ carcinomas and seven with infiltrative carcinomas. Seventeen patients had multiple papillomas, two had atypical hyperplasia and two had atypical epitheliosis. Case selection for surgery has recently been advocated. In our study, nipple discharge cytology was helpful in 67 per cent of cases with underlying malignant pathology. Mammography was found to be unreliable, alerting suspicion in only two of 15 cases. 
Free radical-derived quinone methide mediates skin tumor promotion by butylated hydroxytoluene hydroperoxide: expanded role for electrophiles in multistage carcinogenesis. Free radical derivatives of peroxides, hydroperoxides, and anthrones are thought to mediate tumor promotion by these compounds. Further, the promoting activity of phorbol esters is attributed, in part, to their ability to stimulate the cellular generation of oxygen radicals. A hydroperoxide metabolite of butylated hydroxytoluene, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroperoxyl-4-methyl-2,5-cyclohexadienone (BHTOOH), has previously been shown to be a tumor promoter in mouse skin. BHTOOH is extensively metabolized by murine keratinocytes to several radical species. The primary radical generated from BHTOOH is a phenoxyl radical that can disproportionate to form butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide, a reactive electrophile. Since electrophilic species have not been previously postulated to mediate tumor promotion, the present study was undertaken to examine the role of this electrophile in the promoting activity of BHTOOH. The biological activities of two chemical analogs of BHTOOH, 4-trideuteromethyl-BHTOOH and 4-tert-butyl-BHTOOH, were compared with that of the parent compound. 4-Trideuteromethyl-BHTOOH and 4-tert-butyl-BHTOOH have a reduced ability or inability, respectively, to form a quinone methide; however, like the parent compound, they both generate a phenoxyl radical when incubated with keratinocyte cytosol. The potency of BHTOOH, 4-trideuteromethyl-BHTOOH, and 4-tert-butyl-BHTOOH as inducers of ornithine decarboxylase, a marker of tumor promotion, was commensurate with their capacity for generating butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide. These initial results were confirmed in a two-stage tumor promotion protocol in female SENCAR mice. Together, these data indicate that a quinone methide is mediating tumor promotion by BHTOOH, providing direct evidence that an electrophilic intermediate can elicit this stage of carcinogenesis. 
Multiple spinal metastases from paraganglioma. Isolated vertebral body metastases from paraganglioma are exceedingly rare. They have been reported to occur in the presence of active primary tumor in the neck, local recurrence, or widespread metastases. A unique case of carotid body tumor (paraganglioma) is reported with the following features: (1) multiple vertebral body metastases (C6, T9, and L3) presenting with spinal cord compression, and no evidence of local recurrence or other metastatic disease; (2) absence of mitoses on the original specimen or the metastatic deposit; and (3) a prolonged interval (9 years) to the development of symptomatic metastases. 
Null cell adenoma of the pituitary with features of plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation. The case of a 35-year-old man with pituitary macroadenoma who was complaining of reduced sexual activity is presented. Histologic examination showed a chromophobic adenoma corresponding mainly to a null cell adenoma at the ultrastructural level. Focal plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation of adenoma cells were demonstrated by immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic studies. It is suggested that adenomatous null cells represent pluripotent progenitor cells capable of transforming to different hormone-producing cell types. The factors accounting for differentiating to various cell populations have yet to be elucidated. 
Lack of relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative resection for gastric cancer. To better comprehend the relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer, the authors reviewed retrospectively data on 568 patients treated in their clinics from 1965 to 1983. Of these 568, 195 (34.3%) required no blood transfusion and 373 (65.7%) required transfusions within the perioperative period. Univariate analysis indicated that the survival time of the transfusion recipients was significantly less than that of the patients who had no transfusions (P less than 0.01). In subgroups of the authors' patients stratified to adjust for stage of disease, there was, however, no significant difference between the survival rates. Subsequently, multivariate analysis, using the Cox regression analysis, which adjusted for sex, age, and other covariates, indicated that perioperative blood transfusion was not a useful factor for predicting survival time. Multivariate analysis suggested that tumor size (P less than 0.01), degree of invasion into the gastric wall (P less than 0.01) and status of lymph node metastasis (P less than 0.01) were the most important covariates after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. The authors' findings revealed the lack of any relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time of patients who underwent curative resection for advanced gastric cancer. 
Comparative epidemiology of cancer between the United States and Japan. A second look. Vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for Japanese natives and United States whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations. Results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among Japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking. Oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in Japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization. As the Japanese life-style and diet continue to become more "westernized," the rates of malignancies of the breast, ovary, corpus uteri, prostate, pancreas, and colon also continue to rise. Nevertheless, the mortality patterns of certain malignancies, viz., laryngeal, esophageal, and urinary bladder cancer, are discrepant with their established risk factor associations, suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries. Epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style. 
Selective hypersensitivity to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor by juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia hematopoietic progenitors. Juvenile chronic myelogenous leukemia (JCML) is a good model for the study of myeloproliferation because JCML hematopoietic progenitor cells grow in vitro at very low cell densities without the addition of exogenous stimulus. Previous studies have demonstrated that this proliferation is dependent on granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and that removal of monocytes from the cell population before culture eliminates this "spontaneous" myeloproliferation, suggesting a paracrine role of monocyte stimulation. However, subsequent studies have shown that increased GM-CSF production from the JCML monocytes is not a consistent finding and therefore not a plausible sole mechanism. In examining hematopoietic growth factor dose-response curves, both JCML GM and erythroid nonadherent progenitor cell populations displayed a marked and selective hypersensitivity to GM-CSF. Responses to interleukin-3 and G-CSF were identical to control dose-response curves. This is the first demonstration of a myeloid leukemia in which hypersensitivity to a specific growth factor appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. 
Pigmented Bowen's disease arising from pigmented seborrheic keratoses. We report three cases of pigmented Bowen's disease that clinically and histologically had features of seborrheic keratoses. We speculate about the mechanism of pigmentation in these lesions and suggest that they arise from pigmented seborrheic keratoses. 
Serial immunocytologic analysis of blood for tumor cells in two patients with neuroblastoma. Tumor surveillance tests are used to determine whether malignant cells are responsive or resistant to therapeutic regimens. For patients with neuroblastoma, conventional methods of surveillance are not sensitive enough. Because tumor cells are shed into the circulation, immunocytologic analysis of blood may function as a sensitive monitoring system. In this study, five blood samples were obtained from two patients with disseminated neuroblastoma at diagnosis and during therapy. These samples were analyzed with monoclonal antibodies and immunoperoxidase staining to determine whether circulating neuroblasts were present. In both patients, the presence or absence of circulating neuroblasts yielded information that was more sensitive than that from conventional tests. The authors conclude that immunocytologic analysis of blood should be included with conventional monitoring methods for surveillance of patients with disseminated neuroblastoma. 
Leukocyte larceny: spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry Leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny, in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples (ABG) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension. We report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple ABGs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture. Pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny. 
The in vivo biologic effect of interleukin 2 and interferon alfa on natural immunity in patients with head and neck cancer. Given the association of deficient natural immunity with the risk of metastatic disease, the ability to activate natural killer cell function may have a therapeutic significance. The effect of continuous infusion of interleukin 2 plus intramuscular interferon alfa on natural immune status was, therefore, analyzed in eight patients with head and neck cancer. Also evaluated was the effect of interleukin 2-interferon alfa therapy on lymphokine-activated killer cell activity as well as total lymphocyte count, percent of lymphocyte subsets, and levels of both circulating immune complexes and antibody classes. Both the percent and absolute number of natural killer cells (ie, CD56+ CD3- lymphocytes) within peripheral blood as well as natural killer cell activity against K562 targets increased significantly with treatment. The remaining immune parameters were not significantly altered. The demonstrated capacity to modulate natural immune function supports the potential use of interleukin 2-containing regimens as a preventive measure against metastatic disease in patients with head and neck cancer. 
A retinoic acid response element is part of a pleiotropic domain in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase gene. Several hormones, including insulin, glucagon, and glucocorticoids, regulate the expression of the rate-limiting gluconeogenic enzyme, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase [GTP: oxaloacetate carboxy-lyase (transphosphorylating); EC 4.1.1.32; PEPCK] in liver. In this report we demonstrate that retinoic acid (RA) also regulates PEPCK expression by inducing a 3-fold increase in the rate of transcription of the PEPCK gene. A RA response element located between -468 and -431 in the PEPCK promoter mediates a 7-fold increase in expression of a chimeric construct containing the basal PEPCK promoter ligated to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. This element confers RA responsiveness through the heterologous thymidine kinase promoter and functions relatively independent of position and orientation. An 18-base-pair core sequence (-451 to -434) (i) mediates an effect of RA on PEPCK gene expression and contains motifs found in two other RA response elements; (ii) corresponds to AF1, an accessory factor element that is an integral component of the complex glucocorticoid response unit in the PEPCK gene promoter; (iii) is in a region involved in the developmental expression of the PEPCK gene; and (iv) shows homology to elements involved in the tissue-specific regulation of genes, including the hepatic apolipoprotein genes and the alpha 1-antitrypsin gene. 
Chromogranin A: posttranslational modifications in secretory granules. The primary structure of chromogranin A indicates multiple domains which might be subject to posttranslational modification. We explored chromogranin A's proteolytic cleavage, glycosylation, and possible intermolecular disulfide links, using biochemical and cell biological approaches. Anti-chromogranin A region-specific immunoblots on chromaffin granules suggested bidirectional endoproteolytic cleavage of chromogranin A; control experiments ruled out artifactual cleavage during granule isolation or lysis. Isolation of chromogranin A-derived peptides by gel filtration chromatography or sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), followed by N-terminal amino acid sequencing, established several cleavage sites, including at least two at dibasic sites. Secretion of chromogranin A from bovine chromaffin cells did not initiate further cleavage, nor did prolonged exposure of secreted chromogranins to the secretory cells. The chromogranin A cleavage pattern was qualitatively similar in other neuroendocrine tissues, though cleavage was more complete in adrenal medullary than in anterior pituitary hormone storage vesicles, and N-terminal fragments of 45 and 55 kilodaltons were more prominent in the hypothalamus. A similar cleavage pattern was seen in human pheochromocytoma granules, as judged by chromogranin A region-specific immunoblots, fragment isolation by SDS-PAGE, and microsequencing. The presence of full-length chromogranin A as the core protein of a chromaffin granule soluble proteoglycan was suggested in bovine (but not human) chromaffin granules by glycoprotein staining, chondroitinase ABC digestion, chemical deglycosylation, and region-specific immunoblotting. Human (but not bovine) chromogranin A displayed intermolecular disulfide crosslinks on SDS-PAGE gels and immunoblotting. These results document diverse structural paths that the chromogranin A molecule may take in endocrine secretory cells after its translation. 
Mediastinal hibernoma, a rare tumor. Hibernoma is an uncommon soft tissue tumor that is derived from the remnants of fetal brown fat. Review of the world medical literature revealed 90 cases, 6 of which were intrathoracic. We present the seventh case of intrathoracic hibernoma; in this case, the hibernoma was within the mediastinum without direct invasion of other structures. 
Mutagen sensitivity in patients with head and neck cancers: a biologic marker for risk of multiple primary malignancies. Eighty-four patients with head and neck cancers were evaluated for in vitro sensitivity to mutagens and then followed longitudinally for development of multiple primary malignancies. We assessed mutagen sensitivity by exposing lymphocytes to bleomycin in vitro and quantitating the bleomycin-induced chromosomal breaks per cell. The mutagen-hypersensitive patients, ie, those who expressed greater than 1.0 break per cell, were significantly more likely to develop multiple primary cancers than were patients who were less sensitive (less than or equal to 1.0 break per cell) (relative risk = 4.4; 95% confidence limits = 1.2, 15.8). This relationship was independent of age, sex, site, and treatment of first primary cancer and tobacco or alcohol exposures. Sensitivity to bleomycin-induced chromosomal damage serves as an indicator of genetic susceptibility to multiple primary malignancies in patients with head and neck cancers. 
Common nonvenereal genital lesions. There are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region. These lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms. The purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease. 
What to do when an x-ray film suggests lung cancer. The chest film is one of the most common methods of detecting lung cancer, which often appears as solitary nodules or hilar masses. Once the diagnosis is established, the most effective treatment can be determined and staging of the tumor can be done. Surgical resection is the only cure for non-small-cell carcinoma, although radiotherapy and chemotherapy may shrink some tumors. Because 90% of all cases are caused by smoking, a preventive approach to the disease is crucial. Screening of high-risk patients (ie, smokers with airflow obstruction) using chest films and sputum cytology may aid this approach. 
Epidermoid cyst (monodermal teratoma) of the testis. We report 14 patients with epidermoid cyst of the testis (monodermal teratoma). In 7 patients (5 treated within the last 5 years) the mass was excised and adjacent testicular tissue was biopsied. Seven patients underwent radical inguinal orchiectomy. Carcinoma in situ was not detected in any testicular tissue examined. There was no evidence of tumour recurrence in any patient after a mean follow-up of 10 years. Ultrasonographic appearance was not specific for a diagnosis of epidermoid cyst and exploratory surgery was required in all cases. Excision of the tumour and biopsy of adjacent testicular tissue to determine the presence or absence of carcinoma in situ is adequate treatment for this rare testicular neoplasm. 
Reoperation for colorectal carcinoma. In the management of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence of colorectal carcinoma, surgery remains the primary mode of therapy when cure or significant palliation is anticipated. Appreciation of the importance of close follow-up after primary resection coupled with improved diagnostic modalities has allowed the surgeon not only to detect earlier recurrence but also to select the patients most likely to benefit from resection of recurrent disease. Improved surgical techniques with resultant decreases in the rates of morbidity and mortality have allowed safe hepatic resection of metastatic disease. In selected patients, this procedure produces 5-year survival rates approaching 50%. Although a clear consensus has not been reached, most studies agree that positive prognostic indicators include absence of extrahepatic disease, a small number of intrahepatic lesions, a low CEA level, and a better Dukes stage of the primary. Likewise, in the patient with recurrent disease locally, surgery provides the only means of cure and also plays a significant role in palliation. Aggressive resection with generous surgical margins in patients with contained disease may yield 5-year survival rates approaching 35%. In patients with unresectable disease and even in those with carcinomatosis, palliation can be obtained by surgical therapy. Judgment is necessary in treating these patients both preoperatively and intraoperatively. Surgical intervention for obstruction, perforation, or other anatomic or physiological compromise is often indicated and can improve the quality of life of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence. 
Endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia: a comparison of patients with normal, enlarged, and fibroid uteri. One hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the Nd:YAG laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia. Patients were divided into one of three groups: those with a normal-sized uterus; those with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm); and those with uterine fibroids, which had been documented clinically, ultrasonographically, or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other. All patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy. Both preoperatively and postoperatively, patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea, light flow, normal flow, heavy flow, and severe flow. After treatment, 68% of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91% of patients with an enlarged uterus (greater than 10 cm) and 88% of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow. None of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy. This study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation. Endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus. 
Bladder cancer. Human leukocyte antigen II, interleukin-6, and interleukin-6 receptor expression determined by the polymerase chain reaction. The prediction of tumour biology rarely rests upon a single characteristic of the malignancy. The analysis of a single gene can complement standard histologic evaluation. The investigation of new parameters as well as the routine clinical analysis of gene expression is often limited because of the small amount of tissue available. This is particularly true of de novo human bladder cancers because they are generally small or handled in such a way as to hinder the analysis of multiple different parameters. Analysis of expressed mRNA by the polymerase chain reaction (RNA/PCR) is a method that allows the development of a profile of bladder cancer gene expression. The authors report the use of the RNA/PCR method to examine in bladder cancer the expression of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II gene family (HLA-DR, DQ, and DP) as well as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R). All de novo transitional cell carcinomas, one squamous carcinoma, and two transitional cell carcinoma cell lines expressed the majority of HLA class II genes. All samples expressed IL-6R RNA whereas production of IL-6 message was limited to one of the cell lines and to the high-grade bladder cancers. These results were combined with stage, grade, and DNA content to develop a profile of the cancers examined. Although an improved predictive index based on gene expression analysis by RNA/PCR has not been realized, a broader survey of human tumors for expression of these genes and others is likely to refine the classification of bladder cancer. 
The contribution of routine follow-up mammography to an early detection of asynchronous contralateral breast cancer. The role of routine mammography was assessed in the early detection of asynchronous contralateral breast cancer (ACBC). The breast cancer patient populations of two cities, Nijmegen and Eindhoven, The Netherlands, which were subjected to a well-defined follow-up program, were compared. The program consisted of regular physical examination and annual mammography in Nijmegen and physical examination only in Eindhoven. From 1975 until 1987, 24 ACBC patients were detected within a group of 880 breast cancer patients in Nijmegen (3%) and, from 1971 until 1984, 14 ACBC patients within a group of 411 patients in Eindhoven (3%). In Nijmegen, eight of the 23 evaluable patients (35%) had a contralateral tumor with a histologic size smaller than 10 mm or an in situ carcinoma, compared with one of the 14 of the Eindhoven patients (7%), whereas 18 of the 24 (75%) versus eight of the 14 patients (57%) were node-negative. Thus annual mammography is very likely a contribution in the early detection of contralateral breast cancer as compared with follow-up by regular physical examination only. 
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 receptor RNA: expression in hematopoietic cells. 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] induces differentiation and inhibits proliferation of myeloid leukemic cells from various lines and patients; these effects are probably mediated through the 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor. Little is known of expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA in hematopoietic cells. We examined the expression and modulation of expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA in various proliferating and nonproliferating hematopoietic cells. Constitutive expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA was detected in various kinds of hematopoietic cells, including macrophages and activated T lymphocytes, as well as in cell lines KG-1 (myeloblasts), HL-60 (promyelocytes), ML-3 (myelomonoblasts), U937, THP-1 (monoblasts), K562 (erythroblasts), and S-LB1 (HTLV-1-transfected T lymphocytes). Receptor transcripts were 4.6 kilobases (kb), and no variant sizes were observed. All cell lines examined in this group also expressed 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors. Most B lymphocyte lines expressed negligible levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA and protein; however; analysis of a lymphoid/myeloid somatic hybrid suggested that suppression of expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA in B lymphocytes may be a dominant characteristic. HL-60 cells were cultured with 10(-7) mol/L 1,25(OH)2D3 for 24 to 72 hours, and levels of expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor and its RNA were examined. Levels of RNA coding for the receptor were not modulated by exposure to high levels of ligand. Levels of occupied 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor protein increased in these HL-60 cells; but the total number of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors decreased about 50% at 24 hours and returned toward normal at 72 hours. Steady-state levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA were not affected by terminal differentiation of HL-60 toward either granulocytes or macrophages. Nondividing macrophages from normal individuals also expressed 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA. In contrast, nondividing peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal individuals did not express 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA; with stimulation of proliferation of these cells, accumulation of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA increased markedly. Half-life (t1/2) of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA in T lymphocytes was short (1 hour) as determined by measuring decay of the message after addition of actinomycin D. Consistent with this short t1/2, accumulation of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA increased in cells as their protein synthesis was inhibited. Further studies are required to understand the physiologic role of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors in myeloid cells and proliferating T lymphocytes. 
Monoclonal antibody to the interferon-inducible protein Leu-13 triggers aggregation and inhibits proliferation of leukemic B cells. Interferon (IFN)-alpha inhibits DNA synthesis stimulated by low molecular weight B-cell growth factor (BCGF) in hairy cells in vitro, suggesting that the therapeutic efficacy of IFN-alpha in hairy cell leukemia (HCL) involves growth inhibition of malignant B cells. Evidence that the 16-Kd cell surface protein Leu-13 mediates an antiproliferative signal in T lymphocytes and is IFN-inducible in endothelial cells prompted us to examine the expression and functional role of this molecule in leukemic B cells. Leu-13 density, determined by flow cytometry, was upregulated in vitro and in vivo by IFN-alpha on malignant B cells from patients with HCL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and prolymphocytic leukemia. Monoclonal anti-Leu-13 triggered homotypic aggregation of leukemic B cells via an adhesion pathway that was not inhibited by antibodies to leukocyte function associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) or intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Moreover, anti-Leu-13 potentiated the inhibitory effects of IFN-alpha on BCGF-stimulated DNA synthesis, assessed by [3H]-thymidine and [3H]-deoxyadenosine incorporation into DNA. These results indicate that Leu-13 is part of a novel IFN-inducible signaling pathway which may modify the growth and adhesive properties of leukemic B cells under physiologic or therapeutic conditions. 
Location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications. Of 310 patients with port-wine stains, 68% had more than one dermatome involved; 85% had unilateral and 15% had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain. At the time of examination, 8% of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Extensive involvement, with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck, was observed in 12%. Patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches V1 and V2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or CNS involvement. Port-wine stains of the eyelids, bilateral distribution of the birthmark, and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or CNS complications. Twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or CNS involvement compared with 6% of those with unilateral lesions. All those who had eye and/or CNS complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids; in 91% both upper and lower eyelids were involved, whereas in 9% only the lower eyelid was involved. None of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or CNS complications. In addition, 3 (75%) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement. A third group, these with unilateral V1, V2, and V3 port-wine stains, had eye and/or CNS complications in 3 (19%) of 16 subjects. 
Results of stereotactic brachytherapy used in the initial management of patients with glioblastoma. Recent studies have shown a survival benefit for patients with recurrent glioblastomas treated with stereotactic brachytherapy. On the basis of these encouraging results, we began a prospective study in 1987 to evaluate the use of brachytherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Patients were considered eligible for this study if they met the following criteria: Karnofsky performance status 70% or greater; tumor size not greater than 5 cm in any dimension; a radiographically well delineated, supratentorial lesion not involving the ependymal surfaces; and pathologically confirmed glioblastoma. We treated 35 such patients between 1987 and 1990 with stereotactic brachytherapy as part of their initial therapy. The treatment protocol involved surgery, partial brain external-beam radiotherapy (59.4 Gy in 33 fractions), and stereotactic brachytherapy with temporary high-activity iodine 125 sources giving an additional 50 Gy to the tumor bed. Chemotherapy was not used in the initial management of these 35 patients. To compare our results with those obtained in a matched control group, we identified 40 patients with glioblastoma treated with surgery and external radiotherapy, with or without chemotherapy, between 1977 and 1986 at our institution. These patients had clinical and radiographic characteristics that would have made them eligible for the brachytherapy protocol. Survival rates at 1 and 2 years after diagnosis were 87% and 57%, respectively, for patients receiving brachytherapy versus 40% and 12.5%, respectively, for the controls (P less than .001). We conclude that stereotactic brachytherapy improves the survival of patients with glioblastoma when it can be incorporated into the initial treatment approach. Unfortunately, only about one in four patients with glioblastoma are suitable candidates for brachytherapy at the time of initial presentation. 
Postoperative active specific immunization in colorectal cancer patients with virus-modified autologous tumor-cell vaccine. First clinical results with tumor-cell vaccines modified with live but avirulent Newcastle disease virus [published erratum appears in Cancer 1991 Apr 15;67(8):2124] Sixteen patients with colorectal carcinoma Dukes' Stage B2, C, or D were treated with an autologous virus-modified tumor-cell vaccine after potential curative tumor resection (R0-Resection). An inoculum of 1 X 10(7) cells incubated with 32 hemagglutination units of nonirradiated Newcastle disease virus (NDV) was given intracutaneously up to four times at 10-day intervals. The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin reaction was measured. The vaccination was well tolerated. In 11 of 16 patients an increasing reactivity against the vaccine was observed during the vaccination procedure. A challenge test using autologous tumor cells without NDV after the vaccination cycle revealed a specific antitumor sensibilization in 12 patients. The DTH response was not due to bacterial contamination or sensibility to the virus. Histologic examination of the vaccination site showed a dense infiltration of predominantly helper T-lymphocytes. We conclude that in most of the patients treated active, specific immunization led to a specific antitumor sensitivity. 
A cohort study of fat intake and risk of breast cancer. Between 1982 and 1987, 519 newly incident, histologically confirmed cases of breast cancer were identified in a cohort of 56,837 women enrolled in the Canadian National Breast Screening Study. These women had completed a dietary questionnaire before the occurrence of their breast cancer, and this has been used to estimate their intake of dietary fat and several other nutrients. There is evidence of a positive association between breast cancer and total fat intake, with a relative risk of 1.35 (95% confidence interval, 1.00-1.82) per 77 g per day, and some evidence of a dose-response relationship (P = .052). 
A6--a new 45RO monoclonal antibody for immunostaining of paraffin-embedded tissues. The authors report on the extensive characterization, on normal and pathologic tissues, of the T-cell-specific monoclonal antibody (MoAb) A6, which the authors previously found to identify a fixation- and paraffin-embedding-resistant epitope. A6 reacted with most T lymphocytes, macrophages, and Langerhans' cells of normal tissues and with peripheral T-cell lymphomas (31 of 34), Ki-1+ lymphomas (12 of 18), and T-cell leukemias (1 of 5). All cases of X and non-X histiocytosis examined and monocytic leukemias with mature phenotype only were A6 positive. Three of 47 cases of B-cell lymphoma and leukemia were labeled. Hairy cell leukemias, multiple myelomas, and Hodgkin's and Reed-Sternberg cells were negative. The A6 reactivity was preserved with different fixatives (formalin, Bouin's fluid, Carnoy's fixative, and B5) and decalcification procedures and was slightly enhanced by trypsin digestion. The pattern of reactivity of A6 was similar to that obtained with MoAb UCHL-1, recognizing the CD45RO determinant of leukocyte common antigen; however, in pathologic tissues, A6 labeled a higher percentage of cells than UCHL-1. Cross-blocking and enzyme digestion studies (Pronase E [Sigma Chemical, St. Louis, MO] and neuraminidase [Sigma Chemical]) indicated that the two MoAbs may identify close epitopes on the same molecule. In conclusion, the authors' study indicates that A6 is an excellent reagent for detection of the CD45RO molecule on paraffin-embedded normal and pathologic tissues. 
Indium-111-antimyosin scintigraphy after doxorubicin therapy in patients with advanced breast cancer Indium-111-antimyosin (111In-antimyosin) scans were performed in 20 women with advanced breast cancer after 10 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin (total cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 500 mg/m2). Antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was quantified by means of a heart-to-lung ratio (HLR). Antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was observed in 17/20 (85%) patients, and HLR after chemotherapy was 1.86 +/- 0.25. Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was determined before and after chemotherapy. Patients with decreased EF (8/20, 40%) presented with more intense antimyosin uptake (HLR of 2.11 +/- 0.10 versus 1.70 +/- 0.16 (p = 0.01]. HLR values correlated with EF values after chemotherapy (r = -0.47, p less than 0.05). Positive antimyosin studies after chemotherapy including doxorubicin, indicate the presence of myocardial damage in these patients. Antimyosin studies are a sensitive method to detect myocyte damage in patients after doxorubicin therapy. 
Blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer: the role of platelet derived growth factors. Efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion. However, the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive. We have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon. Using a human fibroblast: [125I]deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay, the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured. There was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 (n = 6) to day 28 (n = 6; P less than 0.001, Mann-Whitney U test). The effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in Hooded Lister rats. Following an intraportal injection of 10(5) MC28 tumour cells, the experimental group (n = 25) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days. Likewise, colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10(3) cells. The experimental groups (n = 20) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally (n = 19). There was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group (P less than 0.01). Growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer. 
Bone sarcomas as second malignant neoplasms following childhood cancer. This study explores the relationship between histologic variants of bone sarcomas and previous therapy in patients in whom an unrelated malignant neoplasm had been diagnosed during childhood. Sarcomas of bone were the most common second malignant neoplasm (SMN) reported to the Late Effects Study Group, a 13-institution consortium consisting of pediatric oncology centers from western Europe, Canada, and the United States. The authors attempted to relate the histologic subtypes of the 91 bone tumors to clinical factors such as previous therapy and genetic predisposition because morphologic variants have been shown to have biologic significance in other tumors and may have etiologic import. The literature concerning the subtypes of bone tumors, clinical and experimental, is also reviewed. The authors also investigated the effect of several factors on the time interval from the first diagnosis to the SMN (i.e., the bone sarcoma). Anthracyclines significantly shortened the interval by about 3 years. The primary diagnosis also significantly affected the interval, with leukemia/lymphomas having the shortest interval and retinoblastoma the longest. The authors could not demonstrate any significant relationship between morphologic characteristics of the osteosarcoma and predisposing conditions. However, lesions diagnosed as chondrosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma occurred almost exclusively in patients who had received radiation therapy to the site in which the SMN developed. 
Variations on the temporoparietal fascial flap. An improved understanding of the vascular supply of the layers of the temporal fossa has increased the potential of this region for new and ingenious reconstructive techniques. Separate and independently vascularized layers of this region include hair-bearing scalp, glabrous skin, tempororoparietal fascia (and galea aponeurotica), temporalis muscle and fascia, and pericranium. Island flaps of glabrous skin and scalp provided esthetically appropriate tissue to cover a variety of defects. The malleable bulk of the subcutaneous fascial layers were combined with skin grafts to restore thin lining, and used as a vascularized bed for cartilage grafts in otherwise unsatisfactory recipient sites. Illustrative cases from our 5-year clinical experience are presented to demonstrate various combinations of the temporoparietal fascial pedicle with tissues from the temporal region to reconstruct the eyebrows, eyelids, orbits, cheeks, and lips. 
Clinical significance of the "palpable mass" in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy. Between 1976 and 1985, 132 patients with T2/T3/T4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy (46 Gy: 67 patients; 20 Gy: 65 patients). After a median time of 41 months, 62 patients were alive; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy. Distant metastases developed in 40 patients, accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence. Local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients. In 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown. The corrected 5-year survival rate was 60%. T category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a Cox regression analysis, together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy. The presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in T3/T4a tumours, whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable T3/T4a tumours was similar to that of patients with T2 bladder cancer. Another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction (no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen). Significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour. However, the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours. 
Changes in the clearance of total and unbound etoposide in patients with liver dysfunction. The disposition of total and non-protein-bound etoposide was investigated in 21 cancer patients receiving etoposide and cisplatin combination chemotherapy. Etoposide plasma concentrations were determined using a specific high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method, and etoposide plasma protein binding was determined by equilibrium dialysis. The patients had a wide range of renal function (creatinine clearance, 32 to 159 mL/min/m2) and hepatic function (total bilirubin range, 0.3 to 21.5 mg/dL; aspartate aminotransferase [AST] range, 14 to 415 IU/L; serum albumin range, 2.7 to 4.1 g/dL). The mean etoposide total systemic clearance was not different in 15 patients with total bilirubin less than 1.0 mg/dL versus six patients with total bilirubin 1.1 to 21.5 mg/dL (18.7 +/- 5.9 mL/min/m2 v 26.4 +/- 10.7 mL/min/m2; t-test P = .06), with a trend toward higher total clearance in the patients with abnormal bilirubin values. However, the mean clearance of unbound etoposide was significantly lower in patients with increased total bilirubin (220 +/- 90 mL/min/m2 v 135 +/- 61 mL/min/m2; t-test P = .027). The fraction of etoposide unbound (fu) in plasma was significantly higher in patients with increased bilirubin (9% +/- 3% v 27% +/- 15%; t-test P = .002), explaining the trend toward higher total clearance in these patients. Etoposide clearance (total or unbound) in the 14 patients with measurable hepatic metastases was not different from the clearance in the seven patients without hepatic metastases. This study provides an explanation for why patients with increased bilirubin do not have lower total systemic clearance of etoposide, and indicates that such patients have a higher exposure to unbound etoposide. The results of ongoing pharmacodynamic studies of total and unbound etoposide in patients with increased bilirubin will determine the clinical relevance of altered etoposide protein binding. 
Multifocal, synchronous inverted papillomas involving the ureter. Inverted papillomas involving the upper urinary tract remain a rarely diagnosed phenomenon. A case of bilateral ureteral inverted papillomas is presented. The treatment and diagnosis of this lesion remain a challenge. 
Herniation of the antral membrane through an extraction site. Report of a case. A case of herniation of the antral membrane through a recent extraction site is presented. The lesion was initially diagnosed as a tumor by the referring dentist. Oroantral fistulas are not an uncommon finding after dental extractions. It is rare, however, to see herniation of the antral membrane with large polyps extending through the fistula into the oral cavity. A search of the literature revealed only two other such cases. Surgical removal of the polyps and closure of the oroantral fistula by means of a buccal sliding flap technique is discussed. 
Scintigraphic evaluation of aggressive fibromatosis. Despite its benign microscopic appearance, aggressive fibromatosis has potential to recur and infiltrate neighboring tissues. Therefore, it is necessary to determine the exact extent before therapy. In the present study, 11 cases of aggressive fibromatosis were examined scintigraphically using [99mTc(V)]dimercaptosuccinic acid (11 cases) and 67Ga-citrate (7 cases). Technetium-99m-(V)-dimercaptosuccinic acid demonstrated all lesions, while 67Ga-citrate detected 57% of the cases. 
Interleukin-5 is a human basophilopoietin: induction of histamine content and basophilic differentiation of HL-60 cells and of peripheral blood basophil-eosinophil progenitors. Cytokine-induced differentiation of basophils may contribute to various inflammatory processes. We examined the effects of recombinant human interleukin-5 (IL-5) and other human cytokines in vitro on myeloid colony formation in methylcellulose and on alkaline passaged HL-60 basophilic cell differentiation. Myeloid colonies (CFU-C) at day 14, formed in the presence of either IL-3, IL-5, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), or G-CSF included peripheral blood-derived progenitors of the eosinophil/basophil lineage. IL-5 stimulated a greater proportion of basophil-containing, histamine-positive, eosinophil-type colonies compared with GM-CSF, IL-3, or G-CSF. IL-5 also stimulated dose-dependent increases in histamine content of alkaline-passaged, butyrate cotreated HL-60 cells. The concentration of IL-5 required for half-maximal induction of HL-60 histamine content was similar within twofold to that needed for half-maximal stimulation of the multifactor dependent TF-1 erythroleukemic cell line. Neutralizing rat monoclonal antibodies to human IL-5 were developed and used to demonstrate that each of these IL-5 bioactivities could be specifically blocked. We conclude that in addition to its previously described eosinophil differentiation activity, IL-5 may be considered a basophilopoietin. 
Prognostic factors in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with transcatheter arterial embolization and arterial infusion. From January 1986 to December 1988, a prospective trial of transcatheter arterial treatment was carried out for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Two hundred seventy-five patients were included. Okuda's staging system was employed. Patients with Stage I and II HCC were treated by transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) with a gelatin sponge containing an anti-cancer agent (protocol 1a); a gelatin sponge and iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent (protocol 1b); or iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent (protocol 2). Patients with Stage III HCC were treated with iodized oil with anti-cancer agent (protocol 2). As an exception, patients with an unsuccessful superselective catheterization into the proper hepatic artery by Seldinger technique or obstruction of the main trunk of the portal vein were treated with percutaneous transcatheter arterial infusion into the common hepatic artery regardless of stage (protocol 3). Tumor type and extension, area of tumor involvement, portal vein involvement, method of treatment, and presence of ascites and icterus were found to be the significant factors for an initial response to therapy. Treatment method was the most important factor. Respective survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 70.9% and 55.3% for protocol 1a; 62.3% and 43.8% for protocol 1b; 37.8% and 18.3% for protocol 2; and 16.5% and 0% for protocol 3. Many factors proved to significantly influenced prognosis; however, tumor type had the most important prognostic significance followed by AFP value, ascites, treatment protocol, and area of tumor involvement. 
Loss of expression of blood group antigen H is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas. Membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells. Forty-two squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody (BE2) that reacts with blood group H (type 2 chain) structure. H-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor, i.e., spread of the tumors. However, loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy. These findings support the view that features relating to the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors, and that loss of H-antigen expression is related to the stage of tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells. 
Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver. Inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver is an extremely rare entity. Because of its unusual clinical presentation and confusing histologic picture, a diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made. Thus the surgeon is closely involved with the case and extensive procedures are not uncommon. However, this lesion is benign and will even regress spontaneously, making radical surgical procedures contraindicated. The difficulty lies in establishing an accurate diagnosis and the histologic pitfalls of this particular process. Conservative therapy can then be applied, avoiding surgical morbidity. 
Behavioral and psychosocial cancer research. Building on the past, preparing for the future. This report identifies five general conclusions that emerged from the Second Workshop on Methodology in Behavioral and Psychosocial Cancer Research. These conclusions address diverse topics, including a focus on areas other than methodology; an emphasis on the transfer of technology and knowledge to applied settings; a recognition of the role of basic behavioral research in answering clinical questions; the need to recognize and strengthen ties between the field of behavioral and psychosocial oncology and the basic behavioral and social science fields from which it emerged; and the importance of additional research on minorities and other special populations. It is suggested that meeting the challenges posed in each of these five areas is critical to continued progress in the field. 
Temporal bone: three-dimensional CT. Part II. Pathologic alterations. Three-dimensional (3D) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic (CT) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities. The 3D CT reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional CT examination. While no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3D CT images, they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site. Three-dimensional CT surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change. 
Clinical evaluation of interferons in malignant melanoma. The evaluation of interferons in the treatment of malignant melanoma has been mainly in the treatment of advanced disease using interferons as the sole agent or in combination with other agents. Studies of the value of interferons as adjuvant therapy in high-risk primary melanoma patients are necessary, but no results have been published to date. Human interferon alpha produces low response rates as a sole agent, but in combination with cimetidine, a 30% response rate has been achieved. Recombinant alpha interferons give responses of 15%-20% in advanced melanomas, and combination with cimetidine does not enhance the response rate. Recombinant alpha interferons have been used in combination with other interferons, cimetidine, monoclonal antibodies, and cytotoxics, with either no or small improvement in response rates. DTIC with recombinant interferon alpha-2a has been shown to produce objective response rates of 26%, with low toxicity and maintenance of quality of life. A randomized trial with DTIC as the sole agent, compared with combination treatment, is being conducted to determine the significance of this finding. 
Metastatic ciliary body carcinoid tumor. A 50-year-old man with a history of systemic carcinoid had decreased right eye vision and a darkly pigmented cilio-choroidal mass. Results of ultrasonographic and fluorescein angiographic examinations were consistent with a malignant melanoma. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion identified it as a carcinoid metastasis. The patient refused both radiation and enucleation; complete excision with a cyclochoroidectomy was performed. Histopathologic examination showed a carcinoid neoplasm covered by marked hyperplasia of the retinal pigment epithelium that produced the pigmented appearance of the lesion. 
Continuous 5-fluorouracil infusion and alpha interferon in advanced cancers: a report of initial treatment results. Twenty-four patients with advanced metastatic cancer were treated with continuous intravenous 5-fluorouracil infusion 200-300 mg/m2/day and alpha interferon 3 million units subcutaneously 3 times per week. The average duration of treatment was 87 days (range 22-204 days). 5-fluorouracil could be infused 66% of the planned time on treatment, and patients received an average of 60% of the planned interferon injections. Objective tumor responses were seen in 6 of 17 previously untreated patients (35%). Twenty-two of the 24 patients (92%) experienced toxicity (greater than or equal to ECOG grade II) that required treatment interruption and subsequent dose reduction predominantly for the following reasons: mucositis (67%), hand-foot syndrome (21%), and leukopenia (25%). The incidence of treatment limiting toxicity is higher than previously observed with 5-fluorouracil infusion alone. This suggests true augmentation of 5-fluorouracil effect by interferon. 5-Fluorouracil infusion and alpha interferon is a potentially useful combination that needs further evaluation in future phase II and phase III trials. 
Interleukin-2 immunotherapy in children. Immunotherapy with interleukin (IL)-2 possesses great potential in the treatment of immune-mediated diseases and cancers. However, only a few reports on a small number of children have appeared in the literature. From March 1988 to March 1989, 11 children and adolescents were treated with IL-2. They included 1 patient with hepatocellular carcinoma, 1 with hepatoblastoma, 6 with childhood atopic dermatitis, and 3 with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. The dosages ranged from 10,000 to 50,000 U/kg every 8 hours by intravenous drip. The following side effects were observed: anorexia, fever, and chillness (100%), general malaise (82%), irritability (64%), diarrhea (100%), nausea and vomiting (73%), weight gain (82%), edema (82%), abdominal distension (73%), oliguria (82%), cough (91%), dyspnea (27%), pleural effusion (40%), hypotension (82%), skin eruption (82%), oral ulcer (18%), enlarged liver (73%) liver function abnormalities (82%), renal function impairment (36%), electrolyte imbalance (73%), anemia (91%), thrombocytopenia (54%), leukopenia (18%), and eosinophilia (73%). Immunologically, numbers of natural killer cells were increased and natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer cell activities were augmented after IL-2 treatment. There was a tendency for serum levels of IL-2 and receptor IL-2 to decrease, especially in patients with atopic eczema. Ten patients (91%) completed one course (9 to 12 days) of therapy, and the remaining patient interrupted the treatment because of intolerable adverse effects. Clinically, complete remission for 3 months was obtained in 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patient, transient improvement (2 to 6 weeks) in all atopic dermatitis patients, minor response in the hepatoblastoma patient, and no response in the patient with hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Correlations of acoustic tissue typing of malignant melanoma and histopathologic features as a predictor of death. Forty-six eyes with uveal melanoma were scanned with a computerized diagnostic ultrasound system before enucleation, and light microscope sections were obtained. Tumors were characterized by ultrasonically measured dimensions and power spectrum analysis, which provided information not available in conventional A- or B-scan ultrasonography. Histopathologic features, including cell clustering pattern, cell type, pigmentation, vascularity, and necrosis, were quantified. Statistically significant correlations were found between parameters derived from the power spectrum and histologic characteristics. Patients were followed up for up to ten years with 14 deaths occurring because of metastases. Using a Cox relative risk model with histopathologic data, a risk model comprising pigmentation and cell type (P less than .0001) was obtained. Using ultrasonic characteristics, a model comprising tumor volume and scatterer concentration (P = .0062) was obtained. The results suggest that ultrasonic tissue characterization and three-dimensional biometry may provide improved in vivo prognostic indicators for uveal melanoma. 
Myogenic regulatory protein (MyoD1) expression in childhood solid tumors: diagnostic utility in rhabdomyosarcoma. Transcripts for the muscle regulatory gene MyoD1 are expressed during normal skeletal muscle myogenesis and in rhabdomyosarcomas but not in other tissues or in soft-tissue sarcomas. Here we report the distribution of MyoD1 protein, determined by reactivity with anti-MyoD1 polyclonal sera in normal tissues, rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines, and in a variety of pediatric solid tumors. The distribution of MyoD1 protein was highly restricted in normal tissues and was detected only in fetal skeletal muscle and more faintly in adult skeletal muscle. All six human rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines analyzed expressed MyoD1 mRNA transcripts as well as immunoreactive protein. The immunohistochemical expression of MyoD1 protein was then examined in 49 surgical specimens from a variety of pediatric solid tumors. Each of 16 rhabdomyosarcoma specimens was positive for MyoD1, including four that did not express the intermediate filament protein desmin. Two of five specimens originally designated sarcoma type indeterminate (STI) and two of three specimens originally designated extraosseous Ewing's sarcoma (EOE) were positive for MyoD1, suggesting commitment to myogenic differentiation. Three of eight Wilms' tumors, which also expressed desmin and had clearly evident myogenic elements, also were positive for MyoD1. Tumors that failed to express MyoD1 protein included neuroblastoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumor, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, embryonal sarcoma of the liver, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, malignant rhabdoid tumor, and Ewing's sarcoma of the bone. These results indicate that expression of MyoD1 protein is highly restricted in normal human tissues and that expression of this gene product in malignant tissue may be diagnostic for rhabdomyosarcoma. Furthermore MyoD1 staining may be a valuable adjunct in the classification of pediatric soft-tissue sarcomas. 
Technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT in medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy: a postoperative evaluation. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of interictal single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using technetium-99m-labeled hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) for the outcome after temporal lobectomy in patients with complex partial seizures. Out of 40 patients, 21 underwent right-sided and 19 left-sided temporal lobectomy. EEG and CT/MRI were primarily used to select the side of surgery. SPECT results correlated with temporal lobectomy in 68% of the patients. After surgical intervention, memory function was tested for both sides. Following left-sided temporal lobectomy, verbal memory was impaired in 8% of the patients, if SPECT agreed with the side selected for surgery, but in 83%, if it diverged from it. In the present study, there was no relationship between SPECT concordance with the side of temporal lobectomy and outcome as to seizure frequency and non-verbal memory. We conclude that preoperative interictal HMPAO/SPECT can contribute to the prediction of postoperative verbal memory function and that this method should be considered for use prior to temporal lobectomy. 
Efficacy of radical neck dissection for the control of cervical metastasis after radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Fifty-one patients who had persistent or recurrent neck disease from nasopharyngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy underwent radical neck dissection. The follow-up period ranged from 0.5 to 9 years (median: 2 years). Multiple cervical lymph node involvement was present in 51% of the patients (26 of 51). Malignant cells were detected in 88% of the resected specimens (45 of 51). The clinical sign of fixation of lymph node is the only factor that affects the successful control of neck disease (p = 0.04). Extracapsular extension of the nodal disease was present, and 35% of the lymph nodes were adherent to surrounding structures at operation (18 of 51). There was one hospital mortality and the overall morbidity was minimal. The actuarial survival at 5 years was 38%, and the probability of control of neck disease was 66%. Radical neck dissection is effective in controlling post-irradiation cervical metastasis from nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 
Germ-line transmission of a mutated p53 gene in a cancer-prone family with Li-Fraumeni syndrome Tumour suppressor genes, whose usual function seems to be controlling normal cell proliferation, have been implicated in many inherited and sporadic forms of malignancies Much evidence supports the concept of tumour formation by loss-of-function mutations in suppressor genes, as predicted by the two-hit model of Knudson and DeMars. The suppressor gene, p53, is affected in such a manner by numerous mutations, which occur in a variety of human tumours. These mutations usually represent the loss of one allele and the substitution of a single base in the other. We have now analysed the p53 gene in a family affected by Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by the occurrence of diverse mesenchymal and epithelial neoplasms at multiple sites. In some instances the neoplasms seem to be related to exposure to carcinogens, including ionizing radiation. The Li-Fraumeni family that we studied had noncancerous skin fibroblasts (NSF) with an unusual radiation-resistant phenotype. DNA derived from the NSF cells of four family members, spanning two generations, had the same point mutation in codon 245 (GGC----GAC) of the p53 gene. This mutation leads to substitution of aspartic acid for glycine in one of the regions identified as a frequent target of point mutations in p53. The NSF cell lines with the mutation also retained the normal p53 allele. This inherited p53 mutation may predispose the members of this family to increased susceptibility to cancer. 
A comparison of Ho's, International Union Against Cancer, and American Joint Committee stage classifications for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Five hundred sixty-four nasopharyngeal carcinomas (NPC), mostly of undifferentiated histologic type, were studied for survival, distant metastasis, and local recurrence. All had computerized tomography of the nasopharynx and skull base (CT-NP) and fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy for evaluation of the primary tumor. Regional disease was assessed by palpation. A computer data base was formed on presentation, containing all information required for staging according to Ho's, the International Union Against Cancer (UICC), and the American Joint Committee (AJC) classifications. The three were compared for their efficacy in predicting prognosis. Ho's classification was superior to the other two because its overall stages differed from one another more significantly in the actuarial survival (ASR), disease-free survival (DFS), and freedom from distant metastasis (FDM) rates, and its N staging was more accurate in predicting FDM. Stages T1 and T2 of UICC/AJC were similar in the freedom from local recurrence rate (FLR) and should be grouped together, equivalent to Ho's T1. A more even patients number distribution among the stages also favored the use of Ho's classification. 
Generation of "soft x-rays" by using the free electron laser as a proposed means of diagnosing and treating breast cancer. The diagnosis and treatment of breast lesions may be markedly enhanced by the use of a unique new source of near-monochromatic x-rays. Concentric beams of near-monochromatic x-ray photons may be generated by collision of the free electron laser (FEL) electron beam with the optical beam in an interaction zone that delivers the x-rays to a shirtsleeve environment. The absence of Compton scatter and the photoelectric interaction within tissues improves conspicuity of lesions by two to six times. Increased attenuation of x-rays in malignant vs. normal tissues makes tumors more obvious. K-edge subtraction allows chemical analysis of tumors in vivo--all at radiation doses that are one-tenth to one-fiftieth that delivered by the lowest-dose mammographic x-ray technique available. This allows for an increased sensitivity and specificity and permits prediction of histology, negating necessity for biopsies. Selective bond-breaking at depth in tissues as well as x-ray-activated photodynamic therapy are also being explored. 
Primary malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. A report of seven cases and a review of the literature. Mesothelioma of the peritoneum is a rare malignant neoplasm easily mistaken by both surgeon and pathologist for one of the more common neoplasms of the abdomen. Review of our records from metropolitan-area hospitals for the past 15 years identified seven patients with primary peritoneal mesotheliomas. Their diagnosis, management, and survival is analyzed. We report a case of an extended survivor (7 years) and one of a long-term survivor (15 years), as well as what we believe to be the only case in the literature presenting with a coexistent malignant neoplasm. Prevention of this commonly fatal neoplasm is linked to avoiding occupational exposure to asbestos; long-term survival for a few patients may be achieved with correct identification of the neoplasm and aggressive management. This report includes a review of the literature. 
Clinical review 16: Parathyroid hormone-related proteins: coming of age in the 1990s. The last 3 yr have yielded a fertile harvest of new information on the HHM clinical syndrome and on the novel peptide hormone family responsible for the syndrome. Whereas the clinical riddle enshrouding the HHM syndrome first posed in the early 1940s appears to have been largely solved, a whole new field, concerning the physiological role(s) of PTHRP has opened. The field has evolved rapidly and provides an example of fruitful clinical investigation: the original problem was a clinical one (the HHM syndrome); understanding the clinical disorder led to pursuit of the problem in the laboratory (adenylate cyclase assays, protein purification, molecular cloning, PTHRP synthesis); and observations made in the laboratory have rapidly yielded clinical fruits (PTHRP immunoassays) and opened a new window on normal physiology. 
Synthetic analogues of fumagillin that inhibit angiogenesis and suppress tumour growth. Neovascularization is critical for the growth of tumours and is a dominant feature in a variety of angiogenic diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, haemangiomas, arthritis and psoriasis. Recognition of the potential therapeutic benefit of controlling unabated capillary growth has led to a search for safe and effective angiogenesis inhibitors. We report here the synthesis of a family of novel inhibitors that are analogues of fumagillin, a naturally secreted antibiotic of Aspergillus fumigatus fresenius. We first isolated this fungus from a contaminated culture of capillary endothelial cells. Purified fumagillin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation in vitro and tumour-induced angiogenesis in vivo; it also inhibited tumour growth in mice, but prolonged administration was limited because it caused severe weight loss. Synthesis of fumagillin analogues yielded potent angiogenesis inhibitors ('angioinhibins') which suppress the growth of a wide variety of tumours with relatively few side-effects. 
Distribution and specific identification of papillomavirus major capsid protein epitopes by immunocytochemistry and epitope scanning of synthetic peptides. Monoclonal (MAbs) and polyclonal antibodies were produced against the major capsid protein of detergent-disrupted, purified bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1). The precise locations of the corresponding epitopes were identified by the reactivity of MAbs and selected polyclonal antibodies with synthetic, overlapping, hexameric peptides corresponding with 95% of the BPV-1 major capsid protein. The topography of these epitopes was determined by reactivity of antibodies with intact (conformational and nonconformational surface epitopes) and disrupted (external or internal nonconformational epitopes) BPV-1 virions. The distribution of epitopes in various papillomaviruses of 13 different species was determined by reactivity of the MAbs and polyclonal sera with productively infected, formalin-fixed papillomas, fibropapillomas, and fibromas. Epitope scanning, using MAbs and polyclonal antisera, resulted in the precise location of BPV-1 hexameric epitopes that could be correlated with their topography on the capsid and distribution in papillomatous lesions of various species. 
Autologous bone marrow transplantation for high-grade lymphoid malignancy using melphalan/irradiation conditioning without marrow purging or cryopreservation. The Northern Regional Bone Marrow Transplant Group. We report the safety and efficacy of 34 consecutive autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT) procedures performed in adult patients with high-grade lymphoid malignancy after remission induction therapy. Fifteen patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and six with high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) received pretransplant conditioning with intravenous (IV) melphalan and fractionated total body irradiation (TBI). Thirteen other patients with NHL were conditioned with melphalan alone, having previously received local involved field radiotherapy. Unmanipulated noncryopreserved autologous marrow was reinfused within 48 hours of harvesting. Engraftment occurred in all patients with medians of 10 days of neutropenia (neutrophils less than 0.5 x 10(9)/L), 4-day platelet transfusion requirement, 3 U packed RBC transfusion, and 18 days in hospital posttransplant. There were no procedure-related deaths. Actuarial disease-free survival in the 13 patients with ALL receiving autotransplant early in first remission is 48% with a median follow-up of 3 years. Two other ALL patients who had autotransplants after a period of maintenance therapy also remain in complete remission (CR). These results compare favorably with our 34% disease-free survival (DFS) in 15 allogeneic ALL transplant patients and 21% DFS in 19 patients on standard maintenance after a common induction schedule. No relapses have occurred in the 17 NHL patients transplanted in remission (median follow-up 2 years), but the two NHL patients who developed recurrent disease before ABMT died of progressive disease after temporary responses. We conclude that this method of ABMT results in rapid reengraftment with lack of toxicity and that the conditioning treatment used shows good efficacy against disease. It is applicable in high-grade lymphoid malignancy in first remission, and our results call into question the need for marrow purging in ALL and NHL patients transplanted in first remission. 
The use of ketoconazole in ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone syndrome. The authors report a patient with ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) syndrome (EAS) resulting from small cell lung cancer. Treatment with ketoconazole (KCZ) resulted in significant suppression of serum cortisol levels. The authors confirmed KCZ to be a useful adjunct in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome. 
Intraoperative radiation of canine carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve. Therapeutic applications in the management of advanced head and neck cancers. As a step in the application of intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) for treating advanced head and neck cancers, preliminary information was obtained on the radiation tolerance of the canine common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve to a single, high-dose electron beam. Both sides of the neck of eight mongrel dogs were operated on to expose an 8-cm segment of common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve. One side of the neck was irradiated, using escalating doses of 2500, 3500, 4500, and 5500 cGy. The contralateral side of the neck served as the unirradiated control. At 3 and 6 months after IORT, one dog at each dose level was killed. None of the dogs developed carotid bleeding at any time after IORT. Light microscopic investigations using hematoxylin-eosin staining on the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein showed no consistent changes that suggested radiation damage; however, the Masson trichrome stain and hydroxyproline concentration of irradiated common carotid artery indicated an increase in the collagen content of the tunica media. Marked changes in the irradiated vagus nerve were seen, indicating severe demyelination and loss of nerve fibers, which appeared to be radiation-dose dependent. Four patients with advanced recurrent head and neck cancer were treated with surgical resection and IORT without any acute or subacute complications. The role of IORT as a supplement to surgery, external beam irradiation, and chemotherapy in selected patients with advanced head and neck cancer needs further exploration. 
Suppression of serum insulin level by diazoxide does not alter serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels in healthy, nonobese women. Suppression of serum insulin levels with diazoxide is associated with a decrease in serum testosterone and an increase in serum sex hormone-binding globulin in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome. To determine whether physiologic insulin levels play a regulatory role in the androgen status of nonobese women with normal menses, the androgen status of five nonobese normal women was assessed on two occasions: during a control study and after 10 days of oral diazoxide (100 mg, three times daily) administration. Insulin release in response to 100 gm oral glucose administration decreased from 108.0 +/- 28.2 to 49.3 +/- 5.2 nmol.min/L (p = 0.05) after diazoxide administration. However, despite suppression of insulin release, diazoxide administration did not affect serum total testosterone (diazoxide, 0.73 +/- 0.10; control, 0.69 +/- 0.11 nmol/L; p = NS) or sex hormone-binding globulin (diazoxide, 79.7 +/- 16.6; control, 70.2 +/- 12.6 nmol/L; p = NS) concentrations. These observations suggest that physiologic insulin levels in nonobese healthy women do not regulate testosterone metabolism and that diazoxide does not exert a direct or independent effect on serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels. 
The central (intraosseous) calcifying odontogenic cyst: an analysis of 215 cases. This study reviews and analyzes the clinical, radiographic, and histomorphologic features of the 215 cases of central calcifying odontogenic cyst (CCOC) reported in the literature. Based on the present information, a clinicopathologic classification of calcifying odontogenic cyst is proposed. The CCOC is also compared with its peripheral counterpart and the differences discussed. 
Extracolonic malignancies in inflammatory bowel disease. A population-based cohort with inflammatory bowel disease consisting of 4776 patients (3121 with ulcerative colitis and 1655 with Crohn's disease) was followed for 1 to 50 years for the occurrence of malignant neoplasms. Two hundred eighty-three cancers were observed versus 189.1 expected (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] = 1.5, 95% confidence limits [CL] 1.3 to 1.7). One hundred seventy-eight extracolonic cancers were observed versus 168.8 expected (SIR = 1.1, 95% CL 0.9 to 1.2). In Crohn's disease and extensive ulcerative colitis, observed cases were close to those expected but in ulcerative proctitis, the relative risk of extracolonic cancers was close to significantly increased (SIR = 1.3, 95% CL 1.0 to 1.7). Squamous skin cancers after Crohn's disease (SIR = 5.5, 95% CL 2.0 to 11.9) and connective tissue cancers after ulcerative colitis (SIR = 4.0, 95% CL 1.0 to 10.2) were significantly increased. Those having extensive ulcerative colitis at diagnosis had an increased risk of brain cancers (SIR = 2.4, 95% CL 1.0 to 4.6). Patients with extensive ulcerative colitis had lower than expected risk of breast cancer (SIR = 0.4, 95% CL 0.1 to 1.0). 
A provider's view of prevention approaches in a prepaid group practice. Kaiser Permanente's health care delivery system and its efforts to integrate public health preventive medicine and curative medicine are described. The author advocates an increased focus on prepaid delivery systems like Kaiser Permanente as the best vehicle to achieve the full promise of health screening, health education, and life-style modification. Because these systems have brought the proper incentives into alignment, prevention and health promotion have become effective tools to achieve cost containment goals. A number of Kaiser Permanente projects are highlighted that demonstrate integration of public health preventive medicine and curative medicine: the Northern California Region's uniform health appraisal examination, which is linked with health education and counseling; the Colorado Region's breast cancer screening program, which is expected to show a higher rate of early breast cancer detection than in the general population; cooperative efforts with two Northern California towns to reduce smoking through a community-wide project; educational theatre programs aimed at early intervention and education of children before high-risk behaviors have become established life-style; and research projects that are possible because of an integrated program. Also, several forces that could endanger integrated systems including cost control practices of employers and insurers, and public policy such as mandating specific benefits, are noted. 
Elevated insulin receptor content in human breast cancer. The growth of breast cancer cells is under the regulation of hormones, growth factors, and their receptors. In the present study, we have employed a new, sensitive, and specific radioimmunoassay for the direct measurement of insulin receptors in surgical specimens of breast cancers. In 159 specimens the insulin receptor content was 6.15 +/- 3.69 ng/0.1 mg protein. This value was more than sixfold higher than the mean value found in both 27 normal breast tissues obtained at total mastectomy (0.95 + 0.68, P less than 0.001) and in six normal specimens obtained from reduction mammoplasty (0.84 +/- 0.78, P less than 0.001). The insulin receptor content in breast cancer tissues was also higher than in any normal tissue investigated including liver (Pezzino, V., V. Papa, V. Trischitta, A. Brunetti, P.A. Goodman, M.K. Treutelaar, J.A. Williams, B.A. Maddux, R. Vigneri, and I.D. Goldfine, 1989. Am. J. Physiol. 257:E451-457). The insulin receptor in breast cancer retained its ability to both bind insulin and undergo insulin-induced tyrosine kinase activation. Immunostaining of the specimens revealed that the insulin receptor was present in malignant epithelial cells, but was not detected in stromal and inflammatory cells. Univariant analysis revealed that the insulin receptor content of the tumors correlated positively with tumor size (P = 0.014), histological grading (P = 0.030), and the estrogen receptor content (P = 0.035). There were no significant correlations between insulin receptor content and the age, body weight, menopausal status, and nodal involvement of the patients. These studies indicate, therefore, that the insulin receptor content is increased in breast cancers and raise the possibility that the insulin receptor may have a role in the biology of these tumors. 
Integrated magnetic resonance imaging and phosphorus spectroscopy of soft tissue tumors. Eighteen patients with soft tissue masses underwent integrated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and phosphorus spectroscopy (31P-MRS) to evaluate benign and malignant tumor morphology and metabolism. Spectra from soft tissue tumors had a significantly higher proportion of phosphate in the low-energy portion of the 31P spectrum (P less than 0.001) with a concomitant decrease in phosphocreatine (P less than 0.01) compared with 31P spectra from normal muscle. Malignant tumors had a mean pH of 7.35 +/- 0.13 which was greater than that of muscle tissue with a mean pH of 7.08 +/- 0.07 (P less than 0.001). All tumors had greater relative levels of phosphomonoesters, inorganic phosphate, and phosphodiesters compared with those in muscle tissue but considerable variability among tumors was noted due to tumor size, extent of tumor necrosis, and muscle contamination. Integrated MRI/MRS studies are necessary to provide exact localization of the tumor and a more correct interpretation of the 31P-MRS data. 
Prevention and changing demographics. The underserved and cancer. This paper illustrates the complexity of the "cancer control in the underserved" problem, especially as it is affected currently, and will be in the future, by the multiple demographic changes in the United States. It does so by extensively quoting from four rather different articles by authors from a variety of backgrounds in health, management, and economics. Another issue is that although the articles quoted refer mainly to secondary and tertiary prevention, they do apply equally to primary prevention and health promotion. Furthermore, the twin issues of priority and ethnic/cultural differences need to be addressed insofar as they affect health risks, risk reduction efforts, early diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation/disability reduction. Finally, the point is made that social and structural change of this magnitude cannot occur in the health care system and society at large without the allocation of discrete private and public sector resources. 
Receptor imaging: application to MR imaging of liver cancer. A new contrast agent for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, directed to asialoglycoprotein (ASG) receptors on hepatocytes, was used for detection of liver cancer in rats. Ultrasmall superparamagnetic (mean size, 12 nm) particles of iron oxide (USPIOs) were targeted to ASG receptors by coating particles with arabinogalactan (AG). Liver T2 relaxation times decreased more effectively after a single intravenous administration of AG-USPIO than after an equal dose of a conventional superparamagnetic liver MR contrast agent (AMI-25; mean size, 72 nm). Receptor affinity studies demonstrated that receptor-mediated attachment and subsequent cellular endocytosis do not occur in primary malignant (hepatocellular carcinoma) or metastatic (adenocarcinoma) tumors, because the surface ASG receptors are lost during malignant dedifferentiation. In vitro relaxation and in vivo MR imaging experiments of liver tumors show that targeting USPIO to hepatocytes rather than to the mononuclear phagocytic system allows a considerable dose reduction, increases tumor-liver contrast, and potentially allows distinction of ASG-positive (benign hepatocellular) and ASG-negative (malignant hepatocellular) tumors. 
Primary prevention of cancer. The case for comprehensive school health education. Comprehensive school health education plays an important role in the primary prevention of cancer because so many of the health habits relating to cancer and other diseases have their onset early in life. A comprehensive health education program should begin early in life. Such education must be multifactorial from kindergarten through high school, should involve annual health screening, must be assessed annually, and is most effective when coordinated by a full-time health education teacher. Those concerned about the many problems of health behavior in our society should insist that such programs become mandatory in every state in this nation. 
Stages of T-cell receptor protein expression in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In this study five monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) to T-cell receptor (TCR) proteins (WT31, alpha F1, beta F1, TCR delta-1 and delta TCS-1) were used to identify discrete maturative stages in 40 cases of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). These MoAbs reacted exclusively with CD3+ T cells and did not label B-lineage and myeloid cells. In 17 of the 40 T-ALL cases studied the leukemic blasts lacked membrane and cytoplasmic TCR chains (group I). In 12 cases cells did not have membrane CD3/TCR but expressed cytoplasmic TCR proteins heterogenously: nine cases had cytoplasmic TCR beta chains (beta F1+, alpha F1-; group II), one case had cytoplasmic TCR alpha chains (alpha F1+, beta F1-; group III), and two cases were labeled by both alpha F1 and beta F1 MoAbs (group IV). The remaining 11 cases were mCD3+: nine were TCR alpha beta+ (group Va) and two exhibited TCR gamma delta (TCR delta-1+, delta TCS-1+; group Vb). The analysis of the TCR beta, -gamma, and -delta gene configurations in 23 of the 40 T-ALLs showed that: (1) the lack of TCR protein expression was due to the lack of TCR gene rearrangements only in one of nine cases; (2) five of five TCR beta+, TCR alpha- cases studied had germline TCR alpha genes (ie, no detectable TCR delta gene deletions); (3) seven of eight cases with TCR delta gene deletions expressed TCR alpha proteins, whereas in 12 of 20 of the T-ALLs with TCR beta gene rearrangements the synthesis of the corresponding protein occurred; only 2 of 16 cases with rearranged TCR delta genes expressed TCR delta chains. The T-ALL categories identified with anti-TCR MoAbs did not have additional characteristic phenotypic patterns and may correspond to the normal stages of T-cell development more precisely than those defined by other differentiation antigens. 
Metastatic carcinoma to the retina. Clinicopathologic findings in two cases. Two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported. One patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina; this was confirmed postmortem. The other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism. The diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen. 
Progress in psychosocial and behavioral cancer research. The need for enabling strategies. A major component of the Second Workshop on Methodology in Behavioral and Psychosocial Cancer Research was a discussion of enabling strategies, that is, strategies by which future goals and needs in the area of psychosocial and behavioral oncology might be accomplished. This report describes and comments on the discussion that took place at a special plenary session at which representatives from four funding agencies, the American Cancer Society, National Cancer Institute, National Institute of Mental Health, and National Science Foundation, presented their views and their agencies' programs for promoting research in psychosocial and behavioral oncology. It is concluded that much progress has been made in the field and that strategies are in place for ensuring continued progress. However, suggestions are also made for new strategies that might accelerate and broaden that progress. 
A risk of malignancy index incorporating CA 125, ultrasound and menopausal status for the accurate preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cancer. Age, ultrasound score, menopausal status, a clinical impression score and serum CA 125 level were assessed to see how they could best distinguish between patients with benign (n = 101) and malignant (n = 42) pelvic masses. Each criteria used alone provided statistically significant discrimination. The most useful individual criteria were a serum CA 125 level of 30 U/ml (sensitivity 81%, specificity 75%) and an ultrasound score of 2 (sensitivity 71%, specificity 83%). Three criteria could be combined in a risk of malignancy index (RMI) which is simply calculated using the product of the serum CA 125 level (U/ml), the ultrasound scan result (expressed as a score of 0, 1 or 3) and the menopausal status (1 if premenopausal and 3 if postmenopausal). This index was statistically virtually as effective a discriminant between cancer and benign lesions as more formal methods. Using an RMI cut-off level of 200, the sensitivity was 85% and the specificity was 97%. Patients with an RMI score of greater than 200 had, on average, 42 times the background risk of cancer and those with a lower value 0.15 times the background risk. 
Effects of recombinant human interleukin-3 on human hematopoietic progenitor and precursor cells in vivo. DNA-synthesis rates and concentrations of bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) progenitor cells were studied in 22 patients treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 (rhIL3) as part of a clinical phase I/II study. Recombinant hIL3 at doses of 60 to 500 micrograms/m2 was administered by subcutaneous bolus injection for 15 days to 13 patients with solid tumors and preserved hematopoietic function and to nine patients with bone marrow failure, including five with myelodysplastic syndromes. Following treatment with rhIL3, the percentage of actively cycling BM erythroid (BFU-E) and multilineage (CFU-GEMM) progenitors in patients with preserved hematopoietic function increased from 16% to 36% (P less than .05) and from 10% to 40% (P less than .01), respectively. The DNA-synthesis rates of early and late granulocyte macrophage progenitor cells increased from 11% to 26% (CFU-GM day 14; P less than .02) and from 13% to 30% (CFU-GM day 7; P less than .05). There was an increase in BM cellularity from 37% to 58%, and of the myeloid to erythroid ratio from 1.4 to 3.2, while the concentration of marrow progenitors on a per cell basis was unchanged or slightly decreased. The frequencies of blast cells in the BM were unchanged. Mean levels of PB CFU-GM day 14 and CFU-GEMM were 100% and 72% above baseline values after 7 days of rhIL3 but only 25% and 28% above initial levels at the end of treatment. Peripheral blood BFU-E were reduced in the majority of patients with normal marrow after both 7 and 15 days of rhIL3. No augmentation of circulating BFU-E and CFU-GEMM was seen in 5 patients with MDS who had few or no PB BFU-E or CFU-GEMM initially. Total leukocyte, neutrophil, and eosinophil counts increased significantly (P less than .01) in 21 of 22 patients with a peak response after a median of 13 days of rhIL3. While a small increase in reticulocytes was not accompanied by an elevation of the hemoglobin or hematocrit, platelet counts increased by 50% in patients with preserved marrow function. Thus, rhIL3 induces a multilineage response in vivo, apparently by stimulating proliferation of multipotential and lineage-restricted progenitors. It remains to be determined whether this is due to direct or indirect effects on the progenitor cells. 
Nonpigmented congenital iris stromal cyst. A nonpigmented iris stromal cyst was observed in the right eye of a 6-week-old girl. There was no past history of trauma or use of topical miotics, and the remainder of the ocular examination was normal. The pathophysiology and management of this rare developmental anomaly are controversial. 
Extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas: natural history and response to treatment. Extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas (RP) are uncommon tumors. Because of their rarity, little is known of their natural history or response to treatment. We reviewed 22 patients with RP who were seen at our center between 1949 and 1990. The distribution of male and female patients was nearly equal, and the mean age was 42. Most patients were admitted with pain or a mass, and eight of 22 tumors were functional. No significant difference was noted in duration of symptoms, size of the tumor, or survival between functional and nonfunctional tumors. Eleven of 22 (50%) RP metastasized and were therefore classified as malignant. Five-year and 10-year disease free survival rates were 19% and 19% for tumors not resected and 75% and 45% for those completely resected. Once metastases occurred, the 5-year survival rate was 36%, but no patient survived beyond 76 months. Predictors of survival included complete resection of the tumor but not size or functional status. Although some patients who received chemotherapy or radiotherapy had clinical responses, a survival benefit could not be shown. RP have a high rate of malignant behavior and should be treated aggressively with operation. Late metastases are not uncommon, and prolonged follow-up is necessary. Once metastases have occurred, some patients may have prolonged survival. 
The effect of dietary omega-3 fatty acids (fish oil) on azoxymethanol-induced focal areas of dysplasia and colon tumor incidence. MaxEPA (MA), a fish oil high in omega-3 fatty acids, was combined with various levels of corn oil (CO), rich in omega-6 fatty acids, and fed to female CF1 mice. The three fish oil blends with CO and the two CO levels of the diets studied were as follows: 16.0% CO + 4.4% MA (Diet 1); 10.2% CO + 10.2% MA (Diet 2); 4.4% CO + 16.0% MA (Diet 3); 20.4% CO (Diet 4); and 4.4% CO (Diet 5). The diets were provided 2 weeks before weekly subcutaneous injection of saline or azoxymethanol (AOM). Studies of epithelial cell proliferation and the incidence of focal areas of dysplasia (FAD) involved six weekly AOM injections. One week after the last AOM injection and 1 hour before killing, mice were injected with tritiated thymidine (3HTdR). No differences in any proliferative parameters were found among the five groups of saline-treated mice. Among the AOM-treated animals, those fed Diet 3 showed significantly fewer cells per crypt and significantly fewer labeled cells/gland than CO Diets 4 and 5. Additionally, the distribution of S-phase cells in crypts of AOM-treated mice fed Diet 3 most closely resembled that of the saline controls. The greatest alteration in the distribution of proliferative cells was observed in the high-CO diet (Diet 4) and the lowest MA level (Diet 1). Mice fed Diets 2 and 3 had significantly fewer FAD/500 microns of distal colonic serial sections than those fed the high CO diet (Diet 4). Mice involved in chronic tumor incidence studies received only three weekly injections of the same dose of AOM. Regardless of diet, approximately 88% of all tumors arose in the distal colon. A significantly larger tumor-bearing population was observed in both the high-CO Diet 4 and the lowest MaxEPA (MA) diet (Diet 1) compared with the incidence in MA Diets 2 and 3 and the low-CO Diet 5. A diet with a ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids of approximately 1.0 apparently prevented the development of an adenoma-type proliferative pattern thereby reducing FAD numbers and subsequent tumor incidence. 
Comparison of the conventional method of lymph node staging with a comprehensive fat-clearing method for gastric adenocarcinoma. Discrepant results in long-term survival between United States and Japanese patients with resectable gastric adenocarcinoma may result from more accurate staging in the Japanese series. The authors compared a comprehensive fat-clearing method with the conventional pathology method of lymph node sampling in 11 patients undergoing curative gastrectomy and extended lymphadenectomy at their institution. Comprehensive fat-clearing doubled total lymph node counts (P less than 0.01), identified smaller lymph nodes (P less than 0.001), and identified more histologically involved nodes of significantly smaller size (P less than 0.001). Comprehensive fat-clearing pathologically upstaged 29% of the authors' eligible specimens. Accurate pathologic staging is necessary when comparing Japanese and United States survival data for resectable gastric adenocarcinomas. 
Influence of chemotherapy administration on monocyte activation by liposomal muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine in children with osteosarcoma. The purpose of these studies was to determine whether chemotherapy interfered with the ability of peripheral blood monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma to respond to the liposome-encapsulated activating agent muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine (L-MTP-PE). This was done in preparation of designing an adjuvant therapy protocol that includes L-MTP-PE combined with chemotherapy postoperatively for the treatment of primary osteosarcoma. The majority of patients who fail current adjuvant chemotherapy do so while on chemotherapy. Therefore, we believe it is important to combine L-MTP-PE with chemotherapy early in the treatment course rather than waiting until all chemotherapy cycles are completed. The tumoricidal properties of monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma could be activated by L-MTP-PE to levels equal to or greater than those expressed by normal control monocytes. No intrinsic monocyte defect could be demonstrated. Single-agent chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin (CPD), high-dose methotrexate (MTX), Cytoxan (CTX, cyclophosphamide; Bristol-Myers Co, Evansville, IN), or Adriamycin (ADR, doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) did not interfere with this activation process. There was even a suggestion of enhanced activation potential following the administration of ADR. However, when both ADR and CTX were administered together on the same day, profound suppression in monocyte activation was observed. This suppressed function returned to normal by 3 weeks postcombination therapy. We therefore conclude that L-MTP-PE can be combined with ADR, CPD, MTX, or CTX as single agents but recommend that ADR plus L-MTP-PE is the most effective combination. By contrast, we discourage the use of L-MTP-PE when ADR and CTX are given together. 
Function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease. The mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/C-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue. Secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation. In addition, animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin D-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity. We also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism. Although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment, hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts, even after 9 to 13 months. Moreover, similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone (i.e., relative hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatasemia, and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D biosynthesis) were detected. These animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man. 
An enhancer variant of Moloney murine leukemia virus defective in leukemogenesis does not generate detectable mink cell focus-inducing virus in vivo [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Jun 1;88(11):5066] Moloney murine leukemia virus (Mo-MuLV) induces T-cell lymphoma when inoculated into neonatal mice. This is a multistep process. Early events observed in infected mice include generalized hematopoietic hyperplasia in the spleen and appearance of mink cell focus-inducing (MCF) recombinants; end-stage tumors are characterized by insertional proviral activation of protooncogenes. We previously showed that an Mo-MuLV enhancer variant, Mo+PyF101 Mo-MuLV, has greatly reduced leukemogenicity and is deficient in induction of preleukemic hyperplasia. In this report, we have examined Mo+PyF101 Mo-MuLV-inoculated mice for the presence of MCF recombinants. In contrast to wild-type Mo-MuLV-inoculated mice, Mo+PyF101 Mo-MuLV-inoculated mice did not generate detectable MCF recombinants. This failure was at least partly due to an inability of the MCF virus to propagate in vivo, since a molecularly cloned infectious Mo+PyF101 MCF virus did not replicate, even when inoculated as a Mo+PyF101 Mo-MuLV pseudotype. These results show that the leukemogenic defect of Mo+PyF101 Mo-MuLV is associated with its inability to generate MCF recombinants capable of replication in vivo. This, in turn, is consistent with the view that MCF recombinants play a significant role in Mo-MuLV-induced disease and, in particular, may play a role early in the disease process. 
Capillary haemangioma presenting as a lung pseudocyst. A girl who developed a lung cyst at 24 hours of age during gentle ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome is reported. Instead of resolving as expected of a pseudocyst it continued to expand. Resection at 1 year of age showed a cyst entirely surrounded by capillary haemangioma. Aspiration of this cyst would have been dangerous. 
Interventional radiology of the biliary tract. Intraductal radiation. One palliative method of treating patients with a high duct cholangiocarcinoma is the use of 192Ir wire. This is placed through the tumor, which has been previously intubated, and delivers a high local dose of radiation. The mean survival time in 30 patients treated with intraductal radiation was 16.8 months, an improvement compared to surgical bypass or endoscopic and radiologic drainage procedures. 
Parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions We developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP), based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of PTHrP, 125I-Tyr degrees-PTHrP(1-34) as radioligand, and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with C-2 cartridges. We determined immunoreactive PTHrP concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons (mean +/- SD, 3.1 +/- 1.0 pmol/liter; range, less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter), 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion, and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen. PTHrP was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (3.2 +/- 1.1 pmol/liter), secondary hyperparathyroidism (2.5 +/- 1.3 pmol/liter), and cancer without hypercalcemia (2.4 +/- 1.0 pmol/liter). In contrast, plasma immunoreactive PTHrP levels were increased (6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter) in 47% of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types, with or without bone metastatic lesions. Large amounts of PTHrP were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells. Thus, PTHrP may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases. Measurement of circulating PTHrP may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states. 
Gestational trophoblastic disease of the fallopian tube. Tubal gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) was diagnosed in 16 (0.8%) of 2,100 women with GTD managed at the New England Trophoblastic Disease Center. Tubal partial mole, complete mole and choriocarcinoma were present in 5, 5 and 6 patients, respectively. Patients with tubal GTD were not clinically distinguishable from those with traditional tubal pregnancies. While only one patient with tubal mole developed metastases, four patients with tubal choriocarcinoma presented with metastases. All the patients achieved complete, sustained remission. 
Treatment selection for carcinoma of the base of the tongue. Between 1974 and 1984, 173 patients were treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue base. Fifty-four patients had T1 or T2 primaries, while 115 patients had T3 or T4 tumors (4 were not staged). Lymph node metastasis was present in 120 patients. Early primary tumors treated with surgery or radiotherapy had a control rate of 83% (5 of 6 tumors) and 89% (40 of 45 tumors), respectively. For advanced primary tumors, definitive radiotherapy produced a local control rate of 55% (42 of 76 tumors), compared with 79% (23 of 29 tumors) for surgery and postoperative radiotherapy. If primary control was obtained, the regional failure rate was less than 10%. Tumor growth patterns were predictive of the response to radiotherapy. The primary control rate at 2 years for 21 patients with exophytic tumors was 84% as opposed to 58% for 62 patients with ulcerative-infiltrative tumors (p = 0.04). Radiotherapy is effective for early stage or exophytic tumors, whereas for advanced or deeply invasive tumors combined therapy enhances local control. 
Giant chest wall tumor resulting from tissue reaction to foreign bodies. Three patients are reported in whom chest wall tumors developed 19 to 28 years after thoracoplasty and increased in size with time. The tumors could be removed operatively with good results. All tumors were composed of hematoma and necrotic material, and in all cases they revealed foreign bodies microscopically. Diagnosis and possible etiological factors are discussed. 
Phase I and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma Murine monoclonal antibody (MAb) 225 (IgG1) against the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor competitively blocks EGF binding and inhibits EGF-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation. The effect of MAb 225 was studied in a phase I trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung, which invariably expresses high levels of EGF receptors. Groups of three patients received total doses of MAb 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg. Except at the lowest dose, each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 (111In)-labeled MAb 225. No toxicity was observed. Tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater. Presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater. Single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization. All patients produced anti-murine antibodies. We conclude that treatment with an MAb that inhibits EGF receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied. 111In-labeled MAb images squamous cell lung carcinoma; tumor uptake of the labeled MAb is dose dependent. Further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-EGF receptor MAbs and other agents that act in a comparable manner. 
Increased lysis of patient CD10-positive leukemic cells by T cells coated with anti-CD3 Fab' antibody cross-linked to anti-CD10 Fab' antibody. An anti-CD3 Fab' x anti-CD10 Fab' bispecific hybrid F(ab')2 antibody (Ab) was generated. This bispecific Ab had a molecular mass of 100 to 110 Kd, and the capacity to react with both CD3+ T cells and CD10+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells. We studied whether cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) could lyse patient CD10+ ALL cells after addition of the bispecific Ab. As effector CTLs, interleukin-2 (IL-2)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and CTL clones were used. When IL-2-stimulated PBMCs were assayed for cytotoxicity to 61Cr-labeled CD10+ ALL cells, their activity was shown to be markedly enhanced by the addition of the bispecific Ab. Most of the CTL clones established lacked cytotoxicity for CD10+ ALL cells, but addition of the bispecific Ab induced a significant level of cytotoxicity. CTLs derived from ALL patients also showed significant cytotoxicity for autologous CD10+ ALL cells after addition of the bispecific Ab. However, this Ab did not affect the cytotoxicity of CTLs when CD10- leukemic cells were used as the targets. These findings suggest that the bispecific Ab can be used for immunotherapy in patients with CD10+ ALL. 
Prophylaxis of aphakic cystoid macular edema without corticosteroids. A paired-comparison, placebo-controlled double-masked study. Prior investigations have reported that topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy prevents the development of postoperative angiographic signs of angiographic cystoid macular edema (CME). However, these studies include concurrent use of corticosteroids. The current study reports therapeutic efficacy for ketorolac ophthalmic solution (an NSAID) in the prophylaxis of angiographic aphakic CME (ACME) after cataract surgery without concurrent corticosteroids for the first time. Fifty patients with bilateral cataracts were enrolled in this placebo-controlled, paired-comparison, double-masked study. Eleven patients had evidence of angiographic ACME on postoperative day 40. Two of these patients demonstrated bilateral ACME, one patient had ACME in the NSAID-treated eye, and eight patients demonstrated ACME in the placebo-treated eye. This is a statistically significant difference favoring drug treatment. The signs of anterior ocular inflammation were greater in the eyes with ACME. This study suggests prophylactic treatment of ACME may be possible without the risks of concurrent corticosteroid toxicity. In addition, a higher incidence of ACME in black patients (22%) is observed in this study than has been recognized previously. 
MR imaging of blood-borne liver metastases in mice: contrast enhancement with Fe-EHPG. To determine whether iron(III)ethylenebis-(2-hydrophenylglycine) (Fe-EHPG), a prototype hepatobiliary magnetic resonance imaging agent, can enhance the liver-to-tumor contrast-to-noise ratio (C/N) in models of liver tumors in mice, two types of cell inoculation were used: intrahepatic implantation of M5076 sarcoma and intrasplenic injection of colon tumor (C-26) or M5076 sarcoma. Significant enhancement of the liver-to-tumor C/N and/or improved visualization of small lesions was consistently observed on T1-weighted images obtained after injection of the contrast material. For intrahepatic implants, the C/N on postinjection T1-weighted images was superior to that on T1- and T2-weighted preinjection images. For the C-26 metastatic liver lesions of larger diameter (greater than 5 mm), the C/N on postinjection T1-weighted studies was superior to that on preinjection T1-weighted images but was comparable to that on preinjection T2-weighted images. However, higher C/N after administration of Fe-EHPG improved visualization of medium-sized (3-5 mm) and small (1-3-mm) metastatic lesions in both M5076 and C-26 models. These results demonstrate that MR imaging with appropriate hepatobiliary agents appears promising for early detection of liver metastases. 
Multisurface method of pattern separation for medical diagnosis applied to breast cytology. Multisurface pattern separation is a mathematical method for distinguishing between elements of two pattern sets. Each element of the pattern sets is comprised of various scalar observations. In this paper, we use the diagnosis of breast cytology to demonstrate the applicability of this method to medical diagnosis and decision making. Each of 11 cytological characteristics of breast fine-needle aspirates reported to differ between benign and malignant samples was graded 1 to 10 at the time of sample collection. Nine characteristics were found to differ significantly between benign and malignant samples. Mathematically, these values for each sample were represented by a point in a nine-dimensional space of real variables. Benign points were separated from malignant ones by planes determined by linear programming. Correct separation was accomplished in 369 of 370 samples (201 benign and 169 malignant). In the one misclassified malignant case, the fine-needle aspirate cytology was so definitely benign and the cytology of the excised cancer so definitely malignant that we believe the tumor was missed on aspiration. Our mathematical method is applicable to other medical diagnostic and decision-making problems. 
Fludarabine: a new agent with marked cytoreductive activity in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Thirty-three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with advanced Rai stage (III-IV) or progressive Rai stage (0-II) disease were treated with fludarabine as a single agent. Eleven patients (33%) obtained a complete remission (CR), 13 (39%) a clinical CR with residual nodules as the only evidence of disease (nodular partial remission [PR]), and two patients (6%) achieved a PR for a total response rate of 79%. Response was rapid, usually occurring after three to six courses of treatment. The major morbidity was infection. Febrile episodes occurred in 13% of the courses (pneumonia 6%, minor infection 4%, and transient fever of undocumented cause 3%). Fludarabine appears to be the most cytoreductive single agent so far studied in CLL. 
Transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus: discrimination between homologous and heterologous transfer in intact heterokaryons. To examine aspects of the transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus in situ, heterokaryons were formed between Hep G2 human hepatoma cells and WI-38 human fibroblasts. The cells were appropriately treated with cycloheximide before fusion, which emptied them of their respective secretory proteins, serum albumin for the Hep G2 cells and procollagen I for the WI-38 cells. After fusion was complete, the cycloheximide was washed out, protein synthesis was resumed, and the rates of reappearance of serum albumin and procollagen I in the two separated Golgi apparatuses within each heterokaryon were followed by immunofluorescence microscopy. Serum albumin was found to always reappear first in the Golgi apparatus contributed by the Hep G2 half of the heterokaryon, and procollagen I in the Golgi apparatus of the WI-38 half. These results suggest that the endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi apparatus transfer in situ is not simply a stochastic process but is either spatially restricted or exhibits cell-type specificity or both. 
Suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis: case report. A rare case of suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis in a 53-year-old woman is presented. The tumor was located exclusively above the diaphragma sellae, and no invasion into the sella turcica was noted. 
Intraoperative radioimmunodetection of ovarian cancer using monoclonal antibody B72.3 and a portable gamma-detecting probe. To assess the value of radioimmunoguided surgery in the intraoperative detection of ovarian cancer, we used monoclonal antibody B72.3, radiolabeled with 125I, and a hand-held gamma-detecting probe in 13 women with ovarian cancer undergoing exploratory laparotomy. B72.3, which recognizes a tumor-associated glycoprotein, TAG 72, was injected 12-29 days preoperatively (intraperitoneally in four cases, intravenously in nine, and by both routes in one). Intraoperatively, the abdomen was surveyed with the probe and probe counts were correlated with biopsies and excised specimens studied by routine histologic stains. Probe counts were positive in four of seven evaluable patients with histologically confirmed disease. In three of these four patients, the probe detected cancer in specimens interpreted as normal on frozen histologic sections. The probe also identified microscopic cancer in the one patient who had no gross disease. The specificity of the probe was 70%. Preoperative computed tomography was normal in all patients, including those with tumors as large as 3 cm. This pilot study shows the ability of radioimmunoguided surgery to detect occult ovarian cancer. 
New active analogues of vitamin D with low calcemic activity. In conclusion, a number vitamin D analogues have been developed that have very low calcemic activity but retain several other properties of 1,25-(OH)2D3, including the ability to differentiate leukemia and skin cells, to enhance the immune response, and to suppress parathyroid hormone levels. Although the mechanism of this selective activity is not yet clear, these analogues may provide new insights into the differences in action of 1,25-(OH)2D3 in various target tissues. Most importantly, the selective action of these analogues may be exploited for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia, psoriasis and hyperparathyroidism. 
Recurrent intracaval renal cell carcinoma: the role of intravascular ultrasonography. The presence of extension into the vena cava does not preclude curative resection for extensive renal cell carcinomas. However, preoperative assessment of (1) the proximal extent of the tumor and (2) the degree of adherence within the vena cava is necessary to plan operative strategies. The following report describes the successful use of intravascular ultrasonography in the preoperative evaluation of a patient with recurrent renal cell carcinoma with vena caval extension. 
Lack of effect of pregnancy on outcome of melanoma. For The World Health Organisation Melanoma Programme To determine the effect of pregnancy on prognosis in melanoma we investigated 388 women treated for stage 1 primary cutaneous disease during their childbearing years. 85 women had been treated before any pregnancy, 92 during pregnancy, 143 after they had completed all pregnancies, and 68 between pregnancies. Women who had received treatment while pregnant had primary tumours of significantly greater thickness than did those in the other three groups (p = 0.002). Other possible confounding factors (site, age, parity) did not differ between the groups. Once tumour thickness was controlled for, survival rate of women in whom melanoma was diagnosed and treated while they were pregnant did not differ from that in the other three groups. Cox regression analysis showed no differences between the three groups of women who were not pregnant at diagnosis. Women with melanoma should be advised about pregnancy on the basis of thickness and site of tumour and evidence of vascular spread, and not hormonal status. 
Differentiation of HL-60 leukemia by type I regulatory subunit antisense oligodeoxynucleotide of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. A marked decrease in the type I cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulatory subunit (RI alpha) and an increase in the type II protein kinase regulatory subunit (RII beta) correlate with growth inhibition and differentiation induced in a variety of types of human cancer cells, in vitro and in vivo, by site-selective cAMP analogs. To directly determine whether RI alpha is a growth-inducing protein essential for neoplastic cell growth, human HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were exposed to 21-mer RI alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide, and the effects on cell replication and differentiation were examined. The RI alpha antisense oligomer brought about growth inhibition and monocytic differentiation, bypassing the effects of an exogenous cAMP analog. These effects of RI alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide correlated with a decrease in RI alpha receptor and an increase in RII beta receptor level. The growth inhibition and differentiation were abolished, however, when these cells were exposed simultaneously to both RI alpha and RII beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. The RII beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotide alone has been previously shown to specifically block the differentiation inducible by cAMP analogs. These results provide direct evidence that RI alpha cAMP receptor plays a critical role in neoplastic cell growth and that cAMP receptor isoforms display specific roles in cAMP regulation of cell growth and differentiation. 
Estrogen replacement therapy: is previously treated cancer a contraindication? The benefits of estrogen replacement therapy in preventing vasomotor symptoms, osteoporosis, and cardiovascular disease are well documented. Although estrogen is said to be contraindicated in patients successfully treated for endometrial and breast cancer, there are no data to substantiate this admonition. Experience suggests that it can be used safely in patients treated previously for endometrial cancer. Although there is little or no experience with estrogen use in the woman treated previously for breast cancer, circumstantial evidence suggests that it is not contraindicated in all such cases. Informed consent, patient desires, and risk-benefit considerations must enter into the decision to use estrogen in these patients. 
MY7 monoclonal antibody for diagnosis of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Infiltrate in cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs) is composed mainly of CD4 helper cells with a phenotype very similar to that of benign cutaneous lymphoid infiltrate. MY7 (CD13) is a monoclonal antibody that is normally expressed on peripheral granulocytes and monocytes but also cross-reacts with an antigen expressed on epidermal basal cells. We studied MY7 expression on basal cells of the epidermis and CD4 cell infiltrate in 34 CTCLs, 11 pseudolymphomas, and 29 other benign cutaneous lesions. An indirect immunofluorescence technique with double labeling and an immunoperoxidase technique were used. We found that in benign inflammatory infiltrate, less than 10% of CD4 cells expressed MY7 antigen associated with normal MY7 monoclonal antibody labeling of basal cells, whereas in CTCLs more than 50% of CD4 tumoral cells in dermis expressed MY7 antigens; however, basal cells were MY7 negative. Thus, it is demonstrated that MY7 monoclonal antibody with its double modulation on epidermis (basal cells) and dermis (CD4 cells) has diagnostic value for differentiating CTCLs with CD4+ MY7+ tumor cells in dermis and MY7-negative basal cells from benign inflammatory lesions with CD4+ MY7- cells in dermis and MY7-positive basal cells. This modulation of MY7 labeling could be related to the secretion of epidermal cytokines. 
Cancer surveillance in ulcerative colitis. During a 13-year period, 213 patients with ulcerative colitis who had no clinical or endoscopic evidence of colonic carcinoma were enrolled in a biopsy surveillance program for dysplasia and carcinoma. The aims of the study were to determine whether such a program could decrease the cancer risk in this group of patients, to determine whether patients with a low risk of carcinoma could be identified, thus enabling them to retain their colon, and to accomplish these goals with a reasonable expenditure of resources. Eighteen patients had dysplasia detected in the initial biopsy specimens; 15 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 7 had unsuspected carcinoma (1 Dukes' stage A, 2 stage B, and 4 stage C). Eleven patients had dysplasia detected during follow-up; 7 of these patients had colectomy, and only 1 patient had carcinoma (Dukes' B). Dysplasia developed in 5 of 20 patients with indefinite changes on initial biopsy samples; 3 of these patients underwent colectomy, and 1 patient had carcinoma (Dukes' B). There was no difference in the prevalence of dysplasia between patients with left-sided disease and patients with extensive disease. With the exception of 2 patients with inadequate surveillance, there has been no clinical evidence of carcinoma in any of the 148 patients whose biopsy results remained negative throughout the study; carcinoma has not developed in any of 175 patients without dysplasia on initial biopsy sample. All 4 patients who died of carcinoma had high-grade dysplasia in their initial colonoscopic biopsy samples. It is concluded that a biopsy surveillance program can be an effective aid in helping control the risk of carcinoma in patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis, that the short-term risk of carcinoma for patients with negative biopsy results is low and colectomy for risk of carcinoma can be deferred in this group, and that patients with extensive and left-sided disease share the same risk of the development of dysplasia. 
Polycystic ovary syndrome and bulimia. One hundred fifty-three patients classified as suffering from polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) and 109 patients who were suffering from a clear organic disorder or endocrinopathy received the bulimia investigation test (Edinburgh) (BITE) questionnaire for abnormal eating behaviors. Patients with PCOS showed a significant increase in their mean BITE score for approximately a third had abnormal eating patterns, and 6% have scores suggestive of clinical bulimia compared with only 1% of women in the group with organic endocrinopathies. The work suggests that women with PCOS should be screened for abnormal eating behaviors and raises the possibility that treatment by psychological means should be considered when abnormal eating behaviors are present. 
Cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor in 190 patients. Over 10 years, 475 patients with isolated lateral neck masses were evaluated: 190 with lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor (LNUP), 188 with neck lymphomas, 78 with benign tumors, 10 with sarcomas, and 9 with chemodectomas. This study focused on the patients with LNUP. Only 86 patients were treated with surgery (plus radiotherapy). Other patients were treated with radiotherapy (84) or chemotherapy (13) or had no treatment (7). For the overall population, failures in the neck occurred in 51% of the patients and distant metastases in 27%, while primary tumors appeared in 16%. Survival rates at 3, 5, and 10 years were 27%, 19%, and 7%, respectively, for the overall population and 45%, 35%, and 19%, respectively, for the surgical group. The diagnosis and therapeutic approach had a direct effect on neck control; failure in the neck occurred in 7 of 47 patients (15%) when fine needle aspiration and radical neck dissection with radiotherapy were performed, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when fine needle aspiration and modified neck dissection with radiotherapy were used, in 5 of 12 patients (42%) when adenectomy diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment were performed, and in 6 of 11 patients (54%) when diagnosis by incisional biopsy was performed prior to admission, despite subsequent radical neck dissection and radiotherapy treatment. In our opinion, panendoscopy and fine needle aspiration should be the first-line diagnostic approach. When cytologic diagnosis proves impossible, the second-line approach must consist of cervical exploration with frozen section examination and excisional biopsy, followed by immediate appropriate treatment. In cases of LNUP, radical neck dissection seems to be preferable. 
The usefulness of simultaneous determinations of glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices of alpha-fetoprotein in the differential diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver. The degrees of glucosaminylation (glucosaminylation index) and fucosylation (fucosylation index) of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) were determined in serum samples of 351 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), 47 with carcinoma metastatic to the liver from digestive organs, five with mixed cholangiocellular and HCC, and 176 with benign liver diseases. The glucosaminylation index of AFP in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (42 +/- 23%, mean +/- SD) was significantly higher than that in patients with HCC (5 +/- 7%, P less than 0.001) or that in patients with benign liver diseases (2 +/- 4%, P less than 0.001). The fucosylation indices of AFP in patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver, with HCC, and with benign liver diseases were 76 +/- 25%, 42 +/- 30%, and 4 +/- 6%, respectively. Thus, the fucosylation indices of AFP were high in two neoplastic liver diseases (carcinoma metastatic to the liver and HCC) and low in benign liver diseases, whereas the glucosaminylation indices were high in carcinoma metastatic to the liver but low in HCC and benign liver diseases. When the values of 30% and 80% were used as the level of the glucosaminylation and fucosylation indices, respectively, to discriminate carcinoma metastatic to the liver from HCC, 40 of 47 patients with carcinoma metastatic to the liver (85%) were able to be discriminated from HCC (sensitivity). The specificity, the positive predictive value, and the overall accuracy were 86% (302/351), 45% (40/40 + 47 + 3 - 2) and 86% (40 + 302/47 + 351), respectively. These data suggest that the combined information in these two indices provides a potent criterion for the diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the liver. 
Lesions that manifest as medial cheek and nasolabial fold masses. Seventeen cases were collected in which the patient presented with a medial cheek or nasolabial fold mass. Most of these lesions were uncommon, and some were rare. The most reliable differentiating finding was the type of associated bone involvement. The malignancies had bone erosion and as a group could be distinguished from the other masses. Computed tomographic attenuation and magnetic resonance imaging signal intensities were nonspecific and did not allow a definitive diagnosis to be made. The types of pathologic conditions and their sectional imaging findings are reviewed. 
Clinical trials. Access and reimbursement. Clinical trials continue to play an extremely important role in clinical oncology, but of the nearly 1 million cancer patients diagnosed in the United States each year, only 2.5% (25,000) participate in such trials. Access to clinical trials has been enhanced by the adoption by the NCI of a promotional campaign that involves seminars, dissemination of information to national and local news media, and assisting in making information about clinical trials available to patients and physicians. Factors that hinder accrual of patients to clinical trials include: (1) physicians' concern about losing contact with patients, (2) physicians who feel that "experimental therapy" is not as good as "standard therapy," and (3) the time it takes to discuss and implement clinical trials. Reimbursement for clinical trials has also become a major concern. Who should pay for clinical research? Many insurance companies have been reluctant to pay for "experimental therapy" but will pay for "standard therapy." If this trend continues, the whole concept and organization of clinical trials, i.e., Phase I, II, and III trials, will be greatly hindered. Solutions must be found, and third party payers need to realize that an investment in clinical trials today will decrease the long term costs of state-of-the-art care. 
In vitro activity of LY264826, a new glycopeptide antibiotic, against gram-positive bacteria isolated from patients with cancer. The in vitro activity of LY264826, a novel glycopeptide antibiotic produced by Amycolatopsis orientalis, was compared with those of vancomycin, teicoplanin, and oxacillin against 311 gram-positive clinical isolates from patients with cancer, LY264826 had lower MICs for 90% of isolates (MIC90) than vancomycin for all species tested. It was active against oxacillin-resistant isolates including Staphylococcus aureus (MIC90, 0.5 micrograms/ml), Staphylococcus haemolyticus (MIC90, 2.0 micrograms/ml), Enterococcus spp. (MIC90, 0.5 micrograms/ml), Bacillus cereus (MIC90, 0.25 micrograms/ml), and Corynebacterium jeikeium (MIC90, 0.12 micrograms/ml). For S. aureus, including oxacillin-resistant isolates, the MICs of LY264826 were similar to those of teicoplanin. For coagulase-negative staphylococci, however, LY264826 had MICs that were 4- to 32-fold lower than those of teicoplanin. Against most streptococcal species the activities of LY264826 and teicoplanin were similar. Bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus spp. and most Streptococcus pyogenes isolates was less than or equal to 1 dilution of the MIC. One isolate of S. pyogenes and all Enterococcus faecalis strains tested were tolerant of LY264826, with MBCs greater than or equal to 32-fold greater than the MICs. The addition of 50% human serum resulted in a significant increase in activity only against Staphylococcus epidermidis. Variations in pH from 6.4 to 8.4 and in inoculum from 10(3) to 10(7) CFU/ml did not significantly affect the activity of LY264826. 
Disposition of cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma: implications for radiosurgery Radiosurgery is becoming more generally available and indications for its use continue to be defined. Cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma are often treated with whole-brain irradiation, but with limited benefit. Innovative treatments, such as radiosurgery, make possible the delivery of doses of radiation that are higher than usual. To determine how many patients might be candidates for radiosurgery, a retrospective analysis of computed tomographic brain scans performed on 41 patients with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma was undertaken. One-third of these patients were found to have cerebral metastases amenable to a radiosurgical approach, as illustrated radiation dose-volume histograms. Patient and tumor characteristics suggest that this series is represent with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma. The implications of radiosurgery for normal tissue radiation tolerance and its effects on melanoma are discussed. 
Translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. Acute promyelocytic leukemias (APLs) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [t(15;17)]. We report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus. Nucleotide sequencing of the 15;17 cross-over junction on 15q+ showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron, 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon II. Such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal RAR alpha mRNA and protein. Southern blot analysis of a number of APLs with chromosome 15- and 17-derived DNA probes revealed similar 15;17 recombinations in the majority of other APLs. Our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of APL. 
Simultaneous hepatoblastoma in identical male twins. Identical male twin infants who in 1987 presented with hepatoblastoma at the age of 7 months are reported. Twin B was admitted for investigation due to enlarged liver and spleen. He was found to have an inoperable hepatoblastoma of fetal type and was treated with chemotherapy and local irradiation. However, 7 months after the chemotherapy the tumor recurred. The asymptomatic twin A was examined because of the known familial cases, and he proved to have an identical tumor. He was successfully radically operated on and 2 years after the chemotherapy is still doing well with no evidence of tumor. As the mother and the maternal grandmother had polyps in the colon, quite probably the hepatoblastomas of the twins were associated with familial adenomatous polyposis. 
Vitamin E and cancer prevention. Some animal experiments and human studies suggest that vitamin E may protect against cancer. Serum alpha-tocopherol concentration was studied for its prediction of cancer in a cohort of 36,265 adults in Finland. During a mean follow-up of 8 y, cancer was diagnosed in 766 persons. The levels of serum alpha-tocopherol were determined from stored serum samples (at -20 degrees C) taken from these cancer patients and from 1419 matched control subjects. Individuals with a low level of alpha-tocopherol had about a 1.5-fold risk of cancer compared with those with a higher level. The strength of the association between serum alpha-tocopherol level and cancer risk varied for different cancer sites and was strongest for some gastrointestinal cancers and for the combined group of cancers unrelated to smoking. The association was strongest among nonsmoking men and among women with low levels of serum selenium. The findings agree with the hypothesis that dietary vitamin E in some circumstances protects against cancer. 
Pericardial metastasis from testicular seminoma: appearance and disappearance by echocardiography. At the time of initial diagnosis, testicular malignancy is usually limited to the testicle and infradiaphragmatic lymph nodes. Metastases initially follow the retroperitoneal lymph channels and subsequently extend to the supradiphragmatic lymph nodes in the mediastinum and supraclavicular fossa. Testicular metastases to the pericardium are rare and usually asymptomatic. These lesions are most commonly identified at autopsy; therefore, the actual incidence is unknown. The authors report a 32-year-old man with testicular carcinoma, who developed asymptomatic pericardial metastases without concomitant supradiaphragmatic nodal or pulmonary metastases. They review the efficacy of echocardiography in diagnosis and follow up or pericardial metastasis. 
Detection of HTLV-I proviral sequences in CD30-positive large cell cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. To investigate the possibility that cutaneous T-cell lymphomas of large cell type may be associated with human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I infection in nonendemic regions, tissue samples from six cases of large cell cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and four cases of small cell cutaneous T-cell lymphoma were screened for the presence of integrated proviral human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I DNA. Combined use of Southern blot hybridization and enzymatic DNA amplification revealed human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I-specific sequences in all cases of large cell cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and in none of the cases of small cell cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. These results suggest that in nonendemic areas, a significant proportion of large cell cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cases are associated with human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type I. 
Response to chemotherapy does not predict survival after resection of sarcomatous pulmonary metastases. Between 1979 and 1988, 26 patients with pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas were treated with Adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide), and DTIC before metastasectomy. Thirty-eight thoracotomies were performed with postoperative complications in 5 patients (5/38, 13.2%) and one postoperative death (1/38, 2.6%). Two patients had benign lesions at thoracotomy and were excluded from further survival analysis. The median survival of the remaining 24 patients after thoracotomy was 18.5 +/- 5.9 months, and the actuarial 5-year survival was 22%. Five patients (5/24, 21%) achieved a clinically complete response with preoperative chemotherapy, but all had recurrence in the lung and underwent resection of pulmonary metastases. Seven patients (7/24, 29%) achieved a partial response and had residual disease resected at thoracotomy. Twelve patients (12/24, 50%) showed either no change or disease progression while receiving chemotherapy and were referred for resection. Postthoracotomy disease-free survival and postthoracotomy overall survival did not differ significantly between the three groups. One patient in the group showing no change or progression of disease while receiving chemotherapy is alive without recurrence 57 months after initial pulmonary metastasectomy. Chemotherapy can be used for the initial treatment of pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas. However, survival after resection of pulmonary metastases cannot be accurately predicted based on the clinical response to preoperative chemotherapy. 
Evaluation of the results of oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer. The long-term results of standard techniques of oesophagectomy were examined in 127 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus. A near-total oesophagectomy with a cervical anastomosis was performed in 93 patients and an oesophagogastrectomy with an intrathoracic anastomosis was carried out in 34 patients. One hundred and eight patients had a curative oesophagectomy and 19 patients had a palliative resection. Eight patients received radiotherapy to the tumour bed. There were 15 deaths in hospital and the overall 5-year survival rate including perioperative deaths was 13.2 per cent. Survival was adversely affected by incomplete excision of macroscopic tumour (P less than 0.001), positive regional lymph nodes (P less than 0.05) and distant lymphatic metastases (P less than 0.02). The 5-year survival rate of patients with tumour invasion beyond the oesophageal wall (T3) and negative nodes was 20 per cent. Postoperative irradiation had no effect on the survival of patients with gross residual tumour. Complete clearance of microscopic tumour was achieved in 50 per cent of patients with T3 tumours and this group did not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. Survival in patients undergoing curative oesophagectomy with residual microscopic tumour, however, was significantly improved by irradiation of the tumour bed (P less than 0.01). These results suggest that the survival of patients can be increased significantly by the excision of all gross tumour and by identification of those who will benefit from local radiotherapy. 
Primary adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder. A clinicopathologic analysis of 72 cases. Adenocarcinomas account for approximately 2% of primary epithelial malignancies of the urinary bladder. The clinicopathologic features of 72 cases treated at one institution are reported; 22 cases were evaluated immunohistochemically. Twenty-four tumors were urachal and 48 nonurachal. The cases were analyzed according to their stage at presentation, histologic type, and mucin staining; they were tested immunohistochemically to determine their reaction to carcinoembryonic antigen, Leu-M1, prostate-specific antigen, and prostatic acid phosphatase. Tumor stage was a highly significant predictor of outcome (P = 0.001). Nonurachal tumors tended to have a worse outcome than urachal, but the difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.07). Histologic type was not a significant predictor of outcome (P = 0.10). For adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder, stage was the most significant predictive factor; separating urachal from nonurachal tumors was important, but mucin histochemistry and immunohistochemistry did not help in this distinction. On occasion, a few tumors may react with some polyclonal antibodies to prostate-specific antigen; thus these results must be interpreted with caution. In these instances, the possibility of using highly sensitive and specific monoclonal antibodies such as the one employed in this study should be considered. 
Prognostic implications of DNA histogram, DNA content, and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer. Forty-six cases of resected lung cancer, including 20 cases at Stages I and II and 26 cases at Stage III (N2), were subdivided into two groups: a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer. From paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients, the authors examined DNA histogram pattern and DNA content, using flow cytometry, and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis. In the good prognosis group at Stages I and II, paracortical hyperplasia (PH) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently. In the good prognosis group at Stage III, the incidence of PH, G2M phase in the DNA histograms, and DNA content were all significantly higher. DNA content was positively correlated with the grade of PH. 
Expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigens and interleukin-1 by epithelial cells of Warthin's tumor. The immunoreactivity for class II antigens of the major histocompatibility complex and interleukin-1 (IL-1) in Warthin's tumor (WT) cells was studied. In addition to macrophages, dendritic cells, and capillary endothelia, the luminal tumor cells and some keratinocytes in the metaplastic squamous foci exhibited immunoreactivity for both class II antigens and IL-1. The distribution of the class II antigens in the luminal tumor cells was limited to their basolateral membrane. These data, together with previous findings, strongly suggest that the luminal tumor cells of WT introduce the luminal antigen to the underlying lymphoid tissue and, thus, act as an antigen-presenting cell. 
Limitation of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using iodized oil for small hepatocellular carcinoma. A study in resected cases. The radiologic and histologic findings are presented of the resection of 14 small hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC), less than 2 cm in maximum diameter, after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TCE) using iodized oil. The effect of TCE on small HCC depended on the morphologic type of the tumors. When no extracapsular invasion of tumor cells occurred, TCE was extremely effective against encapsulated tumors. However, in nine of the 14 resected specimens, viable tumor cells remained in or around the tumor. The authors suggest that small HCC are not always curable with TCE alone and that a multi-disciplinary approach is necessary for patients with small HCC. 
Esthesioneuroblastoma with intracranial extension. The authors present five cases of olfactory neuroblastoma with intracranial extension operated on in the Department of Neurosurgery in collaboration with otorhinolaryngologists. This tumor is most frequently reported as growing inside the nasal cavities, and it can extend to the paranasal sinuses. Cases presenting initially as intracranial tumors have been infrequently reported. At present, histological diagnosis of this tumor is aided by the use of electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. Total resection combined with radiation therapy remains the most satisfactory treatment. 
Vimentin expression appears to be associated with poor prognosis in node-negative ductal NOS breast carcinomas. Vimentin expression in tumors from 83 node-negative and 112 node-positive patients with infiltrative ductal not otherwise specified (NOS) breast carcinomas has been compared with 5-year survival. For node-negative, but not for node-positive patients, there was a significant inverse relation between vimentin expression and survival. Five-year survival of node-negative patients with vimentin-positive tumors was significantly worse compared with vimentin-negative tumors (P less than 0.0001). In the node-negative group, only 36% of patients with vimentin-positive tumors but 82% of patients with vimentin-negative tumors survived 5 years. Tumors of all eight node-negative patients with ductal NOS cancer who died in the first 27 months expressed vimentin. Multivariate analysis of the node-negative group showed a strong correlation of vimentin expression and overall survival, but weak and not significant correlation between histologic grade or size and overall survival at 5 years. Thus vimentin expression seems to be a strong indicator of poor prognosis in node-negative ductal NOS breast carcinomas. 
Trends in female breast cancer in Connecticut and the United States. Trends for female breast cancer were examined by age, period and cohort for the years 1950-1984 in U.S. mortality. Connecticut mortality and Connecticut incidence. Birth cohort patterns were evident for all three sets of data. The results confirm a continuing increase in invasive breast cancer by providing evidence of a strong birth cohort pattern, over a time series of 90 years of birth cohorts. This trend appears to be real for the most part because of the cohort patterns and because there is minimal underdetection in data obtained by autopsy and blind biopsy. Secondly, when cohort modeling is applied to breast cancer mortality, there is an indication of a modest decline in recent breast cancer mortality (in the face of an apparent long-term increase), which suggests that control of breast cancer mortality may have developed in recent decades, perhaps through earlier detection and improved treatment. Finally, in contrast with a prior report, there is little evidence for a clinically important difference in time trend between pre- and postmenopausal breast cancer. 
Definitive mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates. Mandibular defects following radical cancer surgery continue to provide challenges to head and neck surgeons. Twenty-seven patients with advanced oral cancer underwent primary mandibular replacement with metal reconstruction plates without the use of bone. Twenty-one patients (78%) had successful reconstruction with primary soft tissue healing. Six patients required removal of the plate in the postoperative period. Two of these patients had their reconstruction plates replaced as a secondary procedure following soft tissue healing. Thus, 23 of 27 patients (85%) had final mandibular reconstruction and were followed for an average of 19 months. Functional and cosmetic results were satisfactory. For patients with advanced disease, this technique compares favorably with microvascular transfer in terms of operating time and donor defect. Despite problems with plate exposure, the initial and overall success rates of 78% and 85%, respectively, make the use of these plates a reasonable choice for immediate reconstructive needs in patients with difficult tumors. 
Intrarectal ultrasonography in rectal cancer staging and in the evaluation of pelvic disease. Clinical uses of intrarectal ultrasound. Accurate preoperative staging of a rectal cancer patient may impact heavily on subsequent management. This study attempts to evaluate the accuracy of intrarectal ultrasonography (IRUS) in staging rectal cancers compared to clinical and pathologic examination. In addition the accuracy of IRUS was assessed in a group of patients with uncertain pelvic-perirectal disease after a negative physical examination. In a prospective manner, 52 cancer patients were staged with digital exam and IRUS. Accuracy rates were 48% and 83%, respectively, compared to pathologic evaluation in assessing wall penetration, and IRUS identified positive lymph nodes in 12 of 17 cases. In patients with pelvic disease, IRUS corresponded with pathologic diagnosis in 15 of 17 cases and revealed new information in 6 patients. Intrarectal ultrasonography appears to be the most accurate imaging technique for staging rectal cancers and demonstrates promise in the evaluation of perirectal-pelvic disease. 
Significance and treatment of positive margins or seminal vesicle invasion after radical prostatectomy. The periprostatic soft-tissue involvement described in the older urologic literature differs from that now recognized; a much "earlier" pathologic stage C is being identified. Apparent microscopic extension of the cancer to the margin of the specimen yields an approximately 25% risk of local recurrence. Postoperative radiation apparently is effective in reducing this risk, and if patients are properly selected, such treatment is well tolerated. Whether adjuvant radiation affects overall survival is not known. New observations on pathologic extension of the disease need to be refined. 
Benign cystic teratoma manifested as an umbilical hernia. We have reported a case of dermoid tumor manifested as an umbilical hernia. Resection led to complete recovery. 
Management of primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval thrombus. We report our experience with the management of 7 primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval tumor thrombus. Included are 3 cases of adrenal cortical carcinoma and 1 each of transitional cell carcinoma, embryonal cell testicular carcinoma, pheochromocytoma and primary small cell carcinoma of the lung with metastases to the kidney. Surgical treatment and followup are presented, as well as a review of the literature. An aggressive surgical approach is warranted because prolonged survivals free of disease are possible. 
Cystic tumors of the pancreas. New clinical, radiologic, and pathologic observations in 67 patients. Within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients (49 women, 18 men; mean age, 61 years) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas, including 18 serous cystic adenomas, 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms, 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas, 3 papillary cystic tumors, 2 cystic islet cell tumors, and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. Mean tumor size was 6 cm (2 to 16 cm). In 39% the patients had no symptoms, and in 37% the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst. Computed tomography was useful for detection, for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma, and for showing rim calcification (all 7 cases were malignant) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst, serous from mucinous tumors, or benign from malignant. Arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas, 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas, and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors. Endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia. Stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer. The tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients, by proximal resection in 29, and by total pancreatectomy in one, with no operative deaths. Forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant. In 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases, and those patients died at a mean of 4 months. Seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence. Because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially (5% to 98%) absent in 40% to 72% of cases of the major tumor types, and the mucinous component comprised only about 65% of mucinous cystadenoma lining, misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made. Mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy. Neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87% of benign and 47% of malignant mucinous tumors. It is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous. Incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading, however. It is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected, with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas. 
Human basophils express interleukin-4 receptors. Interleukin-4 (IL-4), a multipotential lymphokine reputed to play an important role in the regulation of immune responses, interacts with a variety of hemopoietic target cells through specific cell surface membrane receptors. The present study was designed to investigate whether human basophils express IL-4 binding sites. For this purpose, basophils were enriched to homogeneity (93% and 98% purity, respectively) from the peripheral blood of two chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL) donors using a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) and complement. Purified basophils bound 125I-radiolabeled recombinant human (rh) IL-4 in a specific manner. Quantitative binding studies and Scatchard plot analysis revealed the presence of a single class of high affinity IL-4 binding sites (280 +/- 40 sites per cell in donor 1 and 640 +/- 45 sites per cell in donor 2) with an apparent dissociation constant, kd, of 7.12 x 10(-11) +/- 2.29 x 10(-11) and 9.55 +/- 3.5 x 10(-11) mol/L, respectively. KU812-F, a human basophil precursor cell line, was found to express a single class of 810 to 1,500 high affinity IL-4 binding sites with a kd of 2.63 to 5.54 x 10(-10) mol/L. No change in the numbers or binding constants of IL-4 receptors was found after exposure of KU812-F cells to rhIL-3 (a potent activator of basophils) for 60 minutes. No effect of rhIL-4 on 3H-thymidine uptake, release or synthesis of histamine, or expression of basophil differentiation antigens (Bsp-1, CD11b, CD25, CD40, CD54) on primary human CGL basophils or KU812-F cells was observed. 
Diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care for seborrheic keratoses. A pilot study of an approach to quality assurance for cutaneous surgery In 1985 there were more than 40 million visits for ambulatory surgical procedures in the United States. Although benign cutaneous lesions are among the most frequent conditions to receive surgical treatment in ambulatory settings, their treatment is seldom subject to peer review. In this pilot study we assessed diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care using information available from the surgical pathology laboratory. We assessed these two measures of physician performance for 527 seborrheic keratoses removed by 133 clinicians affiliated with four different institutions. Overall, a correct preoperative diagnosis was provided in only 49% of cases. Dermatologists had the highest diagnostic accuracy (61% vs 35% for all other physicians). An appropriate procedure for the actual pathological diagnosis was performed in only 50% of cases. Lesions with a correct preoperative diagnosis were more than eight times more likely to receive appropriate care. Our data suggest that many clinicians fail to note a correct diagnosis of common cutaneous lesions before surgical removal, and many patients are treated with procedures that are more invasive than necessary for the final pathological diagnosis. Because the approach used in this pilot study relies on data already available, it has promise as a low-cost method of monitoring the quality of care of ambulatory surgery. 
The gastrin hypothesis. Implications for antisecretory drug selection. Newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion, such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole, are becoming available for general use. These drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting H2-receptor antagonists. The safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question, however. Lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells in the gastric corpus. Available evidence supports a role of gastrin, which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria. In humans, hypergastrinemic states such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ECL-cell carcinoid tumors. Such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion. To date, however, no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans. If achlorhydric doses are not used, significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained. Such measures should minimize any risk of ECL-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs. 
Synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum. Reports on the incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum have varied from 2 to 11 per cent. The variability is a result of a lack of uniformity in criteria of diagnosis, differences in the population studied and differences in time period used. In this study, we evaluated the incidence and distribution of synchronous lesions during a recent time period before the use of colonoscopy became widespread. We reviewed the records of all patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who were operated upon at our institution between 1976 and 1981. In a total group of 1,000 patients of which 52 per cent were men, there were 54 patients or 5.4 per cent who had synchronous carcinomas. The group of patients with synchronous carcinomas were older than the group with nonsynchronous carcinomas (72.4 versus 68.8 years). There was also a higher incidence of associated benign polyps in the group with synchronous carcinomas (70 versus 30 per cent for a nonsynchronous carcinomas). The anatomic distribution of carcinomas of the colon and rectum in the group with synchronous lesions (111 in total) revealed a higher percentage of carcinomas located on the right side (29.7 versus 22.5 per cent), although the difference did not reach statistical significance. Synchronous carcinomas were located in nonadjacent segments of the colon in 37 per cent. There was no difference in stage between the groups with and without synchronous carcinomas. The preoperative identification of synchronous lesions by either colonoscopy or barium enema is important for the proper treatment of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum. Failure to locate these tumors may lead to the demise of the patient. 
Cessation of treatment in advanced cancer. A major responsibility for all physicians, but particularly for oncologists, is to recognize the time when active antitumor treatment ceases to have a rational basis. The decision to treat or not to treat at any stage of disease requires an analysis of "the legitimate aims of therapy." We have acquired the ability to cure or prolong survival in an increasing proportion of patients with several types of cancer. For patients who fail to achieve those results and for those with tumors that are rarely amenable to specific therapy, the choice of less surely effective therapy is an option; the patient must participate in the decision, armed with as much information and insight as possible, for conventional and experimental treatment. A distinction must be made between specific antitumor therapy and palliative measures for which cessation is never an option. Happily, cessation of treatment must also be considered when therapy has been so successful that the patient has achieved complete remission. At what point may treatment be discontinued without the danger of relapse? These issues are rarely crisply defined, but primary concern for the patient and careful analysis of the available data can lead to appropriate value judgements. 
Overall mortality and cancer mortality around French nuclear sites Higher than expected mortality from leukaemia has been observed in the population under age 25 living around Sellafield and Dounreay, nuclear reprocessing plants in the United Kingdom. We report the results of a similar study for the population residing around nuclear sites in France. The number of leukaemia deaths was 58, comparable to the 62 in control areas, and slightly less than the 67 expected from national mortality statistics. Twelve deaths due to Hodgkin's disease were observed around nuclear sites; this is about twice the number of Hodgkin's deaths observed in control areas and twice the number expected from national mortality statistics. This observation must, however, be interpreted in light of the fact that several causes of deaths were studied, increasing the play of chance. 
Cancer in relatives of survivors of childhood sarcoma. Relatives of 88 long-term survivors of childhood sarcoma were examined for the familial cancer syndrome of sarcoma, breast cancer, and other neoplasms (Li-Fraumeni syndrome). Twenty-six of 402 close relatives developed cancer (expected, 23.8), including breast cancer in four mothers (expected, 3.1). Two sarcoma probands who developed second malignant tumors have multiple relatives with cancer and might have an inherited predisposition. An increased cancer risk and exceptional requirement for disease screening appear to be confined to first-degree relatives of a small fraction of children with sarcoma, notably probands with second cancers. 
High grade dysplasia of the gastric mucosa: a marker for gastric carcinoma. The natural history of gastric epithelial dysplasia and its relation to gastric cancer are ill defined. A consecutive series of 40 patients with an initial diagnosis of gastric epithelial dysplasia based on examination of endoscopic biopsies has been reviewed to determine the clinical outcome and to evaluate a two tier histological grading system as a predictor of the risk of cancer. On review, only 20 of the 40 patients were considered to have true dysplasia: seven patients had low grade dysplasia and 13 had high grade dysplasia. Of the 13 patients with high grade dysplasia, 11 (85%) were found to have gastric cancer within 15 months. Of the 10 patients with high grade dysplasia who underwent gastrectomy, six were found to have early gastric cancer, three had cancer invading into the muscularis propria, and none had lymph node metastases. High grade dysplasia is thus a marker of gastric cancer. Moreover, the cancers associated with high grade dysplasia are usually pathologically favourable and curable. The finding, by an experienced pathologist, of high grade dysplasia in two separate sets of endoscopic biopsies is therefore an indication for radical surgical treatment, provided that the patient's age and general condition permit such an approach. 
Isolated calcaneal metastasis in a patient with endometrial adenocarcinoma. A 55-year-old woman with a history of Stage IA endometrial adenocarcinoma, previously treated with surgery and intracavitary radiation therapy, had an isolated calcaneal metastasis. Normal radiographs led to a delay in the diagnosis of her relapse. An ankle computed tomographic scan finally identified a mass, and the surgical biopsy specimen confirmed the diagnosis. This is the first reported case of an isolated calcaneal metastasis in endometrial adenocarcinoma to the authors' knowledge. 
The potential role of postoperative hepatic artery chemotherapy in patients with high-risk hepatomas. The relationship between operative findings of hepatoma and the postoperative prognosis was studied to clarify indications for adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy after hepatectomy. The results of adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy using 0.4 mg/kg of doxorubicin and 0.12 mg/kg of mitomycin C and infusion of 5-fluorouracil were reported. One hundred sixty patients who had undergone hepatectomy for hepatoma were studied. In the operative findings of hepatoma, with a surgical margin of less than 10 mm, intrahepatic metastasis, tumor embolus in the second or more proximal branch of the portal vein, or lack of capsule formation related to the prognosis were the risk factors for recurrence. In 132 patients with these risk factors the survival rate of 19 patients with adjuvant arterial chemotherapy was significantly higher than for the 113 patients without it. Adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy thus may be an effective therapy and should be studied prospectively in patients undergoing hepatectomy for high-risk hepatoma. 
Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide combination as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer: a meta-analytic review. Twenty-three patients with marginally resectable and unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer (stages IIIA and IIIB) were treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy. All patients received three cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with two alkylating agents, cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 intravenously (i.v.) and ifosfamide 3.5 g/m2 i.v., mesna 12 g/m2 was given additionally to prevent drug hematuria. Six of 23 patients (26%) had partial response. Of the seven patients who underwent thoracotomy, two were completely resected, but with macroscopic residual disease. Mean time to progression for the whole group was 7 months. Fifteen patients had progression of disease, with local metastases only in six, and distant metastases in eight. After administering 52 chemotherapy cycles, cyclophosphamide-ifosfamide doses were cut down, as eight of 16 patients required hospitalization for fever during neutropenia nadirs. This two-alkylating (non-cisplatin) regimen, unlike cisplatin-based regimens, was ineffective, and further trials are not recommended. 
A report on radiation-induced gliomas. Radiation-induced gliomas are uncommon, with only 73 cases on record to date. The disease that most frequently occasioned radiation therapy has been acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Three more cases are added here, two after irradiation for ALL and one after irradiation for tinea capitis. In a review of the relevant literature, the authors stress the possibility that the ALL-glioma and the retinoblastoma-glioma links point to syndromes in their own right that may occur without radiation therapy. 
Use of monoclonal antibody KP1 for identifying normal and neoplastic human mast cells. The monoclonal antibody KP1 (CD68) was used to stain normal and neoplastic monocytes and macrophages in routinely processed, paraffin wax embedded tissue: mast cells also exhibited strong, consistent cytoplasmic immunoreactivity. Light microscopic findings were corroborated by electron microscopical and immunocytochemical findings. The predominant sites of immunoreactivity were the specific intracytoplasmic granules of the mast cells. All mast cell subtypes--that is, normal and reactive mast cells, such as those in lymph nodes exhibiting chronic non-specific lymphadenitis, and malignant or neoplastic mast cells in various types of mastocytosis--reacted with this antibody. This finding is of diagnostic importance, because mast cell proliferation could be mistaken for histiocyte proliferation. It also supports the hypothesis that mast cells derive from the bone marrow. 
Clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of children with acute lymphocytic leukemia and Down's syndrome. A Pediatric Oncology Group study. Of 2947 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), treated during three consecutive studies of the Pediatric Oncology Group (1974-1986), 52 (1.8%) had Down's Syndrome (DS). Comparison of clinical and laboratory characteristics showed no significant differences in leukocyte count, racial distribution, sex ratio, platelet count, incidence of mediastinal mass, lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly, or percentage of blood or bone marrow blasts for children with ALL with or without Down's Syndrome (DS-ALL or NDS-ALL, respectively). However, children with DS-ALL were slightly older at the time of presentation and had higher hemoglobin values. The relative frequency of each major immunophenotype (early pre-B, pre-B, T, or B) was also comparable for patients with or without DS. For this report, treatment regimens were categorized as either conventional (no consolidation therapy) or intensive. Cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of DS, a higher leukocyte count, black race, or age older than 10 years was independently associated with a poorer event-free survival (EFS) for children treated with conventional chemotherapy. However, for the cohort of children who received intensive chemotherapy, DS was no longer an independent risk factor. In fact, event-free survival (EFS) was markedly improved to a level comparable with that observed in the children diagnosed as having NDS-ALL. On the other hand, serious toxicity, requiring interruption of treatment, was significantly more frequent in the intensively treated children with DS compared with similarly treated patients with NDS-ALL, although deaths resulting from toxicity occurred infrequently. 
Fractionated high dose rate versus low dose rate regimens for intracavitary brachytherapy of the cervix. I. General considerations based on radiobiology. Intracavitary brachytherapy at low dose rate (LDR), often with the addition of external-beam radiotherapy, has long been considered the treatment of choice for carcinoma of the cervix, maximizing acute damage in the treatment volume, whilst minimizing late effects. In recent years, primarily for reasons of convenience and cost, there has been a move towards treatments involving a few fractions at high dose rate (HDR). Using data from cells of human origin cultured in vitro, we make estimates of the doses that, delivered in 2-12 HDR fractions, produce tumour control and early effects equivalent to intracavitary treatments at LDR. We also show that, for situations where the normal-tissue dose responsible for late effects is significantly smaller than the tumour dose, HDR schemes may be devised which, while yielding early killing comparable with that of LDR, should not result in worse late effects. We suggest that this scenario probably applies to treatment of carcinoma of the cervix. 
Evaluation of tumor progression by repeated fine needle biopsies in prostate adenocarcinoma: modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological differentiation. Repeated fine needle aspiration biopsies of the prostate were taken during a period of 24 months or more from 84 patients with untreated prostate cancer. Serial followup regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of the tumor cells was possible in 72 and 78 patients, respectively. During followup the modal deoxyribonucleic acid values in the tumor cells changed towards an increased aneuploidy in 17 patients and the cytological differentiation decreased in 18. These findings of a change in modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of prostate cancer cells during the course of untreated patients support the concept of a gradual dedifferentiation of prostate cancer. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The incidence, clinical characteristics, and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide (VM-26), etoposide (VP-16), or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy. Fifty (46%) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions. The risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52% (95% confidence limits, 41% and 63%) for VM-26, compared with 34% (95% confidence limits, 24% and 44%) for VP-16. The risk of having an initial reaction to VM-26 or VP-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose. This risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for VM-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for VP-16. All reactions were Type 1 reactions according to the Gell and Coombs classification, characterized by urticaria, angioedema, flushing, rashes, or hypotension, and 86% of reactions were of Grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria. There was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication, and no deaths occurred. The findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with ALL are more common than previously reported, but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity. 
Expression of blood-group antigen A--a favorable prognostic factor in non-small-cell lung cancer. BACKGROUND. New prognostic factors are needed to guide the treatment of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. We evaluated the prognostic value of altered expression of ABH blood-group antigens, which has been implicated in the multistep process of carcinogenesis and tumor progression. METHODS. The presence of blood-group antigens was assessed immunohistochemically in paraffin-embedded tumor samples from 164 patients who underwent curative surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer from 1980 through 1982. Monoclonal antibodies were used to detect the A and B antigens, and Ulex europaeus agglutinin I to detect H antigen. RESULTS. Survival of the 28 patients with blood type A or AB who had primary tumors negative for blood-group antigen A was significantly shorter than that of the 43 patients with antigen A-positive tumors (P less than 0.001) and of the 93 patients with blood type B or O (P = 0.002). The respective median survival times were 15, 71, and 39 months. Disease progressed significantly earlier in the 28 patients with tumors negative for blood-group antigen A than in the antigen A-positive patients (P less than 0.001). Expression of blood-group antigen B or H in tumor cells did not correlate with survival. Cox proportional-hazards regression analysis showed that expression of blood-group antigen A in tumor cells added significantly to the prediction of overall survival provided by other known prognostic factors among the patients with blood type A or AB (P = 0.004). CONCLUSIONS. Expression of blood-group antigen A in tumor cells is an important favorable prognostic factor in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. This variable needs to be considered in the design of future trials of therapy. 
Lithiumogenic disorders of the thyroid and parathyroid glands as surgical disease. Little notice has been paid in the surgical literature to problems with psychoeffective lithium, which by interfering with adenylate cyclase affects thyroid and parathyroid function, causing hypercalcemia, hyperparathyroidism, and hypothyroidism. Seven patients with lithiumogenic hyperparathyroidism occurring after years of lithium therapy underwent treatment and manifested osteoporosis (n = 2), hypertension (n = 2), nephrolithiasis (n = 1), coma (n = 1), rising hypercalcemia (n = 1), goitrous myxedema (n = 4), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (n = 2), renal failure (n = 2), and hyperlipidemia (n = 1). Disease-directed parathyroidectomy (without morbidity) was curative. Unique laboratory findings included normal serum phosphorus and reduced urinary calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate values. Three separate cases of thyroid carcinoma after long-term lithium therapy were also treated, being preceded by myxedema (n = 2) and concurrent with hyperparathyroidism (n = 1). There has been only one previous report of lithium-associated thyroid carcinoma. All patients taking lithium should undergo surveillance for thyroid and parathyroid dysfunction and neoplasia, and appropriate surgical and medical treatment should be considered in each situation. Although hyperparathyroidism may be reversible with lithium discontinuance, such therapy may be obligatory for patient well-being, thus dictating parathyroidectomy. 
Radical resection for carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater. One hundred four consecutive patients who underwent radical resection for ampullary cancer between 1965 and 1989 were retrospectively reviewed. Frequent clinical findings included jaundice (67%), significant (greater than 10%) weight loss (42%), and anemia (27%). Eighty-seven patients (84%) underwent a subtotal pancreatectomy, and 17 patients (16%) underwent a total pancreatectomy. The postoperative mortality was 5.7% (six patients), and reoperation for postoperative complications was required in six patients. The 5- and 10-year survival rates were 34% and 25%, respectively. Eight patients died of tumor recurrence more than 5 years after resection. Patient survival was significantly impaired by microscopic lymphatic invasion, regional nodal metastasis, tumor grade, and the epithelium of origin. In a multivariate analysis, only microscopic lymphatic invasion significantly reduced patient survival. Radical resection for ampullary cancer can be performed with a low morbidity and mortality and should remain the procedure of choice for ampullary carcinoma. 
Relationship of tumor-cell ploidy to histologic subtype and treatment outcome in children and adolescents with unresectable rhabdomyosarcoma [published erratum appears in J Clin Oncol 1991 May;9(5):893] Clinical and histopathologic features are often inadequate for accurate prediction of relapse or survival of individual patients with rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS). We therefore studied the cellular DNA content (ploidy) of RMS cells in relation to histology and response to therapy in 37 patients with unresectable tumors. Using flow cytometric techniques, we found that about one third of patients had diploid tumor stem lines, regardless of the histologic subtype. In the group with abnormal ploidy, a hyperdiploid classification (1.10 to 1.80 times the DNA content of normal diploid cells) was exclusively associated with embryonal histology (P = .001). By contrast, near-tetraploidy (1.80 to 2.60 times the DNA content of normal cells) was strongly associated with alveolar histology (P = .001). Thus, in these histologic subtypes of RMS, abnormal ploidy appears to arise through different mechanisms. Tumor-cell ploidy had a significant impact on survival that was especially apparent in patients with unresectable, nonmetastatic (group III) tumors. In this subgroup, hyperdiploidy conferred the best prognosis and diploidy the worst (P less than .0001). None of the eight patients with diploid tumors survived for more than 18 months. Tumor-cell ploidy was the best predictor of treatment outcome for patients with either embryonal (P less than .001; relative risk, 25.5) or alveolar (P = .073; relative risk 7.1) RMS and contributed significantly after adjustment for disease stage and anatomic site. Patients with unresectable diploid RMS have an unacceptably high risk of treatment failure, justifying new therapeutic approaches for this distinct subgroup. 
Induction of donor-type chimerism in murine recipients of bone marrow allografts by different radiation regimens currently used in treatment of leukemia patients. Three radiation protocols currently used in treatment of leukemia patients before bone marrow transplantation (BMT) were investigated in a murine model (C57BL/6----C3H/HeJ) for BM allograft rejection. These include (a) a single dose of total body irradiation (8.5 Gy TBI delivered at a dose rate of 0.2 Gy/min), (b) fractionated TBI (12 Gy administered in six fractions, 2 Gy twice a day in 3 days, delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 Gy/min, and (c) hyperfractionated TBI (14.4 Gy administered in 12 fractions, 1.2 Gy three times a day in 3 days, delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 Gy/min). Donor-type chimerism 6 to 8 weeks after BMT and hematologic reconstitution on day 12 after BMT found in these groups were compared with results obtained in mice conditioned with 8 Gy TBI delivered at a dose rate of 0.67 Gy/min, routinely used in this murine model. The results in both parameters showed a marked advantage for the single dose 8.5 Gy TBI over all the other treatments. This advantage was found to be equivalent to three- to fourfold increment in the BM inoculum when compared with hyperfractionated radiation, which afforded the least favorable conditions for development of donor-type chimerism. The fractionated radiation protocol was equivalent in its efficacy to results obtained in mice irradiated by single-dose 8 Gy TBI, both of which afforded a smaller but not significant advantage over the hyperfractionated protocol. This model was also used to test the effect of radiation dose rate on the development of donor-type chimerism. A significant enhancement was found after an increase in dose rate from 0.1 to 0.7 Gy/min. Further enhancement could be achieved when the dose rate was increased to 1.3 Gy/min, but survival at this high dose rate was reduced. These results demonstrated indirectly that dose rate affects the expression of host-type pluripotent stem cells, the progeny of which appear 3 to 6 weeks after treatment with 8 Gy TBI delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 Gy/min, but which are eradicated if radiation is delivered at a dose rate of 1.3 Gy/min. 
Renal cell carcinoma associated with sarcoidlike tissue reaction. A 60-year-old man was referred to our institution with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Because of several months' complaint of right flank pain and weight loss, the patient had consulted his local physician. After an extensive workup revealed only cholelithiasis, he underwent a cholecystectomy for presumed chronic cholecystitis. At the time of operation, biopsy of several liver nodules and peripancreatic nodes revealed noncaseating granulomas, consistent with sarcoidosis. On initial examination at our institution, the patient had microhematuria. A chest roentgenogram demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules, an abdominal computed tomographic scan showed an indeterminate left renal mass, and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal signals in the body of T-12. Open-lung biopsy showed an adenocarcinoma with clear cell features, likely of renal origin. The patient was diagnosed as having a metastatic renal carcinoma associated with a sarcoidlike tissue reaction. Although noncaseating granulomas have been reported in association with other malignant lesions, to our knowledge this is the first report of such an association with renal carcinoma. In addition, this case illustrates several points. First, sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder with protean extrapulmonary manifestations. In fact, all our patient's findings could have been attributed to sarcoidosis. Second, noncaseating granulomas occur with many types of processes, including infections, chemical exposures, and, as in this case, neoplasms. Thus, noncaseating granulomas are not pathognomonic for sarcoidosis. Third, sarcoidosis is a clinical diagnosis that cannot be based on histologic findings alone. 
Delayed reconstruction following Mohs' chemosurgery for skin cancers of the head and neck. The case records of 52 patients with 55 cutaneous neoplasms treated by Mohs' chemosurgery and subsequently reconstructed by plastic surgeons were reviewed to determine if delay between resection and reconstruction adversely affected the outcome of reconstruction. Reconstruction was performed from 5 to 61 days after Mohs' chemosurgery for 45 basal cell carcinomas and 10 other cutaneous neoplasms. There were no complications during the interval between resection and reconstruction. Following reconstruction, minor wound complications occurred in 6% of patients; there were no major complications. Microscopic examination of the re-excised wound revealed residual disease in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 0 of 10 other cutaneous malignancies. Both patients with residual basal cell carcinomas (i.e., false-negative margins after Mohs' surgery) had presented to the Mohs' surgeon with recurrent tumors. During a follow-up period of 3 months to 3 years after complete resection, recurrent tumor developed in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 3 of 8 cases of squamous cell carcinoma. Delayed reconstruction, usually 5 to 20 days after Mohs' chemosurgery, can be performed without significant morbidity. Re-excision of the Mohs' chemosurgical wound for pathologic examination can detect residual disease and may be especially indicated for large recurrent wounds. 
Rehabilitation of physically disabled dentists: a model for a vocationally specific rehabilitation program. A unique collaborative program whose goal is to facilitate the return of disabled dentists to active dental practice is described. This approach includes comprehensive interdisciplinary evaluation and remediation, and it has succeeded in revealing previously undiagnosed impairments which should be considered in the formulation of a rehabilitation plan. A case report illustrates the process. This program can serve as a model for similar programs addressing the needs of other disabled health care professionals. 
Regional chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases: a phase II evaluation of targeted hepatic arterial 5-fluorouracil for colorectal liver metastases. The results of systemic chemotherapy in patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer remain dismal. Regional chemotherapy has been advocated as a method of improving the delivery of cytotoxic drugs to tumour, while minimizing systemic toxicity. The use of vasoactive agents to redistribute arterial blood flow towards tumour, and of biodegradable microspheres to slow tumour blood flow, have also been suggested as methods of further improving tumour exposure to drug. We present 21 patients who received intrahepatic arterial chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases. Combined treatment (angiotensin II, albumin microspheres and 5-fluorouracil) was administered 4-6 weekly, and bolus 5-fluorouracil was given in the intervening weeks. Toxicity was minimal. Responses were seen in seven patients. Fewer than half of the deaths were from liver metastases; a quarter of the patients died from non-cancer-related causes. Survival was prolonged in the treated group compared with historical controls. These results suggest that this regimen has activity in patients with colorectal liver metastases. 
Preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of fibroepithelial polyp of the renal pelvis: a case report and review of the literature. Benign fibroepithelial polyps of the renal pelvis are rare, with only 9 cases described previously in the literature. We report an additional case and suggest how nephrectomy may be avoided. 
Molecular surgery of the basement membrane by the argon laser. Although the argon laser is used successfully to weld a number of different tissues, the underlying chemical and cellular mechanisms for this process are not precisely defined. Consequently, a biochemical model has been developed in vitro using the well-defined extracellular matrix from the murine Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) sarcoma. Control and experimental samples of EHS basement membranes were irradiated with a Trimedyne argon laser at 500-3,000 Joules/cm2 at 0 degrees C. The samples were diluted into cold phosphate-buffered saline and allowed to gel at 35 degrees C. The time course of the gelation reaction was followed in a spectrophotometer at 360 nm. Irradiation reduced the absorbance 7.5-15% compared to controls and was independent of the dilution over a 10-fold range. Gelation was also measured by determining the amount of protein by the Bradford assay that could be collected by centrifugation at 10,000g for 10 minutes. Argon-irradiated samples had 30-40% less protein in the precipitate than the controls. The addition of 5 mM beta-mercaptoethanol to the EHS extract blocked the effect of the laser on the gelation reaction. In addition, when gelation was carried out in the absence of calcium and magnesium, there were no differences between laser-treated samples and controls. The basement membrane proteins were separated by electrophoresis through polyacrylamide gels under denaturing plus reducing or denaturing and non-reducing conditions. No differences in the polypeptide composition were noted between irradiated and control samples using either Coomassie- or silver-staining techniques. 
Exposure histories in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia patients with a prior preleukemic condition. A subset of patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) have evidence of a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), low infiltrate leukemia, or other preleukemic condition that may be present for several months before onset of disease. The hypothesis that these conditions act as markers for environmentally induced cancer was examined in 270 ANLL patients, 46 with a preleukemic phase and 224 with an acute onset. Although the effects of previously identified risk factors (male sex, age older than 50 years, prior cytotoxic therapy) were demonstrated, no associations with common environmental conditions (cigarette smoking, alcohol use, occupations with exposure to chemicals or radiation) were present with the exception of hobbies involving potential chemical exposure, odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence intervals = 4.2 (1.4 to 12.3) and self-reported exposure to pesticides, OR = 10.2 (1.8 to 63.1). These may be chance associations although a previous case-control study of MDS reported similar findings. 
The impact of microinvasion on axillary node metastases and survival in patients with intraductal breast cancer. A rational approach to the local treatment of intraductal breast cancer continues to generate considerable debate. However, the finding of an invasive component in intraductal breast cancer is widely regarded as an appropriate indication for axillary node dissection as part of the local treatment and staging of this disease. Despite this view, the natural history of patients with intraductal breast cancer with foci of microinvasion is poorly defined. Between 1965 and 1988, 41 patients with this pathologic finding of intraductal carcinoma with foci of microinvasion were seen at the UCLA Medical Center. Twenty-three patients presented with mammographic abnormalities, while 17 patients presented with a palpable mass. One patient presented with Paget's disease of the nipple. Thirty-three patients underwent axillary node dissection as part of their local treatment. No lymph node metastases were identified. The median follow-up in 37 patients was 47 months. There have been no local recurrences and no deaths from recurrent breast cancer. Intraductal breast cancer associated with microinvasion appears to be an extremely favorable lesion with minimal risk of nodal metastases. 
The diagnosis and definition of hepatic malignancies by use of arterial enhanced computerized tomographic scanning. Axial computerized tomography is a useful tool in the evaluation of either primary or metastatic hepatic neoplasms. An adjunct to this technique is visceral arterial enhanced computerized tomography (AECT). To determine the effectiveness of this modality, bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography scans and AECT were compared and correlated to operative findings. Fifty-four consecutive patients were evaluated by AECT and bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography over a 30-month period (May 1986 to August 1989) for suspected primary or metastatic hepatic malignancies. Forty-four patients (81%) had hepatic lesions. Fifty-two percent (23 of 44 patients) of the metastatic tumors were from colonic or rectal primary lesions, and 20% were hepatocellular primary lesions. The remainder of the lesions were metastases from a variety of primary lesions. When studies were compared, 34% of the patients (15 of 44 patients) differed in either the location or total number of lesions noted. The lesions of three of the 15 patients (20%) were determined unresectable on the basis of AECT. Of the remaining patients, planned resections were revised in seven patients to either lesser or greater procedures. The number of lesions found at laparotomy equaled the number found by AECT in all but two cases. AECT caused no complications. AECT improved our ability to identify and localize primary and metastatic lesions of the liver. This technique offers the advantage of preoperative definition of the hepatic arterial and portal venous anatomy. 
Local reactions to radioiodine in the treatment of thyroid cancer. PURPOSE: To compare the rate of local complications resulting from radioiodine ablation of thyroid cancer in patients with a residual intact thyroid lobe to that in patients who had more extensive surgical treatment prior to radioiodine administration. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively studied 59 patients who had received 131I between 1979 and 1989. The patients were divided into two groups, depending on the extent of their previous surgical thyroid excision. Group 1 comprised 10 patients with a lobectomy or hemithyroidectomy before the ablative radioiodine dose, and Group 2 comprised 49 patients with more extensive thyroid excision (near-total or subtotal thyroidectomy) before the radioiodine treatment. RESULTS: Sixty percent of the 10 patients in Group 1 experienced some degree of neck pain or tenderness following radioiodine ablation of their residual thyroid. In one case, the local reaction was very severe and accompanied by the development of transient hyperthyroidism. There was only a 6% local complication rate in the patients who had undergone more extensive thyroid excision before ablative therapy (p less than 0.001), and none had a severe reaction. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with only unilateral surgical excision before radioiodine therapy have a higher rate of local complications than do patients treated with more extensive surgery prior to radioiodine ablation. If radioiodine is to be employed in such patients, they should be informed of this possible complication. Since evidence supports a dose effect in the pathogenesis of the complications, we recommend using a dose of less than 30 mCi for the initial ablation in these patients even though it may be necessary to repeat this dose to complete thyroid ablation. 
The child with recurrent solid tumor. A significant percentage of relapse occurs in children with solid tumors despite advances in treatment. This article discusses reasons for failure of primary therapy, evaluation of the relapsed patient, treatment of the relapsed patient, as well as questionable cancer therapies and therapy cessation. 
Literacy and laryngectomy: how should one treat head and neck cancer in patients who cannot read or write? The entire population of otolaryngologists and radiation oncologists (N = 192) in active practice in the state of North Carolina were surveyed to assess their level of awareness of illiteracy among adults in the United States and to determine whether these physicians consider illiteracy in the treatment decision process for patients with head and neck cancer. Excluding respondents who did not treat patients with head and neck cancer and physicians practicing outside of the state of North Carolina, the response rate was 115 of 182, or 63%. Only 26% of respondents were able to estimate correctly the prevalence of illiteracy in the US adult population. Forty-one percent of respondents, however, stated that they did consider their patient's ability to read and/or write before making treatment recommendations for head and neck cancer. This survey and accompanying literature review suggest that physicians perceive illiteracy as a problem that may have a significant impact on patients with head and neck cancer, but lack the data needed to enable them to quantify the effect of illiteracy on treatment outcome. The study reported is the first step in examining ways in which illiteracy might negatively affect patient outcomes. 
Skeletal manifestations of ectopic or inappropriate endocrine and metabolic syndromes. A variety of tumors and nontumorous lesions were used to illustrate some of the biologic, clinical, and pathologic aspects of inappropriate or ectopic endocrine and metabolic syndromes that have musculoskeletal repercussions. It is clear, both from the discussion and case material, that many mechanisms of ectopic endocrine syndromes have yet to be clarified. Elaborate techniques are available for hormonal estimations, but their routine use is prohibitively expensive and relatively unrewarding. Cells of a given lesion may be functionally heterogeneous or may fail to elaborate active products in substantial amounts. Different cells may produce similar peptides, while the same cells can produce more than one. Despite these difficulties, recognition of ectopic endocrine syndromes remains crucial to diagnosis and patient management, and thus corroboration or correlation must often rest on a cruder basis. In fact, the clinical significance of basic laboratory data, e.g., PTH elevation, may vary, as PTH may be immunoreactive but biologically inactive. As another example, hypercalcemia associated with myeloma may be variously related to coexistent hyperparathyroidism, renal disease, dehydration, or humoral osteolysis. Therefore, roentgenographic evidence of bone destruction or skeletal stigmata of hyperparathyroidism imbues laboratory data with greater significance. Paraneoplastic syndromes are of particular concern to the radiologist, as multiple systemic manifestations, occurring either synchronously or metachronously, may suggest the presence of an underlying or unifying lesion or even of a specific type of neoplasm. They may precede detection of neoplasms by months to years and can develop at any time during their course. Paraneoplastic syndromes may, furthermore, parallel the course of a lesion and be used as indicators of remission or recurrence. Conversely, those unassociated with overt symptoms possess endocrine markers that can reinforce sometimes silent skeletal stigmata. Familiarity with representative secretory products influencing the musculoskeletal system per se may often clarify seemingly innocuous and sometimes asymptomatic skeletal findings. Alert imagers may, therefore, detect, infer, or suspect particular syndromes when they present in a specific sequence or mosaic. Conversely, when apprised of their existence, imagers should know where their related effects may be sought or anticipated. Such relationships, sometimes serendipitously discovered, may be valuable assets in clinical diagnosis and patient management in both suspected and unsuspected cases. 
Recent life change and large bowel cancer. Data from the Melbourne Colorectal Cancer Study. In a large, population based, epidemiological study of colorectal cancer, The Melbourne Colorectal Cancer Study, several etiological factors were investigated. Persons' recent life changes, as well as the degree of upset they experienced as a result of these changes, were included. Interviews with 715 histologically confirmed new cases of colorectal cancer occurring over a 12-month period in Melbourne, Australia, and with 727 age and sex matched community controls were conducted. As one of the methods of assessing any effect of recall bias, 179 hospital controls were also investigated. Major illness or death of a family member, major family problems and major work problems were found to be significantly more common for cases over the 5 years preceding diagnosis compared to controls. Cases also reported being significantly more upset with their recent life changes than did controls. No significant differences in results were found between males and females, or between colon cancer and rectal cancer patients. Although the possibility of recall bias, was not completely controlled for in this study, it was probably not an important factor in explaining case-control differences. Recent life changes, and their perceptions, may have significance in the development of large bowel cancer. 
Immunohistochemical differentiation of basal cell epithelioma from cutaneous appendages using monoclonal anti-glycoprotein antibody TNKH1. Its application in Mohs' micrographic surgery. TNKH1, which was primarily developed to detect differentiated melanocytic tumor cells, was found to recognize basal keratinocytes of hair follicle and some basal keratinocytes of human epidermis. Thus, TNKH1 decorated the basal cells of following structures: epidermis (39 of 54, only part of each specimen [OPES]), upper hair follicle (one of 24, OPES), lower hair follicle (21 of 21, very high rate of each specimen [VHES]), sebaceous duct (14 of 15, VHES), sebaceous gland (ten of 14, germinative cells near duct), eccrine duct (three of 19, OPES). Epithelial tumors, considered to be derived from or differentiating toward hair follicle such as trichilemmoma (one of one, VHES) and basal cell epithelioma (BCE) (32 of 32, VHES) were labeled not only in the peripheral cells but in their entirety. On the other hand, epidermal tumors, such as seborrheic keratosis (ten of 11, OPES), actinic keratosis (two of three, OPES), and squamous cell carcinoma (one of two, OPES), showed an irregular peripheral basal cell staining as in normal epidermis. The apocrine sweat apparatus and eccrine secretory portion were negative. Eccrine ductal tumors such as syringoma (two tested), eccrine acrospiroma (one), and eccrine carcinoma (two) were TNKH1 negative. Taking advantage of this total labeling of BCE versus peripheral labeling of the hair follicle, the authors could distinguish BCE tissue from other structures clearly. Among confusing structures the upper hair follicle and the eccrine duct were excluded easily because of their negative staining with TNKH1. The lower hair follicle was TNKH1 positive but only in the outer basal layer, whereas the BCE was TNKH1 positive in its entire basaloid cells. The result indicated that TNKH1 will be a useful antibody in Mohs' micrographic surgery. 
The role of attitudes, beliefs, and personal characteristics of Italian physicians in the surgical treatment of early breast cancer. The influence of Italian physicians' attitudes, beliefs, and personal characteristics on medical decision making is examined in the case of surgical treatment of early breast cancer. Responses to a mail survey of 657 physicians from different specialties were analyzed comparing doctors recommending a radical procedure (9%) to those preferring a conservative procedure for younger patients only (25%), and those considering conservative surgery the treatment of choice regardless of patients' age (66%). The findings suggest that the likelihood of physicians' preferring a conservative procedure is influenced by their specialty and the extent to which they feel that a patient should have a role in the treatment decision more than by differences in the beliefs of treatment outcomes. Only preferences of the small group indicating radical surgery as the sole admissible treatment can be accounted for by ignorance or distrust of results of recent trials. These findings suggest that other than scientific factors guide many doctors in their decision making; they may help to explain why the diffusion of research results into clinical practice is often disappointingly slow. 
Portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter. Curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion, especially into the portal vein. We developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein. Pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer, with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein. Use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein, and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease. 
Potent selective inhibition of 7-O-methyl UCN-01 against protein kinase C. UCN-01 is a staurosporine-related compound that was isolated from the culture broth of Streptomyces sp. and shows potent and selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase C. Cellular inhibitory activity of UCN-01 against protein kinase C and cytotoxicity of UCN-01 were compared with those of staurosporine. When the mechanism of inhibitory activity was investigated in vitro, UCN-01 as well as staurosporine inhibited the activity of the catalytic domain of protein kinase C. In spite of direct inhibition against the catalytic domain of protein kinase C, cytotoxicity of UCN-01 was much lower than that of staurosporine. In addition, UCN-01 showed more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase C than did staurosporine because of the sole structural difference at C-7. Therefore, a series of 7-O-alkyl derivatives of UCN-01 was synthesized and investigated. Interestingly, one of the compounds, the beta-methoxy derivative, showed 3-fold greater potency and 17-fold more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase C than did UCN-01. 
DNA aneuploidy in follicular thyroid neoplasia. The potential value of DNA aneuploidy, in distinguishing benign from malignant follicular thyroid neoplasms, was studied. The nuclear DNA content of 65 follicular thyroid neoplasms (52 adenomas and 13 carcinomas) was determined by flow cytometric analysis of paraffin embedded material; in 58 cases preparations were technically satisfactory. In 22 follicular neoplasms DNA analysis was also performed on fresh material obtained by fine needle aspiration of surgical specimens. Cell cycle analysis was performed on both fresh and fixed specimens. An aneuploid DNA profile was found on analysis of fixed tissue in eight of 45 (18 per cent) follicular adenomas and four of 13 (31 per cent) follicular carcinomas. DNA aneuploidy was also found in six of the 22 (27 per cent) fresh preparations from follicular adenomas. The frequency of DNA aneuploidy in apparently benign and malignant follicular neoplasms was similar. Follicular thyroid neoplasia are best regarded as a single entity with a low incidence of local and distant spread. All follicular neoplasia are therefore best excised. 
Post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer. Is it necessary to resect all residual masses? A total of 15 patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer underwent 2 sequential operations (4 in 1 patient) to remove residual masses after cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy. All patients had normal human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein levels but persistent radiographic masses after chemotherapy. The operations included retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in 13 patients, thoracotomy in 15, hepatic resection in 3 and craniotomy in 1. Histological comparison of the specimens resected during post-chemotherapy operations 1 and 2 demonstrated different patterns in 7 of 15 patients. Of these 7 patients 4 had less favorable pathological features in the specimen removed during the second procedure. Residual malignant tumor or mature teratoma was found in at least 1 site in 12 of the 15 patients and only 3 had complete necrosis or fibrosis in both specimens examined. These data indicate the favorable impact of excising all post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer. However, in patients with no teratomatous elements in the testicular tumor and complete necrosis or fibrosis in the initial post-chemotherapy operation specimen the probability of complete necrosis or fibrosis in remaining tumors appears to be high. 
Activation of erythropoietin receptors by Friend viral gp55 and by erythropoietin and down-modulation by the murine Fv-2r resistance gene. The leukemogenic membrane glycoprotein (gp55) encoded by Friend spleen focus-forming virus appears to bind to erythropoietin receptors (EpoR) sto stimulate erythroblastosis [Li, J.-P., D'Andrea, A.D., Lodish, H.F. & Baltimore, D. (1990) Nature (London) 343, 762-764]. To directly compare the effects of gp55 with erythropoietin (Epo), we produced retrovirions that encode either gp55, Epo, or EpoR. After infection with EpoR virus, interleukin 3-dependent DA-3 cells bound 125I-labeled Epo and grew without interleukin 3 in the presence of Epo. These latter cells, but not parental DA-3 cells, became factor-independent after superinfection either with Epo virus or with Friend spleen focus-forming virus. In addition, Epo virus caused a disease in mice that mimicked Friend erythroleukemia. Although Fv-2r homozygotes are susceptible to all other retroviral diseases, they are resistant to both Epo viral and Friend viral erythroleukemias. These results indicate that both gp55 and Epo stimulate EpoR and that the Fv-2 gene encodes a protein that controls response to these ligands. However, the Fv-2 protein is not EpoR because the corresponding genes map to opposite ends of mouse chromosome 9. These results have important implications for understanding signal transduction by EpoR and the role of host genetic variation in controlling susceptibility to an oncogenic protein. 
Recreational sun exposure in Puerto Rico: trends and cancer risk awareness. Persons who sunbathe or engage in other activities at the beach are exposed to large amounts of UV radiation. Four hundred seven adults who visited the beaches of Puerto Rico were surveyed to determine their knowledge about the risks of sun exposure and to evaluate sunscreen use. The group consisted of 195 year-round Puerto Rican residents and 212 tourists. Ninety-five percent believed that the sun can cause skin cancer, although only half of the subset who lived all year in Puerto Rico believed that they personally received enough exposure to be at risk. The majority of the group (83%) understood the meaning of the sun protection factor numbers, although 35% used either nothing or a nonscreening oil. Half of Puerto Rican residents rarely or never used sunscreen protection while sunbathing. When sunscreen was used, the most important factor sought was given as sun protection factor (64%), followed by a perceived ability to aid in tanning (26%). 
An analysis of the results of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast. Three hundred and fifty-three women underwent 358 biopsies of the breast for nonpalpable mammographic lesions during a five year period. Cancer was identified in 95 (27 per cent). Mammographic findings in the patients with cancer were calcifications only (54 per cent), a mass (27 per cent), a mass with calcifications (15 per cent), an asymmetric distortion (1 per cent) and an asymmetric distortion with calcifications (3 per cent). Cancer was identified in 29 per cent of the biopsies done for calcifications, 20 per cent of those done for a mass with calcifications, 6 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion and 38 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion with calcifications. Forty-nine per cent of the mammographically suspicious calcifications were cancer, while 100 per cent of the indeterminate calcifications were benign. Forty-five per cent of the spiculated masses were cancerous, while only 3 per cent of the circumscribed masses were malignant. For those patients with carcinoma undergoing axillary lymph node dissection, 13 per cent had one or more positive nodes. A strategy for increasing the effectiveness of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast is presented. 
Rhabdomyosarcomas in the head and neck: MR imaging evaluation. To determine the typical magnetic resonance (MR) signal intensity characteristics of rhabdomyosarcomas, short repetition time (TR)/short echo time (TE) (T1-weighted) and long TR (proton density and T2-weighted) images of 13 patients with rhabdomyosarcomas of the head and neck were retrospectively reviewed. Seven patients received gadopentetate dimeglumine injections. The most common MR appearance was that of a homogeneous mass, hyperintense to both muscle and fat on long TR/long TE images and isointense or minimally hyperintense to muscle on short TR/short TE images. All lesions of the patients who received gadopentetate dimeglumine enhanced markedly. Two lesions had intratumoral hemorrhage, and six were markedly heterogeneous in signal intensity. Similar MR signal intensity patterns have been described for lymphomas and nasopharyngeal carcinomas. The forte of MR imaging lies in its ability to delineate precisely the extent of the rhabdomyosarcoma. 
Tyrosine-rich crystalloids in a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma. A polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma with tyrosine-rich crystalloid deposits is reported. The literature is reviewed, and diagnostic and histogenetic implications of this finding are discussed. 
Third ventricle cavernous angioma: report of two cases. Cavernous angioma arising in the third ventricle is an extremely rare disease. We have reviewed five cases previously reported, as well as our own two cases, and discuss the clinical characteristics of and surgical approach to cavernous angioma at this site. The bifrontal craniotomy and interhemispheric translamina terminalis approach minimize the damage to the brain and allow for an approach to the third ventricle in a wide operative field with minimal compression of the brain itself. We have found this approach to be suitable for surgery on angiomas of the anterior half of the third ventricle. 
The cancer experience in the Framingham Heart Study cohort. The almost 40-year records of The Framingham Heart Study (FHS) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects. Diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes. Age-specific incidence rates were compared with Connecticut Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data. Among the 5209 subjects, 1201 malignancies were confirmed. Median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women. Lung, prostate, skin, and colon accounted for more than half of men's cancers; breast, colon, and skin made up half of the women's. FHS and Connecticut SEER rates matched closely, with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups. Thus, the FHS cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence, as it has done in cardiovascular diseases. 
Giant benign mesenchymoma of the breast. The term mesenchymoma refers to a group of mixed tumors that are composed of two or more mesenchymal elements, excluding fibrous tissue, not ordinarily found together within the same tumor. Mesenchymomas occur most commonly in the renal and perirenal regions with rare occurrence in the breast. We describe what to our knowledge is the first report of a giant benign mesenchymoma of the breast. The clinical presentation, course, and treatment of a patient with this condition is discussed. Clinicians should be aware that benign mesenchymomas may involve the breast and simulate a malignant breast neoplasm. 
Technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (MDP) uptake in a sympathetic effusion: an index of malignancy and a review of the literature. We report a patient with a sympathetic pleural effusion secondary to T-cell lymphoma that accumulated the bone imaging agent, Technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (99mTc-MDP). This case is significant in that malignant cells were not present on three cytologic examinations of the pleural fluid or multiple pleural biopsies. We also present a review of the published literature on pleural effusions that accumulate bone tracers. We conclude that pleural effusions that accumulate 99mTc-MDP should be considered malignant or secondary to a malignancy and further work-up is essential even if the cytologic exam of the pleural fluid is unremarkable. 
Systemic therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer. Fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regimens have been utilized in metastatic colorectal cancer for more than 30 years. Early attempts at defining an optimal treatment schedule and use in combination with other drugs failed to significantly improve results. In contrast, the clinical effectiveness of fluorouracil has been improved by continuous infusion administration and modulation with folinic acid. Both approaches have increased the response rate compared with results achieved with traditional bolus schedules; the effect on survival has been less significant. Unfortunately, expense and, in some instances, toxicity have also been increased, which detracts from their overall usefulness. Clinical studies that evaluate fluorouracil chemotherapy in combination with biological-response modifiers are ongoing and will be areas of intense research during the next few years. 
Popliteal artery occlusion caused by cystic adventitial disease: successful treatment by urokinase followed by nonresectional cystotomy. Preoperative diagnosis of an occluded popliteal artery caused by cystic adventitial disease allowed use of urokinase to successfully dissolve secondary thrombosis. Subsequent non-resectional adventitial cystotomy and evacuation of cyst contents allowed lasting restoration of a patent arterial lumen and return of normal distal pulses. This nongrafting technique may serve as a model for future patients with occluded arteries caused by this condition. 
Usefulness of epidurally evoked cortical potential monitoring during cervicomedullary glioma surgery. This report describes a patient with an intramedullary ependymoma at the region of the cervicomedullary junction in whom there was an abolition of somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation. During intraoperative monitoring of cortical potentials elicited by epidural cervical cord stimulation, the tumor was removed. Posterior epidural stimulation appeared to depolarize more ascending fibers than did stimulation of a single peripheral nerve. We recommend that, in cases of operations in this vital area, epidurally evoked cortical potentials be monitored intraoperatively. 
Murine erythroleukemia cell line GM979 contains factors that can activate silent chromosomal human gamma-globin genes. We introduced a normal chromosome 11 into GM979 murine erythroleukemia cells by fusing them with Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphocytes from a normal individual. In contrast to previous data obtained with other murine erythroleukemia cells, we detected activation of human chromosomal gamma-globin genes in GM979 cells. GM979, unlike previously used murine erythroleukemia cell lines, expresses murine embryonic globin in addition to adult globin. While all the hybrids expressed gamma- and beta-globin, they displayed a wide range of gamma-globin expression in relation to that of beta-globin. No correlation, however, was found in quantitative expression between murine embryonic globin and human gamma-globin in these hybrids, suggesting that the two globins are regulated independently, at least in this cell line. These data indicate that gamma-globin genes from normal, nonerythroid chromosomes are not irreversibly silenced, and they can be activated by a positive trans factor(s) present in GM979 cells. 
Expectant management of localized prostatic cancer. Seventy-five patients with clinical Stage B histologically proven prostatic cancer accumulated over a 40-year period and receiving no therapy for at least 1 year after histologic diagnosis were retrospectively reviewed. Twenty-nine patients had Stage B1 lesions, 37 had B2, and nine had B3 lesions; median follow-up for these patients was 124, 120, and 96 months, respectively. Five ultimately received pelvic lymph node dissection with iodine-125 implantation, 23 had transurethral resection of the prostate, and 18 had endocrine therapy. Of those tumors which progressed, 18 of 19 (95%) B1, 26 of 29 (90%) B2, and four of four (100%) B3 lesions demonstrated local progression first. Six of 29 (21%) B1, 17 of 37 (46%) B2, and two of nine (22%) B3 tumors developed recognized distant metastasis. Actuarial survival at 15 years was 67%, 39%, and 63% for patients with B1, B2, and B3 lesions, respectively. These data indicate the varied and potentially protracted course of patients with clinical Stage B prostatic cancer. 
Hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function. Hepatic malignancies often infiltrate to the major hepatic vein. Recently, we performed hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function in three such patients. One patient had a saphenous vein graft. Postoperative liver function of the patients who underwent hepatic vein reconstruction was compared with those of eight patients who underwent hepatic resection of segments VII and VIII. The right hepatic vein in four of them was resected and in the remaining four was preserved by skeletalization using an ultrasonic aspirator. Although four patients with right hepatic vein resection showed severe lowering of liver function after surgery, the postoperative course of patients with preservation or reconstruction of the right hepatic vein maintained good liver function. Liver regeneration of three patients with hepatic vein reconstruction was good on computed tomography. Besides this report, to our knowledge, there is no other report of hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving the remnant liver function. Problems with hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction are discussed. We conclude that hepatic vein reconstruction is one of the means for extending indication of the malignant tumor resection of the liver. 
Maffucci's syndrome with bilateral cartilaginous tumors of the cerebellopontine angle. Maffucci's syndrome is characterized by the combination of multiple enchondromas (Ollier's disease) and hemangiomatosis. These hemangiomas develop in the subcutaneous tissue and form red-blue tumors dispersed over the whole body. Intracranial involvement is rare, making a preoperative radiological diagnosis and differentiation from other tumors rather difficult. The radiological characteristics and successful removal of the intracranial part of a chondrosarcoma of the cerebellopontine angle in a case of Maffucci's syndrome are reported in this paper. 
Inhibition by 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 of chemically induced erythroid differentiation of K562 leukemia cells. The physiologically active form of vitamin D, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3], was found to inhibit erythroid differentiation of human leukemic K562 cells. Differentiation was induced by 1 mumol/L arabinocytosine (Ara-C), 40 mumol/L tiazofurin, 1 mumol/L aphidicolin, or 1 mumol/L hydroxyurea, and was monitored daily by the appearance of hemoglobin in an increasing proportion of cells. Pretreatment for 48 hours with 2.4 x 10(-8) mol/L 1,25(OH)2D3, a concentration that is also optimal for induction of monocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells, reproducibly inhibited subsequent induction of erythroid differentiation by all of the above inducers, and modified the morphologic changes that Ara-C produced in these cells. The inhibition of hemoglobinization was approximately 50% irrespective of the degree of differentiation produced by the various inducers, but growth inhibition associated with exposure to the inducers was not affected by 1,25(OH)2D3. Similar inhibition of differentiation by 1,25(OH)2D3 was observed in mouse erythroleukemia cells MEL-D1B treated with 5 mmol/L hexamethylenebisacetamide. The inhibitory effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 on erythroid differentiation of K562 cells was abrogated by cyclohexamide (20 micrograms/mL), an inhibitor of protein synthesis. The mRNA for 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor (VDR) was detected in K562 cells, and was downregulated by a 96-hour exposure to 1,25(OH)2D3 or a 48-hour exposure to Ara-C. The presence of VDR mRNA suggests a physiologic role for 1,25(OH)2D3 in K562 cells that are precursors of erythroid cells. This role is perhaps to shift the pathways of differentiation from the erythroid to the monocytic lineage. 
Treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and leucovorin. Based on in vitro studies that have demonstrated synergy between 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV), and cisplatin (CDDP) against human colon cancer cell lines, a clinical trial was initiated to determine the effects of this combination in patients with advanced unresectable colorectal carcinoma. Fifty-nine patients were enrolled in the study and 12 of them had received prior conventional 5-FU chemotherapy. Treatment consisted of 4 weekly courses of high-dose LV (200 mg/m2) administered by intravenous (IV) bolus, followed by 5-FU (550 mg/m2) and CDDP (20 mg/m2) each administered as a 2-hour infusion on 4 consecutive days. After a median of 5.5 treatment cycles, objective tumor response was seen in 20 of 59 patients (34%) (this included 3 complete remissions). The response rate in the 47 previously untreated patients was 38% (95% confidence limits, 26% to 53%). Stable disease occurred in 16 (27%) patients, whereas the tumor progressed in 23 (39%) patients. The median survival time was 11.5 months, with 15% of the patients alive at 2 years. The regimen was well tolerated and the primary side effects were mild and reversible gastrointestinal symptoms and myelosuppression. There was no episode of life-threatening toxicity. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Grade III adverse reactions that required 25% dose reductions occurred in only 14% of the patients. The results of this trial suggest that 5-FU, LV, and CDDP is an active, safe, and well-tolerated combination regimen in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. 
Selection of therapy for stage III breast cancer. Locally advanced breast cancer is a heterogenous group including both operable and inoperable lesions. Local surgery or radiation alone produces poor survival rates, indicating micrometastases at diagnosis. Systemic chemotherapy as part of multimodality regimens has increased the length and rate of disease-free survival. 
Fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin. We describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunotherapy. We summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality, discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred, and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus Calmette-Guerin infection. Finally, we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin. 
The effects of sucralfate suspension and diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin on radiotherapy-induced mucositis. A prospective, double-blind study compared the effectiveness of sucralfate suspension with diphenhydramine syrup plus kaolin-pectin in reducing severity and pain of radiation-induced oropharyngeal mucositis. Fourteen patients who received at least 4600 cGy to the oral cavity used one of the mouth rinses four times a day, beginning at 1600 cGy. Data were collected on daily perceived pain and helpfulness of mouth rinse, weekly mucositis grade, weight change, and interruption of therapy. Analysis of data revealed no statistically significant differences between the two groups in any parameter. A retrospective review of 15 patients who had received at least 4600 cGy radiation to the oropharynx but had not used a daily mouth-coating rinse, was compared with the study group. Comparison of the two groups suggested that consistent daily oral hygiene and use of a mouth-coating agent will result in less pain and may reduce weight loss and interruption of radiation because of severe mucositis. 
Genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas. I. Cytogenetic analysis and mechanism of origin. One hundred and two benign, mature ovarian teratomas and two immature, malignant teratomas were karyotyped and scored for centromeric heteromorphisms as part of an ongoing project to determine the chromosomal karyotype and the genetic origin of ovarian teratomas and to assess their utility for gene-centromere mapping. Karyotypic analysis of the benign cases revealed 95 46,XX teratomas and 7 chromosomally abnormal teratomas (47,XXX, 47,XX,+8 [two cases], 47,XX,+15, 48,XX,+7,+12 91,XXXX,-13 [mosaic], 47,XX,-15,+21,+mar). Our study reports on the first cases of tetraploidy and structural rearrangement in benign ovarian teratomas. The two immature cases had modal chromosome numbers of 78 and 49. Centromeric heteromorphisms that were heterozygous in the host were homozygous in 65.2% (n = 58) of the benign teratomas and heterozygous in the remaining 34.8% (n = 31). Chromosome 13 heteromorphisms were the most informative, with 72.7% heterozygosity in hosts. The cytogenetic data indicate that 65% of teratomas are derived from a single germ cell after meiosis I and failure of meiosis II (type II) or endoreduplication of a mature ovum (type III); 35% arise by failure of meiosis I (type I) or mitotic division of premeiotic germ cells (type IV). 
Interferon alpha and etretinate combination treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Eleven patients suffering from cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides) were treated with recombinant interferon alpha-2A in combination (seven patients) or alone. Two patients, one in combined treatment, went into clinical complete remission, and five experienced partial remission. Two patients progressed during therapy, and two were nonevaluable because they stopped treatment early due to side effects. Dosages of interferon were from 3 to 36 million units daily for 3 months, and thereafter 3 times weekly. Etretinate (0.7 mg/kg) was given orally. The study showed that recombinant interferon alpha-2A in combination with etretinate or alone can induce remission of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. 
Combination therapy for anaplastic giant cell thyroid carcinoma. Since 1981, 20 patients with anaplastic giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid have been prospectively treated according to a combination regimen of chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy. Two types of chemotherapy were used every 4 weeks, depending on the patient's age. For those younger than 65 years, a combination of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and cisplatin (90 mg/m2) was given, and for older patients mitoxantrone (14 mg/m2) was used. Radiotherapy was carried out between Day 10 and Day 20 of the first four cycles of chemotherapy. It delivered 17.5 Gy in 7 fractions to the neck and the superior mediastinum. Survival exceeding 20 months was observed in three patients. Complete neck tumor response was observed in five patients, among whom four had undergone previous operations. No response was seen in distant metastases, which were the cause of death in 14 patients. These treatment modalities are effective in some patients, both in terms of survival and of local control, avoiding death from local invasion. Gross tumor resection should be performed whenever possible but should not delay the commencement of this protocol. Toxicity was high and remains the main limiting factor. 
Segregation analysis of breast cancer from the cancer and steroid hormone study: histologic subtypes The segregation pattern of breast cancer in white families from the Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study was investigated. Families were categorized into four groups based on the histologic type of breast cancer in the probands:ductal cancer, lobular cancer, adenocarcinoma, and medullary cancer. The ductal cancer sample was further split into a premenopausal-proband and a postmenopausal-proband subset. Results for six complex segregation analyses are presented; the findings suggest heterogeneity in the transmission of breast cancer. For all analyses, there was no evidence for a multifactorial component in the mixed model, ie, a major locus plus other transmission, genetic and/or cultural. Interpretation of the medullary cancer, adenocarcinoma, and lobular cancer analyses does not permit discrimination among the major locus models. Segregation of breast cancer in the entire ductal sample was consistent with autosomal recessive transmission. In the ductal subanalyses, a recessive gene was sufficient to explain the breast cancer distribution when the proband had postmenopausal breast cancer. In contrast, when the proband had premenopausal breast cancer, the transmission model was consistent with a dominant major gene, with sporadic cases of disease. 
New type of Bcr/Abl junction in Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia. A new and rare type of Bcr/Abl junction between exon C3 of the 3' portion of the Bcr gene and Abl exon 2 has been identified in the leukemic cells of two Ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia patients in chronic phase. This is the fourth type of Bcr/Abl junction so far identified in Ph1-positive hematologic malignancies and is a consequence of an unusual breakpoint position on chromosome 22 that falls approximately 20 kb downstream of the major breakpoint cluster region (bcr) of the Bcr gene. The new hybrid mRNA is 540 base pairs (bp) longer than that expressed by the K562 cell line and could codify for a Bcr/Abl protein carrying 180 additional aminoacids with respect to the larger P210 protein so far identified. The hematologic phenotype expressed by the two patients carrying this unusual type of Bcr/Abl rearrangement does not significantly differ from that commonly seen in chronic myelogenous leukemia. 
A randomized control trial of two cervical spatulas The sampling efficacy of the Ayre and Rocket cervical spatulas was compared in a randomized controlled trial involving 533 women who were attending a colposcopy clinic either for investigation of cytological abnormality or for review after treatment of CIN. Smears were compared with respect to the presence of cytological abnormality and two types of normal cervical epithelial cells (endocervical and immature metaplastic cells) which are considered indicators of adequate cytological sampling. Smears taken with the Rocket spatula were significantly less likely to contain immature metaplastic cells (95% CI on difference in proportion; 5-30%), but more likely to contain endocervical cells (95% CI 16-36%). No significant difference was found in the proportion of smears containing one or other type of indicator cell or in the yield of abnormal smears. It is concluded that the Rocket spatula offered no advantage when used in these circumstances. This study illustrates how spurious conclusions of sampling efficacy can be drawn if only one type of indicator cell is used as an endpoint. 
Wound healing complications in soft tissue sarcoma management: comparison of three treatment protocols. A prospective, nonrandomized comparison of three treatment protocols was undertaken in 45 patients with soft tissue sarcoma designated preoperatively as being at high risk of wound healing complications. All patients underwent complete resection of the gross tumour mass (5 with positive and 40 with negative microscopic margins). Fourteen patients received postoperative adjuvant irradiation (group I), 16 preoperative irradiation (group II), and 15 preoperative irradiation and vascularized tissue transfer to the surgical bed after resection (group III). Major wound healing complications (defined as complications requiring at least 1 further surgical procedure) were lower in group III patients (chi-square = 5.57, P less than 0.03), as was the mean postoperative hospital stay (P less than 0.02, analysis of variance), and the mean number of secondary surgical procedures. Multivariate analysis showed that the only variable influencing length of stay was the use of tissue transfer. Careful intraoperative assessment of the adequacy of resection is essential prior to performing vascularized tissue transfer to ensure that tumour contamination of the donor site is avoided. Since this study is a nonrandomized clinical trial using sequential distribution of patients to the treatment groups, the data should be considered as preliminary, rather than definitive, evidence of the efficacy of vascularized tissue transfer. 
Consistent involvement of the bcr gene by 9;22 breakpoints in pediatric acute leukemias. To investigate the relationship of bcr-abl fusion mRNAs with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL), we examined 27 pediatric Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-positive acute leukemias using a reverse polymerase chain reaction (PCR) procedure. In cells from 24 leukemias, single bcr-abl PCR products were detected that corresponded to breakpoints in the minor breakpoint cluster region (mbcr in intron 1 of the bcr gene) associated with production of the P190 fusion protein. Cells from the three remaining leukemias contained breakpoints in the major breakpoint cluster region (Mbcr) as shown by PCR and Southern blot analyses. These three leukemias also contained low levels of the mbcr PCR product that may have resulted from alternative splicing of the bcr-abl precursor RNA. A screen of 35 additional leukemias from patients who failed therapy before day 180 (induction failures or early relapses) found one case with unsuccessful cytogenetics to express Mbcr-abl RNA. All four children with Mbcr breakpoints had white blood cell levels in excess of 250,000 at presentation (compared with 2 of 24 with mbcr breakpoints) and two had hematologic and clinical features suggestive of chronic myelogenous leukemias (CML) in lymphoid blast crisis. Our results indicate that in Ph1-positive pediatric leukemias, all 9;22 breakpoints occur in one of the two known breakpoint cluster regions in the bcr gene on chromosome 22. The reverse PCR reliably detected all patients with cytogenetic t(9;22) and is capable of detecting additional Ph1-positive leukemias that are missed by standard cytogenetics. Furthermore, the Mbcr-type breakpoint, associated with production of p210, can be seen in childhood leukemias presenting either as clinical ALL or as apparent lymphoid blast crisis of CML, suggesting that t(9;22) breakpoint locations do not exclusively determine the biologic and clinical features of pediatric Ph1-positive ALL. 
Topographic classification, clinical characteristics, and diagnostic delay of cancer of the larynx/hypopharynx in Torino, Italy. The case series of a population-based case-control study of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancers in Torino, Italy, included 281 men with clinical and anamnestic data. Two hundred fifteen, 28, and 38 cancers originated from the endolarynx, epilarynx, and hypopharynx, respectively. Regions invaded by the tumor were divided into 26 subsites. A classification based on the number of invaded subsites was proposed, which agreed well with the T classification of the TNM system. Cancers originating from the hypopharynx invaded more subsites than cancers from the endolarynx, and among the latter, supraglottic were more invasive than glottic lesions. The number of invaded subsites was strongly associated with nodal involvement. Among symptoms at onset of disease and at diagnosis, patients with endolaryngeal lesions reported dysphonia and dyspnea more frequently, and patients with lesions from other regions had a higher prevalence of dysphagia, odynophagia, otalgia, and adenopathia. Clinical and epidemiologic results of this study suggest considering the endolarynx, epilarynx, and hypopharynx as separate anatomic entities. Diagnostic delay was not associated with tumor size and showed a negative trend with involvement of cervical lymph nodes, suggesting that stage at diagnosis is due to intrinsic differences in tumor aggressiveness. 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Relation to Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion. Since Helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer, infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease. We postulated that if H. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer, it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another, specific etiology, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis. All subjects, who were matched for age and sex, had undergone elective gastric resections. Gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and Giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis. The frequency of H. pylori in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (8/18) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer (16/18; P less than 0.02). Moreover, chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer (P less than 0.01). In Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, peak acid output was lower in patients positive (median 22 meq/30 min) compared to those negative for H. pylori (median 32 meq/30 min; P less than 0.02) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for H. pylori (P less than 0.05). H. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology, such as acid hypersecretion in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. H. pylori infection in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion. 
Imaging of adult central nervous system primary malignant gliomas. Staging and follow-up. A classification and staging system for primary adult gliomas was proposed. This system uses the high signal intensity found on proton density or T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) scans at the site of the tumor and surrounding edema (including infiltrating tumor). 
An early phase II study of CPT-11: a new derivative of camptothecin, for the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma. An early phase II study of a new camptothecin analog and an inhibitor of topoisomerase I, CPT-11, was conducted in 62 patients with refractory leukemia and lymphoma by four different treatment schedules in a multiinstitutional cooperative study. CPT-11 therapy resulted in four complete remissions (CRs) and three partial remissions (PRs) in 29 assessable non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients, one PR in three Hodgkin's disease (HD), one CR and one PR in 11 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and one PR in 15 acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients. Single infusion of 200 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks produced no response in both leukemia and lymphoma patients. Sixty-minute infusions of 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days every 3 to 4 weeks or for 3 days weekly produced four CRs (17%) and four PRs (17%) in 24 patients with malignant lymphoma. Sixty-minute infusions of 20 mg/m2 twice a day for 7 days every 3 to 4 weeks resulted in one CR and two PRs in 12 patients with acute leukemia. No response was seen in an acute leukemia patient by another treatment schedule. CPT-11 was effective in two (15%) of 13 primarily refractory leukemia and lymphoma cases, in two of four relapsed cases, and in seven (17%) of 41 relapsed and refractory cases. Major side effects were leukopenia (91%) and gastrointestinal (GI) (76%). CPT-11 was shown to be effective against refractory leukemia and lymphoma, and thus deserves further clinical study; the novel antitumor activity mode of this drug predicts no cross-resistance to presently available antitumor drugs. 
Pathologic features of sharp curettings in complete hydatidiform mole. Predictors of persistent gestational trophoblastic disease. The medical records and pathologic specimens were reviewed from 33 patients with complete molar pregnancy at Brigham and Women's Hospital between 1980 and 1989. Two pathologists (D.R.G. and R.W.R.) reviewed all slides from the original sharp curettage to identify pathologic features that may be associated with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor (GTT). The pathologic features evaluated were implantation site, presence of myometrium, presence of villi, presence and degree of atypia in cytotrophoblast, syncytiotrophoblast and intermediate trophoblast, presence of fibrinoid, presence of implantation site inflammatory cells, volume of tissue and area of trophoblastic tissue. Only one pathologic feature, fibrinoid deposits, identified in sharp curettings was associated with the development of persistent GTT. While 12 (48%) of 25 patients who attained remission without chemotherapy had fibrinoid deposits, only 1 (12.5%) of 8 patients who developed persistent GTT had them (P less than .10). 
Human catechol-O-methyltransferase: cloning and expression of the membrane-associated form. A cDNA clone for human catechol-O-methyltransferase (hCOMT; S-adenosyl-L-methionine:catechol O-methyltransferase; EC 2.1.1.6) was isolated from a human hepatoma cell line (Hep G2) cDNA library by hybridization screening with a porcine cDNA probe. The cDNA clone was sequenced and found to have an insert of 1226 nucleotides. The deduced primary structure of hCOMT is composed of 271 amino acid residues with the predicted molecular mass of 30 kDa. At its N terminus it has a hydrophobic segment of 21 amino acid residues that may be responsible for insertion of hCOMT into the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. The primary structure of hCOMT exhibits high homology to the porcine partial cDNA sequence (93%). The deduced amino acid sequence contains two tryptic peptide sequences (T-22, T-33) found in porcine liver catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). The coding region of hCOMT cDNA was placed under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter to transfect human kidney 293 cells. The endogenous COMT activity, which was approximately 9.98 units per mg of protein in the untransfected cells, increased to 206 units per mg of protein upon transfection with a plasmid containing the COMT cDNA. The COMT activity of recombinant protein was inhibited competitively (IC50 = 700 nM) by the selective COMT inhibitor Ro 40-7592. An anti-COMT monoclonal antibody recognized, on immunoblots, a major polypeptide with apparent molecular mass of 29 kDa, in reasonable agreement with the predicted molecular mass. The recombinant hCOMT was shown by immunoblot analysis to be mainly associated with the membrane fraction. RNA blot analysis revealed one COMT mRNA transcript of 1.4 kilobases in Hep G2 poly(A)+ RNA. 
A randomized study of methanol-extraction residue of bacille Calmette-Guerin as postsurgical adjuvant therapy of uveal melanoma. A randomized controlled clinical trial of methanol-extracted residue of bacille Calmette-Guerin adjuvant treatment of posterior uveal melanoma was undertaken. Of 113 patients, 34 patients received adjuvant immunotherapy and 79 patients received no treatment. No difference in survival was observed between the adjuvant-treated group and the control group of patients. This study found that the size of the tumor was a highly significant risk factor for death caused by metastasis of uveal melanomas. The standard deviation of the nucleolar area of the neoplastic cells was a significant risk factor, even though patients with tumors composed of Callender's spindle-type cells were not included in the study. 
Long-term adjuvant therapy of high-risk malignant melanoma with interferon alpha 2b. Fifty-three high-risk melanoma patients in stage I and 15 patients in stage II were treated after standard surgical intervention with adjuvant therapy with recombinant interferon alpha-2b (rIFN alpha 2b) therapy for a total period of 20 months. Concomitant patients (stage I, n = 82; stage II, n = 33) with identical stages and prognostic factors without adjuvant therapy were used to evaluate the efficacy of rIFN alpha 2b therapy. No difference in 5-year relapse incidence and overall survival rates could be detected. However, it appears that patients of both stage I and stage II benefit from long-term adjuvant rIFN alpha 2b therapy, because during the treatment period (20 months), the incidence of relapses was lower in comparison to controls. After stopping treatment the incidence of relapse is equal in treated and control groups. According to the results of our study, we suggest using continuous low-dose rIFN alpha 2b therapy for adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma. 
Bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma: computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic evaluation. We report an unusual case of long-standing bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma in a 31-year-old white man. The mass was evaluated by plain film, computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. The differential diagnosis of fat-containing extraperitoneal pelvic masses is discussed. 
Treatment of relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphomas with dexamethasone, high-dose cytarabine, and cisplatin before marrow transplantation. Combination chemotherapy is capable of curing many patients with newly diagnosed intermediate- and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL), but treatment of relapsed NHL remains problematic. Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) offers the best chance for disease-free survival, but interim chemotherapy is often necessary while awaiting BMT, especially for patients with bulky disease. We report here 39 patients (median age, 44 years) who failed primary therapy with doxorubicin-based regimens and subsequently were treated with one to six cycles of dexamethasone, 40 mg intravenous (IV) every day on days 1 to 4, cisplatin 100 mg/m2 by continuous infusion on day 1, and cytarabine 2 g/m2 IV every 12 hours x two doses on day 2 (DHAP) before the planned BMT. Histologies included 16 diffuse large-cell, six diffuse mixed, five diffuse small-cleaved, four lymphoblastic, and eight other. Twenty-eight patients had stage IV disease, 13 had B symptoms, and 20 had an elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Patients had been treated with a median of three previous chemotherapy regimens. Sixty-one percent of patients had high tumor burdens according to the MD Anderson criteria. Objective responses to DHAP were seen in 26 patients (67%) including nine complete responses (CRs) (23%) and 17 partial responses (PRs) (44%), and responses lasted a median of 7.5 months. Myelosuppression was the major toxicity, but there were no treatment-related deaths. To date, 17 patients have undergone subsequent BMT with a projected 3-year disease-free survival of 15%. We conclude that the DHAP regimen is effective short-term salvage therapy for relapsed NHL patients, but the long-term prognosis of multiply relapsed patients remains poor. 
Parotid duct communicating with a labial pit and ectopic salivary cyst. Labial pits are usually described as blind epidermal invaginations of lip mucosa with occasional drainage of minor salivary gland secretions. A case of an aberrant parotid duct in communication with both a unilateral, commissural labial pit and an interposed salivary cyst is presented. A 7-year-old boy who had experienced lifelong clear drainage from a congenital pit at his right oral commissure developed fever, pain, and a submucosal mass of the right cheek over a 6-week period. A preoperative sialogram through the pit demonstrated a communication between the oral commissure fistula, an intervening salivary cyst, and a proximal tract from the cyst to the parotid gland. An en bloc resection of the pit, fistula tract, and cyst was performed through a transoral approach. The dissection was medial to the buccinator muscle. There has been no recurrence of the cyst after 1 year follow-up. A description of labial pits and parotid duct anomalies is presented; however, to our knowledge, this combination of anomalies has not been previously described. 
Endometrioma. An intra-abdominal troublemaker. A ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported. Seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented. Symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint. In this select group of patients, preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis. All patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients. This review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients. 
In vivo incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate into a rat metastatic brain-tumor model. Lipid metabolism of an intracerebrally implanted brain tumor and normal brain was investigated in awake Fischer 344 rats using intravenously injected [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate as a probe. A suspension of Walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells (250 cells in 5 microliters medium), with or without 1% low-melting-point agar, was implanted into the caudate nucleus of rats 8 to 9 weeks old. Control animals received an intracerebral injection without tumor cells. Seven days after implantation, awake rats were infused intravenously for 5 minutes with [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate (6.4 mCi/kg). The rats were killed 20 minutes after initiation of the infusion and coronal brain slices were obtained for quantitative autoradiography and light histological study. Tumor cell masses were histologically well demarcated from the surrounding brain tissue. Tumor tissue incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate was heterogeneous, ranging on average from 3.1- to 6.1-fold greater than in the corresponding contralateral brain. In addition, incorporation corresponded to regional tumor cell density. The incorporation rate constant of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate in tumor was significantly increased compared to control brain and was independent of tumor size. Necrotic areas within tumors showed no incorporation of radiolabeled palmitate. Brain surrounding the tumors and control injection sites showed reactive gliosis, and possessed 30% greater incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate than contralateral normal brain. These results suggest that [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate can be used to image brain tumors in vivo, measuring turnover and/or synthesis of tumor and brain lipid. 
Partial nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma: indications, results and implications. Of 52 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for tumor 44 were found to have renal cell carcinoma. The indications for this parenchyma-sparing procedure were categorized according to the initial status of the contralateral kidney and included bilateral tumors or tumor in a solitary kidney in 16 patients (mandatory indications), unilateral carcinoma with compromise of the contralateral kidney by a benign disease process in 9 (relative indications) and small peripheral tumor with a normal contralateral kidney in 19 (elective indications). There were 4 recurrences that accounted for 3 deaths, all in patients with mandatory indications. All patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for relative or elective indications were without definite evidence of recurrent disease at last followup (over-all mean 36 months). Our results suggest that conservative surgery can often provide effective and advantageous therapy for renal cancer and we encourage further consideration of the role of partial nephrectomy as an alternative to radical nephrectomy in selected patients with small peripheral tumors and normal contralateral kidneys. 
Primary central nervous system T-cell lymphoma. Case report. Primary central nervous system (CNS) T-cell lymphoma is extremely rare. The present case report provides immunocytochemical evidence for a cerebellar CNS T-cell lymphoma. The patient underwent surgery followed by radiation therapy and is alive and well 36 months postoperatively. The clinical and pathological features of primary CNS T-cell lymphoma as well as diagnostic measures and treatment options are discussed, together with a compilation of all previous case reports of primary CNS T-cell lymphomas. 
Treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and bleomycin. The authors treated 14 patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin or lip with one to four cycles of combination chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin by bolus injection, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and bleomycin by continuous 5-day infusion. Objective responses were seen in 11 of the 13 evaluable patients (84%). Four patients had a complete remission (30%) and seven patients, a partial remission (54%). Local control after definitive complementary radiation and/or surgical treatment was achieved in seven patients. Toxic side effects was acceptable; they consisted of nausea and vomiting in all patients, transient skin changes, hematologic (Grade 3/4) abnormalities in four patients, and pulmonary fibrosis in one elderly patient. These results show that this chemotherapy combination could play a role in reducing the tumor mass and in facilitating definitive treatment to obtain better functional and cosmetic results in advanced SCC of the skin. 
Three staged approach to the surgical management of renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium. Case report. Left renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium was treated by angioinfarction, removal of right atrial tumour using cardiopulmonary bypass and ten days later abdominal radical nephrectomy and inferior vena cava thrombectomy. Twenty four months later the patient remains well with no evidence of tumour recurrence. 
Familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas. A kindred with familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas is described. Desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas should be added to the group of lesions that indicate an inherited pattern when they occur as multiple primary tumors. The implications for nosologic status and treatment of desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas are considered. 
Amphotericin B vs high-dose ketoconazole for empirical antifungal therapy among febrile, granulocytopenic cancer patients. A prospective, randomized study. We compared high-dose ketoconazole (800 mg/kg per day, orally) with amphotericin B (0.5 mg/kg per day, intravenously) for empirical antifungal therapy in a prospective, randomized study of persistently or recurrently febrile granulocytopenic cancer patients. Among 97 patients eligible for empirical antifungal therapy, 20 (21%) of these patients were ineligible for randomization to ketoconazole treatment because of their inability to tolerate oral medications. Among 72 patients eligible for randomization, 64 were assessable (32 in each arm of the study). Five of six patients with proved fungal infections who were randomized to receive ketoconazole treatment required crossover to amphotericin B treatment because of progressive infection. The conditions of three of these five patients improved after receiving amphotericin B. The frequency of transaminase elevation was higher in those receiving ketoconazole, while the frequency of azotemia was higher in those receiving amphotericin B. Bioavailability of ketoconazole was unpredictable. Amphotericin B remains the drug of choice for empirical antifungal therapy in granulocytopenic patients; whereas, lack of a parenteral formulation, ineffectiveness against proved mycoses, and unreliable bioavailability preclude high-dose ketoconazole from being an appropriate compound for this purpose. 
Mastectomy following preoperative chemotherapy. Strict operative criteria control operative morbidity. The surgical morbidity associated with aggressive preoperative chemotherapy in 106 patients with advanced primary breast cancer who had chemotherapy followed by mastectomy was examined. These patients were compared with a group of 91 consecutive patients who had mastectomy without preoperative chemotherapy. Strict operative criteria were used to determine the timing of mastectomy following chemotherapy. Wound infection rates were no different in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone groups (7% versus 4%; p = 0.62). The incidence of wound necrosis was similar (11% versus 6%; p = 0.29). Seroma formation was decreased significantly in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone group (15% versus 28%; p = 0.04). Intensive preoperative chemotherapy did not delay the reinstitution of postoperative treatment (30% versus 20%; p = 0.27). However, when delay in instituting postoperative chemotherapy was more than 30 days, there was a significant decrease in overall survival rate (p = 0.04). This study provides evidence that intensive preoperative chemotherapy and mastectomy can be performed without increased morbidity. Furthermore it is important to institute systemic chemotherapy within 30 days of mastectomy to achieve maximum survival. 
Petrosal sinus sampling: technique and rationale. Bilateral simultaneous sampling of the inferior petrosal sinuses is an extremely sensitive, specific, and accurate test for diagnosing Cushing disease and distinguishing between that entity and the ectopic ACTH syndrome. It is also valuable for lateralizing small hormone-producing adenomas within the pituitary gland. The inferior petrosal sinuses connect the cavernous sinuses with the ipsilateral internal jugular veins. The anatomy of the anastomoses between the inferior petrosal sinus, the internal jugular vein, and the venous plexuses at the base of the skull varies, but it is almost always possible to catheterize the inferior petrosal sinus. In addition, variations in size and anatomy are often present between the two inferior petrosal sinuses in a patient. Advance preparation is required for petrosal sinus sampling. Teamwork is a critical element, and each member of the staff should know what he or she will be doing during the procedure. The samples must be properly labeled, processed, and stored. Specific needles, guide wires, and catheters are recommended for this procedure. The procedure is performed with specific attention to the three areas of potential technical difficulty: catheterization of the common femoral veins, crossing the valve at the base of the left internal jugular vein, and selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses. There are specific methods for dealing with each of these areas. The sine qua non of correct catheter position in the inferior petrosal sinus is demonstration of reflux of contrast material into the ipsilateral cavernous sinus. Images must always be obtained to document correct catheter position. Special attention must be paid to two points to prevent potential complications: The patient must be given an adequate dose of heparin, and injection of contrast material into the inferior petrosal sinuses and surrounding veins must be done gently and carefully. When the procedure is performed as outlined, both inferior petrosal sinuses can be catheterized in more than 98% of patients. The complication rate is low, and the theoretical risk of major morbidity or death is less than 1% (neither has yet occurred, to our knowledge). The most common complication is groin hematoma. 
Equal parental origin of chromosome 22 losses in human sporadic meningioma: no evidence for genomic imprinting. Inactivation of tumor suppressor genes can occur either by mutation at the gene locus or by loss of part or all of the chromosome region containing the gene. The latter is most frequently detected by DNA markers as loss of heterozygosity in the tumor tissue. In several reports, the paternal homologue was preferentially retained in embryonal tumors associated with loss of particular chromosomal regions, suggesting genomic imprinting of the corresponding tumor suppressor loci. To explore the generality of these findings and the possible role of genomic imprinting in adult tumors of the nervous system, we have determined the parental origin of chromosome 22 loss in sporadic meningioma. Of nine cases studied, five tumors retained the maternally derived chromosome 22 homologue while four retained the paternally derived chromosome 22. Thus, in contrast to the embryonal tumors, the meningioma locus on chromosome 22 is inactivated by random mutation in sporadic adult meningiomas. 
Retroviral transformation of cerebral microvascular endothelial cells: macrophage-like and microvascular endothelial cell properties. We report that L-cell-conditioned medium (LCM) transforms porcine cerebral microvascular (PCMV) endothelial cells into cells with macrophage-like properties. LCM is known to contain both cytokine(s) and the L-cell virus, a murine retrovirus found in the L929 cell and LCM. Our evidence suggests that both LCM cytokine(s) and the L-cell virus are involved in this PCMV endothelial cell transformation. Criteria for transformation include focus formation, decreased serum requirements for growth, changes in morphology including nonadherence, propagation in suspension culture, and a decreased growth response to stimulation with a known endothelial cell mitogen. Macrophage-like characteristics of this transformed cell, designated as RVTE, include pinocytosis of low-density lipoprotein, Fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis, phagocytosis of bacteria and zymosan, the expression of macrophage enzyme markers, and constitutive production of colony-stimulating factor 1. However, the transformed cell retains several properties of the nontransformed cell including the expression of FVIII:RAg and in vitro self-organization into capillary-like structures. Cloning of RVTE cells clearly shows that both macrophage-like and cerebral microvascular endothelial cell properties are present in the same cell. During self-organization, nontransformed cells express morphologic and functional characteristics classically associated with the macrophage. These findings suggest that some brain capillary pathophysiologies could involve macrophage-like cerebral microvascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, the "reticuloendothelial" phenotypic repertoire expressed by this transformed cerebral microvascular endothelial cell may show that the cerebral capillary endothelial cell in vivo is derived from a hematopoietic and/or phagocytic precursor. 
Metastatic tumors of the umbilicus: a review 1830-1989. Umbilical metastases from known and unknown primary cancers are rare. The eponym "Sister Mary Joseph's nodule" has been used by generations of physicians. The first reports of this clinical sign were from Walshe in 1846. A review of the literature revealed 265 cases from then until 1989. Only 85 cases of umbilical metastasis from unknown primary tumors were found. This review should help us to focus on the common and uncommon primary sites in the diagnosis of patients with this finding. A single case report and the work-up for the hidden primary tumor are described. 
Low doses of IL-4 injected perilymphatically in tumor-bearing mice inhibit the growth of poorly and apparently nonimmunogenic tumors and induce a tumor-specific immune memory. The ability of rIL-4 to trigger host reactivity against both a chemically induced fibrosarcoma (CE-2) and a spontaneous adenocarcinoma (TS/A) of BALB/c mice was studied. Daily local s.c. administration around tumor draining lymph nodes of 10 injections of progressive amounts (0.00001 to 1000 pg/day) of rIL-4 induced appreciable inhibition of the growth of both tumors after a dose-response survival curve peaking at 0.1 pg/day. Inasmuch as rIL-4 has no direct antitumor activity, as shown by in vitro tests, host immune reactivity plays a fundamental role in this lymphokine activated tumor inhibition (LATI). LATI, in fact, is abolished when recipient mice are sublethally irradiated or treated with cyclosporin A, or when the reactivity of CD4+ lymphocytes is suppressed, whereas it is not affected by anti-asialo GM1 antibody. The morphologic data show that rIL-4 LATI rests on the recruitment of several cell reaction mechanisms, among which those that are nonspecific seem to predominate. rIL-4 LATI also leads to a state of long lasting and specific immune memory: the growth of a second contralateral tumor challenge is significantly impaired after LATI. This immune memory takes place after LATI of both the poorly immunogenic CE-2 fibrosarcoma and the TS/A adenocarcinoma, previously classed as nonimmunogenic on the basis of immunization-protection tests. In the latter case, adoptive transfer experiments show that Thy-1+ lymphocytes and, in particular, the CD4 cell-depleted T lymphocyte subpopulation, are responsible for the immune memory. Finally, the ability of rIL-4 to trigger LATI is greater than that of the most effective doses of rIL-2, rIL-1 beta, and IFN-gamma, whereas its association with rIL-1 beta induces a more effective immune memory. 
Endothelin-like immunoreactivity in human breast cyst fluid. Immunoreactive endothelin has been detected in 21 of 43 samples of breast cyst fluid (21 cases; 3.5 +/- 0.6 pmol/l, mean +/- SEM. Other 22 cases; not detectable, less than 0.5 pmol/l). Fast protein liquid chromatographic analysis of the immunoreactive endothelin of pooled breast cyst fluid showed two immunoreactive peaks; one in the void volume and the other in the position of endothelin-1. It is probable that endothelin-1 is produced by the epithelial cells lining breast cysts, but significance of the presence of endothelin-1 in breast cyst fluid remains to be elucidated. 
Treatment of spinal cord compression by epidural malignancy in childhood. Epidural spinal cord compression by a malignant tumor is a rare occurrence in children. Both the tumors involved and the extent of involvement of the vertebral column are different in children and adults. Often, the epidural tumor in a child is identified before significant spinal canal compromise has occurred, and these children frequently can be managed by radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy. There is a group of children, however, who have severe spinal canal encroachment by a tumor, as evidenced by a near complete or complete block on myelography. In this study, we report a group of patients with severe spinal cord compression, as documented by imaging studies. We compared the results of a decompressive laminectomy and subtotal tumor resection followed by adjuvant therapy with the results obtained with radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy alone. Thirty-three patients met the criteria for inclusion in the study. Twenty-six were treated with a laminectomy and adjuvant therapy, and 7 were treated without surgical intervention. With surgical therapy, 25 of 26 epidurals were either improved or stable, whereas 4 of 7 nonsurgical patients deteriorated. Especially notable was a decrease in pain in the operative patients immediately after their procedure. There was no surgical mortality or morbidity. The results of this study indicate that children with severe spinal cord compression as evidenced by a near complete or complete block on myelography or filling of 50% or more of the spinal canal on magnetic resonance imaging are best treated by a combination of surgical decompression and tumor removal followed by adjuvant therapy. 
Oral manifestations of HIV infection and their management. I. More common lesions. Oral lesions are common at all stages of HIV infection. This first of two articles reviews the clinical features and pathogenesis of common oral manifestations of HIV disease (candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, Kaposi's sarcoma, and HIV-related periodontal disease) and considers current treatment measures. 
Nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in primary uveal melanoma. We report on 14 cases of clonal chromosomal anomalies in patients with primary uveal melanoma. An increased dosage of chromosome 8 or of parts of the long arm of chromosome 8 (8q) were detected in eight patients (57%). The smallest multiplied area of 8q appeared to be the region 8q2.1----qter. Monosomy of chromosome 3 was seen in six patients (43%), five of which were associated with anomalies of chromosome 8. Increased dosage of parts of chromosome 8q and loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 3, or the combination of both, seemed to be nonrandom for uveal melanoma and may distinguish it genetically from cutaneous malignant melanoma. Anomalies of chromosome 6, mostly resulting in additional material of 6p or a deletion of 6q, were found in six patients (43%). These anomalies, which seem to be common features of cutaneous malignant melanoma, were considered secondary rather than primary changes in uveal melanoma, since they were present only in subclones in most cases. Loss of the Y chromosome, restricted to tumor cells, was detected in four male patients, and loss of one X chromosome was detected in a female patient. 
A randomized trial comparing two methods of cold knife conization with laser conization. In a randomized study, 62 women were submitted to cold knife conization with application of Sturmdorf sutures, 60 to cold knife conization without sutures, and 61 to laser conization. Early hemorrhage occurred in 1.6, 13.3, and 6.6% of women, respectively (P less than .05), and late hemorrhage in 15.3, 3.6, and 11.7%, respectively. Considering early and late hemorrhage together, there was no significant difference among the three treatment groups. Dysmenorrhea tended to be more common after application of Sturmdorf sutures, as it was reported by 27.8, 13.2, and 14.3% of patients, respectively, but the difference was not statistically significant. Dysmenorrhea occurred in 13% of the cases with a cone height of 20 mm or less and in 26% of the cases with a cone height greater than 20 mm (P less than .05). Endocervical cells were present significantly more often after sampling with a cytobrush than with a cotton swab (P less than .0001), whereas the method of conization had no influence. In smears obtained with a cytobrush, endocervical cells were present in 88.0, 84.9, and 82.5% of the cases; in smears obtained with a cotton swab, endocervical cells were present in 46.6, 57.7, and 54.5%, respectively. We conclude that cold knife conization without Sturmdorf sutures is about equal to laser conization in overall complications, but the laser is preferable for outpatient treatment because of a lower frequency of early hemorrhage. Sturmdorf sutures should be avoided. Smears at follow-up should be taken with a cytobrush and a wooden spatula. 
Keratin subsets in spindle cell sarcomas. Keratins are widespread but synovial sarcoma contains a distinctive keratin polypeptide pattern and desmoplakins. The presence of individual keratin polypeptides and desmoplakins was immunohistochemically studied in 25 spindle cell sarcomas of different types using acetone-fixed frozen sections. Results revealed that keratins 8 and 18 were present in a high number of tumors: 9 of 9 synovial sarcomas, 5 of 7 leiomyosarcomas, 5 of 5 malignant schwannomas, and 1 of 4 undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. In addition to keratins 8 and 18, the glandular component of synovial sarcoma showed prominent reactivity with antibodies to keratins 7 and 19. Also the glandular epithelial cells in synovial sarcoma showed desmoplakin immunoreactivity preferentially in a luminal distribution, but desmoplakin was absent in other spindle cell sarcomas. Furthermore keratin 13 was seen focally in 4 of 9 synovial sarcomas. In contrast, keratins 7, 13, and 19 were practically absent in leiomyosarcomas, malignant schwannomas, and undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas. The widespread presence of keratins 8 and 18 in various spindle cell sarcomas may reflect aberrant keratin expression in mesenchymal cells, previously described in cultured transformed fibroblasts. The presence of keratins 7 and 19 and desmoplakin is highly associated with morphologically observable epithelial differentiation restricted to synovial sarcoma among spindle cell sarcomas. 
Cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma. We describe eight cases of cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma, a rare tumor previously reported only once under the term cutaneous angiomyolipoma. Clinically, the tumors were acquired, solitary, asymptomatic nodules that were always acral in location. Patients' ages ranged from 33 to 77 years (median 52.6 years); the male/female ratio was 7:1. Signs of tuberous sclerosis or renal angiomyolipoma were absent in all cases. Histologically, the tumors were subcutaneous, well circumscribed, and composed of smooth muscle, vascular spaces, connective tissue, and mature fat. In some tumors the fat was the predominant component, and in others smooth muscle predominated. Elastic tissue stains revealed that some blood vessels had developed an elastic lamina whereas other blood vessels lacked it. Additional histologic features occasionally observed included vascular thrombi, glomus bodies, and focal mucin deposition. 
Intracranial chordoma in a preadolescent. Case report. Chordomas are rare tumors derived from notochord remnants occurring primarily in the sacrum, clivus, and cervical regions. Exceptionally, these tumors occur in children, though usually in the sacrum. Eight cases of clivus chordoma have been described in preteenagers. In this report, a clival chordoma with unusual radiologic features is described in an 11-year-old boy. The literature regarding this entity is reviewed. 
An unusual organoid tumor. Alveolar soft part sarcoma or paraganglioma? The histogenesis of alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) is a subject of continued debate. Although many recent reports suggest a muscle origin, others advocate a neuroendocrine derivation. A tumor in the chest wall of a 16-year-old woman was diagnosed and treated as ASPS. The light microscopic, electron microscopic, and immunohistochemical findings showed features of both ASPS and paraganglioma. In addition, this lesion was positive for antibody to glucagon, a characteristic of neither ASPS nor paraganglioma, although seen in a few gangliocytic paragangliomas. This case demonstrates the need for continued inquiry into the histogenesis of ASPS. 
Preferential mitogenic activity for myoblast-like cells can be extracted from uterine leiomyoma tissues. The presence of mitogen(s) in leiomyoma extracts stimulating cells with the fibroblast, myoblast, and osteoblast phenotype was documented. Mitogenic activity in leiomyoma extracts was acid stable and sensitive to tryptic digestion. Reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography successfully separated mitogen(s) with preferential activity for myoblast cells from mitogens with a broad type of cell specificity and from inhibitors. This leiomyoma-derived preferential activity for myoblasts was absent in identically treated myometrial and endometrial extracts. This suggests that leiomyoma-derived substances with preferential growth factor activity for myoblast-like cells may play a role in the pathophysiologic characteristics of uterine leiomyomas. 
Endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain. Endosalpingosis, a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium, is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location. Endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms. Our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain. Various aspects of this disease will also be discussed. 
Mucocelelike tumor of the breast associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia or mucinous carcinoma. A clinicopathologic study of seven cases. We studied seven patients with mucocelelike tumors of the breast, known to be benign lesions that may be confused with mucinous carcinomas of the breast. All patients had a palpable mass. Microscopically, the most striking feature was the cystic character of the lesion. The epithelial lining of the cysts was usually flat or cuboidal to low columnar, and mucin pools frequently appeared near the ruptured cysts. Three mucocelelike tumors contained a microscopic focus of mucinous carcinoma. The other tumors had areas of atypical ductal hyperplasia containing abundant intraluminal mucinous materials. The mucin was composed predominantly of neutral and nonsulfated acid mucins whose character was identical to that of those in mucinous carcinoma. Because all mucocelelike tumors in our series were associated with either atypical ductal hyperplasia or carcinoma and because some mucocelelike tumors may indeed be early mucinous carcinomas of the breast, we recommend examination of the entire specimen and careful clinical follow-up. 
The Cancer Prevention Reminder System. The Cancer Prevention Reminder System is a computer-based system designed to increase the delivery of periodic health maintenance procedures. The program provides printed reminders that identify patients' overdue procedures, prints summary reports of the percentage of patients who are eligible and overdue for a procedure, and prints mailing labels for patients. We performed a randomized, controlled trial in which the effects of computer-based reminders were compared with those of two other interventions among residents in a university-based group practice. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue. A population-based epidemiologic and prognostic study of 137 patients. Epidemiology and prognosis were analyzed in a consecutive, population-based series of 137 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue in the extremities and trunk wall, with a complete follow-up of minimum 3 years. All but one patient were treated by surgery in 28 cases combined with adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy. The annual incidence was 0.42/10(5). The ratio men to women was 1.1. The median age was 64 years (range, 22 to 87 years). The thigh was the most common location. The median size was 6 cm. Superficial tumors constituted 43% and were smaller than deep-seated tumors. Eighty-three tumors were storiform-pleomorphic, 53 were myxoid, and one was of inflammatory type. The myxoid tumors were smaller and more often superficial. The cumulative 5-year survival rate for all patients was 0.7, but differed markedly between the histologic types; it was 1.0 in patients with myxoid tumors and 0.5 in patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors. In the 77 patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors without metastases at presentation, only tumor size larger than 10 cm and tumor necrosis independently impaired survival. The 23 patients who had none of these risk factors had a 5-year survival rate of 0.8. 
Factor XIIIa in nodular malignant melanoma and Spitz naevi. The distribution of factor XIIIa-positive dermal dendritic cells was studied in a series of nodular malignant melanomas and compared with that seen in Spitz naevi. Two patterns of distribution were recognizable: (a) diffusely spread through the tumour and (b) located mainly at the periphery of the tumour. These did not correlate with the diagnosis of melanoma or Spitz naevus and the distribution appeared to be a function of growth pattern of the tumour. The diffuse pattern was the most common regardless of diagnosis and the distribution of factor XIIIa-positive cells is the same in malignant melanoma and Spitz naevi. 
Features distinguishing secondary achalasia from primary achalasia. Eighteen patients with cancer-induced or secondary achalasia (SA) were compared to 421 patients with idiopathic or primary achalasia (PA). The aim of the study was to detect any differences in clinical presentation between the two groups. Mean age of patients with SA was 57.1 (range 15-78) and 47.1 (range 1-90) in patients with PA (p = 0.02). Three patients with SA were 15, 24, and 36 yr old, respectively. Symptom frequency was comparable in SA versus PA. Mean duration of symptoms in SA was 4.5 months, with 15 of the 18 patients experiencing symptoms for six months or less. Weight loss occurred in 88.2% of patients with SA and 57.3% of patients with PA (p less than 0.05). Cancer was at the gastroesophageal junction in 16 patients, duodenum in one, and breast in one. Endoscopy showed tumor in 12 (67%). The esophagram was suspicious for tumor in only 25%. We conclude that patients with SA are older, more likely to lose weight, and have a short duration of symptoms. However, SA may occur in younger patients, and endoscopy with biopsy is necessary in any newly diagnosed case of achalasia. 
Clinical relevance of immunohistochemical detection of multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein in breast carcinoma In 20 women with breast carcinoma, 17 of whom had locally advanced cancer and 3 of whom had confirmed metastases, the expression of P-glycoprotein was evaluated before the start of a chemotherapy regimen that included multidrug resistance-related drugs. With the use of the C494 monoclonal antibody in an avidin-biotin-immunoperoxidase technique, P-glycoprotein was detected in 17 of 20 tumor samples. Results were expressed in a semiquantitative manner, taking into account the number of positive tumor cells (N index) and the specific staining intensity (I index). The 17 patients with nonmetastatic cancer were followed from the first cycle of chemotherapy to cancer recurrence; subsequent to six cycles of chemotherapy, all of these patients except one were rendered clinically disease-free through surgery and/or radiation. The end point was defined as either local/regional recurrence or metastasis. Strong P-glycoprotein-positive staining in a majority of tumor cells (the N+/I+ phenotype) was significantly correlated with no initial response to chemotherapy (P less than .02) and with a shorter progression-free survival (P less than .02). Thus, the pretreatment evaluation of P-glycoprotein expression may be of prognostic value in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. 
Giant intradiploic epidermoid tumor of the occipital bone: case report. The authors describe a case of a giant intradiploic epidermoid cyst of the occipital bone with an intracranial extension in the posterior fossa and no signs of neurological involvement. The lesion started as a painless lump under the scalp. Roentgenographic and computed tomographic findings led to a correct diagnosis, and the complete removal of the cyst was accomplished, despite its large size. The total removal of these cysts is associated with a good prognosis. 
Clinicopathologic characteristics of adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung. Fifty-six cases of surgically resected adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung were studied clinicopathologically, and their outcome was compared with that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. The frequency rate of adenosquamous carcinoma was 2.6% of 2160 primary lung cancers resected in the National Cancer Center Hospital (Tokyo, Japan). The survival curves of patients with adenosquamous carcinomas, adenocarcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas indicated that the outcome of adenosquamous carcinoma was poorer than that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas, particularly in Stages I and II. The amount of adenocarcinoma component did not affect the survival rate, although the histologic features of metastatic lymph nodes was somewhat influenced by the histologic type of the primary tumors. The histologic subtype of adenosquamous carcinoma was one of the independent prognostic determinants. 
Survival after groin dissection for malignant melanoma. Groin dissection was performed in 158 patients with malignant melanoma (superficial dissection, 76 patients; radical dissection, 82 patients). Of 63 patients with palpable nodes, 57 patients (90%) had histologic involvement. Of 93 patients with nonpalpable nodes, 31 patients (33%) had histologically positive nodes. The 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically negative nodes (n = 69) was 77%; the 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically positive nodes (n = 89) was 43%. The respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 72% and 34%. Of 57 patients with palpable, positive inguinal nodes, 21 patients (37%) had involvement of the deep nodes. Of 31 patients with nonpalpable, histologic involvement of the inguinal nodes, six patients (19%) had or developed involvement of the deep nodes. One of two patients with uncertain clinical status of the nodes preoperatively had positive deep nodes. In prophylactic node dissection, frozen section of the inguinal group of the nodes does not provide a reliable method, because of sampling errors, in determining microscopic involvement of the nodes and in deciding whether a superficial or radical groin dissection is to be done. For patients with positive nodes the 5-year survival rate was 48% when only the inguinal group was involved and was 28% when both inguinal and deep nodes were involved; the respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 39% and 20%. Survival after therapeutic groin dissection may partly depend on the thoroughness of the procedure. Patients who have positive, deep nodes and who are undergoing an incontinuity dissection of the inguinal, iliac, and obturator nodes have an appreciable 5-year survival rate. 
Nuclear grading of breast carcinoma by image analysis. Classification by multivariate and neural network analysis. The use of nuclear grade as a prognostic indicator for breast carcinoma has been limited by interobserver variability. Advances in image analysis and automated cell classification offer one approach to this problem. The authors used the CAS-100 (Cell Analysis System. Elmhurst, IL) system to measure and analyze nuclear morphometric and texture features of cytologic preparations from 35 breast carcinomas (well, moderate, and poorly differentiated) as well as benign lesions. Morphometric and Markovian texture feature data from breast cancer nuclei of various grades comprised a training set, which was then used to establish classification criteria by multivariate (Bayesian) analysis and to train a neural network system. Both systems were tested for the ability to classify the nuclear grade of individual nuclei. There was good agreement between computer classification and the grade assigned by human observer to individual nuclei using either Bayesian or neural network analysis. Thirty-one unknown cases, which were assigned an overall grade by an observer, were then analyzed by computer, and an overall grade assigned based on the grade of nucleus most frequently present. Using this method, both classification systems were able to assign a "correct" grade to low-grade lesions (approximately 70% correct) more often than to high-grade tumors (approximately 20%). Difficulty in computer assignment of high-grade tumors was explained by nuclear heterogeneity in these tumors (i.e., although the percentage of high-grade nuclei was increased compared with that of low-grade tumors, high-grade nuclei frequently did not predominate). The authors present this study to demonstrate the feasibility of using image analysis as an objective means of nuclear grading. Further studies will be needed to establish criteria for assigning overall nuclear grade based on computer analysis of imaging data. 
Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of head and neck lesions. The case records of 213 fine-needle aspiration biopsies (FNAB) of head and neck masses performed on 209 patients over a 3-year period were reviewed to assess the diagnostic accuracy and safety of this technique in comparison with surgical histologic examination. Cytologic diagnoses based on FNAB were compared with histologic diagnoses in 110 patients who underwent surgery. Based on cytology alone, 40.3% of the lesions were reported as malignant, 45.1% as benign, and 14.6% as indeterminant. A specific cytologic diagnosis was made in 85.5% of the cases. Cytologic diagnoses concurred with surgical histologic diagnoses 90% of the time. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy was found to have a false-positive rate of 0.5% and a false-negative rate of 2.3%. The sensitivity and specificity of FNAB in determining a malignant diagnosis were 81.1% and 99%, respectively. Positive and negative predictive values were calculated at 98.9% and 82.8%, respectively. Diagnostic rate, sensitivity, and negative predictive value increased consistently throughout the study period, indicating that the diagnostic accuracy of FNAB improved with experience. 
Carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. Carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy. Endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described. Clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location, as is the case for most lung neoplasms. This case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy. 
Diagnosis of noninfective cardiac mass lesions by two-dimensional echocardiography. Comparison of the transthoracic and transesophageal approaches. This study was conducted in 46 patients with cardiac thrombi, 15 patients with atrial myxomas, and 32 patients with other cardiac or paracardiac tumors. Diagnoses were subsequently proven by surgery, autopsy, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or angiography in all patients. All patients underwent precordial and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography to assess the various mass detection rates. Atrial myxomas and predominantly left-sided cardiac tumors were identified by both echocardiographic techniques with comparable detection rates. Left ventricular apical thrombi were detected more frequently by precordial echocardiography. In contrast, transesophageal echocardiography was superior in visualizing left atrial appendage thrombi, small and flat thrombi in the left atrial cavity, thrombi and tumors in the superior vena cava, and masses attached to the right heart and the descending thoracic aorta. These data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a clinically relevant improvement of the diagnostic potential in patients in whom cardiac masses are suspected or have to be excluded in order to ensure the safety of clinical procedures. 
Endothelial markers in malignant vascular tumours of the liver: superiority of QB-END/10 over von Willebrand factor and Ulex europaeus agglutinin 1. A new monoclonal antibody, QB-END/10, raised against the CD34 antigen in human endothelial cell membranes and haemopoietic progenitor cells, was studied for its usefulness as a marker of neoplastic vascular cells in 21 angiosarcomas and seven malignant haemangioendotheliomas of the liver. QB-END/10 was both more sensitive and more specific than Von Willebrand factor (VWF) and Ulex europaeus 1 agglutinin (UEA-1) in labelling endothelial cells and it did not cross react with epithelia as UEA-1 often does. Staining was uniformly strong and clear in all histological variants of these two tumours. QB-END/10 should prove particularly useful in the differential diagnosis of malignant vascular tumours of the liver. 
Anionic complex-carbohydrate units of human thyroglobulin. Human thyroglobulin (hTG) contains sulfate in chondroitin 6-sulfate chains and in complex carbohydrates. In this study the sulfate-containing complex carbohydrates were characterized by the number of sulfate and sialic acid residues that they contain. Samples of normal and nodular thyroid tissue were incubated for 16 h in [35S]sulfate-containing medium, and hTG was purified from the tissues and the media. Complex carbohydrates were enzymatically removed from hTG. Subsequent analysis on an HPLC anion exchange column at pH 2.2 separated the carbohydrate units according to their number of negative charges. Sulfate-containing peaks were monitored by radioactivity, and sialic acid-containing peaks were identified by their shift to lower charge after treatment with neuraminidase. Peaks corresponding to sialic acid-free carbohydrate units with one to four sulfates were identified. Also, carbohydrate units with two and three negative charges containing both sulfate and sialic acid were present. In the nodular tissue of one patient there were more sulfated units with higher charge, especially units containing sialic acid. In this patient the proportion of sulfated polyvalent units with sialic acid was 22.4% for normal and 64.6% for nodular tissue. No difference in the composition of the charged units between the tissues and their corresponding media was seen, making it unlikely that the sulfate-containing carbohydrates play a role in hTG release. It is concluded that hTG contains complex carbohydrate units with up to four sulfate groups and units with both sulfate and sialic acid. In some patients, the sulfate-containing anionic carbohydrate units of hTG from normal and nodular thyroid tissue are different. 
Human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression: a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection. In a group of 92 women with genital condylomata, 15 (16.3%) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found, whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women. The relative risk was greater than 19.28. Human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters: lower age and parity, major frequency of induced abortions, and sexually transmitted diseases. Thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state, an indirect association cannot be discarded. Such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer. Among human immunodeficiency-positive women, a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected (recurrence-persistence of 41.7% versus 12%), a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status. 
Cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium. Clinical, pathologic, and immunohistopathologic findings. A 51-year-old white man was found to have a deeply pigmented mass in the ciliary body and peripheral choroid of his right eye with an associated vitreous hemorrhage. Although the tumor appeared to be a ciliochoroidal melanoma, a melanocytoma and adenoma of the pigment epithelium also were considered in the differential diagnosis. The tumor was removed by a large partial lamellar sclerocyclochoroidectomy. Results of histopathologic evaluation showed a cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium. To the authors' knowledge, this was the first immunohistopathologic study of this tumor. Results of the study showed marked immunoreactivity for low molecular weight cytokeratins, vimentin, and S-100 protein. These immunohistochemical studies are consistent with the origin of this tumor from pigment epithelial cells. 
Atrial fibrillation with cardiac tamponade as the initial manifestation of malignant pericarditis This article describes the case of a 72-year-old woman with cardiac tamponade and atrial fibrillation as the initial manifestation of a lymphoid malignancy. The pathogenesis of cardiac tamponade, various diagnostic modalities, and therapy of this condition are reviewed. 
Obstructing carcinoma of the cecum. Carcinoma of the cecum, the third most common location for malignancy of the large bowel, was examined with attention centered upon cecal cancers producing obstruction. Reviewing 136 patients revealed 11 obstructing lesions (8.1%) presenting as distal small bowel obstructions. The mean age of the patients was 74 years. All but one patient had resection for cure which consisted of a right hemicolectomy with ileotransverse colostomy. There was no operative mortality or significant morbidity. Bowel obstruction due to cecal carcinoma is an infrequent occurrence arising in elderly patients and carries a poor survival rate due to advanced disease at the time of diagnosis and treatment. 
Intraoperative I-125 seed implantation for extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas. From 1978 to 1988, 41 patients with extensive recurrent carcinomas of the head and neck were treated with surgical resection plus intraoperative iodine-125 seed implantation. Surgery was performed to resect the tumors and to expose the tumor beds for implantation. I-125 seeds were implanted intraoperatively, with a spacing of 0.75-1 cm between adjacent seeds, either into the soft tissue in the tumor bed or onto small patches of gelatin sponges to cover the bone, nerve, or blood vessel involved with disease. Reconstructive flaps were used in 18 patients. The average I-125 dose delivered by the implanted seeds was 8,263 cGy. The determinate 5-year actuarial survival rate for the entire group was 40%. The 5-year local disease control rate was 44%. Major complications were transient wound infection (32%), flap necrosis (24%), fistula formation (10%), and carotid blowout (5%). These results indicate that surgical resection plus I-125 seed implantation provides a potentially curative treatment for patients with extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas that would be considered traditionally unresectable and that would be treated only with palliative therapy. 
Diagnosis of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors causing Cushing's syndrome Cushing's syndrome due to ectopic production of adrenocorticotropic hormone (corticotropin) has been recognized for many years. Traditionally, clinicians have thought that most cases were due to lung carcinomas and that the clinical manifestations differed from those for pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome. We report two cases of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors that were clinically and biochemically indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome. Review of the literature revealed that bronchial carcinoid tumors are the most common cause of Cushing's syndrome due to ectopic secretion of corticotropin. On biochemical and anatomic studies, they are frequently indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent Cushing's syndrome and thus may be difficult to diagnose. Inferior petrosal sinus sampling for corticotropin and computerized imaging of the chest may be the best aids in making the diagnosis. 
Healing of a large nonossifying fibroma after grafting with bone matrix and marrow. A case report. Healing of a large tibial nonossifying fibroma in a 12-year-old girl occurred following excision, curettage, and filling of the bony defect with human demineralized bone matrix powder mixed with a small quantity of the patient's bone marrow. The use of this graft composite was successful in the treatment of the lesion and reduced the potential risk and morbidity associated with pediatric orthopedic surgical procedures with autogeneic iliac crest and other bone grafts. 
Antisecretory and antilesional effect of a new histamine H2-receptor antagonist, IT-066, in rats. The effects of a new histamine H2-receptor antagonist, IT-066 (3-amino-4-[4-[4-(1-piperidinomethyl)-2-pyridyloxy]-cis-2-++ +butenylamino]- 3-cyclobutene-1,2-dione hydrochloride), were investigated on the secretagogue-induced acid secretion in vivo and in vitro, and on experimental gastric and duodenal lesion in rats. IT-066 (10-60 micrograms/kg) given i.v. inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently in gastric lumen-perfused rats, and the inhibitory effect was observed for about 12 hr. Famotidine (FMD) (10-60 micrograms/kg i.v.) also had an antisecretory effect, but the acid secretion recovered to the control level 4 hr after the administration. Cold stress plus indomethacin-induced lesion was significantly inhibited by IT-066 and FMD given i.v. 30 min before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment. IT-066 given 7 hr before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment also inhibited lesion formation significantly, but such antilesional effect was not observed with FMD. In the rat isolated gastric mucosal sheet, IT-066 inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently and noncompetitively; its action was produced via a unique mechanism. The inhibitory effect of IT-066 remained after washing of the mucosa, and became more potent time-dependently. The inhibitory effects of FMD and cimetidine were not observed after washing the mucosa. These data suggest that IT-066 has a potent and long lasting antisecretory effect in vivo and in vitro, and that these properties are responsible for the long lasting antilesional action. 
Lugol stain for intraoperative determination of the proximal surgical margin of the esophagus. An adequate proximal surgical margin is difficult to determine particularly in cases of esophageal carcinoma with surrounding intraepithelial invasion. We report here readily facilitated intraoperative approaches for detection of the exact margin of carcinomatous invasion of the esophagus. The resected specimen of the esophagus is incised longitudinally and placed in a 1% Lugol bath for 2-3 minutes. The normal squamous epithelium includes glycogen that interacts with the iodine of Lugol's solution and the normal epithelium of the esophagus becomes a uniform greenish-brown. A squamous cell carcinoma does not include glycogen, hence is not stained with this solution and a clear identification is feasible. Thus, a carcinomatous infiltration not recognizable in routine examinations becomes macroscopically visible when Lugol's solution is used. 
Cholecystokinin stimulates growth of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma SW-1990. The effect of a synthetic analogue of CCK (Thr4,Nle7CCK-9) on growth of SW-1990 human pancreatic cancer was examined in two experimental models. Nude mice bearing SW-1990 pancreatic cancer xenografts were injected with CCK (5, 15, or 25 micrograms/kg) or vehicle twice daily for 20 days. Animals were then sacrificed and tumor volume, weight, protein, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) content were evaluated. SW-1990 cells were grown in vitro and the effects of CCK, secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and proglumide (a CCK-receptor antagonist) on cell number and DNA synthesis were determined. The highest dose of CCK, 25 micrograms/kg, significantly increased tumor weight, protein content, and DNA content (P less than 0.005). In vitro, CCK caused significant increases in cell counts of up to 47% at six days and 66% at 12 days compared to control. Graded concentrations of CCK had a biphasic effect on DNA synthesis with significant increases of up to 65% (P less than 0.005). CCK-induced cell proliferation was inhibited by proglumide. Secretin slightly increased cancer cell growth, although not as potently as CCK, VIP or secretin in combination with CCK did not show potentiation. These results indicate that growth of some human pancreatic cancers may be influenced by gastrointestinal peptides, of which CCK is the most potent. 
Efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy. In recent years, we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy. The resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery. We review the University of California, Los Angeles, experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx. Twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined. Techniques of treatment, complications, and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed. The locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80%. Risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins, vascular invasion, and extranodal spread. There were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment. Vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases. We conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications, and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx. 
Tumors of the central nervous system. Improvement in outcome through a multimodality approach. More children with CNS tumors will continue to be cured of their neoplasms as a result of improved surgical, radiotherapeutic, and chemotherapeutic intervention. The complex problems seen in these patients mandate their treatment at academic centers actively involved in therapeutic investigations and capable of providing comprehensive multidisciplinary care. 
Brain stem and spinal metastases of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme: a clinical series. Although the spread of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme to the brain stem and spine has been extensively described in published autopsy series, information on the diagnosis, treatment, and subsequent clinical course of patients manifesting symptoms of glioblastomatous dissemination ante mortem remains scant. We report a series of 11 patients having the signs and symptoms of neuraxis dissemination of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme. All patients had radiographic documentation of metastases by either contrast-enhanced myelograms or enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans. Ten presented with spinal involvement, whereas one presented with lower cranial neuropathies secondary to diffuse involvement of the basal cisterns. The mean age of the patients was 38.5 years, and the mean time interval between diagnosis of intracranial disease and diagnosis of metastases was 14.1 months. After diagnosis of tumor spread, subsequent mean survival time was 2.8 months. All patients received additional radiotherapy to the areas of metastasis, but the clinical response to radiotherapy was quite poor. This study confirms previous reports in the literature suggesting that metastases occur in younger patients and in patients with extended survival. The findings suggest that the relatively infrequent clinical incidence of the symptomatic spread of glioblastoma multiforme, as compared with the frequent incidental discovery of such spread at autopsy, may be the result of the limited survival of the affected patients, and not due to the biology of the tumor. 
The risk of large bowel cancer after partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease. The relative risk (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] for colorectal cancer after partial gastrectomy for ulcer disease was examined in a population-based cohort comprising 6459 patients operated during 1950 to 1958. Follow-up through 1983 revealed 131 cases of colorectal cancer versus 150.3 expected cases (SIR = 0.87; 95% confidence limits 0.73, 1.03). The relative risk was decreased during the first 19 years of follow-up (SIR = 0.75; 0.58, 0.96) and close to equal thereafter (SIR = 1.02; 0.79, 1.29). Sex, age at operation, type of operation, and diagnosis at operation (stomach or duodenal ulcer) did not affect the relative risk significantly. Confounding by socioeconomic status is one conceivable explanation for the decreased relative risk during the first years of follow-up, whereas the increasing risk with longer duration of follow-up might be a consequence of the surgical procedure itself. 
Treatment of metastatic prostate cancer of the spine. There is a wide spectrum of presentations for prostate cancer metastatic to the spine. Important factors are the patient's age and general health; the extent and location of spinal involvement; the patient's neurologic status and degree of pain; the relative contribution of a blastic or lytic response; and the experience and training of the spinal surgeon, medical oncologist, and radiation oncologist. The spine is both a weight-bearing structure and a housing for the spinal cord, and failure to consider both functions may lead to unsatisfactory treatment results. Treatment options include hormonal therapy, inhibitors of bone metabolism, glucocorticoid therapy, radiotherapy, halo-vest, surgical debridement, decompression and stabilization, and appropriate pain management and support. One must not lose sight of the fact that the goals are palliation and that ultimate demise is unavoidable in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. 
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the brain after Hodgkin's disease. An immunohistochemical study. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) of the central nervous system (CNS) is a rarely reported complication of Hodgkin's disease (HD). Two patients with NHL of the brain after HD were studied by histologic and immunohistochemical methods. Both patients were in the second decade, had been treated with radiation and chemotherapy, had experienced a relapse of HD before development of NHL, had no evidence of HD at the time of diagnosis of NHL, and died within 1 year of diagnosis. Both brain neoplasms were large cell immunoblastic lymphomas of B-cell lineage. Patients with HD appear to be at increased risk for NHL of the CNS, which may have a poor prognosis. 
Thyroid cancer. There have been important recent advances in our understanding of the biologic nature of thyroid cancer and in the early diagnosis of the disease. Despite these advances, there is still considerable controversy over the management of thyroid cancer, including the extent of surgery, the indications for the use of iodine-131, the effectiveness of thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression, and the prediction of outcome. In this review, the current status of the diagnosis and management of the various types of thyroid cancer are carefully reviewed and extensively documented. 
N-ras 61 oncogene mutations in Hurthle cell tumors. Mutations of ras oncogenes are believed to play an important role in the initiation or progression of human tumors. In thyroid tumors the incidence of ras activation by specific point mutations has been reported to range from 33% in follicular adenomas up to 60% in anaplastic carcinomas. Because of our long-standing interest in Hurthle cell tumors, we began a study of 70 such cases to determine the incidence of ras mutations and their clinical correlates. Analysis of N-ras sequences at condon position 61, with the polymerase chain reaction method and oligonucleotide probe hybridization, showed point mutations of the normal codon CAA* in eight tumor samples. One was a mutation from CAA to AAA, one from CAA to CTA,* and six from CAA to CGA. These mutations would result in amino acid substitutions of lysine, leucine, or arginine for the normal glutamine at position 61 in the N-ras protein. Identical ras mutations in two tumors and some of their surrounding thyroid tissue may indicate that activating ras point mutations are an early event in carcinogenesis. The incidence of mutations was 1 of 24 (4%) of the histologically benign tumors, 5 of 34 (15%) of the intermediate tumors (with vascular or capsular permeation), and 2 of 12 (17%) in the malignant group. Four of these eight patients died of metastatic thyroid disease and four are alive without evidence of recurrence. 
The role of ras gene mutations in myeloproliferative disorders. Mutations in the ras genes frequently are found in myeloproliferative disorders. These abnormalities have prognostic significance in the myelodysplastic syndromes, but their clinical importance in other hematopathic states remains unclear. The study of this gene in leukemic conditions is providing insights into the genetic pathways leading to leukemic progression. 
Intraosseous lipomatosis. A case report. We report a case of systemic intraosseous lipomatosis involving the proximal femur, both ends of the tibia, and the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The lesions progressed during a five-year follow-up with a pathological fracture of the tibial plateau. CT scans were characteristic and helpful in diagnosis but MR imaging added little information. Intraosseous lipomatosis is a hamartomatous malformation due to hyperplasia of adipose tissue, and is fundamentally different from solitary benign intraosseous lipoma. Management involves reconstruction of any pathological fracture. Large progressive lesions should be treated by curettage and grafting in an attempt to prevent such fractures. 
The predictive value of needle localization mammographically assisted biopsy of the breast. This study was done to review critically the experience at the University of California at San Diego in needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast with regard to use and accuracy in identifying early carcinoma of the breast. Ninety-seven patients underwent needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast between 1985 and 1987. Indications for this procedure included the presence of microcalcifications or a mass shown on mammographic examination, or both, in conjunction with physical examination which did not define a discrete abnormality in the area. Mammographic, demographic, pathologic, hormone receptor data and staging information were recorded and processed on the MicroVax II computer (Digital Equipment Corporation). Twenty-four per cent of lesions with needle localization mammographic assisted biopsy proved to be malignant. Sixteen lesions were diagnosed as an infiltrating ductal carcinoma and ten of these had an accompanying intraductal carcinoma. Over-all, intraductal carcinoma was present in 16 of the 23 specimens diagnosed as malignant. At biopsy, the margins were clear in 17 of 23, and vascular invasion was present in only one patient with an infiltrating lobular carcinoma. Five were tumor in situ, 12 were stage 1 and five were stage 2 (staging information was not available in one instance). Hormone receptor data were available in 17 of 23 specimens. Estrogen receptors were positive in 13 and progesterone receptors were positive in six. The smallest preinvasive malignant lesion was 4 millimeters, as seen on the mammogram, and the smallest free-standing invasive lesion was 8 millimeters. Preinvasive lesions (intraductal) presented as microcalcifications in 80 per cent. Invasive lesions presented as either a mass (n = 9) or as a mass and microcalcifications (n = 5) in 81 per cent. All five lesions presenting as both a mass and microcalcifications on mammogram proved to be malignant. Multifocal lesions on mammographic examination which proved to be malignant were multifocal pathologically in only 50 per cent. Needle localization mammographic biopsy is useful in detecting early carcinoma of the breast. Biopsy should be done on lesions presenting on mammogram as both a mass and microcalcifications and not observed. Focality of lesions on mammogram does not correlate with focality on biopsy and may be misleading as criteria for operative planning. 
Traumatic enucleation for posterior uveal melanoma. Two features of eyes enucleated for posterior uveal melanoma that may serve as indicators for traumatic enucleation and relate to dissemination of tumor cells at the time of enucleation are myelin artifact of the optic nerve head and acute hemorrhage within the tumor. Myelin artifact occurs when crushed optic nerve tissue is squeezed into the eye at the time of enucleation. Intralesional hemorrhage may occur during surgery and may be correlated with fluctuations in intraocular pressure. We reviewed 519 cases of posterior uveal melanoma treated by enucleation between 1950 and 1970. Without knowledge of the follow-up data, we examined histologic sections for myelin artifact, intralesional hemorrhage, subretinal hemorrhage, Callender cell type, size of tumor, necrosis, and scleral or orbital invasion. Neither myelin artifact nor intralesional hemorrhage were independent prognostic risk factors. These findings do not support or refute the hypothesis that excessive trauma during enucleation results in a worse prognosis. 
Endoscopic retrograde brush cytology. A new technique. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography has been shown to be a very valuable adjunct in the diagnosis of malignancy involving the biliary and/or pancreatic ductal system. However, characteristic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography radiographic findings associated with malignant strictures are frequently not specific and cytological confirmation becomes essential for the diagnosis. Unfortunately, the current overall diagnostic yield of positive cytology in such circumstances ranges from 18%-56% depending on the technique. A new brush device has been designed which is uniquely adapted to pancreaticobiliary strictures of varying anatomical configurations. This study shows results using this new cytology brush in a series of 53 patients with pancreaticobiliary malignancy. A significant improvement in the cytological yield of tumor confirmation was obtained with a diagnostic sensitivity of 70% and specificity of 100% using the new brush technique. 
Enhanced expression of oncogene-encoded mRNA in a rat model of colon cancer. We have studied the expression of oncogene-encoded mRNAs in a rat model of colon cancer. In this model, rats are intrarectally administered several low doses of the direct-acting carcinogen, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). Tumors, predominantly adenomas, develop 5-7 months following administration of the carcinogen, and many of these progress to carcinomas. Upon assaying the steady-state levels of oncogene-encoded transcripts in normal rat colon, we found that fos and N-myc are highly expressed; H-ras, K-ras, myc, myb, and neu messages are present at lower levels; and N-ras, abl, and raf mRNAs are absent. When we compared transcript levels in rat tumors to those in normal colons from the same animal, we observed a 2-4 fold increase in both myc- and H-ras-encoded mRNAs and a 2-7 fold increase in myb message, but no change in expression of any of the 7 other genes. To test whether this increased expression is related to tumor production or is simply a result of the more rapid cellular turnover observed in tumor tissue, the level of oncogene-encoded transcripts was assayed in colonic mucosae of rats given two treatments known to enhance cell turnover and DNA synthesis in the colon. Neither acute application of MNU nor a diet containing 1% cholic acid caused any change in the level of oncogene-encoded mRNAs in rat colons, thus suggesting that the increased abundance of myc, myb, and H-ras messages in tumors is associated with tumor formation. The enhancement of expression of these genes in adenomas, as well as in carcinomas, further suggests that these alterations occur relatively early during the tumorigenic process. 
Primary papillary carcinoma of a thyroglossal duct cyst: report of a case and literature review. Thyroglossal duct cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development. They are twice as frequent as branchial cleft abnormalities and, in children, are second only to enlarged cervical lymph nodes as the cause of neck mass. Generally, duct cysts are benign, but 1 per cent of cases may be malignant. From the world literature, 114 cases of malignant thyroglossal cysts were available for review. With the addition of our own case, we discuss 115 instances of duct cysts. The different types of neoplasia described included thyroid papillary carcinoma in 81.7 per cent, mixed papillary-follicular carcinoma in 6.9 per cent, squamous cell carcinoma in 5.2 per cent, follicular and adenocarcinoma in 1.7 per cent each, and malignant struma, epidermoid carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma in 0.9 per cent each. Of the 115 cases surveyed, 35 thyroid glands were examined microscopically; of these, four (11.4 per cent) contained malignant foci. Whether these are primary malignancies of the thyroglossal duct cysts or metastases is discussed. 
Cutaneous manifestations of postthymic T cell malignancies: description of five clinicopathologic subtypes. This study was undertaken to identify the cutaneous manifestations among different prognostic subgroups of postthymic T cell malignancies. Cutaneous involvement was demonstrated in 43 of 88 cases. We recognized five clinicopathologic subtypes: type I, classical cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL) or mycosis fungoides, six cases; type II, primary large cell type CTCL, Ki-1 antigen (Ki-1+ or Ki-1-), seven cases; type III, primary angioinvasive T cell lymphoma, three cases; type IV, human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I+) adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL), eight cases; type V, secondary cutaneous involvement by peripheral T cell lymphoma (PTL), 19 cases. Primary CTCL and ATL tend to involve papillary dermis with or without epidermotropism, whereas PTL and angioinvasive T cell lymphoma predominantly affect skin adnexae, vessels, and subcutis. Cutaneous lesions in type V PTL are heterogeneous and may be confused with panniculitis, vasculitis, or an eczematous eruption. Classic CTCL, Ki-1+ lymphoma, and angioinvasive T cell lymphoma have a chronic course, whereas ATL, Ki-1- large cell lymphoma, and PTL are clinically aggressive. 
Socioeconomic factors and cancer incidence among blacks and whites Findings from previous studies suggest that differences in socioeconomic status may be responsible for some, if not all, of the elevated incidence of cancer among blacks as compared with whites. Using incidence data from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program, we tested this hypothesis by correlating black and white cancer incidence rates in three US metropolitan areas between 1978 and 1982 with data from the 1980 census on socioeconomic status within individual census tracts. The study analyzed data on the incidence of cancer at all sites combined (greater than 100 cancer sites) and at seven major sites separately. As in other studies, income and educational levels served as surrogates for socioeconomic status. The present study also used census-tract data on population density as a surrogate factor. Each of these measures of socioeconomic status was analyzed independently. Before correlation with census-tract data, age-adjusted data on cancer incidence showed statistically significant elevated risks among blacks for cancer at all sites combined and at four of the seven separate sites; whites showed an elevated risk for cancer at two sites. Cancer at only one site, the colon, showed no significant association with race. When age-adjusted incidence data were correlated with socioeconomic status, the comparative black-white risks changed: Whites showed an elevated risk of cancer at all sites combined and at three of the seven separate sites; blacks maintained their elevated risk at three sites. These findings suggest that the disproportionate distribution of blacks at lower socioeconomic levels accounts for much of the excess cancer burden among blacks. They also suggest that for both blacks and whites unidentified racial factors, which may be either cultural or genetic and which are not closely linked to socioeconomic status, may play a role in the incidence of some cancers. 
The use of a biodegradable mesh to prevent radiation-associated small-bowel injury. Radiation-associated small bowel injury occurs in up to 50% of patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy following pelvic cancer surgery. We describe our experience using a biodegradable mesh that allows the small bowel to be supported above the pelvic inlet and is totally absorbed following radiation therapy. Between 1985 and 1989, 45 procedures were performed in patients with carcinoma of the rectum (anterior resection in 15 patients, abdominoperineal resection in 23 patients, pelvic exenteration in six patients, and proctocolectomy in one patient). In 30 patients a polyglycolic acid (Dexon) mesh was used, and in 15 patients a polyglactin 910 (Vicryl) mesh was used. Forty-four patients received postoperative radiotherapy. The mean (+/- SEM) dose was 56.8 +/- 18.4 Gy. There were no immediate complications related to the mesh. Follow-up ranged from 12 to 53 months (median follow-up, 34 months). With the exception of two patients who had a polyglactin 910 mesh and who developed bowel obstruction due to adhesions under the anterior abdominal wall, there has been no documented incidence of clinical radiation-associated small bowel injury. The use of the absorbable mesh may permit us to use higher doses of postoperative radiotherapy without the associated hazard of radiation-associated small bowel injury. 
Colorectal cancer: differences between community and geographically distant patients seen at an urban medical center. Many studies in clinical oncology rely on hospital-derived patients. Hospitals vary in the proportions of patients from the local catchment area vs. those from more distant places, of whom a larger proportion are presumably referrals. To study the differences between these two types of patients, we analyzed 1,245 colorectal cancer patients seen at a large urban medical center over a seven-year period. Three hundred ninety-eight patients were from the local community (32 percent), 489 were from the extended community (39.3 percent), and 358 from more distant communities (28.8 percent). The patients from the local community tended to be older and from minority ethnic groups. In addition, the local community patients were more likely to have advanced disease at the time of presentation. The grade of the tumor and its site distribution within the large bowel were similar for the three groups. After adjusting for age, sex, race, and stage of disease, the survival was somewhat better for the distant community patients as compared with the local and extended communities (P less than 0.02). Overall, in our patient population, the distant patients tended to have more favorable socioeconomic factors and less advanced disease, and these differences may account, in large part, for a better prognosis for these patients. Particularly in large cooperative trials, studies may need to take into account the respective proportions of local community and geographically distant patients in analyzing and generalizing treatment outcomes. 
Insulin-like growth factor-II: possible local growth factor in pheochromocytoma. Pheochromocytomas, neural crest tumors, express an abundance of insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II). To assess further the potential for IGF-II to play an autocrine role for these tumors, we measured 1) IGF-II content by RRA in 7 pheochromocytomas and peripheral blood in these patients, 2) IGF-II receptors by Western analysis, and 3) characterized the tumor binding proteins by ligand blot studies. IGF-II levels in the tumors varied from 2.8-41 micrograms/g. Chromatography revealed that 60% of the peptide eluted as a large mol wt form of IGF-II (8.7-10 kDa); the remainder coeluted with mature peptide (7.5 kDa). This was in contrast to IGF-II levels in normal adrenal tissue (0.225 +/- 0.005 micrograms/g) or another neural crest-derived tumor, medullary carcinoma of the thyroid (0.63 +/- 0.02 micrograms/g). Serum IGF-II levels in the 7 patients with pheochromocytoma (720 +/- 71 ng/mL) were similar to those in 35 normal controls (762 +/- 69 ng/mL). Radiolabeled IGF-II (9 +/- 1%) and IGF-I (20 +/- 2%) bound specifically to pheochromocytoma membranes. Western analysis of these membranes using a specific antiserum directed against the type II receptor demonstrated a band at 210 kDa. Affinity cross-linking studies with [125I]IGF-I demonstrated a specific band at 140 kDa. Ligand blot analysis was performed on the void volume pools from the Sephadex G-75 column and demonstrated bands at about 30 and 25 kDa. In conclusion, these data 1) confirm that pheochromocytomas have increased levels of IGF-II; 2) demonstrate that despite high IGF-II concentrations in the tumors, peripheral levels are not elevated, suggesting that very little tumoral IGF-II is released into the circulation, unlike catecholamines; 3) demonstrate the presence of IGF-II and IGF-I receptors; 4) describe binding protein species similar to those present in other tissues. Thus, the presence of high levels of IGF-II and both type I and type II receptors suggests that IGF II may act through both receptors to alter tumor growth. 
Familial incidence of Paget's disease and secondary osteogenic sarcoma. A report of three cases from a single family. This report describes a family of three siblings with a long history of polyostotic Paget's disease. Because of the severe osseous involvement with Paget's disease, all three patients had problems that required orthopedic surgery. Subsequent to these surgeries, two patients developed osteogenic sarcoma at sites unrelated to their past procedures, one in the sacrum and one in the calvarium. Both patients died shortly after their diagnosis because of the aggressive spread of the tumor. Although the etiology of Paget's disease and its complication of osteogenic sarcoma still remain to be clarified, this and other case reports suggest a possible environmental or hereditary contribution to developing osteogenic sarcoma in Paget's disease. Patients with a familial clustering of polyostotic Paget's disease may benefit from more thorough screening tests to detect malignant transformation. 
Murine monoclonal anti-idiotype antibody as a potential network antigen for human carcinoembryonic antigen. Carcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract are not curable by standard therapies. Thus, new therapeutic approaches for this disease are needed. This study proposes the use of anti-Id mAb as Ag substitutes to induce anti-tumor immunity in gastrointestinal cancer patients. Recently, we have generated and characterized one monoclonal anti-Id antibody, designated 3H1 (Ab2), which mimics biologically and antigenically a distinct and specific epitope of the 180,000 m.w. carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) primarily expressed in high density by human pancreatic and colonic tumor cells. This epitope is unique to CEA and not present on other CEA-related lower m.w. members of the Ag family also found on normal tissues. The antigenic determinant as defined by the mAb 8019 (Ab1) against which the Ab2, 3H1 was raised, is absent on normal adult tissues by immunoperoxidase staining and haematopoietic cells including granulocytes by flow cytometry analysis. Anti-Id (Ab2) 3H1 induced CEA-specific antibodies in mice and rabbits. The immune sera from both mice and rabbits competed with Ab1 for binding to the colon carcinoma cell line LS174T and inhibited the binding of radioiodinated Ab1 to Ab2. This indicates that anti-anti-Id (Ab3) in mice and rabbits share idiotopes with Ab1 (8019). Furthermore, monoclonal Ab3 that bind to CEA have been generated from mice immunized with 3H1. The Ab3 (both polyclonal as well as monoclonal) immunoprecipitated the same 180,000 m.w. CEA as Ab1 (8019) by Western blotting analysis and showed almost identical immuno-staining patterns as Ab1 on colonic adenocarcinoma tissue sections from several patients. Collectively these data suggest that Ab2 3H1 could potentially be used clinically as a network Ag for immunotherapy of patients with CEA positive tumors. 
Performance and prognosis in patients with lung cancer. The Edinburgh Lung Cancer Group. The Edinburgh Lung Cancer Group prospectively registered 651 new patients presenting with lung cancer during 1981; only 47 survived five years (7%). The survival rate was highest in patients selected for surgery (35/116, 30%) and in this group was related to cell type, stage of disease, and possibly to Karnofsky performance score (not statistically significant). By comparison with non-surgical patients these 116 patients undergoing surgery were highly selected in terms of age, favourable histological type, stage of disease, and performance score. Forty-two of the 535 non-surgical patients were given radical radiotherapy alone and seven (17%) survived five years. The remaining 493 received palliative radiotherapy, chemotherapy (alone or combined with radiotherapy), or symptomatic treatment alone; only five (1%) survived five years. Median survival was related to cell type (adenocarcinoma 2.6 months, squamous cell carcinoma 6.2 months), stage (stage I 8.5 months, stage III 4 months), and Karnofsky performance index (greater than or equal to 90 9.3 months, less than or equal to 50 1.2 months). Age and sex had no independent prognostic value in any group. Performance score was highly correlated with stage (and age) and in this study represented the "best prognostic factor" in clinical practice. 
Tuberous sclerosis. Tuberous sclerosis (epiloia, Bourneville-Pringle syndrome) is an inherited disease with an autosomal pattern. Both sexes are affected equally with varied expression in successive generations. Two cases of this unusual disorder in siblings are reported. They illustrate heredofamilial nature, dissimilar expression, mutations, and oral manifestations. 
Radionuclide imaging in otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. Radionuclide imaging provides both qualitative and quantitative information that can have dramatic effects on patient management in diseases of the head and neck. The general concepts of nuclear medicine imaging, including radiopharmaceuticals and radiation effects, are discussed. The principles and techniques of thyroid, parathyroid, bone, and salivary radionuclide imaging studies will be reviewed. The intent of this article is to provide a concise and current review of head and neck radionuclide imaging that will be useful in the day-to-day practice of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. 
Abnormal epidermal changes after argon laser treatment. A 26-year-old woman with a congenital port-wine stain on the forehead was treated three times at 2-month intervals with an argon laser. Six months after the last treatment, moderate blanching and mild scaling confined to the treated area was observed. A biopsy specimen of the treated area revealed a significant decrease in ectatic vessels. However, epidermal changes similar to those of actinic keratosis with disorganized cell layers and marked cytologic abnormalities were seen. Analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes for a defect in DNA repair was negative. Multiple, argon laser-induced photothermal effects may be responsible for the changes observed in our case and may lead to premalignant epidermal transformation. 
Anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody and etoposide/cytosine arabinoside combinations for the ex vivo purification of bone marrow in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. Pharmacologic and immunologic methods of ex-vivo bone marrow (BM) purging for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) were combined to augment the effect of either method alone. Etoposide (VP16; 20 to 30 micrograms/mL) with or without cytosine arabinoside (Ara C; 10 mg/mL) was used in tandem with the anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody (MoAb), MY9, chosen because CD33 is found on the stem cell pool in the majority of patients with ANLL. The agents were tested singly or sequentially, with a 1-hour incubation of the drugs preceding complement-mediated lysis using MY9. VP16 combined with Ara C killed up to 3.9 +/- 0.3 and 5.11 +/- 0.4 logs of the human ANLL cell lines HL60 and K562 at drug concentrations that killed only 1.2 +/- 0.1 logs of normal committed granulocyte/macrophage stem cells (CFU-GM). Adding a single exposure of the MY9 and complement (C') to the drug-treated cells, greater than 5.4 logs of HL60 were killed. Similar to other pharmacologic agents, no differential kill for clonagenic leukemic cells (colony-forming unit-leukemia; CFU-L) from patients with ANLL was seen for drug only treated blasts versus normal CFU-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM), with less than 1 log CFU-L kill at drug concentrations that spared 1 log of CFU-GM. Similarly, only 1.1 +/- 0.3 logs of ANLL CFU-L were eliminated using MY9 and C'. However, with the sequential VP16/Ara C----MY9 + C' treatment, synergy was demonstrated and 2.6 +/- 0.3 logs of CFU-L were eliminated. Because CD33 is also found on the normal CFU-GM pool, two-stage long-term BM cultures were performed to determine pluripotent stem cell elimination by the drug/MoAb purging combination. No difference of CFU-GM or BFU-E production at 4 to 6 weeks of culture for VP16/Ara C, MY9 + C', or VP16/AraC----My9 + C' treated cells was seen compared with untreated controls indicating sparing of early progenitor cells. Sequential ex vivo treatment of human ANLL CFU-L with VP16/Ara C followed by complement-mediated lysis using MY9 synergistically kills CFU-L while sparing early normal hematopoietic progenitor cells, and thus may be a more effective way to purge BM than either alone. 
Prognostic indicators in invasive breast cancer. Tumor size and axillary lymph node involvement are the primary determinants of clinical course for most patients. Receptors for estrogen and progesterone are important additional prognostic factors for disease-free survival, overall survival, survival time after initial disease recurrence, and the likelihood of response to hormonal therapy. Histologic grading has merit as a prognostic factor, although poor reproducibility limits its broad application. Promising data have been emerging from the use of flow cytometry to analyze DNA content and proliferative rate. Patients with aneuploid tumors are more likely to have a shorter survival time than patients with diploid tumors. A high S-phase fraction also identifies a subset of patients at increased risk for early relapse. A combined index of ploidy and S-phase may be a more useful guide; together, diploidy and low S-phase identify a subgroup of node-negative patients at very low risk for disease recurrence. A number of oncogenes have been identified in breast cancer; amplification of the HER-2/neu gene or overexpression of the gene product may be an important prognostic indicator for node-positive patients. 
Potential role of beta-carotene in prevention of oral cancer. Recent data suggests that retinoids and carotenoids may be effective in reversing a putative "field cancerization" defect in the epithelium at risk for oral cancer. Animal experiments have shown that these compounds can inhibit cancer formation. Several clinical trials have demonstrated the ability of retinoids to reverse oral leukoplakia. However, toxicities associated with retinoids at the doses used in these studies limits their potential for chemoprevention. Because of its lack of toxicity, beta-carotene is a very attractive agent for chemoprevention. It suppresses micronuclei in exfoliated oral mucosal cells from subjects at risk for oral cancer and recently has been shown to be active in reversing leukoplakia. Another area under investigation is the possibility of preventing second primary tumors in patients cured of their initial cancer who have an increased risk of developing new cancers of the upper acrodigestive tract. 
Inflammatory breast cancer. Historically, the prognosis of inflammatory breast cancer has been poor. We conducted a retrospective review to evaluate the recent Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center experience, to evaluate the role of combination chemotherapy, and to compare the effect of surgery and radiation on local/regional failure. Fifty-six patients with local/regional inflammatory breast cancer diagnosed between 1975 and 1984 were identified. All were treated with combination chemotherapy. Overall 5-year survival was 45% with a 5-year disease-free survival rate of 37%. Twenty-one patients were treated with induction chemotherapy followed by mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy. Survival and disease-free survival rates were similar to those achieved in patients treated with mastectomy followed by chemotherapy. Residual cancer was found in all 21 patients treated with induction chemotherapy, with extensive disease present in 18, including six of seven complete responders. The local/regional failure rate was 34%. 
Oncocytic glomus tumor of the trachea. An oncocytic variant of glomus tumor of the trachea occurred in a 47-year-old woman. She experienced intermittent cough and hemoptysis for about three years. Bronchoscopy and chest CT scan showed a small reddish polypoid tumor on the lower end of the trachea. Bronchoscopic biopsy was carefully done and was diagnosed as oncocytoma. A wedge resection of the tumor was done. Tumor cells were characterized by strongly eosinophilic granular cytoplasm on light microscopy and by numerous closely packed round or ovoid mitochondria with prominent tubular cristae on electron microscopy. They were arranged in a sheet around small vessels, as a result of which the biopsy diagnosis of oncocytoma was changed to oncocytic glomus tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an oncocytic glomus tumor arising from the trachea. 
Stomatococcus mucilaginosus catheter-related infection in an adolescent with osteosarcoma. Ours is apparently the first reported pediatric case of Stomatococcus mucilaginosus bacteremia. It is the second reported case of S mucilaginosus catheter-associated infection, but the first case successfully treated without removing the central venous catheter. This unusual organism should be added to the list of opportunistic pathogens that can be isolated from immunocompromised pediatric patients. 
Bile acids and the increased risk of colorectal tumours after truncal vagotomy. An association between colorectal cancer and previous peptic ulcer surgery is reported. In a prospective screening study, 100 asymptomatic patients (80 men and 20 women) who had undergone truncal vagotomy at least 10 years previously were investigated by barium enema, colonoscopy and gallbladder ultrasonography. Control data were obtained from forensic autopsy subjects. The incidence of neoplasms greater than or equal to 1.0 cm in the vagotomized group was 14 per cent (11 adenomas, 3 carcinomas) and 3 per cent in controls (P = 0.01). Duodenal bile obtained at endoscopy from 21 vagotomized patients with normal gallbladders and from 21 control patients undergoing endoscopy was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography. The mean percentage of cholic (CA), chenodeoxycholic (CDCA), deoxycholic (DCA) and lithocholic (LCA) acids in the bile of vagotomized patients was 32.3, 45.6, 20.7 and 1.4 per cent respectively compared with 45.3, 36.2, 17.9 and 0.7 per cent respectively in controls. The increased proportions of CDCA and LCA and decreased proportions of CA in the duodenal bile of vagotomized patients were significant (P less than 0.001; P = 0.02; P = 0.007). Abnormalities in bile acid metabolism may help to explain the increased risk of colorectal neoplasia 10 years after truncal vagotomy. 
Classification of endometrial cells on cervical cytology. One hundred eighty-eight women who had endometrial cells on cervical cytologic specimens during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period were studied retrospectively. Each had undergone hysterectomy or endometrial biopsy within 12 months of the original smear. The endometrial cells were classified as typical, atypical, or suspicious for carcinoma. Among premenopausal subjects, three of 57 with typical cells had endometrial hyperplasia, one of two with atypical cells had endometrial polyps, and both with cells suspicious for carcinoma had endometrial carcinoma. In the postmenopausal group, ten (13.5%) of 74 with typical endometrial cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma, and five (22.7%) of 22 with atypical cells and 24 77.4%) of 31 patients with suspicious cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma. The present findings and a review of the pertinent literature demonstrate that the classification system used is helpful in predicting the risk for endometrial disease in patients with endometrial cells seen on cervical cytologic smears during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period. 
Long-term survival patients with acute and severe renal failure due to multiple myeloma. We selected 37 cases, followed-up for more than 36 months or until death, from a series of 45 patients affected by acute renal failure due to multiple myeloma in order to identify the parameters that could allow the outcome to be predicted. The patients were allocated to group 1, consisting of 27 patients who died within one year and to group 2, consisting of 10 patients who survived for more than 36 months. Renal failure was severe enough to require dialysis in 28 patients, 16 of whom were oliguric. Renal biopsy was performed in 23 cases, whereas light chain isoelectric point and serum beta 2-microglobulin levels were evaluated in each patient. All the patients underwent chemotherapy, which was associated with plasma exchange in 16 patients. Statistical analysis of the potential prognostic factors in the 2 groups showed that the incidence of hypercalcemia, infection, irreversible renal failure and severe tubulo-interstitial damage was significantly higher in group 1. Sex, tumor load, severity of renal failure and light chain isoelectric point had no prognostic significance. Finally, the number of patients treated by plasma exchange was significantly higher in group 2. Our results underline the prognostic role of both hypercalcemia and infection and justify aggressive treatment consisting of chemotherapy, plasma exchange and dialysis, even in cases of severe renal failure and high tumor load. 
The impact of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force guidelines on cancer screening: perspective from the National Cancer Institute. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force evaluated the medical literature, utilizing strict criteria to judge the merits of experimental trials designed to show benefit in screening for cancer. For individuals at normal risk, the task force was not able to make recommendations for or against screening for colorectal, prostate, skin, oral, or testicular cancers. Only one physical-examination cancer-screening procedure has ever been tested in a randomized trial. During the past 27 years, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) has funded six randomized screening trials. Thus far, only one has shown a decrease in mortality. Recognizing the limitations of such trials, the NCI published "Working Guidelines for Early Cancer Detection." Designed for the practicing physician, these guidelines were based upon the best available evidence and on the judgment of representatives of medical professional organizations. 
Predictive value of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium as a clinical marker for familial adenomatous polyposis. One hundred forty-eight members of 53 kindreds with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) were examined for congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (CHRPE) and extracolonic manifestations (ECM) to assess the value of CHRPE as a predictive marker for FAP. Based on eye examination results, the families were divided into 2 groups. In a first group of 34 families, all 61 members diagnosed as having polyps and 13 of the 33 patients at risk had 4 or more lesions distributed in both eyes. By contrast, in a second group of 18 families, all 32 polyposis patients and all 18 members at risk had less than 4 lesions. Extra-colonic manifestations were present in 26 of 34 families in the first group and in 11 of 18 families in the second group. Data on one family with ambiguous ancestry were reviewed separately. The existence of 4 or more CHRPE lesions distributed in both eyes seems to be a congenital marker for FAP, present in 65.4 percent of families. When present in a family: 1) it is found in all diagnosed patients in that family, 2) can therefore be considered predictive for the development of polyps in other family members who carry the trait, and 3) if confirmed by longer follow-up, may possibly preclude members without the trait from further evaluation and surveillance. 
Continuing care for cancer pain relief with oral morphine solution. One-year experience in a regional cancer center. This report is a prospective study of 223 patients with intractable cancer pain who were offered continuing care during the year 1988 at the Pain Relief Unit, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, Bangalore, India, with a minimum follow-up of 4 months and a maximum follow-up of 16 months. A high percentage of pain relief was attained within a mean duration of 4 days, which on follow-up was maintained at a steady level in most patients (91.1%). Oral morphine could not be continued in three patients because of vomiting. The main side effects noticed were nausea and vomiting, itching, and constipation. At any time during the first 140 days, only 30% of patients had side effects and appropriate medication successfully managed these side effects. During the rest of the study period, the side effects were minimal. Oral morphine used with proper adjuncts offers the best pain palliation in most patients, with minimal side effects. 
Relationship of uptake of technetium-99m(Sn)-N-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan by hepatocellular carcinoma to prognosis The relationship of technetium-99m(Sn)-N-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan (99mTc-PMT) uptake by hepatic tumors to survival was studied in 162 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The median survival of 82 patients in whom hepatic tumors showed increased uptake in delayed 99mTc-PMT imaging was 1013 days, which was significantly longer than the survival time of 398.5 days of 80 patients in whom hepatic tumors did not show increased uptake of radioactivity (p less than 0.002). The relationship between the ability of hepatic tumors to take up 99mTc-PMT and survival was also analyzed in patients with HCC showing filling defects in 99mTc-colloid liver images and, in relation to the therapy, serum values of bilirubin and alpha-fetoprotein. Results indicated that the degree of 99mTc-PMT uptake by hepatic tumors is closely correlated with the prognosis of patients with HCC. 
The significance of moderate and severe inflammation on class I Papanicolaou smear The significance of a cytologic diagnosis of moderate and severe inflammation with a normal (class I) Papanicolaou smear has not been addressed. A retrospective review of 596 consecutive cervical smears performed over 13 months revealed 85 women who had a class I cytologic smear with moderate to severe inflammation. Seventy-eight patients had colposcopic examinations and were considered for this study. Fifty-nine (75.6%) had cervical punch biopsies and/or endocervical biopsies. Of the 78, 19 (24.4%) had cervical condylomata and nine (11.5%) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. We conclude that class I cytologic smears with moderate to severe inflammation may be associated with findings of condylomata and cervical dysplasia. 
Implementation of preventive services in an HMO practice. Practice does not conform to guidelines unless the guidelines are specifically implemented and performance is monitored. Several examples of implementation in one health maintenance organization (HMO) are given. These include immunization for influenza and follow up of positive screening tests for colorectal and cervical cancer. Each implementation effort has required the development of systems, which in this HMO are automated. Several issues influencing implementation are discussed, including resource constraints and priorities for the allocation of new resources. Developers cannot expect that their guidelines will be incorporated into clinical practice. They must foster specific implementation plans. 
Liver and pancreas: improved spin-echo T1 contrast by shorter echo time and fat suppression at 1.5 T. T1-weighted spin-echo magnetic resonance (MR) images have had limited soft-tissue contrast at 1.5 T. The authors investigated the effects of echo-time (TE) minimization and fat suppression on MR images of the liver and pancreas. Two sets of MR images were obtained with identical repetition times and other parameters. In 10 subjects with seven liver lesions, images with TEs of 20 and 12 msec were compared. In 18 additional subjects with seven liver lesions and five pancreatic carcinomas, images with identical TEs but with and without fat suppression were compared. Contrast-to-noise ratios (CNRs) were greater with a TE of 12 msec than with a TE of 20 msec for liver versus spleen (7.6 vs 4.9, P = .014) and liver versus lesion (6.9 vs 3.9, P = .031). In patients without fatty liver, CNR for six lesions versus liver was greater (9.5 vs 6.0, P = .014) with fat suppression. CNR between glandular pancreas and cancer was most conspicuous with fat suppression, but fat planes were less distinct. Minimization of TE improves T1-weighted images significantly. Fat suppression also improves CNR, but the disadvantages of fat suppression do not allow elimination of conventional T1-weighted images. 
Diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system. The diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system (NS) (group 1) and was compared to three control groups; group 2: 25 patients with a neurological disease, without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder; group 3: 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder; group 4: 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease. In group 1, anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients (38%), in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000. A small cell lung cancer was present in six patients, ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected. The neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients. Anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients (2%) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups. These data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38%, but a high specificity of 98.6% (95% confidence interval 95.5-99.8%) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic NS disorder is suspected. 
Prognosis of pregnancy-associated breast cancer. The survival of patients with pregnancy-associated (PA) breast cancer is difficult to predict for two reasons: The combination is very rare, and the natural history of breast cancer that is not associated with pregnancy is intricate and varies among individuals. Valid data collection and analysis is problematic given that studies gather patients over many years. The charts of 56 women with Stages I, II, and III breast cancer, who were pregnant or within 1 year postpartum at the time of breast cancer diagnosis between 1960 and 1980, were analyzed. Patients with PA breast cancer were compared to nonpregnant women of comparable ages, who were treated at the same hospital, by the same physicians, and during the same period. Four patients were lost before 5-year follow-up, and one patient before 10-year follow-up. These five patients had distant metastases at the time they were lost to follow-up, and are considered to have died within that time. Across stages, patients with PA breast cancer have survival not significantly different from those patients with non-pregnancy-associated (non-PA) breast cancer. 
Long-term follow-up of 24 patients undergoing radical resection for ampullary carcinoma, 1953 to 1988. Potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary adenocarcinoma was performed in 24 patients over a 35-year period. The overall operative mortality was 12.5%. Actuarial survival rate at 5 years was 61% +/- 13.4 standard error of the mean (SEM) and subsequently remained unchanged. In the same time period, 21 patients underwent potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for periampullary tumors of pancreatic origin. Similar analysis showed an overall operative mortality of 23.8% and a survival rate at 5 years of 27% +/- 12.5 SEM. The results of radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary carcinoma in the most recent years (1976 to 1988) were compared with those of former years (1953 to 1975). There were no statistically significant differences in the 5-year survival rate; however, the operative mortality decreased from 25% in the former period to 6.3% in the recent period. Survival was dependent on nodal status. The 5-year survival rate was 78% +/- 11.5 SEM in the absence of nodal metastasis versus 50% +/- 25 SEM in the presence of regional nodal metastasis. These findings support the concept that radical pancreaticoduodenectomy offers a realistic probability for cure in a selected group of patients with carcinomas of the ampulla of Vater. 
Clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of trilateral retinoblastoma. In this report, three new cases of trilateral retinoblastoma are presented. The clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of the patients are described and compared with those of 32 cases that have been previously reported in the literature. A positive family history was obtained in 68% of the patients. The mean age at diagnosis of bilateral retinoblastoma was 7.2 months. The mean age at diagnosis of trilateral disease was 39.7 months, resulting in a mean latent interval of 32.6 months. The mean time from diagnosis of trilateral retinoblastoma to death was 6.6 months, and all patients died with spinal metastases. The patients who received no therapy survived an average of 1.3 months after the diagnosis of trilateral disease. The patients who received any form of definitive therapy survived 9.7 months. Five patients who had complete or dramatic response to therapy by computed tomography scans had local intracranial tumor present at autopsy. Therefore, more aggressive local therapy may be warranted. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of vertebral osteoblastoma: a report of two cases. Two patients with vertebral osteoblastoma evaluated with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are presented. A literature review revealed that cases of osteoblastoma originating within the vertebral body are exceedingly rare. 
Years of potential life lost: another indicator of the impact of cutaneous malignant melanoma on society. Years of potential life lost (YPLL) is an indicator of premature mortality that complements traditional incidence and mortality rates and that facilitates comparisons among different cancers. We calculated YPLL from cutaneous melanoma and 11 other cancers routinely recorded and tracked by Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER). YPLL from cutaneous melanoma ranked eighth for persons younger than 65 years of age and fourth for those 20 to 49 years of age. An average of 17.1 YPLL per death were due to melanoma, one of the highest rates for adult-onset cancers. The results of our study, the first to apply YPLL to cutaneous melanoma, emphasize the disproportionate impact of this cancer on young and middle-aged adults and reemphasize the importance of this cancer as a public health priority. 
Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration: a clinical comparison of patients with and without Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies. In a review of 32 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD), 16 (all of whom were women) had Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies (PCAb) and 16 (8 women) did not. Most patients (15 of 16 seropositive and 12 of 16 seronegative patients) had active cancer at the time of neurologic diagnosis. Gynecologic or breast cancers were found in 14 of 16 seropositive and in 2 of 8 seronegative female patients; lung cancer was diagnosed in 7 of 16 seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient. In seropositive patients, the onset of the syndrome was more often abrupt and abnormalities of affect, mentation, ocular motility, and cerebrospinal fluid IgG index were more common than in seronegative patients. Additional paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes were present in five seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient. Clinical impairment was equivalent in both groups; approximately 75% of patients were confined to a wheelchair or bed at last follow-up. Four of 16 seropositive patients died (4 to 18 months after onset of PCD), and 7 of 16 seronegative patients died (7 to 120 months after onset of PCD). Thus, PCAb seem to be a marker for a clinical subset of female patients with gynecologic or breast cancer. The high frequency of other autoimmune paraneoplastic syndromes in patients with seronegative PCD suggests that PCD in both seropositive and seronegative patients may have a common pathogenic basis that involves an as yet unidentified antineuronal autoimmune mechanism. 
Expression of VLA-alpha 2, VLA-alpha 6, and VLA-beta 1 chains in normal mucosa and adenomas of the colon, and in colon carcinomas and their liver metastases. 'Very late antigen' (VLA) proteins are members of the integrin superfamily with cell-surface receptor function and are involved in the cell-cell matrix interaction. They are heterodimers with a common beta 1 chain and different alpha chains counted through VLA-1 to VLA-6. The VLA-2 complex (alpha 2/beta 1) was found to act as collagen receptor on platelets and the VLA-6 complex (alpha 6/beta 1) as laminin receptor. Using monoclonal antibodies and an indirect immunoperoxidase method, we investigated the expression of VLA-alpha 2, VLA-alpha 6, and VLA-beta 1 chains in 20 normal colonic mucosa samples, in 20 colonic adenomas, and in 96 carcinomas together with 10 accompanying liver metastases. All three proteins were expressed throughout the colonic epithelium, except for VLA-alpha 2, which was present in the cryptic gland but was absent on the mucosal surface in some cases. In general, adenomas were strongly positive for the VLA proteins but 3 of 20 cases showed focal VLA-alpha 2-negative areas. The carcinomas revealed considerable heterogeneity of VLA-alpha 2 expression; ie, 59 tumors were completely positive, 35 tumors revealed a focal loss of antigen, and 2 cases were negative. This reduced antigen expression was statistically associated with Dukes' stage C/D (P = 0.003). VLA-alpha 6 was expressed throughout in all tumors. VLA-beta 1 was found extensively expressed in 77 carcinomas, partially expressed in 17 carcinomas, and was absent in 2 carcinomas. As compared to their primary tumors, liver metastases showed roughly corresponding patterns of antigen expression. The down regulation/loss of VLA proteins in a subset of epithelial colon tumors might cause a disturbed cell-cell/cell-matrix interaction that might augment the invasive property of their cells. 
Detection of somatic DNA alterations in ovarian cancer by DNA fingerprint analysis. The M13 phage single-strand DNA probe which recognizes highly polymorphic loci was applied to HinfI-digested DNA isolated from tumor tissue and peripheral leukocytes from 20 patients with ovarian cancer. An average of 22 minisatellite-containing DNA fragments were observed per individual. DNA fingerprint analysis revealed a change in restriction-fragment-length patterns in the DNA from 12 of 20 (60%) tumors compared with the patient's constitutional DNA. Deletion of one or more bands from the tumor was recognized by the probe in seven cases, new bands were identified in two, and intensity shift was demonstrated in eight. The authors conclude that the unmapped M13 minisatellite probe is a useful method for identifying cancer-related somatic DNA alterations. 
Technique of photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms. Phase I study. Patients with disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms were given intra-abdominal photodynamic therapy. Patients received dihematoporphyrin ethers intravenously 48 to 72 hours before laparotomy at doses of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg. At operation, as much tumor as possible was resected. Red light (630 nm) was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces from an argon-pumped dye laser at doses ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 J/cm2 in an escalating fashion. Viscera and peritoneal surfaces were anatomically isolated and exposed to light for intervals calculated to deliver the prescribed energy. Light was delivered to mesentery and bowel by a flat-cut optical fiber, while other areas, including diaphragm, viscera, omental bursa, gutters, and pelvis, were delivered light through a diffusing wand. Twenty-three patients (13 with ovarian cancer, eight with sarcoma, and two with pseudomyxoma peritoneii) underwent photodynamic therapy. Five of eight patients cleared positive peritoneal cytologies after treatment. Six patients remained clinically free of disease for up to 18 months, and five patients had treatment-related complications. Intraperitoneal phototherapy is technically feasible and deserving of clinical evaluation. 
A high prevalence of antibody to the hepatitis C virus in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in Japan. In Japan, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent cancers, with a reported fatality rate showing a consistent and significant increase in the last decade. At most, only 25% of HCC cases are positive for the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). To investigate a potential role for hepatitis C virus (HCV) in the development of HCC, sera from 105 HBsAg-negative HCC patients were collected from five districts of Japan and assayed for antibody to HCV antigen (HCVAb). A large number of these patients (76.2%) were found to be positive for the HCVAb in comparison with the reported prevalence in sera from blood donors (1.1%). A history of blood transfusion was found in 39.6% of the cases positive for HCVAb, which was significantly different to the lower rate (4.7%) observed in HCC patients who were both positive for HBsAg and negative for HCVAb (P less than 0.001). 
Assessment of the critical level of androgen for growth response of transplantable human prostatic carcinoma (PC-82) in nude mice. The androgen dependent prostatic carcinoma of human origin, PC-82, was used as a model system to investigate the effect of various levels of androgen on the growth of prostatic tumor tissue. Plasma testosterone levels in mice were correlated to tumor growth and intratumor concentrations of testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone. PC-82 tumor burden remained stable at plasma testosterone levels of 0.8 nmol/l., whereas tumor growth occurred at higher levels and tumor regression was observed at lower plasma levels. This critical level of testosterone corresponded with intratumor testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone concentrations of six to 10 and three to four pmol/gm. tissue, respectively, which are significantly above the levels found in castrated non-supplemented animals (3.1 and 1.4 pmol/gm. respectively). This indicates that remaining concentrations of dihydrotestosterone, which amount to two to three times the castrate level, are not stimulatory for tumor growth in the model of the androgen dependent PC-82 tumor. 
Elevated serum tumor markers in patients with testicular cancer after induction chemotherapy due to a reservoir of markers in cystic differentiated mature teratoma. Elevated serum tumor markers in patients with testicular cancer after induction chemotherapy indicate in most instances the presence of residual malignant disease. We describe 2 patients with elevated tumor markers after chemotherapy and before retroperitoneal lymph node dissection who did not prove to have residual malignant disease but cystic differentiated mature teratoma with a high content of alpha-fetoprotein and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin, respectively, in the cysts. It is postulated that leakage of the contents of these cysts to the plasma compartment was responsible for maintaining elevated serum tumor marker levels. Recognition of such entities is of consequence since unnecessary salvage chemotherapy in these patients may be avoided. 
In vivo ultraviolet irradiation of human skin results in profound perturbation of the immune system. Relevance to ultraviolet-induced skin cancer [published erratum appears in Arch Dermatol 1991 Sep;127(9):1368] Ultraviolet exposure of human skin deletes the function of antigen-presenting Langerhans cells normally resident within the epidermis. Langerhans cells are capable of activating T-lymphocytes by presenting antigens (such as nickel or tumor antigens) to T-lymphocytes. Such activated T-lymphocytes may be involved in the development of contact dermatitis and the immune surveillance of immunogenic skin cancers. Deletion of the function of Langerhans cells does not result in abrogated epidermal antigen presentation since ultraviolet irradiation simultaneously induces the appearance of another epidermal antigen-presenting cell population that is distinct from the Langerhans cell population and seems to induce suppression of the immune response. Suppression of the immune response following ultraviolet irradiation in murine models is critical for growth of immunogenic ultraviolet-induced skin neoplasm. Thus, ultraviolet irradiation of human skin may facilitate the growth of human neoplasms, and the spreading of skin-associated infections due to induction of suppressor T cells. 
Effect of prior cancer chemotherapy on human tumor-specific cytotoxicity in vitro in response to immunopotentiating biologic response modifiers. Tumor-specific cytotoxicity was measured in fresh human biopsy specimens by a modification of the differential staining cytotoxicity assay. ImuVert, a cytokine inducer derived from Serratia marcescens, which produces broad-spectrum activation of both macrophages and lymphocytes, was dramatically more effective when it was tested in tumors obtained from patients with previously treated, chemotherapy-responsive adenocarcinomas (breast and ovary) than when it was tested in tumors obtained from either previously untreated patients or previously treated patients with chemotherapy-refractory adenocarcinomas (colon, lung, pancreas, stomach, kidney, gallbladder, uterus, and prostate). Similar findings, relating to prior chemotherapy treatment status, were obtained for tumor necrosis factor and interferon gamma, but not for interleukin-2 or interferon alpha. On the basis of these findings and on other evidence in the literature, we speculate that response to chemotherapy produces massive release and processing of tumor antigens. We further speculate that this response leads to a state in which the human immune system is primed (via in situ vaccination) to respond to exogenous macrophage-activation signals with potent, specific antitumor effects. 
Immediate versus delayed shoulder exercises after axillary lymph node dissection. A total of 144 evaluable patients with breast cancer were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, prospective study to establish the role of delayed shoulder exercises on wound drainage and shoulder function after axillary lymph node dissection. Patients in group 1 (n = 78) started active shoulder exercises 1 day postoperatively. Patients in group 2 (n = 66) started on the eight postoperative day, following 1 week of immobilization of the arm. Patients in group 2 had 14% less wound drainage volume than those in group 1 (600 +/- 436 mL versus 701 +/- 398 mL); this difference, however, was not significant. Also, no differences could be established between the two groups when duration and volume of wound drainage, number and volume of seroma aspirations, wound complication rates, and shoulder function were compared 6 months after surgery. 
The internist in the management of head and neck cancer. The general internist has an important role in the management of head and neck squamous cell cancers. This heterogeneous group of cancers must be accurately diagnosed and staged before planning treatment. Curability is directly related to stage at presentation and, because most patients with such cancers present to internists first, these physicians must be familiar with presenting symptoms and must be suspicious enough to refer patients with symptoms for appropriate evaluation. The work-up of patients with suspected unknown primary cancer presenting as adenopathy is detailed, and the physician is cautioned not to immediately proceed to open biopsy. As many as 10% of such primary cancers remain undetected, although, with proper therapy, the 5-year survival rate for squamous cell cancer of the head and neck is 60%. Those patients cured of head and neck cancer still face significant psychosocial and medical problems, including hypothyroidism, xerostomia, and a 20% rate of second primary cancer. Head and neck cancer is highly preventable; 75% of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use. Smokeless tobacco has gained popularity among young Americans and is associated with an increased incidence of head and neck cancer at several sites. Education is crucial, and internists must seek strategies to stop patients from using tobacco products. Other etiologic factors include industrial carcinogens, Epstein-Barr virus, and diet. Retrospective serologic and dietary recall studies of vitamin A suggest an etiologic role of diet; vitamin A analogs have been tested in preneoplastic lesions. To reduce mortality from head and neck cancers, the general internist must play a central role in prevention and early detection. 
'Cystic papilloma' in humans? Demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts. Fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus. In eleven cases, the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens, and in five of them, papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy. Histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity. These findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts. The "cystic papilloma" produced in rabbits by the Shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated. We propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts. This is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans. 
Cell-to-cell communication and the control of growth. Growth of transformed cells is inhibited by cell-to-cell communication with normal cells. This communication is regulated by certain oncogenes that alone or in cooperation can block the communication. 
Short-term radiotherapy as palliative treatment in patients with transitional cell bladder cancer. We report the results and complications of treatment with palliative, short-term radiotherapy in 162 elderly or disabled patients. Improvement in tumour-associated symptoms was noted in 75 of these patients and 72 survived for more than a year. Those who responded to radiotherapy had a 5-year cancer-free survival rate of 58% compared with 4% in patients who did not respond to treatment. Survival was also affected by stage and indications for radiotherapy. In 85 patients without severe symptoms, where the tumour was judged curable but the patient was unsuitable for a full course of radiotherapy, the 5-year cancer-free survival rate was 21%, which is in accordance with what can be achieved with full-course radiotherapy; 42% had various minor acute side effects. The 5-year late complication rate was 7%. 
Effect of baseline ovarian cysts on in vitro fertilization and gamete intrafallopian transfer cycles. The presence of ovarian cysts may compromise the success of in vitro fertilization (IVF) and gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT). We prospectively studied 212 consecutive ovulation induction cycles in 120 patients for IVF and/or GIFT. A baseline cyst was defined as any intraovarian cystic structure greater than or equal to 12 mm noted on ultrasonography before superovulation. Cycle outcomes were compared between patients with cysts (n = 62) versus those with no cysts (n = 150). There were no differences in follicular or luteal phase lengths or amount of human menopausal gonadotropins used. Peak estradiol (E2) levels were significantly lower and cancellation rates significantly higher in the cyst group. For noncanceled cycles, there were no significant differences in peak E2 levels, the mean number of follicles greater than or equal to 12 mm, mature oocytes retrieved, or ova transferred for GIFT or embryos for IVF. The pregnancy rates overall and for noncanceled cycles were not significantly different. 
Clinicopathologic features and long-term results of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer. During a 10-yr-period, 24 cases of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer were experienced in our department. The mean age was 62.5 yr, and the sex ratio of males to females was 3:1. Borrmann II and III types of gastric cancer were predominant (83.3%). The prognosis was dismal. Most of the patients, including three radically operated cases of early gastric cancer, died from liver metastasis within 2 yr. The 1-, 3-, and 6-yr survival rates were 37.5%, 8.3%, and 8.3%, respectively, for all cases and 75.0%, 25.0%, and 25.0% for radically operated cases. The incidences of synchronous and metachronous liver metastasis were 31.8% and 40.9%, significantly higher than the incidences of AFP-negative gastric cancer (p less than 0.91). Despite radical gastrectomy, metachronous liver metastasis occurred in 75.0% of the cases. Two radical hepatic resections, including extended right lobectomy, were performed in one patient with early gastric cancer who had repeated metachronous liver metastasis. However, the tumor recurred immediately. Apparently, radical gastrectomy or hepatic resection alone may not suffice for this particular type of cancer. The methods of treatment and follow-up considered should be different from that for other types of gastric cancer. 
Multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma. A single-institution experience. Orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region. Modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90% in these patients. However, new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90% of orbital cases. Between 1979 and 1990, 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the University of Naples. Ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy, followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy. All 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease, from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis. In all children, ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few. The above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma. 
The fastigial pressor response. Case report. A distinct vasomotor and cardioregulatory response first identified experimentally was elicited intraoperatively in a 6-year-old girl by local mechanical stimulation in the vicinity of the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum. These findings are discussed in the light of current experimental knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the fastigial pressor response. 
Surgical management and prognosis of renal cell carcinoma invading the vena cava. A total of 44 patients with renal cell carcinoma and vena caval tumor thrombus underwent surgical resection. Of these patients 27 had primary tumor confined within Gerota's fascia, negative lymph nodes and no distant metastases (stage T3cN0M0). Patients who underwent extraction of a mobile tumor thrombus from the vena cava had a 69% 5-year survival rate (median 9.9 years) but patients with tumor thrombus directly invading the vena cava had a 26% 5-year survival rate (median 1.2 years), which improved to 57% (median 5.3 years) if the involved vena caval side wall was resected successfully. Of these patients 17 had renal cell carcinoma with vena caval thrombus as well as extrafascial extension, regional lymphadenopathy or distant metastases, and the 5-year survival rate was less than 18% in all groups (median survival less than 0.9 years). Prognosis was determined by the pathological stage of the renal cell carcinoma and by the presence or absence of vena caval side wall invasion but not by the level of tumor thrombus extension. Patients with incomplete resection of localized renal cell carcinoma with tumor thrombus do not survive any longer than those with extensive cancer, positive lymph nodes or distant metastases. However, when partial venacavectomy establishes negative surgical margins then survival markedly improves. 
Prognostic indices for tumor relapse and tumor mortality in follicular thyroid carcinoma. To establish an objective basis for therapeutic decisions and follow-up programs in patients with follicular thyroid cancer, the authors developed a prognostic scoring system. The prognostic impact of nine clinical, histologic, and therapeutic parameters was quantified retrospectively based on a multivariate analysis covering 149 patients. The relative relapse risk in follicular thyroid cancer (RR) was 6.8-fold increased in the presence of a moderate when compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation. The RR rose with increasing age of the patient at time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 1.8 per 20 years. The RR was reduced by a factor of 4.3 after the performance of a neck dissection and by a factor of 2.3 after percutaneous radiation therapy of the neck. The relative mortality risk in follicular thyroid cancer (RM) rose in the absence of a tumor capsule by a factor of 10, in the presence of a moderate compared with a high degree of histologic tumor differentiation by a factor of 5.9, in the presence of distant metastases by a factor of 3.2, and with increasing age of the patient at the time of tumor diagnosis by a factor of 2.2 per 20 years. From these data prognostic indices denoting the individual risk for tumor relapse (IRR index) and tumor mortality (IMR index) were calculated. The indices categorize patients into low-risk, medium-risk, or high-risk groups with regard to tumor relapse and tumor-related death. Consequently, the IRR and IMR indices contribute to select patients with follicular thyroid cancer who need an aggressive form of treatment and an intensive follow-up program. The indices may also be used for risk stratification in prospective therapy trials. 
Human colorectal cancers display abnormal Fourier-transform infrared spectra. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was applied to the study of tissue sections of human colorectal cancer. Pairs of tissue samples from colorectal cancer and histologically normal mucosa 5-10 cm away from the tumor were obtained from 11 patients who underwent partial colectomy. All cancer specimens displayed abnormal spectra compared with the corresponding normal tissues. These changes involved the phosphate and C-O stretching bands, the CH stretch region, and the pressure dependence of the CH2 bending and C = O stretching modes. Our findings indicate that in colonic malignant tissue, there are changes in the degree of hydrogen-bonding of (i) oxygen atoms of the backbone of nucleic acids (increased); (ii) OH groups of serine, tyrosine, and threonine residues (any or all of them) of cell proteins (decreased); and (iii) the C = O groups of the acyl chains of membrane lipids (increased). In addition, they indicate changes in the structure of proteins and membrane lipids (as judged by the changes in their ratio of methyl to methylene groups) and in the packing and the conformational structure of the methylene chains of membrane lipids. The cell(s) of the malignant colon tissues responsible for these spectral abnormalities is unknown. Cultured colon adenocarcinoma cell lines displayed similarly abnormal FT-IR spectra. The diagnostic potential of the observed changes is discussed. 
Transforming growth factor-beta-induced inhibition of T cell function. Susceptibility difference in T cells of various phenotypes and functions and its relevance to immunosuppression in the tumor-bearing state. The present study investigates the nature of humoral component(s) generated in tumor-bearing hosts to induce immune dysfunction of T cells. Cell-free ascitic fluid and culture supernatant (SN) were obtained from the ascites and cultures allowing MH134 hepatoma cells to grow. These ascites and SN samples were tested for their abilities to influence the generation of CTL responses to TNP and alloantigens. The generation of the anti-TNP CTL responses that require self H-2-restricted CD4+ Th cells was markedly suppressed by addition of the ascites or SN under conditions in which these samples did not inhibit anti-allo CTL responses capable of using alternate pathways of allo-restricted CD4+ and CD8+ Th. The activation of CD8+ CTL precursors and CTL activity were also resistant to the ascites or SN. The ascites- or SN-induced suppressive effect to which CD4+ Th were most susceptible was found to be mediated by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) activity, because: 1) the TGF-beta activity was detected in the MH134 ascites and culture SN; 2) the suppression of CD4+ Th function required for anti-TNP CTL responses was almost completely prevented by addition of anti-TGF-beta antibody to cultures and; 3) rTGF-beta also induced similar patterns of immunosuppression to those observed by ascites or SN. These results indicate that TGF-beta produced by tumor cells induces deleterious effects on T cell, especially on the CD4+ Th subset, and provide an explanation for the molecular mechanism underlying the previously observed CD4+ Th-selective suppression in the tumor-bearing state. 
The concept of locally advanced gastric cancer. Effect of treatment on outcome. The Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group. In previous Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group (GITSG) reports, gastric cancer patients with locally unresectable disease, treated with combined radiation and chemotherapy had a shorter median survival (40 weeks) but more remained alive at 4 years (18%) when compared to those randomized to receive chemotherapy alone (76 weeks and 6%, respectively). To further test the concept that combined modality therapy might increase the number of long-term survivors, a second protocol was designed, but with three major modifications. A course of chemotherapy would precede the 5-fluorouracil-potentiated radiation therapy. Doxorubicin would be added to the 5-fluorouracil plus methyl-CCNU combination. Radiation therapy would be given as a single course of 4320 cGy, with 5-fluorouracil given daily for 3 days at the beginning and end of the course. Median survival of 46 patients treated with chemotherapy alone was 59 weeks, with 11% alive after 3 years. Following combined modality therapy, median survival was 62 weeks, but only 7% lived 3 years. Although the problem of early deaths in the combined modality group was resolved, long-term survival with combination therapy was not demonstrated in this study. 
Colorectal tumors: an in vitro study of high-resolution MR imaging. To study the potential utility of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in staging colorectal tumors, 15 resected colonic segments containing 17 elevated lesions were examined on a 1.5- or 1.9-T superconductive MR system. The whole intestinal wall was apparent as three or five layers on images obtained with a short repetition time (TR) and short echo time (TE) and as six or eight distinct layers, including the intestinal wall proper as well as an adherent mucus layer and an outer layer of pericolonic fat, on the long TR/TE images. In cases of colonic carcinoma, MR images correlated well with the pathologic findings, including the macroscopic growth pattern, depth of mural invasion, and the presence of foci of calcific tumor necrosis and pools of extracellular mucin (colloid). These features suggest that MR imaging may be valuable in the clinical evaluation of colorectal tumors. 
Duplex ultrasonography for persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor. Duplex ultrasonography was performed on 17 consecutive patients being evaluated for persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor (GTT). All patients had had a prior molar pregnancy evacuated and presented with a rise or plateau in their beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels. The ultrasonography was considered to be abnormal if the image demonstrated a focal area of altered echogenicity within the uterus or if Doppler scanning revealed a focal area of detectable intrauterine blood flow. The ultrasound findings were compared with the pathologic results from dilation and curettage specimens. Ten of the 17 patients had pathologically proven macroscopic tumor. Of those 10, 7 had an abnormal sonographic image (sensitivity, 70%), and 9 had an abnormal Doppler examination (sensitivity, 90%). In all 10 patients the image and/or Doppler examination was abnormal. Among four patients with microscopic disease, imaging was positive in one case, and the Doppler examination was positive in three. Imaging and Doppler ultrasonography are complementary modalities that can reliably detect persistent uterine GTT, and Doppler ultrasonography appears to be more sensitive than imaging in making this diagnosis. 
Correlations between therapeutic response of leukaemias and in-vitro drug-sensitivity assay. To develop the differential staining cytotoxicity (DiSC) assay, an in-vitro drug sensitivity test designed specifically for use with fresh human haematological tumour cells, into a predictive test for response to therapy as well as a tool for identifying new treatment strategies, test results have been correlated with response in patients with haematological malignancies. 22 of 119 tests indicated extreme drug resistance (tumour cell survival greater than 55%) in vitro. None of these patients responded to chemotherapy. The proportion of patients responding to therapy and 50% patient survival rose with in-vitro drug sensitivity. 11 specimens showing extreme drug resistance to the agents prescribed for the patient were subjected to drug sensitivity tests of drugs not prescribed; patients showing some sensitivity to these drugs had better survival than did those with extreme drug resistance to all drugs tested. The DiSC assay can also be used to identify new agents worth testing in clinical trials, and cross resistance profiles of new agents may indicate what combinations might be useful. 
Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome complicating T-cell lymphoma: unusual or unrecognized? Malnutrition rather than alcohol abuse is the common element in most cases of WKS. Our report may be the first to identify both the clinical and neuropathologic features of the syndrome in a patient with T-cell lymphoma. The coincidence of these two illnesses underscores a need to consider Wernicke's encephalopathy in debilitated individuals with malignancy or other chronic illnesses, highlights an atypical presentation of acute Wernicke's encephalopathy, and demonstrats the precipitation of that syndrome by glucose feeding. Attention to a patient's nutritional status and the liberal use of thiamine may prompt early recognition of the syndrome or prevent it entirely. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules: appearance as a nodule within a nodule on MR images. Large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy. Magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis. A "nodule-within-nodule" appearance was noted in two patients. This appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images, with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver. Each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter, and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm. Serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients. Aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy, but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases. The nodule-within-nodule sign, which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules, is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma, even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis. 
Melanocytic lesions and melanocyte populations in human epidermis. Basal melanocytes were counted and atypia assessed on an arbitrary scale in punch biopsies from the sun-exposed extensor aspect of the forearm of normal skin and from the covered skin of the buttock of patients with pigmented naevi and control subjects. The difference in melanocyte counts and in the presence of atypia between sun-exposed and covered skin was statistically highly significant. The only other difference was between melanocyte counts in covered skin from those with multiple atypical naevi and all other groups; the counts in the former were greater than those in the latter. No further difference was attributable to sun exposure, skin type or diagnostic group. Some degree of melanocyte atypia was seen in approximately half of the biopsies of sun-exposed skin, but atypia was seen in only six of 84 biopsies of covered skin. In each case atypia was present in the corresponding forearm biopsy and all six subjects had pigmented lesions (four with melanoma and two with multiple atypical naevi). It seems possible that while increased melanocyte counts in covered skin could correlate with the presence of atypical naevi, atypia of covered epidermal melanocytes could possibly relate to melanoma risk. 
Thallous chloride uptake and DNA profile in parathyroid adenomas. Thallium isotope scintigraphy is used to localize parathyroid adenomas but the mechanism underlying the technique is poorly understood. While larger adenomas are reliably localized the results are less certain for small tumours. This study explores the relationship between cellular DNA profile and thallium uptake (localization accuracy) in 24 parathyroid adenomas. The DNA profile was assessed using flow cytometry and standard subtraction thallium scintigraphy was performed before surgery. Fifteen of the 24 adenomas demonstrated excessive mitotic activity and 13 of these glands were accurately localized. Of the remaining nine glands, only five were localized accurately (P less than 0.01, chi 2 test including Yates' correction). This difference in thallium uptake could not be accounted for on the basis of gland weight. Thallium localization of parathyroid adenomas is related to mitotic activity. This may explain some of the limitations of this technique. 
Traffic of peripheral B and T lymphocytes to hyperplastic, preneoplastic thymuses of AKR mice. AKR mice develop hyperplasia of the thymus before the development of retrovirus-associated lymphoma at that site. This hyperplasia, first detectable in AKR/J mice by 4 weeks of age and in AKR/C mice by 4 to 5 months of age, is characterized by an enlarged thymic medulla that contains T and B lymphocytes. In contrast to the general population of thymocytes, most of these T and B lymphocytes have a mature immunophenotype that includes expression of high levels of the MEL-14-defined (gp90) 'homing receptor' for peripheral lymph node high endothelial venules. In vivo homing studies reveal a marked increase in traffic of peripheral lymphocytes (T more than B) to the hyperplastic thymuses of old AKR mice as compared to histologically normal thymuses of age-matched BALB/c and C57BL/Ka mice or young AKR mice. These changes correlate chronologically with changes in retrovirus antigen expression in AKR thymuses and suggest a role for the traffic of lymphocytes from the periphery to the thymus in response to local antigenic stimulation in the pathogenesis of thymic hyperplasia in AKR mice. 
Intraluminal crystalloids in struma ovarii. Immunohistochemical, DNA flow cytometric, and ultrastructural study. We recently encountered a unique case of follicular variant of papillary carcinoma arising in struma ovarii that contained numerous intrafollicular crystalloids. There was no evidence of capsular or vascular invasion or metastases, though the DNA content of the papillary carcinoma was aneuploid. In contrast, diploid DNA was manifested in the histologically benign thyroid tissue. The nature of the crystalloids and the significance of aneuploid DNA content are discussed. 
Kaposi's sarcoma involvement of the bone marrow. Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a predominantly cutaneous malignancy with several clinical variants. Extracutaneous sites of involvement are uncommon in all disease variants except epidemic KS (human immunodeficiency virus related) and the African lymphadenopathic variant. Extracutaneous KS usually involves the lymph nodes, gastrointestinal tract, and respiratory tract. The authors report the first description of a patient with classic KS to have bone marrow involvement. Two additional patients with KS variants and bone marrow involvement have been described. Bone marrow tumor invasion should be considered in patients with KS and hematologic abnormalities. 
Facilitating clinical trials. The expanding role of the nurse. Clinical trials are becoming increasingly difficult to carry out in the face of a changing health care delivery system. The reluctance of third party payers to reimburse for experimental therapy and the growing practice of providers to limit resources allocated for the care of cancer patients undergoing such therapies seriously curtail the ability of investigators to test new cancer treatments clinically. In addition, certain beliefs, attitudes, and perceptions held by the public may interfere with patient case accrual. Nurses can help facilitate both accrual to and conduct of clinical research. This article addresses selected consumer- and provider-centered factors that inhibit clinical research. The expanding role of the nurse in the areas of public education, informed consent, direct care, and collaborative research is also described. 
Surface and cytoplasmic expression of CD45 antigen isoforms in normal and malignant myeloid cell differentiation. The CD45 family contains protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPase) activity and is expressed in one or more of its isoforms on all lymphohematopoietic cells. Considerable work has focused on CD45 expression by lymphoid cells, but minimal work has involved granulocytes. Granulocytic, or myeloid, cell differentiation is accompanied by a number of morphologic and immunophenotypic changes. This study used flow cytometric and immunocytochemical methods in conjunction with morphologic assessment to investigate the expression of CD45 isoforms during differentiation of normal and malignant granulocytic cells. On normal bone marrow cells, the quantity of surface CD45 did not change during earlier stages but did increase significantly at the terminal stages (bands and polymorphonuclear leukocytes [PMNs]). CD45RO (the low relative molecular mass [Mr] isoform) was very dimly expressed on immature cells but became increasingly brighter beginning at approximately the myelocyte stage. The high Mr isoform (CD45RA) was virtually absent from the cell surface at all stages. Only a small percentage (3-15%) of PMNs expressed surface CD45RA. However, there was a cytoplasmic pool of each isoform associated with membrane-bound granules found throughout differentiation, with remarkable increases in expression at the terminal stages. In the case of acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs), most cases expressed surface CD45RA with, or without, CD45RO, regardless of their French-American-British (FAB) classification. This appeared to be a stable process at diagnosis and relapse in individual patients and may therefore serve as a diagnostic aid. The biologic significance of this aberrant expression of CD45RA by malignant cells is unknown but raises important questions regarding the cellular processes of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation in normal and malignant cells. 
Erythrocyte polyamine levels in human prostatic carcinoma. Abnormally high red blood cell polyamine levels were found in benign prostatic hyperplasia and in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients. In prostatic adenocarcinoma patients a relationship was noted between the importance of red blood cell spermidine and spermine concentrations, and the clinical stage of the disease (Whitmore classification). Considering prostatic adenocarcinoma patient populations, patients with metastases (groups 3 and 4) statistically differed from those without metastases (group 2). Furthermore, red blood cell polyamine level determination discriminated patients in the hormonal escape group (group 4) from those usually considered as hormone responsive (groups 2 and 3). No statistically significant correlation was observed between red blood cell polyamine levels and usual tumor markers (prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate specific antigen). These results confirmed that red blood cell polyamine levels must be considered as a circulating index of cell proliferation that might be of clinical importance during the long-term followup and treatment of prostatic adenocarcinoma patients. 
Therapeutic advantage of hypoxic cells in tumors: a theoretical study The presence of hypoxic cells in solid tumors has long been considered a problem in cancer treatment, particularly for radiation therapy but also for treatment with some anticancer drugs. Three general strategies are being actively explored to overcome the problem: oxygenating the tumor, sensitizing the hypoxic cells to radiation (or chemotherapy), or killing the hypoxic cells (with a hypoxic cell cytotoxin). In the present study, we have examined the impact of each of these three strategies on a standard radiation therapy regimen (30 doses of 2 Gy), using either of two major assumptions: full reoxygenation or no reoxygenation of the tumor cells. We demonstrate that a hypoxic cell cytotoxin can produce a level of tumor cell killing higher (by several orders of magnitude) than that produced by full oxygenation of a tumor or by use of an optimum hypoxic cell radiosensitizer, provided the cytotoxin kills more than approximately 50% of the hypoxic cells each time it is given. The only assumption that makes a difference is whether reoxygenation occurs: In the worst case (ie, no reoxygenation), the hypoxic cell cytotoxin performs only as well as an optimum radiosensitizer. The analysis shows that hypoxic cells in tumors can be a major therapeutic advantage. Therefore, we recommend that research efforts be concentrated on development of superior hypoxic cell cytotoxins rather than improved hypoxic cell radiosensitizers and that, in parallel, emphasis be placed on development of agents to increase hypoxia. 
Genitourinary cancer in the elderly. The subject of genitourinary cancer in the elderly becomes increasingly more important as our population of patients older than 50 years expands. Carcinoma of the kidney, bladder, and prostate all have an increasing incidence over the age of 50 and have a predilection for afflicting men more commonly than women. Etiologic factors, especially with bladder and kidney carcinomas, are well documented and in some cases preventable. Screening the urine for hematuria and careful digital rectal examinations may uncover a higher percentage of these malignancies in earlier, more curable stages. Recent advances in the treatment of all of these malignancies have improved survival and quality of life for these patients. 
Selection of breast-preservation therapy for primary invasive breast carcinoma. Breast-preservation treatment for primary breast cancer should not be used for all women. Women frequently excluded from consideration for such treatment or who choose not to have it may be elderly and not concerned about cosmetic appearance or live at a distance so that 6 weeks of daily trips to radiotherapy would be inconvenient or even impossible. Also, if radiotherapeutic expertise or facilities are not available, a breast-preservation program is difficult. In Massachusetts, a full course of just over 6000 cGy (4500 cGy to the whole breast and a 1600-cGy local boost) costs roughly $6000. Thus, breast preservation is more expensive than mastectomy even with reconstruction, as patients still frequently require a hospital admission with general anesthesia for an axillary dissection. Although insurance policies cover such expenses, patients who do not have insurance or have inadequate coverage may find the extra expense of the breast-preservation technique burdensome or impossible. Women with a small breast and a proportionately large cancer may have an unsatisfactory cosmetic outcome after appropriate lumpectomy. The cosmetic result in such patients frequently cannot be predicted beforehand; this fact adds emphasis to the need for a two-step process of lumpectomy and then re-evaluation of the cosmetic outcome as well as pathologic features for decisions regarding breast preservation. Finally, women may have strikingly different attitudes toward breast preservation than expected by the surgeon. For some women, the urge to preserve the breast is so strong that they will accept virtually any risk to achieve this option, whereas for other women, the constant anxiety about a recurrence or undergoing radiation therapy is traumatic enough that they readily accept mastectomy. In our referral surgical oncology practice, roughly 60% of patients are currently treated with breast-preservation techniques; the remainder undergo mastectomy, with immediate reconstruction in approximately three fourths of the cases. The proportion of patients who elect to have breast preservation depends greatly on local medical customs and attitudes; the radiotherapeutic skills available; women's attitudes, which frequently are dependent on the local press and publicity; and the surgeon's interest and enthusiasm for such a program. There is no appropriate proportion of patients who should be treated by breast-preservation techniques, but clearly, the proportion of patients so treated increases with experience, acceptability, publicity, and availability. Thus, the selection of breast-preserving therapy for individual patients is a result of an extraordinary array of factors that need to be considered in each patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The pharmacology of intravenous and oral etoposide. The epipodophyllotoxin derivative etoposide (VP-16) has been in widespread use both alone and in combination chemotherapy for the past decade. It has phase-specific cytotoxicity that acts in the last S and G2 phases of the cell cycle. Although its mode of action is not certain, it appears to act by causing breaks in DNA by interaction with DNA-topoisomerase II or by the formation of free radicals. Most studies show biexponential decay after the intravenous (IV) administration of etoposide. Approximately 30% to 70% of administered etoposide is excreted, with approximately 45% present in the urine. Etoposide is available in oral and IV preparations. It is highly schedule-dependent, with once-daily doses (e.g., for 5 to 8 days every 21 days) giving results superior to intermittent administration. The bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50%, but its absorption is not linear with increasing dose (e.g., greater than 200 mg/d, bioavailability decreases). Factors influencing the bioavailability of oral etoposide include patient status, concurrent medications, hepatic and renal function, and nausea and vomiting. In numerous clinical trials, etoposide has demonstrated excellent activity against a range of tumors, including small cell lung cancer (SCLC), malignant lymphomas, gestational trophoblastic tumors, Ewing's and soft tissue sarcomas, and germ cell tumors, with more modest activity in other tumors (e.g., non-SCLC). Although few comparative studies have been carried out, available data suggest that oral etoposide administered daily during 5 to 8 days is similar to the IV preparation in range of activity. In a study of 53 elderly patients with SCLC treated with etoposide (200 mg/d for five times), there was a response rate of 79% and a median survival of 9.5 months. These results were similar to those achieved with more intensive IV regimens. Several studies of chronic oral etoposide (50 mg/m2/d for 21 times) have been reported recently. Responses were observed in SCLC and germ cell tumors among patients who had relapsed after standard etoposide-containing regimens. These data suggest that etoposide may be a "new" drug when given in this schedule. The high response rates with oral etoposide suggest that oral administration may be substituted for IV administration. This substitution may allow for greater flexibility in chemotherapeutic administration, less hospitalization, and more acceptable toxicity. 
Potent toxicity of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine toward human monocytes in vitro and in vivo. A novel approach to immunosuppressive therapy. Lymphoid cells were thought to be uniquely susceptible to excess 2'-deoxyadenosine (dAdo), when exposed to inhibitors of adenosine deaminase (ADA). However, we now find that human monocytes are as sensitive as lymphocytes to dAdo or to the ADA-resistant congener 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CldAdo). Monocytes exposed in vitro to CldAdo, or to dAdo plus deoxycoformycin rapidly developed DNA strand breaks. Both the DNA damage and the toxicity of CldAdo or dAdo toward monocytes were blocked by deoxycytidine, but not by inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. A partial decrease in RNA synthesis and a gradual decline of cellular NAD were early biochemical events associated with monocyte DNA damage. Low CldAdo concentrations (5-20 nM) inhibited monocyte phagocytosis and reduced the release of interleukin 6. Higher CldAdo concentrations led to a dose- and time-dependent loss of monocyte viability. Circulating monocytes disappeared within 1 wk in patients with cutaneous T cell lymphoma or with rheumatoid arthritis during continuous CldAdo infusion. The marked sensitivity of human monocyte function and survival to CldAdo in vitro, together with the monocyte depletion in patients receiving CldAdo chemotherapy, suggests that CldAdo or other dAdo analogues offer a novel therapeutic strategy for chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases characterized by inappropriate monocyte deployment or function. 
Squamous carcinoma in the liver. Squamous carcinoma of the liver has only rarely been reported. We present a case which highlights not only the difficulties in diagnosis but also how it can closely mimic sclerosing cholangitis. 
Risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in women with glomerulonephritis. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the occurrence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in women with glomerulonephritis and its possible association with immunosuppressive treatment. DESIGN--Retrospective study of cytological or histological specimens from women presenting with glomerulonephritis and a group of case and age matched controls. SETTING--University department of pathology, Norway. PATIENTS--81 women presenting with glomerulonephritis from 1981 to 1988, from whom gynaecological cytological or histological specimens were available. A group of 162 case and age matched controls. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Age when glomerulonephritis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was diagnosed, type and characteristics of kidney lesion, stage of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and presence of human papillomavirus, use of immunosuppressive treatment. RESULTS--Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was more common in women with glomerulonephritis than in their controls (16/81 (20%) v 7/162 (4%), p less than 0.001) and was more advanced in those with glomerulonephritis than in the controls (9/81 (11%) of the study group had grade III cervical intraepithelial neoplasia compared with 1/162 (1%) of the controls). The increased occurrence of cervical lesions was independent of the use of immunosuppressive treatment, but the individual lesions tended to be more advanced when it was used (four of the seven cervical lesions in women with glomerulonephritis who had received immunosuppressive treatment were carcinoma in situ). Of the nine cervical lesions tested, seven were virus associated. CONCLUSION--Women with glomerulonephritis should have regular cervical smears, irrespective of their use of immunosuppressive treatment. 
Serum CA 125 levels during the menstrual cycle. Serum concentrations of CA 125 were measured in different phases of the menstrual cycle in 16 women with ovulatory and 12 women with anovulatory cycles. CA 125 levels were significantly elevated during menstruation in both groups. In women with anovulatory cycles, but not in those with ovulatory cycles, CA 125 levels were already increased in the premenstrual phase. A negative correlation was found between serum CA 125 and progesterone concentrations in the premenstrual phase of the cycle. We suggest that premenstrual elevation of serum CA 125 in women with anovulatory cycles is related to premature endometrial vascular changes which are the result of the low serum progesterone concentration leading to insufficient endometrial control. Thus the effect of progesterone seems to be indirect rather than a direct effect on CA 125 synthesis. When the CA 125 assay is used for diagnosis of cancer, sampling should not be done immediately before or during menstruation because the physiological elevation of the CA 125 levels may give false positive results. 
Yield from total skin examination and effectiveness of skin cancer awareness program. Findings in 874 new dermatology patients. The authors reviewed 874 dermatology charts to assess the acceptance rate of total skin examination (TSE), incidental skin findings, and patient compliance regarding treatment recommendations. Of the 874 new dermatology patients studied, 707 (80.9%) agreed to TSE. Important incidental findings were found in 151 (21.4%). These included: (1) biopsy specimen-confirmed malignant tumors (malignant melanoma, lentigo maligna, and basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma) in 24 of the 707 patients (3.4%), (2) biopsy specimen-confirmed premalignant tumors (actinic keratosis with dysplasia, Bowenoid actinic keratosis, Bowenoid papulosis, and lentigo with dysplasia, in five (0.7%), (3) clinically diagnosed premalignant actinic keratosis in 64 (9.1%), (4) biopsy specimen-confirmed dysplastic nevi in 17 (2.4%), and (5) congenital nevi in 41 (5.8%). Only 4.2% of the patients returned for a yearly TSE, and only 6.0% were found to follow all recommendations for monthly self examination, yearly professional examination, and sun protection. It is concluded that TSE for all new patients, and on a yearly basis for all return patients, is valuable in the detection of many skin conditions and allows skin cancer screening to be done, since patients for the most part do not follow recommendations for at-home screening. 
A signet-ring cell carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater. We describe a variant of carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater, which, to our knowledge, has not been previously described. Classic signet-ring cells represented the predominant cell type, and were admixed with more poorly differentiated tumor cells that were chromogranin positive. These findings raise the possibility of an amphicrine tumor of the ampulla. 
Supraclavicular lymph node metastases in carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction: assessment with CT, US, and US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. The preoperative assessment of supraclavicular lymph node metastases was prospectively studied in 100 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Findings at computed tomography (CT), ultrasound (US), and palpation were compared, and US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of nodes with a small axis of 5 mm or greater was performed. Supraclavicular metastases were detected on CT scans in 11 of 13 patients (85%) and on US scans in 14 of 16 patients (88%) but were palpable in only three of the 16 patients (19%). The predictive value of a supraclavicular node indicating metastases was .74 at US and .85 at CT. Metastases were diagnosed in 10 of 46 patients with squamous cell carcinoma (22%) and five of 50 patients (10%) with adenocarcinoma. Nodes with metastases had a round configuration, with a statistically significant greater short-axis to long-axis ratio than that of benign nodes (0.89 vs 0.54; P = .05). In four of 16 patients (25%) with supraclavicular metastases proved with cytologic examination, neither CT nor US of the mediastinum and abdomen showed enlarged nodes. 
The medical necessity of evaluation and treatment of port-wine stains. New lasers and improved laser delivery systems have allowed for the safe and effective treatment of port-wine stains in patients of all ages. The satisfactory results obtained by laser treatment have increased the number of patients seeking consultation regarding their birthmarks. It is imperative that physicians recognize the various medical syndromes and problems associated with port-wine stains. A review of 415 patients with facial port-wine stains has revealed hypertrophy and/or nodularity in 65% of patients by the fifth decade of life, which increases significantly the morbidity of these lesions. It is believed that laser treatment will minimize the medical and psychologic complications that result from the natural evolution of port-wine stains. 
Increase of beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in human esophageal carcinomas invasive against surrounding tissue in vivo and in vitro. The -GlcNAc beta 1-6Man- (beta 1-6) branched N-glycosidic oligosaccharides expressed on tumor cells have been found to contribute to malignant and metastatic potential in experimental tumor models. Phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin (L-PHA) requires the beta 1-6-linked lactosamine antenna for high-affinity binding and was used histochemically to characterize the distribution of these sugar structures in human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas from 42 patients. Leukoagglutinin-reactive carcinoma cells in the invasive tumors were distributed predominantly on the outer surface of the tumor adjacent to the surrounding tissue. Furthermore, when TE 1 cells, a human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma line, were cultured in a collagen gel matrix to obtain colonies in a three-dimensional form, these colonies exhibited high affinity for L-PHA binding only in the outer cell layer facing the collagen matrix, unrelated to the cell growth cycle. These findings suggest that the increase in beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in esophageal carcinomas is an important trait of the tumor in the invasion into the surrounding tissue. 
Loss of chromosome 22 alleles in human sporadic spinal schwannomas. Acoustic neuromas occur either as sporadic solitary tumors in the general population or as inherited bilateral tumors typically in patients with neurofibromatosis type 2. Loss of heterozygosity for markers on the long arm of chromosome 22 has been reported in both instances, and neurofibromatosis type 2 has been genetically linked to a marker on the long arm of this autosome, suggesting that a unique locus on chromosome 22 is implicated in tumorigenesis of both sporadic and inherited acoustic neuromas. To determine whether the locus for neurofibromatosis type 2 might also be responsible for tumorigenesis of those schwannomas distinct from acoustic neuromas in people without neurofibromatosis type 2, we studied the DNA content of three sporadic spinal schwannomas. In all three, we found loss of heterozygosity for at least three markers on the long arm of chromosome 22, indicating a partial or total monosomy 22 in the tumor. Our results suggest that a locus on chromosome 22 is responsible for tumorigenesis in schwann cells regardless of their location in the central nervous system, and that some other mechanism (genetic or nongenetic) might account for the relative high proportion of schwannomas developing from the eighth cranial nerve. 
Intracranial germ-cell tumors in children. All patients with confirmed intracranial germ-cell tumors treated at the Hospital of Sick Children during the period January, 1952, to December, 1989, were reviewed. Of the 51 tumors reviewed, 16 were located in the suprasellar region, 32 in the pineal region, and three in both the pineal and the suprasellar regions. Forty-nine patients underwent surgical resection which was total in seven and partial in 20, and consisted of a biopsy in 22. Two patients were managed on the basis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid markers. Surgical tools such as the operating microscope, the ultrasonic surgical aspirator, and the laser beam allowed safe debulking and removal of the deep-seated tumors in the pineal region. There were no operative deaths in the 36 patients treated since 1972, who included 23 with pineal tumors. Twenty-five patients with germinomas received radiotherapy and had a 5-year survival rate of 85.1%. Thirteen patients with non-germinoma germ-cell tumors received radiotherapy and had a 5-year survival rate of 45.5%. On the basis of this review, the authors recommend resection of pineal and suprasellar germ-cell tumors in order to firmly establish an accurate histological diagnosis to guide the extent of adjuvant therapy. In the case of a pure germinoma without evidence of dissemination, adjuvant therapy consists only of local radiotherapy. On the other hand, for malignant non-germinoma germ-cell tumors, adjuvant therapy must include chemotherapy as well as craniospinal axis radiotherapy. 
Neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. In a consecutive entry trial, the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections. Chemotaxis, superoxide production, and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2, 6, 9, and 12 months after BMT. Skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after BMT. Infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year. Six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before BMT. Two months after BMT all 10 patients with greater than stage II graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage II GVHD had at least one decreased function. At this time, patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis (P less than .05), phagocytic-bactericidal activity (P less than .005), and superoxide production (P less than .025) than those without. Defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections. At 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without GVHD. In contrast, at 9 months three of three patients, and at 1 year two of three with chronic GVHD had still decreased neutrophil function. In conclusion, neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after BMT. Combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk. 
Trends in conserving treatment of invasive carcinoma of the breast in females. This population-based study presents trends in the treatment of node-negative invasive carcinoma of the breast in females during the 1980s in the Detroit metropolitan area. It was done to determine whether or not there has been a significant shift toward conservation of the breast from 1980 to 1987. Trend analyses of surgical treatment, tumor size, node status, year of diagnosis, age and race were performed for 13,217 patients drawn from the Metropolitan Detroit Cancer Surveillance System. A significant increase in the use of conserving the breast was observed, with younger women receiving this treatment option more often than older women. Implications for a continuing shift in the biologic findings and treatment of carcinoma of the breast are discussed. 
Laryngeal myxoma. Myxoma is a rare mesenchymal tumor that is especially uncommon in the head and neck. We report a case of a myxoma of the larynx in a 70-year-old man, which, to our knowledge, is the second case reported in the English-language literature. Although benign, myxomas have a propensity for local recurrence due to their tendency to infiltrate surrounding tissues. They commonly appear encapsulated, but simple enucleation is not adequate treatment; excision should include a margin of normal tissue around the tumor. 
Parosteal osteosarcoma. Treatment by wide resection and prosthetic replacement. We have reviewed 20 cases of parosteal osteosarcoma treated by wide local resection and prosthetic replacement and followed up for six to 17 years. Limb function was excellent in 85%. One patient with grade III histological disease developed pulmonary metastases. Four patients had local recurrences, which were related to repeated preliminary biopsies, inappropriate siting of biopsy and vascular encroachment by the tumour. After this mode of treatment, the outcome was not related to medullary invasion by the tumour. 
Granulocytic sarcoma of the colon. Granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor consisting of immature cells of the granulocytic series known to occur in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or acute myelogenous leukemia. This tumor may involve nodes, cervix, bone and periosteum, and infrequently the small intestine. Granulocytic sarcoma rarely occurs in the colon and has not been previously described endoscopically. We encountered a 73-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome who presented with fever, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Colonoscopic evaluation (focal ulceration, friability, and nodularity) was compatible with Crohn's disease, although histology showed a dense myeloid cell infiltrate characteristic of granulocytic sarcoma. In patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia presenting with diarrhea, abdominal pain, and/or fever, colonoscopy and biopsy are indicated to determine if the colon is affected by granulocytic sarcoma. 
Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin. Clinicopathologic study of 18 cases. The clinical and pathologic features of primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin in 18 elderly patients are reported. The carcinomas arose in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues, particularly on the head and the upper extremities. One tumor occurred in an irradiated area. Using Gould's clinicopathologic classification, we have found four trabecular types, eleven intermediate cell types, and two small cell types. One tumor could not be classified. Other noteworthy pathologic features were association with invasive squamous cell carcinoma, lentiginous melanocytic hyperplasia, and presence of intratumoral melanocytes. Immunoreactivity for cytokeratins (56 kD), neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase, and epithelial membrane antigen was observed. The paranuclear globular staining pattern of cytokeratins and neurofilaments was conspicuous. The ultrastructural features revealed paranuclear intermediate filament aggregates (fibrous bodies), neurosecretory granules, and cell junctions. In two metastatic tumors, high levels of catecholamines were found. The trabecular types were characterized by localized disease and a good prognosis. The patients with the small cell types died of distant metastases. Postoperative radiotherapy seemed to reduce the rate of local recurrences. 
Disseminated strongyloidiasis with central nervous system involvement diagnosed antemortem in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and Burkitts lymphoma. A 45-year-old man presented with central nervous system involvement as the initial manifestation of disseminated infection with Strongyloides stercoralis. Several concurrent clinical factors contributed to this event, all related to the patient's immunosuppression, including high-grade lymphoma, corticosteroid therapy, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. This is only the third case of CNS involvement in disseminated strongyloidiasis diagnosed antemortem. 
Biology of basal cell carcinoma (Part I). Basal cell carcinoma is the most common malignancy in humans. Although rarely metastatic, it is capable of significant local destruction and disfigurement. This two-part article reviews the current understanding of basal cell carcinoma biology. Part I examines significant clinical, histologic, and ultrastructural features that relate to invasive potential. Genetic characteristics, including tumor growth rate, chromosomal abnormalities, and oncogene presence, are discussed, and expression of important cell and matrix proteins, including keratin, fibronectin, and HLA antigens, are reviewed. Further topics to be explored in Part II include host immunologic responses, theories of pathogenesis, and valuable second-line therapeutic regimens for treatment of multiple cancers. 
Expression of ABH blood group antigens, Ulex europaeus agglutinin I, and type IV collagen in the sinusoids of hepatocellular carcinoma. The expression of blood group antigens (A, B, H, Lewis(a) and Lewis(b)), Ulex europaeus agglutinin I (UEA-I), factor VIII-related antigen, and type IV collagen on the sinusoids was examined immunohistochemically in 15 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC), 11 cases of cirrhosis, 12 cases of chronic active hepatitis, and in a control sample of 16 normal livers. Sinusoidal endothelial cells of HCC characteristically showed a diffuse and strong immunoreactivity to ABH blood group antigens in the specimen with a comparable ABO blood group. The sinusoidal endothelial cells were also diffusely and strongly positive for UEA-I receptors. In contrast, in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for ABH blood group antigens and UEA-I receptors. In normal livers, only a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for ABH blood group antigens and UEA-1 receptors. Tests for factor VIII-related antigen and Lewis blood group antigens were almost negative on sinusoidal endothelial cells. Although type IV collagen was distributed diffusely in the space of Disse in these four groups, its expression was strongest in HCC. Blood vessels of portal tracts and fibrous septa were positive for ABH blood group antigens, UEA-1 receptors, factor VIII-related antigen, and type IV collagen, but negative for Lewis blood group antigens. These findings suggest that some sinusoidal endothelial cells undergo "capillarization" in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis, and that the majority of sinusoidal endothelial cells of HCC have phenotypic characteristics of capillaries. 
A phosphatase activity present in peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients but not normal individuals alters nuclear protein binding to transcriptional enhancers of interferon-inducible genes. Cytoplasmic protein from peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients altered the electrophoretic mobility of complexes formed between nuclear proteins and interferon-inducible transcriptional enhancers. Immature myeloid marrow cells (blasts and promyelocytes) have a higher level of this activity than do mature myeloid marrow cells (bands and polys). This activity, which is not detectable in the peripheral blood cells of normal individuals, is at least 50-fold higher in CML marrow blasts and promyelocytes than that found in marrow blasts and promyelocytes of normal individuals. This activity was inhibited by in vivo incubation of immature myeloid cells with the phosphatase inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate (0.2 mM), and by adding orthovanadate (20 mM) directly to cytoplasmic proteins of myeloid cells. Interferon-alpha (1,000 U/ml) reduced the effects of the CML myeloid cell cytoplasmic protein on the electrophoretic mobility of nuclear protein-DNA complexes. These data suggest that a unique phosphatase may be involved in the abnormalities in CML which are modulated by interferon-alpha. 
Clear cell sarcomas and metastatic soft tissue melanomas. A flow cytometric comparison and prognostic implications. Eleven soft tissue clear cell sarcomas (CCS) were examined flow cytometrically for their DNA content with a correlation of the DNA with the patients' survival. Diploidy was expressed in six sarcomas and it conferred a longer survival (mean, 68.6 months) than aneuploid sarcomas (mean, 8.2 months). For comparison, 13 metastases to soft tissues from cutaneous melanomas were assessed by flow cytometric study. The aneuploid neoplasms of both entities were categorized into low and high degree based on extent of the DNA index (DI). Low degree was defined by a DI of less than or equal to 1.5 and high degree by a DI of greater than 1.5. Significant differences in DNA content between CCS and metastatic melanomas were observed. Melanomas were preponderantly aneuploid (11/13) of high degree (mean DI, 1.7) whereas CCS manifested more diploidy (six of 11) and their aneuploidy was of a low degree (mean DI, 1.2; P = 0.001). Clear cell sarcomas and melanomas were also examined for their immunoreactivity to S-100 protein and HMB-45 antigen. All CCS reacted with S-100 protein and HMB-45. In CCS the reactions were diffuse for both in six tumors, diffuse with HMB-45 and moderate to S-100 protein in three tumors and diffuse with S-100 and moderate with HMB-45 in two tumors. All melanomas reacted diffusely to S-100 protein except for one heavily pigmented tumor which reacted only focally. The reaction to HMB-45 was diffuse in nine and focal in three melanomas. These data suggest that measurements of DNA content in CCS may be valuable in predicting clinical outcome and that there are quantitative differences in DNA content between CCS and metastatic melanoma in soft tissues. 
Cancer registry problems in classifying invasive bladder cancer. A slide review of diagnostic pathologic tissue obtained from 364 bladder cancer cases, identified through the Iowa Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program in 1983, classified 97 (26.6%) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers. These findings contrasted sharply with the Iowa SEER Program classification that coded 289 (79.4%) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers. These results were validated further by the hazard ratio of 4.54 (95% confidence interval, 2.57 to 8.03) among invasive relative to noninvasive bladder cancer cases when the slide review findings were used. In contrast, the hazard ratio was only 1.70 (95% confidence interval, 0.76 to 3.79) when the Iowa SEER Program findings were used. The traditional method used by the National Cancer Institute's SEER Program to deal with this problem is described and its implications are discussed. 
Secretin provocation test in the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The secretin stimulation test has become the preferred provocative test in suspected cases of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A pure secretin preparation, a gastrin-specific radioimmunoassay, and an appropriate sampling sequence are important for the proper interpretation of this test. Gastric acid analysis is necessary in the assessment of hypergastrinemia to confirm acid hypersecretion and exclude achlorhydria. When properly performed and interpreted, the secretin provocation test offers a safe, expeditious, and reliable means of evaluating patients with hypergastrinemia. 
Endemic Kaposi's sarcoma in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seronegative persons: demonstration of retrovirus-like particles in cutaneous lesions. In 1984, Greek physicians reported on the clustering of cases of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) on the Peloponnesus peninsula. To gain more insight into its pathogenesis, we studied the seroepidemiologic and clinicopathologic characteristics of 12 Greek KS patients (eight male/four female) five of whom were residents of an endemic area on the Peloponnesus. These patients were in good general health with ages ranging from 48 to 80 years, had no clinical signs of immunodeficiency, and combined the features of both classic and epidemic KS in that they displayed not only involvement of acral areas but also widespread mucocutaneous lesions. Routine laboratory data were within normal limits; no patient had HTLV-1 and HIV-1/2 antibodies, but all patients had antibodies to several herpesviruses. The histopathology was characteristic of KS with the peculiar feature of a dense infiltrate composed predominantly of CD4+ T lymphocytes. Immunoenzymatic/morphologic studies of the KS cells were consistent with their origin from lymphatic endothelium. Outstanding ultrastructural findings were tubuloreticular structures and cylindrical confronting cisternae, structures that are indicative of an ongoing viral infection. Indeed, extensive electronmicroscopic studies resulted in the detection of retrovirus-like particles in close association to KS cells in five of 12 patients. This in situ observation opens the possibility that this retro-virus contributes to KS development. 
Serum cholesterol levels and survival in elderly hypertensive patients: analysis of data from the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly. The relation between serum cholesterol and mortality was investigated in 822 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to treatment with diuretics, with or without methyldopa, or placebo. Cox's proportional hazards model showed that pretreatment serum total cholesterol levels were independently and inversely correlated with total mortality (p = 0.03), noncardiovascular mortality (p = 0.02), and cancer mortality (p = 0.04) during treatment. Total and noncardiovascular mortality were also negatively correlated with pretreatment hemoglobin levels and body weight. All factors being equal, an increase in total serum cholesterol of 2.3 mmol/L was associated with a one-year prolongation of survival. After adjustment for gender, age, pretreatment cardiovascular complications, and systolic pressure, the correlations between serum cholesterol and cardiovascular and cardiac mortality were not significant. 
Tissue dose estimates following the selective uptake of 125IUdR and other radiolabelled thymidine precursors in resistant tumours. For the purposes of evaluation of the therapeutic potential of the radiohalogenated thymidine analogue 125IUdR, estimation of the radiation dose to the tumour cells and normal tissues is important. To determine the dose to any tissue from the radionuclide 125I is not simple, since the major emissions are very short-range Auger electrons. The cytotoxicity of 125I is strongly dependent on the position of the decay relative to the DNA, the principal target for cell sterilization. Estimates of the cytotoxicity of 125I based on the traditional MIRD recommended formulation (ICRU Report 32, 1979) may produce gross underestimates if it is incorporated into the DNA via the thymidine precursor 125IUdR. In this work, tissue count and autoradiography (ARG) data from studies by Bagshawe et al were used to estimate tissue doses following the administration of 125IUdR to LS174/T (a colorectal carcinoma) and CC3 (a choriocarcinoma) tumour-bearing animals, after a hydroxyurea block of the normal tissue turnover. The tumour cell toxicity is estimated from ARG data on the degree of 125I incorporation into the cell nucleus. Major drawbacks with 125I for this type of therapy are the long 60-day half-life, leading to radiological and waste disposal problems and the extreme short range of the radiotoxic effects. Possible alternative radiohalogens, 13I, 77Br, 131I and 211At, are suggested in place of 125I in the thymidine analog iododeoxyuridine. Dose calculations are performed and cytotoxicities estimated on the assumption that their biological retention characteristics are the same as for 125IUdR. 
Limbal autograft reconstruction after conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma. Two patients who had squamous cell carcinoma with extensive limbal and corneal involvement were treated with surgery and cryotherapy. Rarely large areas of the cornea are involved by this tumor. Visual prognosis in such patients is poor. In these two patients, autologous limbal transplants were effective in restoring an excellent corneal surface and good visual function. This technique may be useful in the reconstruction of eyes with extensive neoplastic involvement of the corneoscleral limbus and cornea. 
When is polypectomy sufficient treatment for colorectal cancer in a polyp? Eighty-seven patients with a carcinoma in a polyp were reviewed over a 12-year period. Ten histologic criteria were analyzed for an association with the presence of residual carcinoma. Four factors were identified as having prognostic value: size greater than 1.5 cm, sessility, cancer of at least 50% of the adenoma volume, and invasive carcinoma. Polypectomy alone is adequate treatment unless the carcinoma invades deeper to the muscularis mucosa and is associated with one or more of these characteristics. 
Mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate with endobronchial metastasis. Endobronchial metastases can manifest clinical symptoms and x-ray findings mimicking a centrally located bronchogenic carcinoma. The authors recently encountered a case of endobronchial metastasis from a mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate that was originally diagnosed as a primary bronchogenic carcinoma. The correct diagnosis was made on the basis of the morphologic similarities between the primary prostatic lesion and the lung lesion and was corroborated by immunohistochemical analyses. 
Lymph node metastasis in spindle cell carcinoma arising in odontogenic cyst. Report of a case. The majority of primary intraosseous carcinomas of the jaws develop in preexisting odontogenic cysts. These tumors are usually well-differentiated keratinizing carcinomas with relatively good prognosis. Only two of 41 previously reported acceptable cases of primary intraosseous carcinomas from ex-odontogenic cysts were associated with cervical lymph node metastasis. Spindle cell carcinoma is an anaplastic dimorphic neoplasm with poor prognosis. It has a special predilection for the upper aerodigestive tract. This is to our knowledge the first report of spindle cell carcinoma developing in an odontogenic cyst. Cervical lymph node metastasis showing typical histologic features of spindle cell carcinoma was detected 8 months postoperatively. The prognostic implications of this finding are discussed in light of previously reported cases of intraosseous carcinoma arising in odontogenic cysts and of spindle cell carcinoma of the oral cavity. 
Retinoid modulation of insulin-like growth factor-binding proteins and inhibition of breast carcinoma proliferation. Retinoids induce cellular differentiation and inhibit cellular proliferation. Proliferation of human breast carcinoma cells in vitro is markedly inhibited by these compounds. On the other hand, insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and their receptors seem to be involved in the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by autocrine or paracrine effects. Since the effects of both IGF-I and IGF-II may be modulated by specific binding proteins (IGF-BPs) we examined the possibility that one mechanism by which retinoic acid may inhibit cancer growth is by an alteration in these BPs, thereby blocking IGF's growth effect. Retinoic acid (RA; 1 microM) completely blocked the effect of IGF-I (50 ng/ml) on enhancing proliferation of MCF-7 cells in culture. This effect of RA was not associated with any significant change in specific IGF-I-binding sites on these cells. RA induced a 3-fold increase in IGF-binding activity in conditioned medium, measured using a polyethylene glycol-immunoglobulin precipitation assay and a charcoal absorption assay. This increase was associated with the appearance of 42- and 46-kDa IGF-BPs on ligand blotting. The effect of RA on these IGF-BPs was time and concentration dependent. In contrast, during some experiments the 27- and 36-kDa BPs actually decreased. These findings support the hypothesis that RA may inhibit the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by increasing the secretion of certain IGF-BPs, which could directly modulate the growth effect of IGFs. 
Biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Virtually all cases of childhood ALL have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations, which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements. Nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage, the degree of cell differentiation, and the specific gene involved at the molecular level. Many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance; however, the adverse influence of certain changes, including most chromosomal translocations, may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy. Table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols. Among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood ALL, hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis. At the opposite end of the spectrum, the treatment outcome for patients with classical Ph+ or hypodiploid ALL is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients. Cases with the t(4;11)(q21;q23) also have a very poor clinical outcome, but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups. The prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations, such as t(1;19)(q23;p13) and several other abnormalities, needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients. Finally, as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements, it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells. 
Prospective evaluation of radiologically directed fine-needle aspiration biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions. The application of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) to the diagnosis of nonpalpable breast lesions was evaluated with a new method which uses standard needle localization under mammographic guidance to assure accurate sampling by FNAB. This method was prospectively applied to 100 mammographically detected breast lesions in 100 women (mean age, 53 years). All 100 patients underwent surgical excision of these nonpalpable lesions after cytologic aspiration. Sufficient aspirated material was obtained for cytologic diagnosis from 91 patients (91%). The histologic and cytologic interpretations were then compared. Twenty malignancies were ultimately diagnosed by histology (12 invasive ductal carcinoma, six ductal carcinoma in situ, and two lobular carcinoma in situ), of which 17 had been cytologically diagnosed. There were no false-positive diagnoses of malignancy by FNAB. False-negative readings (3.3%) included two cases of lobular carcinoma in situ and one case of ductal carcinoma in situ. This technique thus demonstrated a sensitivity of 85%, specificity of 100%, and overall diagnostic accuracy of 96.7% for the nonsurgical detection of malignancy in nonpalpable breast lesions. These results suggest that the established safety, reliability, and cost-effectiveness of FNAB can be maintained in this clinical setting. This procedure may obviate the need for open surgical biopsy in those patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of malignancy. It can also be done using standard techniques and equipment available in many community hospitals. 
Clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis. The second and third examples of clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis are reported. In one patient a right inguinal mass was excised along with an inguinal lymph node dissection. The tumor recurred in the retroperitoneum and was removed, and postoperative radiation therapy was administered. The patient died of recurrent tumor after 11 years. The other patient was treated by excision of a left inguinal mass and an inguinal lymph node dissection and was alive without recurrence 4 years and 8 months later. 
Gd-HP-DO3A in clinical MR imaging of the brain. As part of a phase II clinical trial, 14 patients with presumed intracranial neoplastic disease underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging before and after intravenous injection of gadolinium 1,4,7-tris(carboxymethyl)-10-(2'-hydroxypropyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacycl ododecane (HP-DO3A). This neutral (nonionic) gadolinium chelate has lower osmolality, when formulated at equimolar concentrations, and superior in vitro stability compared with gadopentetate dimeglumine. The safety profile of Gd-HP-DO3A permitted administration of doses up to 0.3 mmol/kg, three times the dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In this limited clinical trial, Gd-HP-DO3A proved to be a safe and efficacious agent in MR imaging of the head. The only change documented in patient monitoring was that of slight skin redness at the injection site immediately after administration in two patients. No statistically significant changes due to administration of the agent were noted in laboratory evaluations. These results differ from those obtained with gadopentetate, which induces a transient rise in serum iron and bilirubin levels in up to 26% of patients. Administration of higher doses of Gd-HP-DO3A, either 0.2 or 0.3 mmol/kg, appeared to provide improved enhancement. No decrease in efficacy at these high doses was noted. 
Selective impairment of memory and visual perception in splenial tumours. The neuropsychological abnormalities found in 9 patients with tumours involving the splenium of the corpus callosum are described. The outstanding features of their cognitive deficits were a severe memory deficit and visual perception impairment in the presence of relatively intact intellect. It is argued that (1) the amnesia is due to damage to the fornix where that structure is closely applied to the splenium and that it is the result of a disconnection between the frontal and temporal lobes, although the possibility that damage to more than one structure, for example, retrosplenial cortex and fornix, cannot be excluded; (2) there is a dual pathway for visual object recognition, one of which passes directly to the dominant hemisphere for semantic analysis and the other via the nondominant hemisphere for prior perceptual analysis. Further, it is postulated that there is a subcortical as well as a callosal route between the hemispheres that is important for visual object recognition. 
Primary breast lymphoma. An immunohistologic study of 20 new cases. Primary malignant lymphomas of the breast (PBL) are uncommon. The authors report the clinical, histologic, and immunoperoxidase findings on 20 cases recorded at the Alberta Cancer Registry over the last 23 years. These cases were then added to material on 257 cases abstracted from the literature and analyzed. It was found that there are two clinicopathologic types of PBL. The first affects pregnant or lactating women with bilateral, diffuse disease, is rapidly fatal, and corresponds histologically to a Burkitt's-type lymphoma. The second is unilateral at presentation and afflicts a broad age range, but primarily older women. This has a variable course only part of which is predicted by histologic grade and stage. Tumor size, treatment, and side of presentation were not found to be significant prognostic factors. Histologically, these tumors can be grouped into large cell B-cell lymphomas, monocytoid B-cell lymphomas (MBCL), and undifferentiated, some of which may be T-cell. Evidence suggesting that the MBCL of breast are the equivalent of the malignant lymphomas of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues (MALT) is reviewed. The breast is a hormone-dependent member of the MALT and therefore it is interesting that two of these tumors were strongly positive for estrogen receptors. 
Pneumonia due to Legionella micdadei in bone marrow transplant recipients. Legionella micdadei has previously been described as a cause of nosocomial pneumonia, particularly in kidney transplant recipients. Cell-mediated immunity is the principal host defense against this pathogen. A common clinical scenario in the immunocompromised host is that of septic pulmonary embolus, but asymptomatic infections have also been reported. The organism is weakly acid-fast in clinical specimens but loses this property when grown on solid media. We report two cases of L. micdadei pneumonia, differing markedly in clinical severity and outcome, in bone marrow transplant recipients. Additionally, we note the growth of the organism in liquid culture media with preservation of its acid-fast property. 
Determination of plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide concentrations by a new immunochemiluminometric assay in normal persons and patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma and other neuroendocrine tumors. There is doubt about concentrations of circulating calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and the value of plasma CGRP measurements in the detection and follow-up of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). Thus, we developed an immunochemiluminometric sandwich assay for CGRP using antibodies purified from a polyclonal antiserum against human CGRP. The assay was sensitive (limit of detection, 0.4 pmol/L; multiply by 3.7892 to derive nanograms per L) and highly specific [no cross-reaction with human calcitonin (CT)]. Normal plasma CGRP values ranged from less than 0.4 to 4.5 pmol/L (median, 0.8; n = 31), with 61% having detectable levels. Values in samples from patients with MTC were elevated: unoperated patients (n = 10), 4.7-137 pmol/L (median, 7.1); and operated patients with gross persistent or recurrent tumor (n = 14), 4.7-171 pmol/L (median, 23.2). In contrast, CGRP values were normal in 78% of nine postoperative patients with elevated CT, but no detectable tumor (range, less than 0.4 to 6.3 pmol/L; median, 1.6). CGRP levels increased after pentagastrin injection in MTC patients, but less than did CT values. Cultured MTC cells in vitro secreted large amounts of CGRP, and rat nerve root ganglia, human osteoblasts, and microvessel endothelial cells secreted lesser amounts. We conclude that CGRP circulates in normal plasma, but at very low levels. Plasma CGRP concentrations are frequently high in patients with MTC, but primarily in those with gross tumor or metastases. Plasma CT assay is the preferable test for MTC, but CGRP assay deserves prospective study for a possible role in predicting gross metastasis. 
Cone cerclage in pregnancy. We report a technique of cone cerclage and the results and outcome in 17 patients who required a diagnostic cone biopsy in pregnancy. The mean age of the patients was 30.6 years (range 21-41). The mean gestational age was 18.8 weeks (range 10-32) at the time of the procedure. There were no major complications and hemorrhage was not a significant problem. There were no second-trimester abortions. Two patients required beta-sympathomimetics to suppress uterine activity for longer than 24 hours after the procedure. Six patients had invasive carcinoma, nine had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) III, and two had CIN II. In 14 cases, the endocervical and ectocervical margins were negative; two patients with CIN and one with multifocal microinvasion had positive margins. Cone cerclage is a safe and easy method for performing diagnostic cervical conization during pregnancy. 
Tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses: preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging. Intracranial, dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses. Therefore, the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important, as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses. The preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can, however, be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood. Phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences, and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving. In the context of venous sinus occlusion, phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging. Three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses. 
Ovarian myxoma. A study of two cases with long-term follow-up. Two cases of the so-called ovarian myxoma are reported. One was from a 13-year-old girl who had a 31-year follow-up and no evidence of recurrence. The second case, from a 65-year-old woman, recurred intraperitoneally, 19 years after the surgery. Both tumors were myxoid, with round to stellate cells. Immunohistochemical, electron microscopic (EM), and DNA flow cytometric (FCM) studies were performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue of the second patient on both the primary tumor and the recurrence. Tumor cells expressed vimentin and were focally positive for desmin and myoglobin. EM findings suggested a fibroblastic differentiation. An aneuploid cell population was present in the recurrent tumor by DNA-FCM studies. Only four other cases of so-called ovarian myxoma were reported to date, and the follow-up does not exceed 18 months. The authors conclude that the presence of aneuploidy and the late recurrence of one of their cases suggest that certain ovarian myxomas might behave like low-grade sarcomas. The histogenesis of this tumor remains unsettled, but similarities were found with myxomas in other locations. 
Development of intrapancreatic transplantable model of pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma in Syrian golden hamsters. Intrapancreatic and subcutaneous (SC) inoculation of cultured pancreatic cancer cells, derived from an induced primary pancreatic cancer in a Syrian hamster, resulted in tumor take in all recipient hamsters. The intrapancreatic allografts grew rapidly, were invasive, and metastasized into the lymph nodes and liver in 2 of 9 cases. In comparison, SC tumors grew relatively slower and formed a large encapsulated mass without invasion and metastases. Histologically, tumors of both sites showed fairly well-differentiated adenocarcinomas of ductal/ductular type resembling the induced primary cancer. Similar to the primary induced pancreatic cancers, tumor cells of both allografts expressed blood-group-related antigens, including A, B, H, Le(b), Le(y), Le(x), and tumor-associated antigen TAG-72. The tumor cells did not express Le(a), CA 19-9, 17-1A, or DU-PAN-2. The expression of these antigens was retained in the metastases and presented the same patterns of reactivity as the allografts. Thus intrapancreatic transplantation provides a rapid model for production of pancreatic cancer with morphologic similarities to human pancreatic cancer. 
Quantifying the potential benefit of CA 125 screening for ovarian cancer. We develop a stochastic model of screening for ovarian cancer with serum levels of the CA 125 radioimmunoassay, a tumor-specific marker. The natural history of the disease is constructed using a four stage model characterized by a multivariate distribution for duration in each stage. Preserving its important features, we simplify the model to a function of two parameters; the average duration in stage I and the coefficient of variation of duration in each stage. A yearly screening program is superimposed using exponential CA 125 growth curves which result in stage-specific sensitivities corresponding to values reported in the literature. By implementing a computer simulation of the stochastic model, we estimate the benefit due to screening. This benefit is expressed as expected years of life saved per case of ovarian cancer. The model incorporates the stochastic nature of the disease process, allows easy analysis of repeated screens, and automatically accounts for correlation between subsequent tests. It provides the basis for planning optimal screening strategies with CA 125 testing. 
Spontaneous regression in Merkel cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the skin. In two Japanese women, 68 and 88 years old, Merkel cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the face developed. Their tumors regressed after biopsy was performed, a rare occurrence. Histological and electron microscopic examination showed apoptosis, cellular necrosis, and an infiltration composed mainly of lymphocytes in the tumors. These changes may have been related to the mechanism of regression. It is interesting that our two patients were women, as was another patient described with Merkel cell carcinoma regression, in light of the fact that the prognosis of this tumor is sex dependent. 
Characterization of an interleukin-6-mediated autocrine growth loop in the human multiple myeloma cell line, U266. It has been reported recently that freshly isolated human myeloma cell cultures proliferate in response to added interleukin-6 (IL-6). Endogenous levels of IL-6 found in the same cultures suggested that an autocrine growth loop may contribute to cell growth. However, the lack of homogenous cell populations in primary myeloma cultures has made it difficult to distinguish between paracrine and autocrine growth mechanisms. To precisely address the autocrine growth issue we have evaluated the growth of the human myeloma cell line, U266. We have found that a neutralizing anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody can inhibit U266 proliferation. Furthermore, the addition of IL-6 antisense oligonucleotides also inhibits U266 proliferation. These effects are reversed by adding IL-6, suggesting the presence of an autocrine loop. Using bioassays with two different IL-6-dependent cell lines, we were able to detect IL-6 in concentrated U266 supernatants. IL-6 mRNA was detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification of cDNA. Cell cycle parameter analysis shows that IL-6 acts to release a block in G1. Taken together these results present conclusive evidence for IL-6-mediated autocrine growth in the U266 human myeloma cell line. 
Beta camera for static and dynamic imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in biologic samples. A detection system based on microchannel plates has been constructed to image charged particles emitted by radionuclides in biomedical samples. This technique has significant advantages over conventional film autoradiography for investigating the distribution of radiolabeled compounds: shorter acquisition times due to the high sensitivity, easier sample handling, direct quantification and the ability to perform dynamic studies. The detector performance shows a spatial resolution of 0.9 mm for carbon-14 (14C) (0.156 MeV), good linearity and homogeneity. The noise level is below 50/(cm2.sec). Successful imaging with this system has been performed with beta-emitters 14C, sulfur-35 (35S), iodine-131 (131I), yttrium-90 (90Y), and positron emitters gallium-68 (68Ga), and fluorine-18 (18F). Dynamic studies of axonal transport of 35S-methionine in a nerve, and static images of 90Y-labeled monoclonal antibodies in slices of tumors are presented. The system shows promise for rapid quantitative imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in small biologic samples. 
Secondary T-cell lymphoproliferation after marrow transplantation. Secondary lymphoproliferative syndromes in immunosuppressed patients have been characterized as polyclonal or monoclonal B-lineage disorders nearly always associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. The authors now report three patients with a distinctly different lymphoproliferative syndrome. Two patients with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (CALLA) (CD10)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one patient with acute myelogenous leukemia, respectively, received high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by marrow transplantation from either an HLA-identical sibling or HLA-mismatched parent. All three patients developed severe graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), requiring immunosuppressive treatment with corticosteroids. A secondary malignant T-cell lymphoproliferation occurred 2, 21, and 43 months, respectively, after marrow transplantation. In all three cases the lymphoid cells expressed T-cell surface antigens and were morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct from the malignant cells present before transplantation. One tumor was of host cell origin, one was probably of donor origin, and the tumor origin in the third case could not be determined. The authors were unable to find any evidence for EBV, human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I or II, human immunodeficiency virus, or human herpesvirus 6. 
Long-term results of surgical resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. This study was undertaken to review the long-term results of multivisceral resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. Between 1964 and 1980, 1042 patients underwent exploratory surgery for colorectal cancer. Of these, 58 patients (5.5%) underwent curative multivisceral resection for suspected contiguous invasion by the primary tumor. Follow-up was complete for all patients. The primary tumors were located in the rectum (38 patients), sigmoid (9 patients), left colon (6 patients), and right colon (5 patients). En bloc resection of other viscera included uterus, adnexa, bladder, vagina, small intestine, abdominal wall, liver, stomach, kidney, and ureter. The operative morbidity and mortality rates were 31% and 1.7%, respectively. Resection margins were free of tumor in 54 patients. In the four patients with tumor-positive resection margins, recurrence of disease was evident between 8 and 22 weeks after surgery (mean survival time, 8.2 months). Carcinomatous invasion of the resected contiguous organ was confirmed in 49 patients (84%). The mean survival time for patients without lymph node metastases was 100.7 months, but it was only 16.2 months (p less than 0.01) for patients with lymph node metastases. Actuarial 5-year disease-free survival rate for patients without lymph node metastases was 76% (36 of 47 patients). None of the patients (0 of 11) with lymph node metastases survived for 5 years. Three of 36 of the 5-year survivors experienced recurrence of disease before the seventh postoperative year; no cancer-related deaths occurred between 7 and 25 years. These data suggest that survival in locally advanced colorectal carcinoma is more dependent on lymph node status than on the extent of local invasion. Effective disease control associated with survival in the long term can be achieved by multivisceral resection. 
131I treatment of thyroid papillary carcinoma in a patient with renal failure. Procedures for 131I ablation in renal failure are not known. In one patient receiving dialysis, detailed dosimetry and health safety aspects were obtained. The results showed insignificant contamination of equipment, but a surprisingly significant reduction in biologic half-life of 131I due to efficient dialysis extraction. The data indicate that 131I ablation can be done safely and easily during dialysis but that much higher 131I doses must be used to achieve equivalent results to those obtained in patients with normal renal function. 
State III squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. Results of a Swedish study. One hundred fifty-three cases of stage III vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were studied. The survival rate was significantly higher in the 99 patients given standard treatment than in the 54 given other treatments. The principal prognostic factor was the presence of groin metastases. In cases without metastases at the time of primary treatment, the five-year survival rate was 89%; in cases with metastases it was 36% When nodal metastases were not suspected (International Federation of Obstetricians and Gynecologists stage N0N1), the survival rate was also higher than when nodal involvement was suspected (N2). Stage III should be subdivided according to either postoperative stages or new clinical stages by separating N0N1 cases from N2 cases. 
Detection by CT during arterial portography of colorectal cancer metastases to liver. A prospective evaluation of the accuracy of real-time ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), infusion hepatic angiography (IHA), and computed tomography during arterial portography (CT-AP) was performed on 65 resected liver metastases of colorectal cancers. The total detection rate was 58.5 percent for US, 56.3 percent for CT, 55.4 percent for IHA, and 86.2 percent for CT-AP. The sensitivity of 29 lesions with diameters of smaller than 1 cm was 65.5 percent for CT-AP, CT found only two, and both US and IHA localized no more than three. The smallest lesions detectable by CT-AP were as small as 0.4 cm in diameter. CT-AP proved most useful in detecting the liver metastases, and the use of this technique is recommended for preoperative planning of hepatectomy on patients with liver metastases. 
Human recombinant GM-CSF in allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation for leukaemia: double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. In a randomised, double-blind trial 20 patients with leukaemia received human recombinant granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and 20 received placebo, for 14 days after allogeneic, matched sibling, bone-marrow transplantation. The neutrophil count recovered to 0.5 x 10(9)/l 3 days earlier in the GM-CSF group than in the placebo group (not significant), and the median neutrophil count at 14 days was significantly higher in the GM-CSF group (1.90 vs 0.46 x 10(9)/l). The lymphocyte count was significantly higher in the GM-CSF than in the placebo group between days 10 and 15 after transplantation, but this difference was not associated with a higher incidence of graft-versus-host disease. There was no evidence that GM-CSF was associated with a greater incidence of leukaemic relapse. The GM-CSF group had lower haemoglobin concentrations and platelet counts and higher plasma urea, creatinine, and bilirubin than the placebo group. The duration of hospital stay was the same for both patient groups. Further studies are now indicated to assess the overall effect of GM-CSF on outcome after allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation. 
Quality control practices in centralized tumor registries in North America. A survey of quality control practices was mailed to 73 central registries in the U.S. and Canada. The response rate was 88%, with respondents representing a wide range of registry characteristics and reporting strategies. While registries expressed different priorities in data use, 80% of respondents felt quality control data were important in the identification of problems. The most common method of quality control was acceptance sampling (used by 97% of respondents), and took the form of visual review, recoding and edit checking. Computer-based edit checks were almost universally used (95%). Process control methods of any sort were used by only 22% of respondents with less than 4% of registries reporting formal quantitative criteria. Sixty-one percent of respondents reported conducting one or more designed studies (e.g. reabstracting or casefinding studies) but only 20% of those made the results public. Greater emphasis should be placed on development of quantitative process controls, experimental design of quality control studies, and formal analyses and reporting of study results. 
Effectiveness of radiotherapy with radical neck dissection in cancers of the head and neck. A retrospective analysis of 457 radical neck dissections performed over a 30-year period for cancers of the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx was carried out. Two hundred thirteen patients underwent radiotherapy to the primary cancer site and/or to the neck. Of these, 164 underwent perioperative adjuvant radiotherapy and 24 underwent definitive radiation for cure and were followed up by salvage surgery. Thus, 188 patients received radiotherapy for nonrecurrent disease. Twenty-five additional patients underwent radiation for surgical failure following radical neck dissection. The goal of the study was to determine whether radiotherapy altered the course or end result of the disease. The T and N stage at onset of disease was similar for the radiotherapy and nonradiotherapy groups. Preoperative radiotherapy was effective in down staging the disease at the primary site and, to a lesser extent, in the lymph nodes, but had limited impact on survival. Failure to control the disease in the neck occurred in 60 (32%) of the 188 patients who received radiotherapy for primary disease; recurrence rates were lower in the combined therapy group than in the surgical group of patients with N2 and N3 stages of disease. The 3-year disease-free survival was 45%; this was no better than the 63% survival rate in patients who did not receive radiotherapy, although survival was better in the combined therapy group for patients with N3 stage of disease. The worst results were in those patients who were irradiated for surgical failure (14% survival); the 24 patients who required salvage radical neck dissection following failure of definitive radiotherapy for cure had a 42% survival. 
Acquired von Willebrand's syndrome. Therapeutic and diagnostic implications. Acquired von Willebrand's syndrome is a newly recognized bleeding diathesis thought to be caused by autoantibodies to the von Willebrand factor. Acquired von Willebrand's syndrome has been reported in association with lymphoproliferative disorders and benign monoclonal gammopathies. Clinical features and laboratory abnormalities of this disease are similar to congenital von Willebrand's disease, but the optimal treatment may differ. We describe a 75-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and recurrent epistaxis and also discuss the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of both the congenital and acquired disorders. 
The melanocyte and melanoma. This paper reviewed some of the interesting biological aspects of melanocytes and their relationship to the nevus and to melanoma. It also proposed a rationale for "adequate" surgery in the management of melanoma according to level, depth, margins, and trends in treatment. These propositions were derived from an analysis of 995 cases of melanoma of the head and neck. 
Somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer. A review Somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones. The beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life. The development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors. In addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions, recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms. The exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors. In this review, the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized. 
Primary intracerebral sarcoma in childhood: case report with electron-microscope study. A case of a primary intracerebral sarcoma is described in a 5-year-old girl. Histology and immunohistochemistry excluded the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma, a malignant haemangiopericytoma or a fibrosarcoma; electron-microscopical findings indicated that the origin of the sarcoma was in the pia mater. 
Multiple adenomas of the human pituitary. A retrospective autopsy study with clinical implications. In a review of autopsy material from two centers, 20 pituitary glands were found containing multiple adenomas. In total, 44 adenomas were identified histologically; 16 glands contained double tumors and in four glands triple adenomas were found. Size was measured in 30 tumors, all of which were microadenomas. Thirty-four adenomas were located in the lateral wings and 10 lay in the median wedge. Forty-one tumors were chromophobic and three were basophilic. Immunocytochemical analysis of the 44 tumors demonstrated the presence of prolactin in 11, adrenocorticotropic hormone in three, growth hormone in one, and alpha-subunit as well as follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in one. Of the 20 patients studied, there were 11 men and nine women, with an average age of 69 years. All patients died from various nonendocrine causes. With the exception of one patient who appeared mildly acromegalic, no correlation was observed between pituitary morphology and clinical data. This study found a 10.4% frequency of adenomas in pituitaries studied randomly at autopsy. Multiple tumors were encountered in 0.9% of cases. Despite its low frequency, adenoma multiplicity may underlie surgical failure in cases in which one adenoma is removed and the other is left behind. 
Stomal adenocarcinoma in Crohn's disease. Malignant change occurring at the site of a stoma in two patients with proved Crohn's disease is described. Patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colonic malignancy and Crohn's disease is also associated with both small and large bowel carcinoma. Most previous reports of stomal carcinoma have been associated with ulcerative colitis although Crohn's disease seems to carry a greater risk of associated small bowel carcinomas. This is the first report of stomal carcinoma complicating Crohn's disease. Epithelial dysplasia is associated with gastrointestinal carcinomas in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease and a dysplasia-carcinoma sequence has been suggested as the origin of these tumours. In both our patients with stomal adenocarcinoma, dysplasia was identified in adjacent tissues, which suggests a similar mechanism. Malignant change should be suspected if epithelial dysplasia is discovered in a biopsy specimen from the mucosa of an ileostomy in Crohn's disease, and this risk is increased if the dysplasia is of a high grade. 
Expression of HLA-DR and secretory component antigens and lymphocyte infiltration in human gastric nonmalignant and malignant tissues: an immunohistochemical study. The relation between HLA-DR and secretory component (SC) expression and the degree of lymphocyte infiltration was immunohistochemically examined in human gastric mucosa with or without intestinal metaplasia and gastric carcinoma tissues. Gastric mucosa without obvious inflammation showed neither expression of HLA-DR or SC nor remarkable lymphoid infiltration. In contrast, gastric mucosa with chronic inflammation, tissues with incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia, and carcinoma demonstrated both HLA-DR and SC in almost the same area and also prominent lymphoid infiltration in the surrounding stroma. This simultaneous expression of HLA-DR and SC was not observed in complete type of intestinal metaplasia. The results indicate a close relationship between expression of HLA-DR and SC and the presence of lymphocyte infiltration in gastric mucosa, areas of incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia and in gastric carcinomas. 
Human growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 enhance the proliferation of human leukemic blasts. As the number of long-term survivors of childhood leukemia increases, growth retardation has emerged as a significant complication. Treatment of these children with growth hormone (GH) has been suggested and sporadically implemented. We, therefore, studied the effect of human GH (hGH) and its by-product insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) on the growth of leukemic cells in vitro. Under serum-free conditions hGH and IGF-1 induced a significant dose-dependent proliferative effect on promyelocytic leukemia (HL60) and Burkitt's lymphoma (Daudi) cell lines. Anti-hGH antibodies negated the stimulatory effect of hGH and anti-IGF-1 serum abrogated the growth-promoting effect enhanced by IGF-1. Similar statistically significant stimulatory properties were found when freshly obtained marrow cells from four of five acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) of childhood and four acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients were studied in ALL and AML blast-cell clonogenic assays. ALL colonies increased numerically by 72% (P less than .025) and AML colonies by 92% (P less than .01) in the presence of hGH at concentrations of 2.5 x 10(2) and 3.0 x 10(2) ng/mL, respectively. IGF-1 stimulated ALL and AML blast-colony growth at concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 ng/mL by up to 105% (P less than .025) and 65% (P less than .03), respectively. Our in vitro data suggest that circulating hGH and IGF-1 may promote leukemic blast cell replication in vivo, and the supplemental administration of hGH to leukemia patients in remission must be carefully monitored for early relapse. 
Prognostic significance of nondiploid DNA determined by flow cytometry in sporadic and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma. To clarify the role of DNA measurements in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), we performed flow cytometric analysis in nuclear suspensions of 119 MTC tumors. Of the 119 patients, 63 (53%) patients had sporadic tumors and 56 (47%) patients had familial tumors; survivors were followed for a mean of 13 years. DNA content was normal in 92 (77%) patients and abnormal (nondiploid) in 27 (23%) patients. Ten-year cause-specific mortality rates were 12%, 42%, and 49% with diploid, tetraploid/polyploid, or aneuploid tumors (p = 0.0009) and were greater with nondiploid tumors both in the sporadic (p = 0.012) and multiple endocrine neoplasia (familial) cases (p = 0.114). None of 27 patients with TNM stage I disease died of MTC. In patients with TNM stages II, III, and IV disease, DNA nondiploid tumors were associated with increased deaths from MTC. In a Cox proportional hazards model involving all 119 patients and adjusted for disease stage and inheritance pattern, nondiploid DNA was independently associated with increased deaths from MTC (p = 0.008). In an identical Cox model restricted to the 92 DNA diploid tumors, an S-phase fraction of 15.0% or more remained a significant variable (p = 0.034) after adjustment for stage and inheritance pattern. We therefore conclude that DNA measurements do have a role to play in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of MTC. 
Serum erythropoietin levels in patients receiving intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy. To investigate the potential role of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) in patients receiving intensive cytotoxic therapy, we measured the endogenous levels of Epo in 31 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Seventeen patients underwent allogeneic BMT and 14 underwent autologous BMT. On average, 10 +/- 4 units of red blood cells (RBCs) were transfused per patient. The mean RBC transfusion requirement of the autologous BMT patients was significantly greater than that of the allogeneic recipients (12 +/- 3 v 8 +/- 4, P less than .01), although both groups were maintained at comparable hematocrits. Epo levels were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). For each patient, baseline serum Epo levels were determined at time of admission to the hospital. Subsequent samples were collected within 24 hours of completing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, and on days 7, 14, and 28, after BMT. Hematocrits (Hcts) were measured daily. All patients had an initial serum creatinine less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL. Despite considerable differences in absolute Epo levels among individuals, a characteristic pattern was observed. Following admission to the hospital and initiation of cytotoxic therapy, the average Hct decreased and the average Epo level initially increased. The mean serum Epo levels peaked on day 7 post-BMT (284 +/- 190 mU/mL) and fell steadily thereafter. While the average Hcts on day 7 and on day 28 post-BMT were not significantly different (28 +/- 4.6% v 29 +/- 3.3%, respectively), the average serum Epo levels decreased fourfold (P less than .01) during this same period. Moreover, day 28 post-BMT mean Epo levels were inappropriately low (P less than .05) when compared with a reference population with bone marrow failure and normal controls who had not received cytotoxic therapy. We conclude that the endogenous Epo response appears to be blunted during the 3 to 4 weeks immediately post-BMT. Therefore, clinical trials assessing the efficacy of the administration of rhEpo in the treatment of anemias associated with cytotoxic therapy are warranted. 
Sacral plexus injury after radiotherapy for carcinoma of cervix. A 42-year-old woman developed lower extremity weakness and sensory loss 1 year after external and intracavitary radiotherapy for Stage IB carcinoma of cervix. She has been followed for 5 years posttreatment, and the neurologic abnormalities have persisted, but no evidence of recurrent carcinoma has been found. We believe this to be a rare case of sacral plexus radiculopathy developing as a late complication after radiotherapy. Suggestions are made for improving the radiotherapy technique to prevent this complication in future cases. 
Nonsquamous tumors of the head and neck in the geriatric population. Thyroid tumors, salivary gland tumors, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma are described. Psychosocial issues involving the geriatric patient are discussed. Case reports of a number of geriatric tumor patients are included. 
Gonadotroph adenoma of the pituitary mimicking a prolactinoma. In a 41-year-old woman with mild hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea, preoperative hormonal and neuroradiological findings suggested the diagnosis of a macroprolactinoma. She underwent transsphenoidal surgery since the tumor size had not changed in spite of bromocriptine administration for 5 months. Consequently, this case was diagnosed as a female-type gonadotroph adenoma on the basis of its characteristic ultrastructural features including a honeycomb Golgi complex, even though endocrinological and immunohistochemical findings were not those of a typical gonadotroph adenoma. 
4-Hydroperoxycyclophosphamide purging of breast cancer from the mononuclear cell fraction of bone marrow in patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous marrow support: a phase I trial. We designed an ex vivo bone marrow treatment for breast cancer patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow support (ABMS), using 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC), an active derivative of cyclophosphamide with known activity against breast cancer. This phase I bone marrow purging trial used ficoll-separated mononuclear cells (MNC) (devoid of granulocytes and RBCs), as opposed to the buffy coat. Twenty-five patients with metastatic breast cancer were studied. Patients received three cycles of the Adriamycin (doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH), fluorouracil, and methotrexate (Duke AFM) regimen, followed by marrow harvest. An MNC fraction of marrow was prepared and treated with 4-HC in concentrations of 20 micrograms/mL (four patients), 40 micrograms/mL (four patients), 60 micrograms/mL (nine patients), or 80 micrograms/mL (eight patients) and cryopreserved. Patients then received high-dose systemic cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and carmustine, followed by infusion of the purged marrow. The study end point was marrow engraftment, defined as WBC count greater than 1,000 cells per microliter. At the first three dose levels (20, 40, and 60 micrograms/mL 4-HC), there was no significant delay in time to engraftment (19, 20, and 23 days, respectively) compared with the unpurged historical controls (17 days). At 80 micrograms/mL, engraftment was significantly delayed compared with the lower concentrations (P = .027), and further escalation of 4-HC was not attempted. A significant correlation was observed between the time of leukocyte engraftment and the 4-HC concentration (P = .017). With a methylcellulose-based tissue culture assay, we demonstrated a statistically significant correlation between the colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) content in the purged marrow and the days to engraftment. Ninety-five percent of patients responded clinically to the entire program, 55% of them completely. Longer follow-up is required to assess the ultimate benefit of intensive therapy on long-term survival. 
Endoscopic and radiographic evaluation of the murine colon. Endoscopic and radiographic techniques have not been widely applicable in the evaluation of chemically induced murine colon cancer. The authors investigated methods of cleansing the rat colon and refined endoscopic and radiographic techniques. They compared total colonoscopy (TC) and air-contrast (ACBE) and single-contrast barium enema (SCBE) findings with those obtained at necropsy in rats with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced colon cancer. Gastrograffin enemas with bisacodyl suppositiories showed complete evacuation of solid feces. Sprague-Dawley rats treated with DMH had their colons cleansed and then underwent TC (5.0-mm Olympus bronchoscope) and either SCBE or ACBE. Colonoscopy and ACBE were equally sensitive (81.5% and 76.3%, respectively), although SCBE was significantly insensitive in identifying lesions (P less than 0.001). This study demonstrates that: (1) mechanical cleansing of the rat colon is feasible, (2) TC and barium radiology can be done routinely after mechanical cleansing, and (3) TC and double-contrast BE are sensitive in identifying colon lesions. These techniques will provide a means for manipulation of murine tumors and in vivo surveillance. 
Pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulates the growth of rat pancreatic carcinoma cells. Pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor was examined for growth-promoting activity on five cell lines using standard cell culture techniques. One cell line, AR4-2J, derived from a rat pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma, responded with significantly increased incorporation of [3H]thymidine and colony formation. Pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulated the incorporation of [3H]thymidine in liquid culture; the maximal increase was 61 +/- 10% above control (P less than 0.001) and was seen at a concentration of 10(-9) mol/L. Using a soft agarose clonogenic assay, pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor also consistently stimulated (3 assays) colony formation: the peak activity occurred at a concentration of 10(-10) mol/L which caused a 150 +/- 55% (mean +/- SE, P less than 0.05) increase above control. Aprotinin had no effect on the growth of AR4-2J cells and pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor did not bind to the epidermal growth factor receptor. AR4-2J cells were shown to produce pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor. The study raises the possibility that pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor provides autocrine stimulation of tumor cell growth. 
Levamisole and 5-fluorouracil therapy for resected colon cancer: a new indication. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the benefits and risks of postoperative treatment with levamisole plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with colon cancer. DESIGN: Computerized searches of MEDLINE and CANCERLIT were performed, and the reference list of each retrieved article was checked. Only randomized trials of therapy with levamisole alone or combined with 5-FU for colon cancer without distant metastases were included. The studies were then evaluated with the use of four criteria. RESULTS: We reviewed six randomized trials, of which three satisfied our criteria. Two studies demonstrated a significant improvement in the survival rate with levamisole plus 5-FU among patients with colon cancer and pathologically confirmed metastases to adjacent lymph nodes (Dukes' stage C). A subgroup analysis in another study demonstrated a similar benefit. The toxic effects of the drugs were generally mild. The three other studies showed no difference in survival rates between the treatment groups; however, the samples were too small to detect a clinically or statistically important difference. CONCLUSIONS: Because many patients with colon cancer will suffer a relapse we recommend that they be offered the opportunity to participate in clinical trials of adjuvant therapy. For those with stage C disease not entering a clinical trial levamisole plus 5-FU is appropriate adjuvant therapy. 
Lactation following conservation surgery and radiotherapy for breast cancer. A 38-year-old woman with early stage invasive breast cancer was treated with wide excision of the tumor, axillary lymph node dissection, and breast irradiation. Three years later, she gave birth to a normal baby. She attempted breast feeding and had full lactation from the untreated breast. The irradiated breast underwent only minor changes during pregnancy and postpartum but produced small amounts of colostrum and milk for 2 weeks postpartum. There are only a few reports of lactation after breast irradiation. These cases are reviewed, and possible factors affecting breast function after radiotherapy are discussed. Because of scant information available regarding its safety for the infant, nursing from the irradiated breast is not recommended. 
Ring neutrophils in plasma cell dyscrasia. Sporadic reports in the medical literature concern the significant incidence of neutrophils with ring-shaped nuclei in myeloproliferative disorders. We report our first encounter with ring neutrophils in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. A significant incidence of ring neutrophils was observed in all of 20 patients with multiple myeloma and in nine of 10 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. The mean percent of ring neutrophils was 9.5% (range, 1.0% to 28.0%) in patients with multiple myeloma, which was significantly greater than in those with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or in healthy controls. In multiple myeloma, the incidence of ring neutrophils in the pretreatment phase was greater than that in the remission phase. A great deal of overlap was noted between multiple myeloma in the remission phase and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. The incidence of ring neutrophils seemed to vary according to disease stage. Ring neutrophils may reflect abnormal granulopoiesis in plasma cell dyscrasias. 
Immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor I and insulin in human adrenal tumors. An immunohistochemical study of 94 cases. Using immunoperoxidase methods, 94 human adrenal tumors were examined for evidence of immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) and insulin. The frequency of IGF-I in adrenocortical carcinomas was significantly higher than that in adenomas of the adrenal glands. The adrenocortical carcinomas showed strong intensity of staining for IGF-I, IGF-I receptors, and insulin receptors. A significant correlation between immunoreactivity and receptor expression of both IGF-I and insulin was found only in the adrenocortical carcinomas. The adrenocortical adenomas with Cushing's syndrome and pheochromocytomas, more than adrenocortical adenomas with Conn's syndrome, also stained strongly for insulin receptors. Thus the IGF-I and insulin probably play a role in the growth of adrenocortical carcinoma tissues, possibly through autocrine mechanisms. The expression of insulin receptors in adrenocortical adenomas in the presence of Cushing's syndrome and pheochromocytomas may be associated with functions. 
Non-AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (classical and endemic African types): treatment with low doses of recombinant interferon-alpha. In the treatment of the classical and endemic African forms of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), radiation therapy and chemotherapy have been widely used with varying degrees of success and morbidity. We here report our preliminary experiences with low doses of recombinant interferon alfa-2b (rIFN alpha-2b) in the treatment of these types of KS, non-linked to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Ten consecutive patients (eight patients with classical and two with endemic KS) with a median age of 62 years were treated long-term with 5 X 10(6) units of rIFN alpha-2b (Introna) given subcutaneously three times weekly for at least 6 months. Of the 10 patients, six presented with cutaneous disease only, and four had additional visceral involvement. After 6 months of treatment, seven of the 10 patients had a major response of the cutaneous lesions, and three patients showed stable skin diseases. Of the four patients with additional visceral disease, one patient showed a complete regression of an intramyocardial tumor involving the right atrium and ventricle, whereas in the three other patients stabilization of the visceral lesions with marked symptomatic improvement occurred. On the whole, the long-term results over a median duration of 12 months (range, 7 to 30) are also satisfactory: IFN-alpha continued to control KS in all patients. The treatment was generally well tolerated; no serious side effects were observed. Our preliminary data suggest that low-dose rIFN alpha-2b regimens are effective in classical and endemic African KS. However, further studies are needed to establish the exact role for IFN-alpha as alternative to radiation and chemotherapy. 
Zinc and copper in breast cancer. A joint study in northern Italy and southern France. The relationship between breast cancer and two trace elements, zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu), was investigated by means of an hospital based case-control study at Milan (Italy) and Montpellier (France). Variables concerning dietary intake of Zn and Cu (in Milan) and their blood levels (both in Milan and Montpellier) were measured. Dietary intake, evaluated through a questionnaire of the dietary history type, and blood levels of Zn and Cu were measured in 261 cases and 261 controls. Cu blood level showed a contradictory tendency in the two samples (higher in controls in Milan, higher in cases in Montpellier), which tended to lessen after adjustment for related variables. No odds ratios (OR) in the different quantiles, nor X2 for trend reached statistical significance. A sharp difference was evidenced on the opposite with regard to Zn blood values in cases and controls. In both samples Zn mean values are significantly higher in cases than in controls, and the difference remains significant in the two samples even after adjustment for related variables. The pooled OR computed from the two samples, after adjustment for known risk factors and related variables, reaches in the fourth quartile a value of 9.5 (CI: 4.9-18.2). Dietary intake of the two minerals (measured only in Milan sample) showed no difference between cases and controls, but a stronger relationship between dietary and blood Zn was evidenced in cases with respect to controls. The authors suggest that the higher Zn level in cases might be related with an higher incorporation of Zn in cancer cases and that the same mineral might play a possible role in tumor growth promotion. 
Gonadoblastoma in an anatomically normal man: a case report and literature review. Gonadoblastoma, a rare gonadal neoplasm, presents most frequently in phenotypic female or phenotypically male patients with dysgenetic gonads or undescended testes. To date, only 2 cases of gonadoblastoma have been reported in anatomically normal male patients with scrotal testes. Both of these patients presented with testicular masses and germ cell tumors. We report a case of a genotypically and phenotypically normal, fertile man with descended testes who on evaluation for chronic orchialgia had a gonadoblastoma unaccompanied by a germ cell neoplasm. The tumor was nonpalpable and was initially discovered on scrotal ultrasound. 
Spindle cell carcinoma of the lung. A clinicopathologic study of three cases. Two cases of monophasic spindle cell carcinomas and one case of adenosquamous carcinoma with the spindle cell component located in the lower respiratory tract are presented. In the biphasic tumor, areas of transition from carcinoma to sarcomatous spindle cells were clearly found. The two monophasic tumors and the spindle cell component of the biphasic tumor were histologically characterized by sheets of spindle cells. However, by electron microscopic and immunohistochemical study, several features of squamous epithelial differentiation were found in the spindle cell areas of all cases. Keratin and vimentin were, in various degrees, coexpressed in all the cases. Therefore, it is supposed that the spindle cell component displays a spectrum of phenotypes originating from squamous cell carcinoma, and monophasic spindle cell carcinoma is considered as a kind of the extreme phenotype of squamous cell carcinoma pretending mesenchymal differentiation. 
Atopy and primary lung cancer. Histology and sex distribution. Atopy, defined as the ability to develop IgE antibodies to commonly encountered allergens under conditions of normal exposure, has an inherited component with pleiotropic effects. An inverse relationship between the occurrence of atopy, allergy-related diseases, and cancers at specific sites has been reported. The familial association of primary lung cancer is most evident among women, nonsmokers, and those with adenocarcinomas. In order to determine whether the relationship between a lower prevalence of atopy among patients with lung cancer compared to control subjects was consistent between histologic cell types, we used seven common allergens to allergy prick skin test 209 community control subjects (46 women), 109 cases with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (25 women), and 67 patients with primary adenocarcinomas of the lung (23 women). We have confirmed earlier reports of an inverse relationship between atopy and lung cancer risk. In analyses focusing on sex and histologic cell type, we found that women with adenocarcinomas were an exception and were as likely to be atopic as control subjects. The evidence does not support a protective role for atopy among these women. 
Hepatitis B virus integration in hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma in childhood. In Taiwan, hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the major malignancies in children between 5 and 14 yr of age. We studied the status of hepatitis B virus DNA in the hepatocellular carcinoma and nontumorous liver tissues of eight children with positive serum HBsAg and maternal HBsAg. The hepatocellular carcinoma tissues from five of the eight children showed integration of hepatitis B virus DNA into host cellular DNA sequences. A pattern of single-site integration in four children and a multiple-site integration pattern in one child were demonstrated. In the remaining three children, hepatitis B virus DNA could not be demonstrated in the tumor tissues. Using subgenomic fragments of the hepatitis B virus genome as probes, we found that the X gene fragment and the surface antigen gene fragment were the most conserved sequences. The single-site integration of hepatitis B virus DNA in childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may have hit the critical region, resulting in insertional mutagenesis and early development of hepatocellular carcinoma. With a short incubation period and less exposure to environmental carcinogens during early life, childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may provide a good model to study the carcinogenic potential of hepatitis B virus. 
Prolonged administration of oral etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory small-cell lung cancer: a phase II trial. Twenty-two patients with recurrent small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) were treated with single-agent etoposide 50 mg/m2/d by mouth for 21 consecutive days. Eleven patients had received previous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine (CAV) or etoposide (CAE) or both (CAVE). Four of the latter patients also received salvage treatment with cisplatin and etoposide (EP). Nine patients had been treated with EP as induction therapy, while two patients had received high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin (HDCEP). Altogether, 18 patients had received previous intravenous etoposide. The median time off chemotherapy was 4.5 months (range, 1 to 28.9 months). Ten patients (45.5%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 27% to 65%) achieved a complete or partial response. Responses were most common in patients who had responded to previous chemotherapy and who had not received any treatment in the 90 days before initiation of oral etoposide. Median response duration was 4 months (range, 1.5 to 9.5 months) and median survival was 3.5+ months (range, 1.0 to 15+ months). Leukocyte and platelet nadirs were 1,800/microL and 160,000/microL, respectively, during cycle 1 of treatment and occurred between days 21 and 28. Overall, total leukocyte count decreased to less than 1,000/microL during 10 of 56 cycles (18%). Five patients required six hospitalizations for neutropenia and fever. There were two toxic deaths due to sepsis. Platelet counts less than 50,000/microL occurred in 14 cycles (25%). Alopecia developed in all patients; gastrointestinal toxicity was uncommon. This schedule of etoposide administration warrants further study in combination with other active agents in previously untreated patients with SCLC. 
Low diacylglycerol values in colonic adenomas and colorectal cancer. The biochemical events that make colonic epithelial cells proceed along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence are not well understood. The phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. To determine its role in colonic neoplasias we performed mass measurements of its second messenger sn-1,2-diacylglycerol in biopsy specimens from normal mucosa and neoplasias of the colon. Normal colonic mucosa was also investigated in patients without colonic abnormalities (n = 10). Compared with pooled diacylglycerol values from five colonic sites (100%), values in patients with a normal colon were highest in the ascending colon (120 (5)%, p less than 0.05) and lowest in the rectum (81 (5)%, p less than 0.01). Absolute diacylglycerol values in patients with normal colons (2.62 (0.16) nmol/mg protein) were not significantly different from those found in the normal mucosa of patients with colorectal neoplasias (2.45 (0.17) nmol/mg protein). Both colonic adenomas (n = 15) and colorectal carcinomas (n = 14) showed significantly decreased diacylglycerol values compared with the adjacent normal mucosa of each patient (72 (4)%, p less than 0.001, and 71 (4)%, p less than 0.001 respectively). The appreciable decrease in mass diacylglycerol values clearly distinguishes adenomas and carcinomas of the colon from the surrounding normal mucosa. This finding suggests that profound metabolic changes of the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway occur early in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence and may be important in colonic carcinogenesis. 
Nephron-sparing surgery for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement. A nephron-sparing operation recently has been shown to provide extended survival free of disease in selected patients with localized renal cell carcinoma, particularly for tumors of lower stage. To define better the role of conservative surgical treatment in more locally advanced renal cell carcinoma we reviewed 9 patients with venous tumor involvement in solitary functioning kidneys who underwent a nephron-sparing operation. Complete tumor resection with adequate preservation of renal function was accomplished in all cases. Of the 9 patients 5 had no evidence of disease 7 to 93 months (mean 33.2 months) postoperatively. The remaining 4 patients died of metastatic renal cell carcinoma 17 to 47 months (mean 35.5 months) postoperatively, 2 of whom had concomitant local recurrences in the renal remnant. Based on previously reported results of total nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement and the morbidity associated with renal replacement therapy, we believe that a nephron-sparing operation is a viable option in the management of these patients. 
Phase I study of repeated cycles of high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin administered without bone marrow transplantation Forty-two patients with advanced malignancy judged unlikely to respond to standard treatment received high-dose combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and cisplatin in a phase I trial. Twenty-two of these patients who had at least a partial response (PR) to the first cycle of therapy received a second cycle, and eight patients received three or more cycles of therapy. Bone marrow replacement was not used. The maximum-tolerated doses (MTDs) were cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 on days 1 and 2; etoposide 500 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3; and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3. Hematologic toxicity was not dose-limiting by study design. Recovery to an absolute granulocyte count above 100/microL occurred at a median of 9 days from onset (range, 3 to 23 days) at the MTD. Recovery was delayed after the third cycle. Only one patient on his third cycle failed to recover peripheral blood counts and died of sepsis an day 43. Hematologic toxicity was not dose-dependent. Nonhematologic toxicities included emesis, fatigue, alopecia, diarrhea, and anorexia and were generally well tolerated. The dose-limiting toxicities were fatal pulmonary or cardiac toxicities in five of nine patients treated at the highest dose level. Patients likely to do well can be selected by tumor type, response to prior therapy, and performance status. Nine of 36 assessable patients had a complete response (CR) and 13 a PR for a response rate of 61%. Five patients (12%) remain alive and free of disease at 15 to 32 months. Repeated cycles of dose-intensive combination therapy can produce long-term disease-free remissions in patients with refractory tumor types. The toxicity of the regimen is acceptable if patients are carefully selected. 
Partial reversibility of cisplatin nephrotoxicity in children. To evaluate the long-term renal toxicity of cisplatin, 40 children who had been without treatment at least 18 months (range 18 months to 7 years) were observed. In all the children, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated from the plasma clearance of chromium 51-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, both at the end of treatment and at a median follow-up of 2 years 6 months after treatment was stopped (range 18 months to 7 years). In 21 children, serum magnesium level was also measured at follow-up. Median age at diagnosis was 15 months (range 13 days to 13 years 8 months), and median cumulative doses of cisplatin was 500 mg/m2 (range 120 to 1860 mg/m2). In 22 of 24 children with an end-of-treatment GFR of less than 80 ml/min per 1.73 m2, the median improvement in GFR at follow-up was 22 ml/min per 1.73 m2 (range 2 to 56 ml/min per 1.73 m2). Hypomagnesemia was found in 6 of 21 children and was independent of GFR. No significant correlation was found between improvement in renal function and total cisplatin dose, age, gender, tumor type, or associated nephrotoxic medication. We conclude that most children have some recovery from cisplatin glomerular toxicity, especially if damage is not severe, but that hypomagnesemia may persist. 
Hodgkin's disease in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection. Pathologic and immunologic features. Six patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) and demonstrable serum antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and two additional patients with HD belonging to HIV-associated high-risk groups but with negative HIV serology were studied. All patients were men and ranged in age from 21 to 45 years. The HIV risk factors included homosexuality (6), intravenous drug abuse (2), and hemophilia A (1). All patients had high pathologically determined stage (one Stage III and seven Stage IV), and bone marrow involvement was observed in five patients with the initial diagnosis of HD based on marrow biopsy in two cases. Four cases were histologically subclassified as mixed cellularity (MC) and three as nodular sclerosis (NS); one patient underwent only bone marrow biopsy and was not subclassified. Histologically all cases were characterized by numerous Reed-Sternberg cells and variants, and with the exception of one case, all had a distinctive decrease in the proportion of reactive background lymphocytes compared with what is usually expected in MC or NS Hodgkin's disease (relative lymphocyte depletion). Flow-cytometric immunophenotypic studies done on cell suspensions from diagnostic lymph node biopsies in four cases showed decreased CD4:CD8 ratios (mean = 1.4) compared with expected values of 4 to 6. The relative lymphocyte depletion observed histologically is probably a reflection of the decreased tissue CD4:CD8 ratios, and this impairment of host immune response may be related to the observed high stage in all eight cases. Patients with high stage HD and the described histologic and immunologic features should be evaluated for the presence of HIV infection. 
Treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma with a combination of low-dose interferon alfa-2b and retinoids. In a pilot study the therapeutic effect and side effect profile of low-dose interferon alfa-2b in combination with a retinoid for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma were evaluated. Seven patients (four women, three men) with histologically confirmed cutaneous T cell lymphoma were included. Four patients had received therapy previously. The treatment schedule consisted of 2 million U of interferon alfa-2b administered subcutaneously three times per week and oral 13-cis-retinoic acid, 1 mg/kg/day, with subsequent dose reduction in case of response. The combination therapy produced two complete and two partial remissions. Responses were maintained by continuous therapy for up to 15 months even after dose reduction of both agents by 50%. Side effects were negligible and did not result in discontinuation of treatment in any patient. 
Alterations in opioid parameters in the hypothalamus of rats with estradiol-induced polycystic ovarian disease. The distribution and density of selectively labeled mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid binding sites were examined by in vitro radioautography in the hypothalamus of normal, estradiol valerate (EV)-injected, and estradiol (E2)-implanted female rats. Hypothalamic beta-endorphin concentration was also examined by RIA in these three groups of animals. Quantitative analysis of film radioautographs demonstrated a selective increase in mu-opioid binding in the medial preoptic area of EV-treated, but not of E2-implanted rats. However, both these estrogenized groups exhibited a reduction in the density of delta-opioid binding in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Statistically significant changes between either estrogenized groups were not observed for kappa-opioid binding. Results on the hypothalamic concentration of beta-endorphin indicated a marked reduction in EV-injected animals with respect to controls. In contrast, the E2-implanted animals exhibited beta-endorphin concentrations similar to controls. The present results confirm the increase in opioid receptor binding previously reported in the hypothalamus of EV-treated rats and further demonstrate that this increase is confined to the medial preoptic area and exclusively concerns mu-opioid receptors. The concomitant reduction in beta-endorphin levels observed in the same group of animals suggests that the observed increase in mu-opioid binding could reflect a chronic up-regulation of the receptor in response to compromised beta-endorphin input. Given the restriction of this effect to the site of origin of LHRH neurons and the demonstrated inhibitory role of opioids on LHRH release, it is tempting to postulate that such up-regulation could lead to the suppression of the plasma LH pattern that characterizes polycystic ovarian disease in the EV-treated rat. 
Cytomegalovirus infections in bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections were studied in 785 bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy. CMV excretion occurred in 24%, viremia in 9%, seroconversion in 40%, and overall active infection in 47%. CMV disease was much less common. Retinitis, enteritis, and pneumonitis occurred in only one, five (less than 1%), and 55 (7%) of the patients, respectively. Allograft recipients were more likely to develop CMV disease than were autograft patients (P = .0001) despite comparable rates of active CMV infection. CMV disease was rare after primary infection in both autograft and allograft recipients (0 and 1%, respectively). In contrast, CMV disease occurred in 16% of seropositive allograft recipients. Among allograft recipients, risk factors for CMV pneumonitis were seropositivity, age greater than 10 years, and acute graft-vs.-host disease, while the use of cyclosporine as prophylaxis against graft-vs.-host disease was protective. Although active infection rates did not decrease, the rates of CMV pneumonitis in allograft recipients during successive years declined significantly (P less than .001). 
Common skin lesions of the elderly. The elderly patient can present with a variety of skin lesions of the head and neck. This article is designed to acquaint the otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon with normal skin morphology and with the changes that occur with aging and sun exposure. Common benign and malignant skin lesions of the aging patient are discussed. 
Hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas. Part 1: Female sex steroid receptors and their significance as specific markers for adjuvant medical therapy. Female sex steroid receptors were examined in 50 human cerebral meningiomas. For estrogen receptors, high-affinity binding sites (dissociation constant (Kd): 0.05 to 0.2 nM) were found in the cytosolic fraction with a capacity of less than 4 fmol/mg protein in 10 meningiomas using a dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) assay. In the same cytosolic fraction, the solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed only one cytosol with a positive colorimetric reaction equal to 5 fmol/mg protein. However, in the nuclear compartment, none of the tumors stained positively for estrogen receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. In addition, the most convincing evidence for the absence of estrogen receptors was obtained by in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to a fraction of the human receptor messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA). In none of the 50 meningiomas was the expression of estrogen mRNA coding for the estrogen receptor detected. For progesterone receptors, high-affinity binding sites (Kd: 0.3 to 2.6 nM) were found in 49 of the 50 tumors using a DCC assay. In the same cytosols, solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed that each tumor was positive for progesterone receptors. However, in the nuclear compartment, only five tumors had partially positive staining for progesterone receptors with immunohistochemical techniques. Within the confines of this study, it is concluded that: 1) the estrogen receptor is generally absent in meningioma tissue, and 2) the progesterone receptor is mainly absent in the nuclear compartment, leading to the conclusion that the cytosolic progesterone receptor may be an inactive form. This study suggests that female sex steroid receptors are not primarily involved in the proliferative rate of cerebral meningiomas and that they are of no current significance as markers for adjuvant medical therapy of most meningiomas. 
Six years' audit of laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a cervical screening programme in three districts OBJECTIVE--To determine laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a three district cervical screening programme during 1983-9 to assess the feasibility of accommodating call up of all women at risk, recall at three year intervals (now five year intervals), and investigation of women with all degrees of abnormality. DESIGN--Analysis of computerised screening histories dating back to 1977 of women screened in the Avon cervical screening programme. SETTING--Three district health authorities covering the population of Bristol and Weston-super-Mare, comprising 800,000 people, of whom 250,000 were female residents aged 20 to 64. SUBJECTS--196,977 Women aged 20 to 64 screened in cervical screening programme since 1983. RESULTS--Laboratory workload devoted to follow up of women with abnormalities increased sharply between 1987-8 and 1988-9, with increases of 54% (from 2075 to 3196) in the number of smears for follow up of severe dyskaryosis and invasive cancer, 40% (from 1925 to 2695) for mild and moderate dyskaryosis, and 49% (from 1793 to 2677) for borderline change. The increases were partly explained by the introduction in April 1988 of protocols for follow up and investigation based on guidance in an intercollegiate working party report. The proportion of women with mild and moderate dyskaryosis who were recommended for referral for colposcopy increased steadily from 9.9% in 1983-4 to 79.9% in 1988-9, and for borderline change the proportions were 3.5% and 13.6% respectively. Of all women tested in 1988-9, referral for colposcopy was recommended in 3%. CONCLUSIONS--The increase in laboratory follow up work identified, if it continued, could result in half of existing laboratory capacity in Avon being devoted to follow up work by 1993, with little prospect of maintaining call, recall, and quality control. Investigation of all women with minor cytological abnormalities is neither justifiable nor sustainable and will undermine the benefits of screening by increasing the rate of false positive results and the financial costs. 
The relationship between bone morphogenetic protein and neoplastic bone diseases. The monoclonal antibody against bovine bone morphogenetic protein was used for demonstration of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) in neoplastic bone diseases. The avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method demonstrated that BMP mainly exists in the cytoplasm of tumor cells of osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma. Immunostaining showed that a majority of osteosarcomas and all of the chondrosarcoma cells contained a large quantity of BMP. Conversely, none of the fibrosarcomas showed positive staining. Thus, it was possible to differentiate osteosarcomas from fibrosarcomas by immunostaining. In fibrous dysplasia of bone, BMP was abundant in the fibrocellular tissue that had osteogenic activity. In contrast, fibrous tissue of ossifying fibroma showed weak positive staining; only the osteoblasts rimming the bone showed a positive reaction. Immunostaining showed that BMP was also detected in other neoplastic bone diseases such as osteoma, chondroma, and other tumors. 
Indomethacin responsive hypercalcaemia associated with a renal sarcoma. An infant presented with a non-metastatic renal spindle cell sarcoma and hypercalcaemia, which resolved after treatment with indomethacin. There was in vivo and in vitro evidence that hypercalcaemia was mediated by circulatory prostaglandins. 
Malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions: a diagnostic and management dilemma. We document two cases of malignancy occurring at the site of partially removed benign nevi. Because of the difficulty in clinical diagnosis and the uncertainty in its behavior, we propose that any recurring melanocytic nevus expanding beyond the original surgical scar be re-excised and the specimen carefully analyzed to ensure complete removal. 
Changes in surgical treatments: the example of hysterectomy versus conization for cervical carcinoma in situ. From 1969 through 1985, 4584 women in the state of New Mexico were diagnosed with carcinoma in situ of the cervix. Of these women, 65.5% underwent hysterectomy while 31.1% had a conservative therapy (primarily conization). Over the 17-year period, there was a steady increase in the percentage of women receiving conservative therapies, from 11.8% in 1969 to 50.3% in 1985. Younger women, unmarried women and American Indian women were more likely to receive conservative therapy. This marked shift in therapeutic approach occurred during a time of apparent controversy as to the optimal treatment for cervical carcinoma in situ, and illustrates a rapid change in surgical practice in the absence of any controlled trials comparing the two major treatment modalities. 
Migration stimulating activity in serum of breast cancer patients. An assay to measure the ability to stimulate migration of fibroblasts into collagen gel was carried out on serum from treated and untreated breast cancer patients and from healthy controls. Migration stimulating activity was found in the serum of 10 (83%) of 12 untreated breast cancer patients immediately before surgical resection of the primary tumour and in 9 (75%) of them 4 days after resection; in 13 (93%) of 14 patients 1-13 years after tumour resection who had received adjuvant treatment; and in 2 (10%) of 20 healthy women matched for age. The migration stimulating activity in cancer patients' serum was indistinguishable from the migration stimulating factor produced in vitro by fetal and cancer patient skin fibroblasts in its behaviour in various biochemical fractionation procedures. The presence of this activity in the serum of treated breast cancer patients clearly distinguishes it from other oncofetal proteins, which all seem to be produced by tumours. 
Vertical partial laryngectomy: a critical analysis of local recurrence. The purpose of this study was to evaluate local recurrence following vertical partial laryngectomies in 416 patients with either T1N0M0 or T2N0M0 glottic carcinoma. Local failure was reported according to the T stage, the precise tumor location within each stage, the true vocal cord mobility, and the surgical procedure performed. No local recurrences were observed among 42 patients who underwent thyrotomy and cordectomy when the tumor was confined to the middle third of the mobile true vocal cord. Local failure occurred in 8 of 111 (7.2%) patients in whom hemilaryngectomy was performed for tumors confined to one mobile true vocal cord. There was a diverse group of lesions within each T stage that responded differently to the surgical approaches. The differences in the initial recurrence rates are discussed in terms of careful preoperative assessment and choice of surgical technique for early glottic carcinoma. 
Squamous cell carcinomas often produce more than a single bone resorption-stimulating factor: role of interleukin-1 alpha*. Several cultured human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines (SCC-4, SCC-12B2, SCC-12F2, EC-GI-10, and BEN) and one normal keratinocyte line (Epy-1) were investigated for the production of bone resorption-stimulating activity (BRSA). Conditioned medium (CM) from each of the six cell lines stimulated bone resorption in neonatal mouse calvariae in culture. The BRSA of SCC-12F2 and EC-GI-10 was inhibited completely by antibody to interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), whereas the BRSA in CM from the BEN, SCC-4, SCC-12B2, and Epy-1 cell lines was only partially inhibited by anti-IL-1 alpha. Addition of indomethacin to the calvarial cultures also partially inhibited the BRSA from EC-GI-10, SCC-4, SCC-12B2, and Epy-1 cells; the BRSA from BEN and SCC-12F2 cells was inhibited completely by indomethacin. cAMP production by calvariae was determined after a 60-min incubation with CM. CM from EC-GI-10, BEN, SCC-4, and Epy-1 stimulated cAMP production by bone. Preincubation of CM from BEN, EC-GI-10, SCC-4, and Epy-1 cells with two antisera against PTH-related protein [PTHrP; one specific for two PTHrP-(1-141), the other recognizing both PTHrP-(1-40) and PTHrP-(1-141)] completely inhibited the cAMP-stimulating activity. Using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta, IL-1 alpha was measured in CM of the SCC-4, SCC-12B2, SCC-12F2, and Epy-1 cell lines. IL-1 beta was undetectable (less than 0.1 ng/ml) in CM from all cell lines. Our findings indicate that the BRSA secreted by SCC-12F2 cells can be accounted for largely or entirely by IL-1 alpha, while the activity produced by SCC-12B2 includes IL-1 alpha and another unknown factor(s). The BRSA produced by EC-GI-10, BEN, SCC-4, and Epy-1 cells includes both IL-1 alpha and PTHrP. We conclude that IL-1 alpha may be a more prevalent and biologically significant component of the BRSA produced by SCCs than previously recognized. 
Infiltration of dendritic cells in relation to tumor invasion and lymph node metastasis in human gastric cancer. The infiltration of dendritic cells determined in 210 patients with gastric carcinoma was investigated from the standpoint of tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis, and prognosis. Dendritic cell infiltration was graded as "slight" and "marked." The 39% frequency in the marked infiltration group at the mucosal stage did not change in proportion to invasion into the deeper layers. The 5-year survival rate was 60.4% in patients with marked infiltration and 38.8% in those with slight infiltration, which was statistically different (P less than 0.01). The difference in survival rates was only statistically significant in those with cancer emerging from the serosa (P less than 0.001). There was a similar incidence of lymph node metastasis between the marked and slight infiltration groups in each grade of tumor invasion. However, marked infiltration of dendritic cells prevented widespread nodal involvement beyond the primary node in cases of advanced carcinoma (P less than 0.05). These findings indicate that infiltrating dendritic cells do not prevent the spread of tumor invasion but do prevent nodal involvement; therefore, for patients with a gastric cancer emerging from the serosa, the prognosis will be good. 
Anti-idiotype monoclonal antibody carrying the internal image of ganglioside GM3. Murine anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies were generated against a human IgM monoclonal antibody (L612) that recognizes ganglioside GM3 on human melanoma. Hybridomas secreting antibodies that bound specifically to L612 were selected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using L612 and three negative control human IgMs, including monoclonal anti-GM2 and anti-GD2 antibodies, as well as purified serum IgM, as antigen sources. GM3-binding inhibition and cell-binding inhibition assays were used to identify seven anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies that recognized determinants located within the antigen-combining sites of L612. To determine whether these anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies possessed the internal image of the original antigen, we immunized syngeneic BALB/c mice with one of the anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies, 4C10, coupled with keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Sera from the immunized mice reacted strongly with an antigen-positive M12 melanoma cell line and with purified GM3. Because L612 detects and kills melanoma tumor cells in vitro and in vivo in the presence of complement without affecting normal tissues, anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies carrying the internal image of GM3 may be an effective tool for active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma. 
Incidence of cutaneous T cell lymphoma and other rare skin cancers in a defined population. Between 1970 and 1984 in Rochester, Minnesota, rare skin cancers developed in 15 local residents: cutaneous T cell lymphoma (six subjects), dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (four), adenocarcinoma of sweat glands (two), Merkel cell carcinoma (one), liposarcoma (one), and extramammary Paget's disease (one). These cases were identified through a unique computerized retrieval system that is maintained at the Mayo Clinic for the population of Rochester, Minnesota. The annual incidences of these cancers in the Rochester population were 0.9, 0.5, 0.3, 0.2, 0.2, and 0.2 per 100,000 residents, respectively (standardized to 1980 U.S. population). To our knowledge, this is the first report of the incidences of these rare skin cancers in a well-defined population. 
Measuring the quality of care for the cancer patient. In recent years, the efforts to better define quality of patient care have focused on attempts to improve on the measurement of quality. These efforts raise three questions: (1) Why attempt to measure quality? (2) What is the best way to measure quality of care of the cancer patient? and (3) What must be done to achieve this? Three main reasons for measuring quality of patient care are to describe the current state, plan strategies for improvement, and implement and monitor improvements. To measure quality, both the definition of quality and the tools available for measurement must be addressed. The difficulty in developing a measurable definition of quality is achieving agreement on the measurable components of quality. The tools to measure quality have evolved to focus on monitoring of key indicators for comparative use. The utility of indicators lies in demonstrating that they have the capacity to identify opportunities for improving care. The Joint Commission is improving measurement tools through the development and testing of oncology indicators for reliability and the capacity to identify opportunities for improving care. The development and teaching of new quality improvement methods to health care professionals also is necessary. 
Posterior mediastinal teratoma with abdominal extension. Posterior mediastinal benign teratomas are uncommon neoplasms in infancy; nine cases have been reported so far. A one month old baby was found to have a benign posterior mediastinal teratoma infiltrating the lower oesophagus from the level of the carina through the oesophageal hiatus into the upper abdomen. Partial oesophagectomy provided a successful outcome. 
Prostate specific antigen in patients with clinical stage C prostate cancer: relation to lymph node status and grade. The preoperatively drawn sera from 84 previously untreated patients who had clinical stage C prostate cancer and underwent staging pelvic lymph node dissections were sent for monoclonal Hybritech analysis to assess the usefulness of prostate specific antigen (PSA) in predicting lymph node status. Of the 84 patients 47 (56%) had positive lymph nodes at surgery. The median PSA value for all patients with nodal metastases was 11.4 ng/.ml., and for those without it was 11.2 ng./ml. Relative to Gleason score, median PSA values were 11.35 for 2-4, 12.2 for 5-7 and 10.9 ng./ml. for 8-10. Within each M.D. Anderson grade median PSA values were 10.15 for grade I, 13.2 for grade II, 12.7 for grade III and 10.5 ng./ml. for grade IV. Simultaneously drawn preoperative frozen serum samples for 28 of these patients were independently analyzed by the Yang radioimmunoassay. Comparing Hybritech and Yang methods revealed strong statistical co-association (correlation coefficient R2 = 97.36, p less than 0.00001) but neither assay was statistically associated with nodal metastasis. Although no PSA level excluded the presence of nodal disease, we suggest that a Hybritech PSA of greater than 30 ng./ml. and a Yang PSA of greater than 50 ng./ml. may serve as a weak adjunctive marker predicting nodal metastasis. 
Somatostatin-receptor imaging in the localization of endocrine tumors BACKGROUND AND METHODS. A number of different tumors have receptors for somatostatin. We evaluated the efficacy of scanning with 123I-labeled Tyr3-octreotide, a somatostatin analogue, for tumor localization in 42 patients with carcinoid tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or paragangliomas. We then evaluated the response to octreotide therapy in some of these patients. RESULTS. Primary tumors or metastases, often previously unrecognized, were visualized in 12 of 13 patients with carcinoid tumors and in 7 of 9 patients with pancreatic endocrine tumors. The endocrine symptoms of these patients responded well to therapy with octreotide. Among 20 patients with paragangliomas, 8 of whom had more than one tumor, 10 temporal (tympanic or jugular), 9 carotid, and 10 vagal tumors could be visualized. One small tympanic tumor and one small carotid tumor were not seen on the scan. CONCLUSIONS. The 123I-labeled Tyr3-octreotide scanning technique is a rapid and safe procedure for the visualization of some tumors with somatostatin receptors. A positive scan may predict the ability of octreotide therapy to control symptoms of hormonal hypersecretion. 
Immunohistologic properties of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland. We studied the immunohistopathologic features of normal lacrimal gland, benign mixed tumor, and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland. Primary antisera were to keratin, muscle-specific actin, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acid protein. Keratin stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland, ductal epithelium in normal gland and the tumors, and occasional stromal epithelioid cells in the tumors. Muscle-specific actin stained in myoepithelium and vascular smooth muscle in normal gland and the tumors, and occasional spindle-shaped and clusters of stromal cells in the tumors. Vimentin staining was nonspecific. Glial fibrillary acid protein stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland and polyhedral stromal cells in benign mixed tumor. Our findings indicate that ductal epithelium develops into the epithelial component, and some cells in the stroma and myoepithelium develop into some cells in the stroma of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland. 
Pulmonary disease following intravesical BCG treatment. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is an attenuated strain of Mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976. Major complications of this treatment are infrequent. We report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical BCG. 
Osteosarcoma. Clinical features and evolving surgical and chemotherapeutic strategies. Osteosarcoma is the most common neoplasm of bone in children and adolescents. The first effective therapy became available in the early 1970s, and although controversy existed for several years regarding the relative value of aggressive multiagent chemotherapy, presently about 60% of patients with resectable primary tumors and no metastases at diagnosis will be cured. New imaging methods, including computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and radionuclide techniques, that are sensitive to changes in local tumor perfusion have improved the ability to define the extent of tumor and the response to chemotherapy, and to plan surgery. Although amputation historically has been the primary method for local tumor control, newer surgical techniques and endoprosthetic devices, coupled with effective preoperative chemotherapy, have offered less radical surgery for 50% to 80% of patients with osteosarcoma. New therapeutic agents, including ifosfamide and the immunosuppressive drug, muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine, hold promise for improvement in the cure rate of osteosarcoma. 
Detection of residual leukemia after bone marrow transplant for chronic myeloid leukemia: role of polymerase chain reaction in predicting relapse. We used the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect residual leukemia-specific mRNA in blood and marrow from 37 patients in complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission after allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Our two-step PCR method involved the use of "nested primers" in the second step and could detect one K562 cell diluted into 10(5) normal cells. Elaborate measures were taken to exclude false-positive and false-negative results. In nine patients whose blood and marrow were studied simultaneously the results were concordant (two positive and seven negative). Twenty-three patients transplanted in chronic phase (CP) with unmanipulated donor marrow were studied. Blood cells from nine of these patients were studied 3 to 6 months post-BMT and six were PCR positive; three were negative on subsequent studies. Blood cells from 18 patients studied between 8 months and 8 years post-BMT were all PCR negative. Nine patients transplanted in CP with T-cell-depleted marrow cells were studied. Blood from five was positive 3 to 24 months post-BMT; blood from five was negative 3 to 6 years post-BMT. Four patients no longer in first CP were studied after BMT with unmanipulated donor marrow. Blood from all four was positive 5 to 19 months post-BMT. Based on the known clinical results of transplant in these three cohorts we conclude that PCR may be positive within 6 months of BMT in patients who can expect long-lasting remission, whereas PCR positivity later after BMT may indicate that the probability of cure is reduced. Thus, the technique may prove useful for early assessment of new transplant protocols that might inadvertently increase the risk of relapse. 
Human immunodeficiency virus infection of megakaryocytic cells. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is capable of infecting certain cells of hematopoietic lineage, particularly monocyte-macrophages and T lymphocytes. Recently, the possibility that cells of megakaryocytic lineage are susceptible to HIV infection has been raised. We have characterized infection of the permanent megakaryocytic cell line CMK by HIV in vitro. CMK cells were easily infected by HIV type 2 (HIV-2), producing significant amounts of virus in culture. Infection appeared to be mediated by the CD4 surface antigen on CMK cells. Three different strains of HIV-1 were able to minimally infect CMK cells, suggesting there may be isolates of HIV tropic for megakaryocytes. Infection of CMK cells led to downregulation of the CD4 surface antigen but no discernable change in expression of megakaryocyte-associated proteins glycoprotein Ib and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa. These observations support the likelihood that megakaryocytes are susceptible to HIV infection, and cell lines of megakaryocytic origin may provide a useful model to study effects of the retrovirus on megakaryocyte function. 
Performing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy using colonoscopes: experience in 500 subjects. There is still controversy regarding the optimal length of flexible sigmoidoscopes. We performed screening distal colon examinations using 168-cm colonoscopes in 500 asymptomatic subjects who were unsedated and had sigmoidoscopy cleansing preparation. The mean depth of penetration was 66 cm and was similar in persons in whom the examination was discontinued because of poor preparation versus those with discomfort. Polyps were detected in 87 patients, but only 5 subjects had polyps detected above 60 cm. We conclude that in a group of unsedated subjects scheduled for flexible sigmoidoscopy after a sigmoidoscopy prep, the use of instruments longer than 60 cm gives very little additional yield. 
Tumor cell lines established in vitro: an independent prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer. OBJECTIVE: To determine the relation between in-vitro establishment of tumor cell lines and survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. DESIGN: Cohort study. SETTING: Single-institution tertiary care center. PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-three consecutive patients with non-small-cell lung cancer from whom a viable tumor specimen could be obtained. INTERVENTION: Tumor tissue was removed at the time of entry into a therapeutic protocol. The tumor tissue was processed in the laboratory for attempted cell-line establishment. Patients classified as potentially curable (stages I, II, and IIIA) were treated with surgical resection, radiation therapy, or a combination. Patients suitable for palliative therapy only (stages IIIB and IV) were treated with radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy. Chemotherapy was based on in-vitro drug sensitivity when available. Cell-line establishment was correlated to clinical outcome. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Univariate analysis of survival was done using the log-rank test; multivariate analysis was done by Cox modeling step-up and step-down techniques. Cell lines were established from the tumor specimens of 25 patients (20%). Those patients experienced a median survival of 7 months compared with 18 months in patients from whom cell lines could not be established (P less than 0.001). In the 61 patients with potentially curable disease, 8 patients (13%) with cell lines established had a median survival of 8 months compared with 32 months for those without cell lines established (P = 0.001). In the 62 palliative group patients, the median survival of the 17 patients (27%) from whom tumor cell lines were established was 5 months compared with 7 months for those without cell lines (P = 0.15). Multivariate analysis in both groups showed cell-line establishment to be a significant indicator of prognosis (P less than 0.0001 for curable group; P less than 0.01 for palliative group). CONCLUSION: In-vitro tumor growth is related to decreased patient survival, which in turn reflects the biologic aggressiveness of cancers giving rise to these tumor cell lines. 
Comparison of lymphangiography and computed tomography scanning in evaluating abdominal disease in stages III and IV Hodgkin's disease. A Southwest Oncology Group study. The authors reviewed the records of 139 patients who had laparotomy plus computed tomography (CT) and/or lymphangiograms (LAG) as part of a their staging workup for Hodgkin's disease, in accordance with Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) protocol 7808. They evaluated the relative ability of CT and LAG to detect disease in the abdomen. Two regions of the abdomen were designated, the upper and the lower, to further examine the capabilities of CT and LAG in the lower abdomen and CT in the upper abdomen. A LAG was more sensitive (P less than 0.05) than CT in detecting positive lower abdominal nodes. In the upper abdomen, CT scan had low sensitivity for detecting positive nodes, liver, or spleen. This study suggests that LAG of the lower abdomen provided more information than CT, and therefore should not be abandoned as a valid method for detecting nodal disease. 
Hypointense renal cell carcinoma: MR imaging with pathologic correlation. In two pathologically documented cases of renal cell carcinoma, the appearance of the tumors at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was markedly hypointense relative to normal renal parenchyma on both T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo images. Pathologic examination of both tumors revealed diffuse iron scattered throughout the tumors. The paramagnetic effect of the iron may account for this unusual hypointense appearance at spin-echo imaging, independent of pulse sequence. 
Antigen CA 19-9: presence in mucosa of nondiseased mullerian duct derivatives and marker for differentiation in their carcinomas. CA 19-9, a side branch of the Lewis blood group system, is a sialylated Lewis A antigen that is highly expressed by many adenocarcinomas of the digestive tract. The mullerian duct-derived mucosa of the uterus and fallopian tubes also synthesizes Lewis blood group antigens. To test whether the expression of CA 19-9 is enhanced in carcinomas of mullerian duct origin, we performed immunohistochemical staining for CA 19-9 in normal tissues from 33 women and in adenocarcinomas from 88 patients. In the normal uterine cervix, CA 19-9 was expressed in the cytoplasm of scattered glandular cells in 26 of 29 specimens. It was observed in the apical regions of mucosal cells in six of 26 normal endometrial samples and two of 13 normal fallopian tube specimens. These results are consistent with the presence of antigen CA 19-9 on a secretory product of the nondiseased mucosa of the mullerian duct. In adenocarcinomas of the endocervix, endometrium, and fallopian tubes, CA 19-9 was found in seven of 11, 57 of 71, and five of six samples, respectively. Progressive loss of differentiation was accompanied by disruption of subcellular localization of CA 19-9 and its secretion toward the glandular lumina. In well-differentiated regions of tumors, the antigen was detected mainly at the luminal surface of cancerous glands, whereas the staining was mostly cytoplasmic or vacuolar in less differentiated areas. The degree of CA 19-9 expression was inversely related to tumor differentiation (P less than .001). 
Adrenal carcinosarcoma. The clinical and pathologic features of a case of adrenal carcinosarcoma are reported. Although synchronous malignancy of the adrenal gland has been described, no case of an adrenal tumor combining both carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements has been previously documented. This neoplasm is extremely aggressive with distant metastasis arising from the sarcomatous component, and rapid progression despite multimodal therapy. 
Effects of preoperative radiotherapy on rectal cancer. Preliminary report on combining radiation with intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine. Between 1976 and 1983, 61 patients with advanced rectal cancer underwent Miles' operation at the authors' institution. All lesions were located 10 cm or less from the anal verge. Of these patients, 25 were treated by surgery alone and 36 were given preoperative radiotherapy. The total dose was 42.6 Gy, (30.6 Gy [1.8 Gy/fr x 5/week]) delivered to the entire pelvis plus an additional 12 Gy (3.0 Gy/fr x 4/week) delivered to the primary tumor. Of 36 patients, 21 were administered intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine at the time of boost radiation and 15 were treated without intratumor injections. During the follow-up period (3 to 9 years), in the groups of patients who underwent radiation, there was only one local failure (2.8 percent). In contrast, in the group of patients treated by surgery alone, eight local failures occurred (32 percent). The intratumor injection significantly enhanced the effect of radiation on tumor regression. The incidence of positive lymph nodes was higher in patients in the surgery alone group than it was in the groups treated with radiation. There was no difference in the rate of distant metastasis among the three treatment groups. The five-year survival rate for the radiation with intratumor injection group, radiation alone group, and surgery alone group, was 77.8, 69.2, and 56.0 percent, respectively. No severe complication was experienced. 
The prognostic significance of CA 125 half-life in patients with ovarian cancer who have received primary chemotherapy after surgical cytoreduction. Fifty-four patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer were monitored with serial serum CA 125 levels after surgical cytoreduction and during multi-agent chemotherapy with cisplatin-containing regimens. CA 125 half-life of less than 20 days was associated with prolonged overall survival (p less than 0.015). In those patients who eventually were found to be disease-free at surgical surveillance procedures, normalization of serum CA 125 levels to less than 35 U/ml within 65 days of primary operation also suggested an improved survival (p less than 0.059). 
A phase II study of piritrexim in combination with methotrexate in recurrent and metastatic head and neck cancer. Thirty patients with recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck cancer were treated with sequentially administered methotrexate (MTX) and piritrexim (PTX). The treatment schedule consisted of intravenous (IV) MTX (50 mg/m2) administered on day 1 and oral PTX (75 mg/m2) administered twice daily on days 8 to 12. Courses were repeated every 21 days with dose escalation in subsequent courses aimed at achieving Grade 1 toxicity. Two patients were not evaluable for response, 5 (17%; 95% confidence interval, 4% to 30%) had a partial response (PR), 10 had stable disease, and 13 had progressive disease. All five responses were seen in patients with regional lymph nodes as measurable disease. The median time to progression for all patients was 1.4 months, and the median survival was 6.7 months. Generally, this regimen was well tolerated with only mild toxicity seen during cycle 1 in the majority of patients. Dose escalation in subsequent cycles was possible in a high percentage of patients. Although the overall response rate and survival figures in this Phase II trial were disappointing, the doses and schedule used in this trial may have been suboptimal as reflected by the low incidence of moderate to severe toxicity. Additional evaluation of this combination of drugs in a more aggressive schedule may be warranted. 
A multifaced DNA ploidy analysis to determine ovarian carcinoma aggressiveness. A microfluorometric DNA study was conducted on isolated cells from 64 fragments of ovarian epithelial tumors. Data analysis considered the DNA content of the main stemline and the prevalence of cells in the different compartments of the DNA ploidy histogram in relation to the mitotic activity index and the histologic architecture. Main stemlines were found remarkably stable in different parts of the same tumor. Peridiploid (1.8c to 2.2c) stemlines were found both in well-differentiated and in poorly differentiated tumors. However, low aneuploid (2.2c to 3.0c) stemlines were mostly found in nonsolid tumors and high ploidy (3.2 to 5.04 c) stemlines were prevalent in solid tumors. A comparative analysis between DNA ploidy parameters and mitotic activity was useful to evaluate the expanding modalities of neoplastic cell populations. This analysis revealed that several tumors accumulate an excessive amount of heteroploid cells and others an excessive amount of G2 cells. Yet, most neoplastic cell populations vary from slow to rapidly growing patterns without relevant abnormalities in their ploidy graphic profiles. No relationship was found between stemline ploidy and histologic architecture compared with expanding modalities. These findings indicate that multifaced criteria combining features such as main ploidy, graphic profile, mitotic rate, and histologic architecture measured on one or more microsamples of the same tumor may help to objectively estimate the aggressiveness reached by the neoplastic cells at the time of clinical presentation. 
Photodynamic therapy to treat tumors of the extrahepatic biliary ducts. A case report. The poor survival rate of patients with extrahepatic bile duct tumors is well documented. Over the course of 4 years, we treated a white woman with diabetes diagnosed with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the common bile duct with six injections of dihematoporphyrin ether followed by seven photodynamic therapy treatments to the biliary duct. As of July 1989, the patient was still alive, was not jaundiced, and had a Karnofsky performance status of 70. No changes occurred in any blood chemistry value from the time of injection to the time of photodynamic therapy. Of the transient elevations of some blood chemistry values and the white blood cell count, which occurred within 24 to 48 hours after photodynamic therapy, only those of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and amylase were significant. 
Prognosis of node-positive colon cancer. The most recent American Joint Committee on Cancer/International Union Against Cancer (AJCC/UICC) staging system subgroups patients into one to three and four or more positive nodes. However, the Gastrointestinal Study Group and the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project divides node-positive patients into one to four and five or greater. A Cox multi-variate retrospective analysis was done of the overall survival of node-positive colon cancer patients with the specific objective of determining the most appropriate subcategorization. Data on 306 patients with node-positive colon cancer who underwent potentially curative surgery from 1970 to 1984 were analyzed retrospectively. No patient received adjuvant chemotherapy. Also excluded were patients with synchronous resected metastatic disease or those with rectal primaries. The median follow-up was 6 years, and the median survival for the entire group was 8.6 years. By univariate analysis, the following were significant prognostic features: number of positive nodes (P less than 0.0001), degree of differentiation (P less than 0.0001), colon primary site (P = 0.009), tumor stage (P = 0.001), and tumor size (P less than 0.0001). Lymphatic/blood vessel invasion and a mucinous histology were not significant. By Cox multivariate analysis the number of positive lymph nodes remained the best discriminant of survival (P = 0.0001). The number of positive nodes was related inversely to prognosis with the optimal dichotomization between one to three (66% 5-year survival) and four or greater nodes (37% 5-year survival). 
Immunohistologic evaluation of parathyroid hormone-related protein in human lung cancer and normal tissue with newly developed monoclonal antibody. With a newly developed monoclonal anti-PTHrP antibody, 4B3, the immunohistochemical localization of the parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) was studied on the formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded sections of normal human tissues and various subtypes of lung cancer. Among normal epithelial tissues, keratinocytes in squamous epithelia, transitional and bronchial epithelia with squamous metaplasia, meningoepithelial cells, and mammary ductal cells with lactating changes showed positive immunoreactivity. Also, among endocrine tissues, cells in the parathyroid gland, pancreatic islets, adrenal cortex, pituitary gland, and testis were sporadically positive for PTHrP. These distribution patterns suggested that in a physiologic condition, PTHrP was closely related to keratinization and local secretion and/or the metabolism of calcium in specifically differentiated tissues. In lung cancer, however, PTHrP was detected in all cases of well-differentiated and moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in most cases of small cell carcinoma, irrespective of the patients' serum calcium level. However, PTHrP was not detected in two of five cases of poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in all cases of adenocarcinoma. Consequently, it was found that PTHrP was commonly produced by squamous cell carcinomas of the differentiated type, and that humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy could be induced when the PTHrP transgressed the homeostatic mechanisms. 
Resections and reconstructions for tumors of the distal radius. The primary objective in surgical management of the patient with a distal radius tumor is control of the disease. Accurate staging and diagnostic methods applied preoperatively will predict not only the amount of resection necessary to obtain adequate tumor margins, but also the amount of remaining bone and soft tissues to assist reconstruction. With this information, a method of reconstruction can be chosen that provides the patient optimal long-term function and stability with predictable results and the fewest potential complications. 
Imaging of pharyngeal and laryngeal carcinomas with indium-111-labeled monoclonal anti-CEA antibodies. Localization of primary tumors, metastases, or recurrences in 13 consecutive patients with histological verification of squamous cell or adenocarcinoma was made with radioimmunodetection using monoclonal radiolabeled anti-CEA antibody. All surgical specimens stained immunohistochemically, except one, were positive for CEA. Of the known 19 tumor sites 17 were visualized in antibody scans. There were two positive findings that did not prove to be positive during 12 month follow-up. The scintigram findings did not correlate with CEA serum concentrations that, with one exception, were normal in all patients. 
Hormonal receptors in locally advanced breast cancer: change with response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? Twenty-one cancers in 20 patients with locally advanced breast cancer were studied. Incisional biopsy was performed without using electrocautery. Tissue was obtained for histology and estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors. Patients received chemotherapy after biopsy. All responded and had radical mastectomy performed. Tissue was removed from the mastectomy specimen to confirm residual tumor and for repeat receptor measurements. Initial receptor levels were negative in 13 cancers. Following chemotherapy, both ER and PR levels were unchanged in 11 cancers. Levels in one cancer changed from ER-PR- to ER+PR- and one changed from ER-PR- to ER+PR+. Six cancers were ER+PR+ at initial examination. Repeat receptor levels after chemotherapy were ER+PR+ in three. One ER+PR+ tumor became ER-PR+, one changed to ER+PR-, and one to ER-PR-. One ER+PR- cancer remained ER+PR- after treatment and an ER-PR+ cancer became ER-PR- after treatment. Chemotherapy dose not significantly alter hormonal levels in breast cancer tissue. 
Prognostic factors in primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas. We analyzed independent treatment variables (age, sex, signs and symptoms, site, size, histopathologic findings, grade, and clinical presentation) and treatment-dependent variables (resectability, type of operation, surgical margins, surgical boundaries, microscopic margins, adjuvant radiotherapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy) in 80 patients with primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas admitted from 1982 through 1988. Both univariate and multivariate analysis of survival and disease-free survival were performed. The major factor in survival outcome was the ability to completely resect the lesion. When the 62 patients who underwent complete resection were examined, the only independent prognostic factor for both survival and disease-free survival was grade. We conclude that completeness of resection and grade of the lesion are primary determinants of survival. Once all tumor is macroscopically removed, no advantage could be demonstrated by more extensive surgical resection or current adjuvant therapy. 
Fluorescein angiography in ciliary body melanomas. We retrospectively studied the value of iris fluorescein angiography in predicitng benignity or malignancy in 10 cases of ciliary body melanoma with iris extension. No correlation between fluorescein-angiographic appearance and histopathologic features was observed. Fluorescein angiography adds little to the management of ciliary body melanomas with iris extension. 
Use of omeprazole in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Omeprazole, a substituted benzimidazole, has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of gastric acid secretion in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES). We review our experience, as well as the published data on 210 patients with ZES who have required omeprazole for control of gastric acid hypersecretion over the past seven years. The dose of omeprazole required in individual patients ranged from 10 to 180 mg/24 hr with 20-60% requiring a split dosage regimen. Omeprazole was effective in approximately 99% of the patients over a period ranging from 0.5 to 54 months. Twenty-four percent of patients required an increase in omeprazole dose, while 26% required a decrease in dose. Adverse effects attributable to omeprazole were reported in 2% of patients, and in all cases, they were mild (ie, rash, constipation, headache). There was no effect of omeprazole on serum gastrin concentration or on gastric endocrine cells in three studies. Although one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type-I syndrome (MEN-I) in this series developed a gastric carcinoid while taking omeprazole, evidence is presented that suggests the presence of MEN-I per se may be important in determining the development of gastric carcinoid in patients with ZES. It is concluded that omeprazole is safe and effective in patients with ZES, and in these patients, it is the drug of choice for the management of gastric acid hypersecretion. However, yearly assessment is indicated to clearly evaluate the long-term risk of gastric carcinoid as well as therapy directed at the gastrinoma itself. 
Thyroid disease in the elderly. As people in our society live longer, it is important for clinicians to know more about problems commonly seen in the elderly. Thyroid problems are especially important to understand because they do occur with rather high frequency, and their mode of presentation is frequently different from those seen in younger patients. The thyroid gland does undergo certain age-related changes in anatomy and physiology, but overall the thyroid is able to produce a normal amount of thyroid hormone throughout the years. Hypothyroidism is frequently difficult to diagnose in the elderly, because many of the symptoms of hypothyroidism can easily be confused with symptoms of aging. When hypothyroidism is looked for in large population studies of elderly patients, the incidence varies from 1% to as high as 17%, with women being more commonly affected than men, and subclinical hypothyroidism being more common than overt hypothyroidism. Virtually all cases of hypothyroidism are due to autoimmune thyroid disease, with most patients having measurable titers of thyroid autoantibodies. The therapy of hypothyroidism is done with extreme caution, as older patients are frequently very sensitive to the effects of excess thyroid hormone. In addition, the metabolism of thyroid hormone slows down with age, making the full replacement dose much less in an older patient than in a younger one. Hyperthyroidism is also quite common, occurring in from 0.5% to 3% of all elderly patients. The presentation is frequently atypical, as patients often lack the hyperdynamic symptomatology and instead have a more sedated, apathetic presentation. Weight loss and cardiac symptoms frequently predominate, and the presence of a goiter is frequently absent, making the diagnosis less obvious than in a younger patient. Therapy is usually radioactive iodine, after an adequate course of antithyroid drugs, to render the patient euthyroid. Thyroid nodules do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly, but most of them are not malignant. Fine-needle aspiration for cytology is very helpful in determining which patients should be referred for surgery. Well-differentiated cancers do predominate, but their course is frequently less predictable than in younger patients. Lymphoma of the thyroid and undifferentiated cancers do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly. Multinodular goiter, usually of longstanding, is frequently seen in elderly patients, and thyroid hormone suppressive therapy not only is not indicated but may contribute to exogenous hyperthyroidism. 
Surgery or radiation for early cervical cancer. In summary, neither radiation nor surgery is clearly superior. The benefits of surgery include: 1) emotional satisfaction that the tumor has been removed, 2) accuracy of surgical staging, 3) preservation of the ovaries, 4) no secondary uterine cancer (a very uncommon problem), and 5) complications that are more readily correctable. Radiation offers the major advantages of being useful in most patients regardless of age or medical condition and is the choice for large cancers. Because stage IB cervical cancer is a very diverse pathological entity with a number of potential prognostic factors (including cell type, depth of invasion, tumor volume, lymphatic space involvement, and occult lymph node metastases), and because patients present with a number of other conditions (including excess weight, advanced age, prior pelvic surgery or infection, and severe medical illness), we are fortunate to have two good methods for treating cervical cancer. Prospective randomized studies will be necessary in the future to better define specific advantages in the various clinical settings. But, in general, the following have proven most expedient: 1) class I hysterectomy, for microinvasive cancer of 3 mm invasion or less without lymphatic space involvement, 2) modified, extended hysterectomy (class II) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for lesions of 3 mm and lymph vascular space involvement or when the lesion seems to just exceed 3 mm and for very early adenocarcinoma, 3) an extended hysterectomy (class III) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for larger IA2, IB, and IIA lesions that are less than 4 cm, particularly for the pregnant or younger patient, and when ovarian conservation is desired, 4) radiation therapy is used for lesions over 4 cm and for women with severe medical illness making extended hysterectomy too hazardous, 5) combination therapy and chemotherapy are now reserved for study in poor prognosis patients with very large lesions (greater than 6 cm), occult metastases, and unfavorable histologic criteria (Table 2). 
Bone lesions secondary to benign phaeochromocytoma. Four cases in childhood. Metaphyseal sclerotic bone changes associated with benign phaeochromocytoma are very rare in childhood. We report four cases, in each of which the radiographic changes returned to normal after removal of the tumour. 
Tumor lysis syndrome in a patient with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. A first course of combination chemotherapy for large volume metastatic disease in a patient with Merkel cell carcinoma resulted in a tumor lysis syndrome. After this course a nearly complete response was documented. This case report extends further the chemosensitivity of Merkel cell carcinoma and demonstrates the need for tumor lysis syndrome prophylaxis in patients with bulky disease or fast-growing tumors. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of spinal tumors. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which has recently begun to replace myelography, postmyelography computed tomography (CT), and to some extent, bone scans, has become the procedure of choice in the evaluation of spinal tumors; the applications of MRI in this role are reviewed. In the extradural space, MRI is the most sensitive technique for the detection of tumors in the vertebral bodies. At the same time, it provides superb delineation of suspected thecal sac impingement. In the intradural extramedullary space, MRI is generally as accurate as myelography and postmyelography CT while being noninvasive. Finally, in the intramedullary space, MRI is unquestionably the procedure of choice in the evaluation of suspected cord tumors. In general, MRI has become the best initial procedure in the evaluation of suspected tumors of the spine, regardless of the space in which they may lie; frequently, it is the only required examination. 
Polyamine levels in healthy and tumor tissues of patients with colon adenocarcinoma. Tissue polyamine levels were determined in patients with colon adenocarcinoma to try to identify biochemical indicators able to characterize the growth and the metabolism of human solid tumors. Polyamine content was determined in the tumor and in the "healthy" mucosa sampled at different distances within the resection edges. For each patient the polyamine content in the tumor was compared with that in the mucosa. The results demonstrated that the spermidine concentration was higher in the tumor than in the healthy mucosa; the differences were statistically significant. However, spermine in the tumor increased to a lesser degree. No statistically significant differences were observed among these mucosae at different localizations, but the spermine concentration in the mucosa after the tumor showed values very close to those of the neoplasia. 
Cutaneous surgery and the pregnant patient. Cutaneous surgery in 34 pregnant women is described. The main indication for surgery was the diagnosis and/or treatment of malignancy. Surgery during the period of organogenesis (15 to 56 days) should be avoided when possible. Patients should be positioned on the left side during the procedure to avoid the supine hypotensive syndrome. Monitoring of the fetal heartbeat is desirable. Local anesthetics, penicillin, and erythromycin are safe if used carefully. Acetaminophen is the analgesic of choice. Exposure to the sun should be avoided during the perioperative period. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma: comparison of clinical features among ethnic groups in an area of low prevalence. We retrospectively surveyed the clinical features of 73 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma at two hospitals over a 12-yr period. The population was heterogeneous, with 39% representing immigrants from regions of high hepatitis B and hepatocellular carcinoma prevalence. The yearly incidence of cases was constant over the 12 yr. Patient data were analyzed by grouping into three broad categories based on origin from known high, medium, or low prevalence hepatocellular carcinoma zones. In this fashion, differences in clinical presentation were observed. Asians (N = 12) were younger, invariably presented with pain; 82% had markers of hepatitis B and did not have features of chronic liver disease. In contrast, Westerners (N = 45) were older by more than a decade. One-quarter were HBV positive and almost two-thirds were alcoholic. The clinical presentation of this group was more varied, over one-third presenting with features of decompensated liver disease or variceal bleeds. Mediterranean patients (N = 16) had features intermediary between the two other groups. A logistic regression model clinically separated patients with hepatitis B-related hepatocellular carcinoma from those with alcohol-related hepatocellular carcinoma, suggesting different ongoing pathogenetic influences. 
Expression of blood group antigens H-2, Le(y), and sialylated-Le(a) in human colorectal carcinoma. An immunohistochemical study using double-labeling techniques. In this study, double-labeling immunohistochemistry was used to gain insight into the coexpression or interrelationship between blood group antigens (BGA) that are differentiation antigens in the normal colon, and BGA that are sequential moieties in the same synthetic pathway. Paired-wise Sialylated-Le(a)/Le(y) and H-2/Le(y) was studied. The Sialylated-Le(a) and Le(y) are synthesized from type 1 and type 2 backbones, respectively. In the normal colon, the Le(y) and Sialylated-Le(a) are expressed by cells at the base and surface of the crypt, respectively, representing undifferentiated and differentiated enterocytes. The H-2 is considered oncofetal in nature, and is considered to be the immediate precursor in the synthesis of Le(y). In individual cancers. Sialylated-Lea and Le(y) were detected in different cancer cells within the same malignant glands, separately in different glands, and in different subcellular compartments of the same cell. Both H-2 and Le(y) were coexpressed in the same individual cells in 92% of cancers expressing both these BGA. In 50% of the cancers, the H-2 and Le(y) also were expressed separately in different malignant glands within individual tumors. These findings indicate that, in colorectal cancers, differentiation antigens (Sialylated Le(a) and Le(y)) are expressed by different individual cells within the same malignant gland somewhat, recapitulating the normal colon crypt. Antigens of different backbones occasionally may be expressed in the same cells but within different subcellular compartments. Precursor accumulation is common in cancers, and antigens in the same synthetic pathway are coexpressed in the same cell. The expression of H-2 and Le(y) in different glands (lack of coexpression) may be explained possibly by aberrant synthesis of Le(y) by an alternate pathway. 
Cervical screening with cervicography and the Papanicolaou smear in women with genital condylomata. Cervicography has been shown to be a very sensitive screening tool in the general population. Its value in screening a high-risk population was explored. One hundred five women seen with vulvar condylomata or a history thereof were offered a cervigram and Papanicolaou smear. Twelve patients had abnormal smears, whereas 53 had abnormal cervigrams. Colposcopically directed biopsies in the abnormal Papanicolaou group revealed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I in six patients and III in two. Cervicography-positive patients exhibited CIN I in 9 cases, II in 1 and III in 2. There was some overlap. Twelve patients had cervical condylomata without dysplasia. Cervicography, in addition to cervical cytology, should be considered for all women with vulvar condylomata. 
Chondrosarcoma of the head and neck. Chondrosarcoma is a malignancy rarely encountered in the head and neck. In an attempt to define this tumor's characteristics and response to therapy, all cases of chondrosarcoma treated at the University of Michigan over the past 25 years were retrospectively studied. Fourteen cases originating in the nose and paranasal sinuses, mandible, temporal bone, and larynx were reviewed. Aggressive surgical resection was the mainstay of treatment, and resulted in an overall survival of 70%, with an average follow-up of 3.5 years. Survival was highest in primary temporal bone lesions, and lowest in paranasal sinus lesions. Unresectable lesions were not cured by other modalities. This study, therefore, continued to support the crucial role of wide surgical resection in the treatment of head and neck chondrosarcoma, but conservative resection, when needed to preserve important structures, has resulted in long-term survival. 
Soluble histocompatibility antigen class I in breast cancer patients in relation to tumor burden. Serum beta-2 microglobulin (B-2M) levels were studied in 365 breast cancer patients and 210 age-matched controls. The patients were divided into three groups: Group A, new patients at diagnosis; Group B, patients at follow-up; and Group C, metastatic patients. The mean B-2M of all breast cancer patients plus or minus one standard deviation (3.5 +/- 1.2; range, 1.1 to 5.9) was significantly higher than normal controls (1.29 +/- 0.49; range, 0.3 to 2.3; P less than 0.005). When the three patient groups were compared with each other, the mean B-2M level of Group A (3.0 +/- 1.5; range, 0.9 to 6.9) was similar to that of Group C (4.22 +/- 1.1; range, 2.0 to 6.4). The mean B-2M of both Groups A and C was significantly higher than that of Group B (2.38 +/- 1.02, range, 0.4 to 5.4; P less than 0.001). In Group A the mean B-2M decreased significantly after a 12-month period and reached the mean level of Group B but not that of normal controls. When patients in Group B were analyzed by their stage of disease at diagnosis, there was no significant difference between Stages I and II. There was a significant difference in the mean B-2M levels between Stages I and III. In relapsing patients, mean B-2M levels increased. These findings suggest that serum B-2M levels may reflect tumor burden, and even in patients at follow-up, occult tumor cells may activate the immune system. 
Activation of Epstein-Barr virus latent genes protects human B cells from death by apoptosis. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a human herpesvirus, establishes a persistent asymptomatic infection of the circulating B-lymphocyte pool. The mechanism of virus persistence is not understood but, given the limited lifespan of most B cells in vivo, it seems most likely that EBV-infected cells must gain access to the long-lived memory B-cell pool. Here we show in an in vitro system that EBV, through expression of the full set of eight virus-coded 'latent' proteins, can protect human B cells from programmed cell death (apoptosis), the deletion mechanism which normally restricts entry into memory. We have found that EBV-positive Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell clones retaining the original tumour cell phenotype and expressing only one of the virus latent proteins, the nuclear antigen EBNA 1, are extremely sensitive to apoptosis; in this respect they resemble the tumour's normal cell of origin found in the germinal centres of lymphoid tissue. By contrast, isogenic BL cell clones which have activated expression of all eight EBV latent proteins are resistant to the induction of apoptosis. The EBV latent proteins should therefore be seen not just as activators of B-cell proliferation but, perhaps more importantly, as mediators of enhanced B-cell survival. 
18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose uptake into human tumor xenografts. Feasibility studies for cancer imaging with positron-emission tomography. The positron-emitting glucose analogue 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) was evaluated for its accretion into the following subcutaneous human tumor xenografts in nude mice: B-cell lymphoma (Namalwa or Raji), ovarian carcinoma (HTB77), colon cancer (SW948), choriocarcinoma (BEWO), bladder cancer (UM-UC-2), renal cell carcinoma (UM-RC-3), neuroblastoma (Mey), melanoma (HTB63), and small cell lung carcinoma (NCI69). Two hours postinjection, tumor uptakes ranged from 0.027 (colon cancer) to 0.125% kg injected dose/g (melanoma); and was greater than 0.085 in the Namalwa lymphomas and the renal cell carcinomas. Tumor-blood ratios of up to 23:1 were seen 2 hours postinjection (melanoma) with a mean tumor-blood ratio for all tumors of 12.3 +/- 1.8. Uptake in the other tumors was intermediate. When evaluated, tumor uptake was slightly greater at 1 than at 2 hours postinjection, although target-background ratios were generally higher at 2 hours postinjection. This compound, FDG, may have broad applicability as a tracer for positron-emission tomographic imaging of many human malignancies. 
Correlation between bromodeoxyuridine-labeling indices and patient prognosis in cerebral astrocytic tumors of adults. Bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR), a nonradioactive thymidine analogue, is taken up by cells in S-phase, and the ratio of BUdR-positive nuclei to the total number of cells counted is defined as the labeling index (LI). In this study, BUdR LI and the clinical course of 50 cerebral astrocytic tumors in adults were analyzed. The obtained LI distributed continuously in a broad range from 0% to 19%. The mean LI of 28 glioblastomas, 12 anaplastic astrocytomas, and ten astrocytomas were 8.5%, 4.2%, and 1.2%, respectively, and these differences were statistically significant (P = 0.05). In the analysis of LI and the recurrence-free period (RFP), regardless of the histologic findings, 23 patients with LI more than 5% had a median RFP of 9.0 months; the median RFP of nine patients with LI of 3% to 5% was 14.7 months. Nine of 13 patients with LI less than 3% have not yet recurred after a median follow-up of 36 months. These differences were also statistically significant by the generalized Wilcoxon test (P = 0.05). The proliferative potential reflected by the BUdR LI is a good clinical indicator for predicting the rate of tumor growth in cerebral astrocytic tumors. In combination with histologic diagnosis, BUdR LI could help in determining a patient's prognosis more precisely. 
Immunophenotypes in "classical" B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Correlation with normal cellular counterpart and clinical findings. This study evaluates the expression of a series of membrane antigens, normally expressed by B-lymphocytes of the lymphocytic mantle and marginal zone, in 90 selected cases of "classical" (mouse red blood cell-receptor+, CD20+, CD5+, surface immunoglobulin +/-) B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) with the aim of contributing toward identifying the normal counterpart of B-CLL and any correlations between surface antigen pattern and certain clinical characteristics. Clustered (CD23, 25, 39, 40, 27, 1c, w75) and unclustered (NuB1, 7F7, KiB3) monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) were tested. Almost all cases showed high reactivity to CD23, 27, w75, 39, 40, and NuB1: expression of CD1c was very low and that of 7F7, KiB3, and CD25 was variable. The reactivity of 7F7 and KiB3 was strictly correlated, and they correlated individually with CD25. Results show that the most frequent B-CLL phenotype (CD19+, 5+, 23+, 27+, 39+, NuB1+, KiB3 +/-, 7F7 +/-, and CD25 +/-) corresponds to one or more cellular subsets in the mantle zone. No correlation was found between MoAb expression, surface immunoglobulin (SIg) class or type, clinical stage, disease activity, or age at diagnosis. The only difference (statistically borderline) was the expression of 7F7 and KiB3 (in young versus old patients). This suggests that modulations in the expression of surface antigens do not affect the clinical behavior of the disease. 
Diffuse esophageal leiomyomatosis in a patient with Alport syndrome: CT demonstration. In a patient with progressive dysphagia, postprandial vomiting, and a history of Alport syndrome, barium and manometric studies had been interpreted as consistent with achalasia, but a subsequent computed tomographic (CT) scan of the thorax was suggestive of a lower esophageal intramural mass. Multiple leiomyomas of the esophagus were later proved at thoracotomy. Differences between adult and pediatric leiomyomas and the association of leiomyomas with Alport syndrome are discussed. 
Long-term experience with a totally implanted catheter system in cancer patients. Long-term experience with totally implanted catheter systems (TICS) is limited. We retrospectively evaluated the performance and long-term complications of TICS for intravenous infusion in cancer patients; 134 systems were implanted in 128 patients. The median duration of implantation was 144 weeks with 49 systems implanted for more than one year. Complications related to surgical factors included malposition of reservoir (2%), skin perforation or wound dehiscence (1.5%) and pneumothorax (less than 1%). Complications not related to surgical factors included: drug extravasation (1.5%), mechanical malfunction (1.5%), vein thrombosis (less than 1%), clotting of the reservoir or catheter (2%), skin infection (1.5%), and sepsis (less than 1%). The total complication rate was 13%. Most complications resolved spontaneously or with medical treatment and only 6 patients (4.6%) required re-implantation of a second system. We conclude that with long-term usage of TICS, the complication rate remains low, making it a safe and viable alternative for patients requiring long-term intravenous therapy. 
Diabetes insipidus associated with craniopharyngioma in pregnancy. A case is presented of a pregnancy complicated by a suprasellar mass diagnosed at 27 weeks' gestation. This patient developed diabetes insipidus, which was successfully treated with 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone and ACTH stimulation tests were also abnormal, requiring the institution of thyroid and cortisol replacement therapy. The patient was delivered at 34 weeks' gestation secondary to worsening visual field testing. A craniotomy was performed in the postpartum period with removal of a craniopharyngioma. With successful medical treatment and careful observation, surgical intervention may be postponed until postpartum or until a gestational age with lower neonatal morbidity and mortality is reached. 
Gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of lymphoma/leukemia. Guidelines for use based on a multiinstitutional study. The demonstration of immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor gene rearrangements in human lymphoproliferative processes with the use of DNA hybridization has gained great popularity as a sensitive laboratory adjunct to diagnostic hematopathology. The fact that nearly all B- or T-cell malignant lymphomas and leukemias have one or more rearranged antigen receptor genes provides a biologic basis for a diagnostic test. To formally analyze the sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility of gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of human lymphoproliferative disease, the authors conducted a large, multiinstitutional study. Through a blinded, controlled approach, gene rearrangement analysis of 275 cases was shown to carry a high correlation with conventional phenotyping and histologic diagnosis, with only minor false-positive and false-negative rates. Significantly, no rearrangements were detected in normal lymphoid tissues or carcinomas, sarcomas, or melanomas. In a randomized study of 50 cases, laboratory results showed a high rate of interlaboratory agreement, regardless of the level of previous experience. Furthermore, the reproducibility of interpretation of data (Southern blot autoradiograms) of 192 cases showed high concordance among 11 observers from multiple laboratories. Based on these findings, the authors propose a set of guidelines for interpretation of gene rearrangement analysis that, if carefully followed, renders this a highly reproducible, safe, and accurate addition to the diagnostic regimen for human lymphoproliferative processes. 
Partial gastric corpectomy results in hypergastrinemia and development of gastric enterochromaffinlike-cell carcinoids in the rat. Studies in the rat have shown that partial gastric corpectomy, in which about 75% of the acid-producing oxyntic mucosa was removed, leads to markedly reduced acid secretion and a feedback increase in the plasma gastrin levels. Ten weeks after operation, the gastric enterochromaffin (ECL)-like cell density in the remaining part of the oxyntic mucosa had increased significantly. In the present study, the effects on the gastric ECL cells of lifelong persistent hypergastrinemia induced by partial (75%) corpectomy have been investigated. Seventy-five partially corpectomized rats and 40 control rats were investigated for plasma gastrin and oxyntic mucosal changes in a 124-week study. The partially corpectomized rats showed increased plasma gastrin levels after the operation; the mean increase compared with the controls was almost 10-fold during the entire study. The remaining oxyntic mucosa of the partially corpectomized rats differed from that of control rats in two respects, showing first general hypertrophy and second a marked hyperplasia of argyrophil ECL cells. The degree and incidence of these changes increased towards the end of the study, i.e., in the aging rats. An age-related increase in ECL-cell density occurred spontaneously also in the control rats but to a lesser extent than in the partially corpectomized group. ECL-cell carcinoids were found in the oxyntic mucosa of 26 of the 75 partially corpectomized rats. The first carcinoid was found 78 weeks after the beginning of the study. Six rats with carcinoids (23%) were found before week 104 (2 years) and the remainder, 20 (77%), were discovered later. No carcinoid tumor was found in the control rats. It is concluded that lifelong hypergastrinemia induced by partial corpectomy leads to the development of ECL-cell carcinoids in the oxyntic mucosa of some rats towards the end of their life span. This observation strongly supports the hypothesis that the gastric ECL-cell carcinoids found in rats treated with antisecretory drugs are caused by long-standing hypergastrinemia developing secondary to inhibition of gastric acid secretion. 
Evaluation of preoperative computed tomography in gastric malignancy. Ninety patients with gastric malignancy underwent computed tomography (CT) before surgery. The CT findings regarding neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs and metastasis or enlarged lymph nodes were compared with the findings at laparotomy (85 cases) or autopsy (5 cases), thus permitting evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of CT and its usefulness for predicting resectability. When present, neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs was overestimated or underestimated by CT in 21 cases. Invasion of adjacent organs according to CT was false positive in 17 cases and false negative in 11 cases. When liver metastasis or enlarged regional or distant lymph nodes were present, CT overestimated or underestimated their extent in 17 cases, and the diagnosis was false positive in one case and false negative in 33 cases. The positive and negative predictive values of CT concerning resectability of the tumor were 81% and 64%, respectively. Routine preoperative CT in gastric malignancy is concluded to be of limited value and surgical exploration, when feasible, remains the method of choice. 
Liver abscess complicating intratumoral ethanol injection therapy for HCC. We report a patient who developed multiple liver abscesses and sepsis caused by lactobacilli after the percutaneous intratumoral injection of ethanol for hepatocellular carcinoma. We diagnosed the liver abscess at an early stage because of a the finding of gas on ultrasound and computed tomography. Blood cultures grew Gram-positive rods, which were of the Lactobacillus species. The patient responded to the administration of antibiotics, and his hepatic tumors have not recurred in the 7 months since treatment. This is the first report of liver abscess following percutaneous ethanol injection therapy. 
Autoimmunity and malignancy. In patients with autoimmune diseases malignancy is observed more frequently than in an age-matched control group. In strains of mice susceptible to autoimmune diseases, the incidence of lymphoreticular malignancies is increased. Although viruses have not been directly implicated in their pathogenesis or etiology, there are suggestions that slow viruses may be involved. Viruses have been found to be important in the development of lymphomas. Hence in genetically susceptible animals, viruses can initiate the autoimmune process. Prolonged stimulation of the autoimmune process or a prolonged state of immunodeficiency could trigger or activate genes or their products, which could result in the development of malignancy. 
Mammographic screening of women with increased risk of breast cancer. Five hundred one women from Dallas County, Texas who participated in the American Cancer Society 1987 Texas Breast Screening Project were selected because of a self-reported family history of breast cancer (cases). They were matched with 501 randomly selected women from the same county with no family history (controls). Although there was a statistically significant trend with age for an increasing proportion of women to report having undergone mammography, there was no significant difference when comparing mammographic histories of cases with controls after controlling for age (31.5% versus 35.1%, P = 0.33). Significantly more cases (79%) perceived their risk for breast cancer to be moderate or greater compared with controls (54%, P less than 0.0001), but mammographic histories were not different when controlling for perceived risk. Both cases and controls cited lack of physician referral and cost as their reasons for not having undergone mammography. Women at increased risk for breast cancer (because of their family history) are not undergoing regular mammographic screening despite their self-awareness of the increase in their risk. 
Treatment of human melanoma hepatic metastases in nude mice with human cytotoxic T lymphocytes. We investigated the effects of human melanoma-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in treating experimental human melanoma hepatic metastases in a nude mouse model of adoptive immunotherapy. Hepatic metastases were generated by intrasplenic injection of 1.5 x 10(6) human melanoma cells. Three days after injection, animals received salt solution and interleukin 2 or interleukin 2 and cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Twenty-four of 25 control animals had developed multiple tumor nodules in the liver; 11 of 13 animals receiving only interleukin 2 also had significant tumor burdens. In striking contrast, 17 of 18 animals receiving cytotoxic T lymphocytes and interleukin 2 had no gross or histologic evidence of tumors. The remaining animal had a 2-mm nodule. Human tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes are effective in vivo in a model of adoptive immunotherapy and may prove useful in adoptive immunotherapy of humans with metastatic melanoma. 
Mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst from a patient with Muir-Torre syndrome. Mucous cell proliferation in a periapical radicular cyst from a patient with a family history of colonic malignancies and multiple sebaceous neoplasms of the skin, so-called Muir-Torre syndrome, is reported. Such goblet cell hyperplasia has not been previously reported to be associated with any known syndrome. We believe the finding of mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst may not simply be coincidental, but should raise suspicion of paraneoplastic potential and warrant further evaluation for possible occult neoplastic disease. 
Etoposide in leukemia. Etoposide (VP16-213, NSC 141540) induces a complete response (CR) in 15% to 25% of previously treated patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) when used as a single agent. Etoposide has been used successfully in combination with cytarabine, daunorubicin, and amsacrine for salvage and consolidation therapies. Previously untreated ANLL patients 15 to 70 years of age were randomly assigned to cytarabine (100 mg/m2) on days 1 to 7 plus daunorubicin (50 mg/m2) on days 1 to 3 (7-3) or to the same drugs plus etoposide (75 mg/m2) on days 1 to 7 (7-3-7). Patients achieving a CR received two consolidation courses (5-2, attenuated 7-3 or 5-2-5). Among 264 eligible patients, there was a 56% CR rate with 7-3 therapy and a 59% CR rate with 7-3-7 therapy. Remission duration was significantly improved with 7-3-7 (median, 12 months with 7-3 and 18 months with 7-3-7; P = 0.01), but survival was not. Subset analysis in patients younger than 55 years of age revealed prolonged remission (median, 12 months with 7-3 and 27 months with 7-3-7; P = 0.01) and survival (median, 9 months with 7-3 and 17 months with 7-3-7; P = 0.04) with the 7-3-7 regimen. Hematologic toxicity was similar for both regimens during induction, but significantly more severe for 7-3-7 during consolidation therapy. Etoposide is active in ANLL and prolongs remission when used in induction therapy. 
Prolonged intermittent clamping of the portal triad during hepatectomy. From 112 consecutive hepatectomies for malignant tumours performed with intermittent portal triad clamping, we have retrospectively selected the 20 cases in which clamping exceeded 90 min. Intermittent portal clamping of prolonged duration was used because of abnormal liver texture in 13 cases (mainly patients who had received intra-arterial chemotherapy) and/or because of technically difficult hepatectomy. The mean(s.d.) duration of intermittent portal clamping was 109(18) min and in two cases it exceeded 140 min (148 and 150 min). There was no postoperative mortality and the rate of postoperative morbidity was 35 per cent. Postoperative changes in biochemical liver tests were not major and transient hepatic failure occurred in only one patient following subtotal resection of the liver. We conclude that intermittent portal clamping is a useful manoeuvre in partial hepatectomy when resection is difficult or prolonged, or when the liver parenchyma is abnormal. Such clamping may be used for longer than 120 min without major complications. 
Effect of somatostatin analogue (octreotide) on blood flow to endocrine tumors metastatic to the liver: angiographic evaluation. The effect of an octapeptide analogue of somatostatin, octreotide, on tumor blood flow was evaluated with angiography in eight patients with hepatic endocrine tumors; one patient had primary intrahepatic gastrinoma, two patients had hepatic metastases from gastrinomas, two patients had VIPomas (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-secreting tumor), and three patients had carcinoid tumors. Octreotide caused a marked decrease in tumor blood flow in two patients with gastrinomas and two with VIPomas. One patient could not be evaluated due to the lack of a tumor blush on a control angiogram. In patients with carcinoid tumors, octreotide caused a slight reduction in blood flow through the tumors in two patients, while there was no change in one patient. Octreotide markedly decreased gastrin and gastric acid secretion in two of three patients with gastrinomas, lowered VIP and stopped the diarrhea in patients with VIPomas, and controlled symptoms in two of three patients with carcinoid tumors. The vasoactive effect of octreotide on hepatic endocrine tumors may be a direct action on tumor blood supply or secondary to inhibition of the endocrine tumor cell secretion and consequent decreased blood flow. 
Laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts. One hundred two women with ovarian cysts were managed laparoscopically over a 13-year period. Thirteen were treated with laparoscopic inspection followed by laparotomy, 6 with laparoscopic fine needle aspiration followed by laparotomy and 83 with laparoscopic fenestration and biopsy, with or without coagulation or removal of the cyst lining. Satisfactory results were noted in patients treated completely with laparoscopy. Only 1 of 56 functional, simple or paraovarian cysts recurred during the study period. Two of the 18 ovarian endometriomas treated with fenestration and coagulation or removal of the lining recurred, whereas 8 of 9 such lesions recurred when treated with fenestration alone. There were no surgical complications. 
Treatment of malignant pleural effusions with doxorubicin hydrochloride-containing poly(L-lactic acid) microspheres. For the treatment of malignant pleural effusions, we prepared doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin)-containing poly(L-lactic acid) microspheres (ADR-MS). In vitro, 50 percent and 100 percent release times of ADR from ADR-MS were 6.3 and 20 days, respectively. After intrapleural administration of ADR-MS for seven patients at an ADR dose of 40 mg, ADR was detected in the effusions for more than two weeks; however, ADR concentrations in serum were very small, consistent with minimal transpleural absorption of ADR. These results indicated the slow release of ADR into the pleural cavity. Furthermore, the amount of drained ADR was less than a few percent of the administered dose. In some cases, malignant cells in the effusion disappeared after the treatment. No complications related to the procedure occurred, and the patients developed no systemic symptoms. One patient died after four months, and the other six patients are alive after 21 to 31 months without reaccumulation of the effusion. The local administration of ADR-MS produces a localized high and systemic low concentration of ADR, which could potentially improve the patient's quality of life. 
Effects of tamoxifen and somatostatin analogue on growth of human medullary, follicular, and papillary thyroid carcinoma cell lines: tissue culture and nude mouse xenograft studies. The knowledge that (1) the normal thyroid contains somatostatin, (2) polypeptide growth factors influence thyroid cell function, and (3) thyroid cells contain steroid hormone receptors prompted us to add somatostatin analogue No. 201-995 (SMS) (5 ng/ml) and/or tamoxifen citrate (TAM) (5 mumol/L) to 7-day monolayer cultures (50,000 cells/well) of three separate human thyroid carcinoma cell lines: DR081 (medullary), WR082 (follicular), and NPA'87 (papillary). Results, tabulated as cell numbers/well (X10(5) on day 7, revealed that TAM inhibited growth of medullary and follicular cells and that TAM plus SMS inhibited growth of papillary cells. In vivo studies of subcutaneous tumor cell xenografts in nude mice have documented that TAM (5 mg subcutaneous pellet) significantly inhibits the growth of medullary implants. Flow cytometric DNA studies of medullary cell cultures demonstrated a reduced G2 + M phase with TAM treatment. For papillary cell implants, TAM plus SMS (5 micrograms subcutaneously, twice daily) did not suppress tumor growth. All three cell lines were negative for estrogen receptor; addition of estradiol (5 ng/ml) to medullary cell cultures neither stimulated replication nor reversed the inhibitory effects of TAM in vitro. We conclude that (1) TAM slowed the growth of a cell line of human medullary carcinoma, both in vitro and in vivo; (2) this effect was not reversed by estradiol; (3) TAM plus SMS inhibited replication of a papillary carcinoma cell line in vitro, but not in vivo; and (4) TAM alone and TAM plus SMS inhibited replication of cultures of a human follicular thyroid carcinoma cell line. TAM and SMS may be useful in treatment of some human thyroid carcinomas. 
Immunosuppressive acidic protein in malignant diseases. Clinical relevance? The immunosuppressive acidic protein (IAP) has been described as a tumor associated marker in some solid tumors and hematologic diseases. To define the clinical relevance the authors determined the serum IAP levels in 194 patients with malignancies before initiation of therapy, 14 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), 28 patients with bacterial pneumonia, and 23 healthy volunteers. Immunosuppressive acidic protein was measured by radial immunodiffusion. The mean value of our controls was 405 +/- 48 micrograms/ml. This is consistent with published data. The mean values for patients with malignancies varied from 554 micrograms/ml to 698 micrograms/ml. These are only marginally higher than those observed for the controls. In contrast patients with bacterial pneumonia demonstrated significantly elevated values (1038 +/- 261 micrograms/ml). The authors conclude that IAP cannot be used as a diagnostic marker for the malignant diseases examined in this study. 
Spindle and epithelioid cell nevus (Spitz nevus). Natural history following biopsy. A clinical follow-up study of 49 cases of spindle and epithelioid cell nevus is presented to address the question about the potential for local recurrence. Only 19 (39%) of the 49 lesions were initially excised en toto, and the remainder (30 cases) had positive margins; six of the latter spindle and epithelioid cell nevi were reexcised, and no evidence of a residual nevus was found in five of the six cases. There were no recurrences in the 49 patients during an average follow-up period of 5.0 years (range, 1 to 10 years). The rarity of recurrent spindle and epithelioid cell nevus would justify a conservative approach to management, with clinical follow-up alone recommended after a subtotal excision, when the pathologic diagnosis is unequivocal. 
Left ventricular fibroma: echocardiographic diagnosis and successful surgical excision in three cases. The management of three patients with left ventricular fibromas is outlined. All were asymptomatic children. Routine chest radiography suggested cardiac masses. M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography were valuable adjuncts to conventional angiography in assessing these children. Electrocardiographic changes, present in all cases, were shown to regress postoperatively. We stress the importance of these noninvasive aids in the initial investigation and outline our operative methods of reconstruction. 
Hypercalcemia with excess serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma. Hypercalcemia has been described in a variety of granulomatous and lymphoproliferative disorders in association with elevated serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. In such cases, hypercalcemia appears to be the consequence of excessive production of 1,25(OH)2D by the lymphocyte/macrophage line. The authors report a patient with lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma who developed hypercalcemia with extreme elevation in serum 1,25(OH)2D. Therapy with steroids reduced the serum calcium and 1,25(OH)2D levels to normal. Hypercalcemia has not previously been reported in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma. The distinctive features of this malignancy, and the derangement in the metabolism of 1,25(OH)2D in lymphoproliferative disorders in general, are discussed. 
Head and neck paragangliomas: a clinicopathologic study with DNA flow cytometric analysis. A total of 11 head and neck paragangliomas were the subject of pathologic study, including histologic, immunohistochemical, and DNA flow cytometric analyses. We cannot absolutely predict aggressive clinical behavior using histologic parameters alone, but we can use such parameters to segregate patients into low-risk and high-risk groups. Several trends were observed in the current study. Tumors with higher S-phase fractions, G2/M fractions, or aneuploid cell populations tended to behave "aggressively." The presence of sustentacular cells in the primary tumors cannot be used as an absolute indicator of tumor metastatic potential, as two metastatic paragangliomas in this study contained sustentacular cells in both the primary and metastatic lesions. DNA ploidy status cannot be used as an absolute prognostic parameter as the two metastatic tumors were composed of diploid primary and metastatic lesions. The three tumors with aneuploid cell populations showed "aggressive" histologic and clinical features, but the length of the follow-up period for these cases is too limited to draw any conclusions. Although no absolute criteria can be used at present to gauge aggressiveness, close follow-up of these patients is essential, especially if pathologic findings suggest an "aggressive" course (ie, "malignant" histology, higher S-phase fractions, G2/M fractions, aneuploid cell populations, or decreased sustentacular cell density). 
General assay for phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid: a candidate marker for paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. The components of protein phosphorylation systems (protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and their phosphoprotein substrates) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types. We exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates (phosphoproteins) in human cerebrospinal fluid. Using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay, we have detected a putative protein kinase C substrate protein of apparent Mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases. Phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations. 
The physical state of human papillomavirus 16 DNA in cervical carcinoma and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Cervical carcinomas and cervical intraepithelial neoplasias (CIN) were analyzed for the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA using Southern blot hybridization. Of the five HPV types examined (HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, and 33), HPV 16 DNA was detected most frequently. In most HPV 16-positive carcinomas examined, HPV 16 DNA was present in an integrated state in cellular DNA with or without the coexistence of episomal species. In one case, however, only episomal species were detected. Among seven cases of HPV 16-positive CIN, four contained HPV 16 DNA only in the episomal state and the rest contained HPV 16 DNA only in the integrated state, but the coexistence of both states was not found. These results suggest that the integration of HPV 16 DNA is not necessary for cells to become malignant, although it is frequently associated with malignant cells. 
The natural history of colorectal cancer. Opportunities for intervention. There is now a better understanding of the natural history of colorectal cancer, which has provided a basis for intervention to influence outcome. The possible interventions include earlier detection of colorectal cancer, removal of premalignant adenomas, demonstration of the mucosal field defect that precedes neoplasia to evaluate baseline risk and its change with dietary modification, and identification of inherited and dietary risk factors. Five controlled trials evaluating early detection of colorectal cancer with fecal occult blood testing have enrolled more than 309,000 patients. Early stage cancers with improved survival has been observed, but data on mortality reduction have not as yet been reported. Studies of patients with adenomas have demonstrated high synchronous and metachronous rates as a basis for complete colon evaluation initially and a surveillance follow-up program. Hyperproliferation and lack of normal differentiation have been observed as a field defect in the colon preceding neoplasia. Inherited factors have recently been shown to be important in a larger proportion of individuals destined to develop colorectal adenomas and cancer. These observations of the natural history of colorectal cancer have provided new opportunities for the application of radiologic and endoscopic techniques in diagnosis and surveillance; each examination has its merit. Further research is needed to answer many critical questions that have been raised regarding the impact of these interventions. 
Surgical staging of cervical cancer. Noninvasive radiologic methods to detect paraaortic lymph node metastases are reliable when combined with FNA of enlarged lymph nodes. However, the sensitivity is low, and undetected microscopic metastases leads to treatment failure. These patients with paraaortic lymph node metastasis are not treated with extended-field radiation, and they all die within 3 years. The CT scanning is probably the best diagnostic method to evaluate cervical cancer, because it can assess the primary tumor, the urinary tract, gastrointestinal tract, liver parenchyma, and retroperitoneum. It also permits the guidance of FNA and the arrangement of radiation ports. Surgical staging provides the direct assessment of the peritoneal cavity and the retroperitoneal spaces. Metastatic tumor, including enlarged lymph nodes, can be resected, but this is of dubious benefit. The operative morbidity is acceptable, with fewer intestinal complications when the extraperitoneal approach is used, and long-term morbidity is minimal when appropriate paraaortic radiation doses are employed (less than 5,000 cGy). Surgical staging has provided data on the frequency of paraaortic lymph node metastasis by stage of cervical cancer, and thus, treatment strategies can be better developed. Extended-field radiation results in 5-year survival rates of 20-25% in patients with microscopic paraaortic lymph node metastasis, patients who would not survive without the treatment. However, surgical staging has produced only a modest boost in survival rates, because of the high rate of pelvic and systemic failure. When extended-field radiation is used prophylactically or in patients with probable lymph node metastasis seen on radiographic studies, survival rates are similar to patients irradiated after surgical staging finds paraaortic lymph node disease. As our ability to predict, and detect nonsurgically, positive paraaortic node disease improves, extended radiation (or other adjuvant therapy) could be used more frequently without operation in patients who are at high risk for metastatic disease. In a study by Haie et al, prophylactic paraaortic radiation was given to patients at high risk for paraaortic metastasis. In patients with a high probability of local disease control, paraaortic radiation significantly reduced the incidence of paraaortic and distant metastases. Patients with known paraaortic lymph node metastases frequently have occult systemic metastases. In these same patients, pelvic failure is also common. Thus, until effective systemic therapies emerge, a marked improvement in survival is unlikely in patients who have paraaortic lymph node metastasis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Increased expression of the multidrug-resistance gene in undifferentiated sarcoma. We analyzed multidrug-resistance gene (mdr1 gene) expression in a patient with undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver using the cloned cDNA for the mdr1 gene. Tissue samples were available at the time of initial diagnosis and of two intracranial relapses after chemotherapy with a regimen including doxorubicin and teniposide. The level of mdr1 gene expression was increased sevenfold in the intracranial tumor at the time of first relapse and 11-fold at the second relapse. This case may be an example of acquired multidrug resistance associated with overexpression of the mdr1 gene. 
DNA flow cytometry of colorectal carcinoma: correlation of DNA stemlines with other prognostic indices. DNA flow cytometry (FCM) was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of 38 surgically resected colorectal carcinomas (CRC). Forty-seven percent of tumors exhibited aneuploidy and 53% were diploid. Seventy-two percent of patients in the aneuploid but only 35% in the diploid group were alive after a mean follow-up of 30.7 and 28.8 months (p = 0.01), and 5-yr survival of 56.7% and 11.7%, respectively (p less than 0.05). The site of tumor location, Dukes' stage, and serum CEA level did not predict a certain DNA stemline. However, irrespective of the ploidy pattern, a serum CEA level greater than 5.0 was associated with a higher mortality and poor 5-yr survival (p less than 0.005). Similarly, advanced Dukes' stage was associated with higher mortality (p less than 0.05). Forty-six percent of the patients with lesions that were Dukes' B2 or advanced stage received adjuvant therapy. Eighty-five percent of this subgroup of patients died; 18% of these patients had aneuploid tumors. The role of FCM in the assessment of prognosis of CRC deserves further clinical evaluation in a randomized control trial. 
Inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth in the brain. Suppression of endothelial cell turnover by penicillamine and the depletion of copper, an angiogenic cofactor. Microvascular proliferation, a hallmark of malignant brain tumors, represents an attractive target of anticancer research, especially because of the quiescent nonproliferative endothelium of the normal brain. Cerebral neoplasms sequester copper, a trace metal that modulates angiogenesis. Using a rabbit brain tumor model, normocupremic animals developed large vascularized VX2 carcinomas. By contrast, small, circumscribed, relatively avascular tumors were found in the brains of rabbits copper-depleted by diet and penicillamine treatment (CDPT). The CDPT rabbits showed a significant decrease in serum copper, copper staining of tumor cell nuclei, microvascular density, the tumor volume, endothelial cell turnover, and an increase in the vascular permeability (breakdown of the blood-brain barrier), as well as peritumoral brain edema. In non-tumor-bearing animals, CDPT did not alter the vascular permeability or the brain water content. CDPT also inhibited the intracerebral growth of the 9L gliosarcoma in F-344 rats, with a similar increase of the peritumoral vascular permeability and the brain water content. CDPT failed to inhibit tumor growth and the vascularization of the VX2 carcinoma in the thigh muscle or the metastases to the lung, findings that may reflect regional differences in the responsiveness of the endothelium, the distribution of copper, or the activity of cuproenzymes. Metabolic and pharmacologic withdrawal of copper suppresses intracerebral tumor angiogenesis; angiosuppression is a novel biologic response modifier for the in situ control of tumor growth in the brain. 
Relationship of 4F2 antigen with local growth and metastatic potential of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. The 4F2 antigen is a cell-membrane glycoprotein which arises early in the G0-G1 phases of the cell cycle. This molecule is present in all established human cell lines and most malignant human cells. The authors used an indirect immunophosphatase method to study 50 squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx and ten lymph-node metastases, corresponding to six primary tumors, for 4F2 expression. The tumors showed several patterns of 4F2 staining which were correlated with different behaviors and prognoses of the neoplasms. Three different patterns (no staining, peripheral staining, and diffuse 4F2 expression) are described as are their relationships with metastatic behavior of the carcinomas. Tumors with metastases were found only in the third group (P = 0.0001). These results led to the following conclusions: (1) the 4F2 antigen is present in squamous cell carcinomas; (2) its distribution reflects the tumor-spreading pattern; and (3) it correlates with differentiation and metastatic behavior. 
Pleomorphic adenoma in the periphery of the lung. Report of a case and review of the literature. A pleomorphic adenoma of the lung recurred after 9 years. The primary tumor consisted mainly of cartilaginous and fibrous elements with a small area of epithelial cell nests, whereas the second one possessed epithelial cell nests with cartilaginous stroma. Immunohistochemical studies showed that both tumors had neoplastic cells with immunoreactive S100, keratin, actin, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acid protein-positive cytoplasm. The primary tumor, which was resected from the periphery of the lung, was not connected with the trachea or the bronchus macroscopically. To our knowledge, the literature contains only six reports of pleomorphic adenoma in the lung. 
Results of transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas and Rathke's cysts. Fourteen patients undergoing transsphenoidal extirpation of craniopharyngiomas or Rathke's cysts underwent endocrinological evaluation before and after surgery. One patient died during the procedure because of uncontrollable arterial bleeding. The other patients were followed for up to 16 years (average, 8.5 years). One patient had recurrence of tumor 12 years after surgery. Another patient, the only one operated on because of a recurrent craniopharyngioma after previous radiation therapy, died 2 years after the transsphenoidal operation. No patient recovered pituitary functions that had been lost before surgery. One patient, who had an isolated growth hormone deficiency, and another, who had panhypopituitarism with sustained antidiuretic hormone secretion, had no change postoperatively from their preoperative endocrine status. The other 11 patients lost pituitary function and required pharmacological replacement of one to four pituitary hormones. 
Clinical problems in follow-up of patients after conservative surgery and radiotherapy. Patients treated with conservative surgery and radiotherapy for early-stage breast carcinoma are at risk of developing an ipsilateral breast recurrence for a long period. Fortunately, few such patients present with an inoperable recurrence or simultaneous distant metastases. Salvage rates are high and may be improved by early detection. Although usually unambiguous, physical examination of the treated breast may reveal changes attributable to surgery and radiotherapy that can mimic a recurrent cancer. There also is substantial overlap in radiologic appearance between benign and malignant lesions. It may be necessary to perform a biopsy when there is a question of recurrence. Careful life-long follow-up of patients thus is a critical part of their care. 
Primary carcinoma of the gallbladder. Seventy-four patients with primary carcinoma of the gallbladder, diagnosed over 18 years from 1969 to 1987, were studied retrospectively. The most common presenting complaint was abdominal pain, followed by jaundice and weight loss. Surgery was performed in 61 patients and of these patients, only two had accurate preoperative diagnosis which was made by ultrasonography. Twelve of the 13 patients who were treated medically had the disease diagnosed at autopsy. One of the 13 patients had the diagnosis of gallbladder cancer by the findings of ultrasonography and abdominal computed tomography (CT) scanning. The resectability of the surgically managed group was 36.1%, and the majority of patients with advanced tumors (82.2%) were deemed unresectable. The most common histologic type was adenocarcinoma. Liver was the organ most commonly invaded (76.5%) by direct extension and/or metastases, followed by regional lymph nodes (52.9%). The overall 5-year survival rate was 5.4%. A high index of suspicion of the disease, intraoperative examination of gallbladder specimen, and earlier, more aggressive surgical treatment may improve patient survival. 
Expression of placental alkaline phosphatase in gastric and colorectal cancers. An immunohistochemical study using the prepared monoclonal antibody. The authors developed monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) against human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP). Four specific MoAb reacting only with PLAP and two nonspecific MoAb reacting equally with isozymes of alkaline phosphatase (hepatic, intestinal, and placental) were obtained. Immunohistochemical staining with the specific MoAb showed that the cell membrane and cytoplasm of cancer cells were stained in gastric and colorectal carcinoma. The incidence of PLAP positivity was 23% (25 of 107) of all gastric carcinomas. Among gastric carcinomas, the 42% (13 of 31) positivity of highly differentiated carcinoma (papillary adenocarcinoma and well-differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma) was a significantly higher rate than that found in poorly differentiated carcinoma (poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma and signet-ring cell carcinoma, five of 41, 12%). The incidence of PLAP positivity was 11% (four of 35) in colorectal carcinoma. In contrast, gastric adenoma, intestinal metaplasia, and noncancerous tissue adjacent to cancer did not show staining. These results indicated that expression of PLAP was apt to occur in more highly differentiated gastric carcinoma and was highly specific for carcinoma in the gastrointestinal tract, although its incidence was not high. 
Protection of the small intestine against irradiation by means of a removable prosthesis. In radiation therapy of tumors, several techniques are used to prevent injury of the intestinal loops. Their purpose is to drive the intestine out of the external beam. Understanding the disadvantages they present, a temporary prosthesis which effectively protects the small bowel, and is easy to remove, has been developed. The device is a 600 to 1,000 ml, silicone rubber, expandable balloon. When implanted in the pelvis or retroperitoneal cavity, and filled, this balloon displaces the intestinal loops out of the pelvic irradiation field. It may remain either filled or empty between each irradiation session. Due to its particular elliptical shape, once empty, the balloon can be removed through a 3 cm incision under local or peridural anesthesia at the completion of radiotherapy. Eleven patients with recurrent (8) or primary (3) cancer have been implanted. The protective effect has been evaluated on successive biologic tests, performed during treatment. No problem related to the prosthesis, no alteration of the biologic tests, nor bowel injury have been observed after several months follow-up. This device is suitable for preventing intestinal complications during therapy, allowing a higher dose of radiations in some cases. 
Indications for the surgical treatment of osteomas of the frontal and ethmoid sinuses. Sixty-one patients with an osteoma of the frontal or ethmoid sinuses have been studied. The following indications for surgical removal of these osteomas are suggested: osteomas extending beyond the boundaries of the frontal sinus, if enlarging, if localized in the region adjacent to the nasofrontal duct, if signs of chronic sinusitis are present, osteomas of the ethmoid sinuses, irrespective of their size and if patients with osteomas complain of headache and other causes of headache have been excluded. The operation of choice is the osteoplastic flap operation. 
Endometrial carcinoma: the relevance of cervical cytology. In patients with endometrial carcinoma, preoperative identification of poor prognostic factors is helpful in planning therapy. Extended surgical staging, including pelvic and periaortic node dissection, is indicated in patients with deep myometrial invasion or high-grade tumor, or when other risk factors for extrauterine spread are present. In this study, cervical cytology was reviewed in 86 patients with endometrial carcinoma, all of whom underwent surgical staging, to correlate the cytologic results with surgical and pathologic findings. Cervical cytology was normal in 20 patients (23%), whereas suspicious or malignant endometrial cells were present in 23 and 43 cases (27 and 50%), respectively. Suspicious or malignant cervical cytology was associated with deeper myometrial invasion (P = .011), higher postoperative tumor grade (P = .006), positive peritoneal washings (P = .012), and more advanced stage by International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics criteria (P = .024). When compared with patients with normal cervical cytology, those who had malignant endometrial cells had over twice the risk of deep myometrial invasion (67 versus 30%), twice the risk of grade 2 or 3 tumor (60 versus 30%), and three times the risk of positive peritoneal washings (33 versus 10%). Seventy-four percent of patients with malignant cervical cytology were stage IC or more. In contrast, 70% of patients with normal cervical cytology were stage IA or IB. Patients with endometrial carcinoma who have malignant endometrial cells detected by cervical cytology are at increased risk of having a deeply invasive, high-grade, advanced-stage tumor, and therefore are more likely to require extended surgical staging. 
Unexpected, spontaneous conversion of a family of rats, from low-leukemic to high-leukemic inbred line. From a nucleus of Sprague-Dawley rats received in 1960 from the National Institutes of Health, we have raised, by brother-to-sister mating, a colony of these animals. The incidence of leukemia in 313 females and 316 males was 1.6% and 1.2%, respectively. About 3 years ago, we observed a relatively high incidence of leukemia in offspring of a healthy female, no. 1. Among the offspring of this female, observed through 12 successive generations, there were 17 leukemias among 44 females (38.6%) and 21 leukemias among 40 males (52.5%), developing at ages varying from 6 to 11.6 months. The most frequent form of leukemia observed was acute myeloid, with a high count of myeloblasts, promyelocytes, and myelocytes; lymphatic form was relatively rare but was observed occasionally; pronounced anemia was common. In most instances, on autopsy, the pathological picture was that of an enlarged spleen and liver, with the exception of those few animals that developed lymphatic leukemia, with thymic and mesenteric lymphoid tumors. We have no satisfactory explanation for this sudden, unexpected conversion of a part of our Sprague-Dawley rat colony from low-leukemic to high-leukemic inbred line. As a working hypothesis, the possibility of a spontaneous activation of a hypothetical oncogenic virus should be considered. The high leukemic C58 inbred line of mice originated in a similar, unexplained manner [MacDowell, E.C. & Richter, M.N. (1935) Arch. Pathol. 20, 709-724]. However, leukemia developing in mice was subsequently found to be caused by a transmissible virus, whereas, thus far at least, no evidence of a transmissible virus has been found in leukemia developing spontaneously in rats. 
Occurrence of human papillomavirus type 16 DNA in cutaneous squamous and basal cell neoplasms. Sixty-eight cutaneous squamous cell neoplasms (in situ and invasive) and 26 basal cell carcinomas from 89 patients were analyzed for DNA sequences homologous to the human papillomavirus (HPV) types found predominantly in the genital tract. Thirty-six (53%) of the squamous cell neoplasms contained HPV DNA as detected by filter or in situ hybridization analysis. The frequency of detection of HPV DNA was dependent on the site of the lesion. Of 40 genital squamous cell neoplasms (penile, vulvar, and perianal), 27 (68%) had detectable HPV DNA. In 25 of these, the HPV type was 16 or HPV-16-related, which was similar to the results for the squamous cell neoplasms of the finger (HPV DNA in 9 of 11 tumors with HPV-16 in seven). None of 16 squamous cell neoplasms from sites other than the genital tract or the finger had detectable HPV DNA. HPV DNA was detected in one of the 26 basal cell carcinomas (4%). We conclude that, for cutaneous epithelial malignancies, HPV-16 is restricted to squamous cell neoplasms of the genital tract and finger. These data are consistent with venereal transmission of HPV-16 to the periungual region and suggests a role for this virus in the evolution of squamous cell carcinoma at this site. 
Uneventful delivery following series of successive treatments for virilized Cushing syndrome due to adrenocortical carcinoma. A twenty-one-year-old virilized woman with Cushing syndrome due to a huge adrenocortical carcinoma was successively treated with trilostane (3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor), subsequent adrenalectomy, and postoperative cis-platinum. Clinical or biochemical abnormalities peculiar to Cushing syndrome gradually subsided, and three and one-half years after the adrenal surgery, the patient delivered a normal female infant. This study points out some of the clinical and biochemical responses of each treatment. 
6-[18F]fluoro-L-fucose: a possible tracer for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography. The potential of 6-[18F]fluoro-L-fucose (6-[18F]FFuc) for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography (PET) was investigated. Using the tissue sampling method with five tumor models, different time-radioactivity profiles were found: a nearly constant level in Lewis lung carcinoma (3LL) and different clearance patterns in others. Rapid clearance in normal tissues resulted in preferable uptake ratios for tumor imaging of brain and pancreas. Metabolic studies and the L-fucose loading effects on the tissue uptake proved the tracer to be a biochemically active L-fucose analog. Imaging of the intracranial rat glioma and 3LL in lungs or hepatomas in mice by autoradiography (ARG) and intramuscular VX-2 carcinoma in rabbits by PET was demonstrated. Using double-radionuclide ARG, similar distribution images of 6-[18F]FFuc and 14C-L-fucose but different tumor-to-liver uptake ratios were found. A metastasis model seemed to show a higher uptake of both tracers as compared to a primary tumor model. 
Introducing the 'walk-up' flap. Reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgeons often find the need for additional soft tissue even when a myocutaneous flap has been previously placed. This article introduces the principles, technique, and results of 32 "walk-up" muscle flaps derived from existing myocutaneous flaps. The anastomotic vascular ingrowth at the original myocutaneous flap's distal end permits its proximal detachment and axial vessel ligation to rotate the proximal two thirds to a tissue-deficient site. In our experience at the University of Miami, these flaps have been predictable (97% viable transfer rate), have provided vascular soft tissue in deficient areas, and have been skin grafted at their surface to increase oral lining or skin cover, among several other uses. 
Recurrent or metastatic disease in select patients with adrenocortical carcinoma. Aggressive resection vs chemotherapy. In a retrospective, nonrandomized comparison of patients with first recurrence of adrenocortical cancer, 18 patients were treated with chemotherapy (primarily mitotane) and 15 patients were treated with surgical resection plus similar chemotherapy. Surgical resection of recurrent adrenocortical cancer was often extensive, with morbidity in 20% of patients and no mortality. Mitotane therapy was ineffective at controlling tumor growth. Median survival from the time of diagnosis for all patients was only 23 months and no patient was cured. Disease-free interval greater than 12 months was associated with prolonged survival, but it only occurred in six patients (18%), with a similar frequency in both treatment groups. Surgical resection of recurrent disease was associated with prolonged survival from the time of first recurrence. The potential benefit of this resection was evident in the 5 patients (33%) who were able to live greater than 5 years from the time of first recurrence with improvement in symptoms and signs of hypercortisolism. Although no patient with recurrent adrenal cancer could be cured, resection of recurrent disease was associated with a slight prolongation of survival and good palliation of Cushing's syndrome. 
Multiple myeloma: VMCP/VBAP alternating combination chemotherapy is not superior to melphalan and prednisone even in high-risk patients. The efficacy of alternating vincristine, melphalan (M), cyclophosphamide, prednisone/vincristine, carmustine, doxorubicin, and prednisone (VMCP/VBAP) polychemotherapy was compared with the M and prednisone (MP) regimen as induction treatment in multiple myeloma (MM). Three hundred four MM patients entered this study between March 1983 and July 1986; the analysis was performed in December 1989. The treatment groups did not show significant differences with respect to major prognostic factors. Median overall survival was 33.8 months. In the VMCP/VBAP and MP arms, after 12 induction chemotherapy cycles, 59.0% and 47.3% (P less than .068) of the patients achieved an M component reduction greater than 50%. No significant difference was observed in the two treatment arms in terms of remission duration (21.3 v 19.6 months, P less than .66) and survival (31.6 v 37.0 months, P less than .28). Patients younger than 65 years did not show any advantage from the alternating polychemotherapy. At diagnosis, the plasma cell labeling index (LI) and serum beta-2 microglobulin (beta 2-m) were evaluated in 173 and 183 patients, respectively. A significantly reduced survival was observed for patients with LI greater than or equal to 2% (16.4 months) or beta 2-m greater than or equal to 6 mg/L (20.4 months). Even in these poor-risk subgroups, VMCP/VBAP was not superior to MP. 
Quality of life research in oncology. Past achievements and future priorities. The status of quality of life research in oncology is assessed, and priorities for future research with regard to conceptual and theoretical developments, focus and content of research, research designs and practical strategies for research implementation, and transferring information to clinical practice and medical policy decision-making are identified. There is general agreement that quality of life is a subjective and multidimensional construct, yet comprehensive theoretical models have not been developed and applied fully. We recommend that future research be based on conceptual models that explicate the interrelationships among quality of life domains throughout the stages of cancer care. These models, and the longitudinal research that follows from them, should attend specifically to cross-class and cross-cultural issues to avoid overgeneralization from theory and research that are based largely on the views of the majority culture. We encourage the inclusion of this theory-based quality of life assessment as a standard component of clinical trials. Success in this endeavor will require additional standardization of quality of life measures for use across a range of cancer patient populations, including the development of age-specific norms and instruments designed to assess the entire family system. 
Beta-carotene's effects on serum lipoproteins and immunologic indices in humans. Doses of beta-carotene for cancer-prevention trials have been chosen based on epidemiologic data. Mechanisms of the putative antineoplastic effects by beta-carotene are unknown but may involve modulation of the immune system. We measured plasma carotenoid concentrations and selected immunologic indices at baseline and at 2 and 4 wk in 50 healthy humans (5 groups of 10 each) ingesting 0, 15, 45, 180, or 300 mg beta-carotene/d for 1 mo in this randomized placebo-controlled, open-label, parallel study. Plasma beta-carotene concentrations were markedly increased by 2 wk and were correlated with dose. Beta-carotene concentrations plateaued between 2 and 4 wk except for the 300-mg group. Thus, we developed a dose-concentration curve to optimize beta-carotene-dose selection to achieve target plasma concentrations. We were unable to identify any effects of beta-carotene ingestion on the immunologic indices studied, but modest increases in high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol were observed in all beta-carotene-treated groups. 
Pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries. A prospective study of 12 cases. Pulmonary tumor embolism leading to subacute cor pulmonale has been extensively studied. However, to our knowledge, the involvement of pulmonary alveolar capillaries has not previously been studied in detail. A prospective study was conducted on 112 autopsied patients with cancer to determine the presence of microembolism in the alveolar septal capillaries. Fifteen sections of predetermined lung areas were obtained and examined. Tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries was detected in 12 cases (10.7%), with simultaneous involvement of other vascular territories in 11. Seven patients had dyspnea; four, right ventricular failure; four, hypertrophy of the right ventricle; and three, arterial vascular sclerosis. The present data have led us to conclude that pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries occurs in association with the involvement of arterial or lymphatic vessels and should be analyzed within the context of the study of subacute cor pulmonale. 
Human tumor fluorouracil trapping: clinical correlations of in vivo 19F nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy pharmacokinetics. We previously reported that fluorouracil (5FU) accumulation and metabolism in human livers and tumors can be studied by in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMRS). We have extended these observations by evaluating the pharmacokinetics of 5FU in the tumors of 11 patients with carcinoma of the breast, colon, endometrium, cervix, and kidney, using 19F-NMRS in a 1.5 Magnetom (Siemens Medical Systems, Cerrito, CA) magnetic resonance imaging unit (MRI). These NMRS measurements detected a long-lived tumor pool of 5FU in six of 11 tumors in our patients including carcinomas in the pelvis, breast, lung, and liver. The half-life (T1/2) of this tumor pool of "trapped" 5FU was 0.33 to 1.3 hours (20 to 78 minutes), much longer than the T1/2 of 5FU in blood (5 to 15 minutes). Neither the anabolites of 5FU (fluorinated nucleosides, nucleotides, 5FU-RNA, or 5FU-thymidylate synthase) nor the catabolites (eg, fluorobetaalanine [FBAL]) were detectable by 19F NMRS. Patient response to chemotherapy appeared to correlate with the extent of trapping of free 5FU in the human tumors: in the seven patients receiving 5FU, or 5FU or FUdR plus leucovorin, four of four patients whose tumors trapped 5FU responded to fluorinated pyrimidine chemotherapy, whereas three patients in whom there was a failure to detect tumor trapping were resistant to 5FU. We conclude that NMRS is clinically feasible, and enables investigators to study 5FU pharmacokinetics and metabolism in tumors in vivo. 19F-NMRS of 5FU allows for in vivo evaluation of 5FU metabolic modulation and might be able to guide therapeutic decisions. 
Pediatric osteosarcoma: therapeutic strategies, results, and prognostic factors derived from a 10-year experience. Ninety-eight pediatric patients were treated with three separate protocols (Treatment and investigation of Osteosarcoma [TIOS] I, II, and III) and 47 developed recurrent disease (metastases and/or local recurrence). Actuarial overall disease-free survival (hereafter designated survival) was 43%. Over 90% of the patients were treated initially with preoperative intraarterial cisplatin (CDP). Postoperative chemotherapeutic regimens comprised high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue (MTX-CF), Adriamycin [( ADR] doxorubicin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH), and cyclophosphamide. Primary definitive treatment comprised amputation or limb salvage (TIOS I and TIOS III). Patients treated with preoperative CDP and surgery (TIOS I and III) had a 62% survival. Patients in TIOS II refused surgical extirpation; they were treated exclusively with chemotherapy and had a 23% survival. Survival in patients treated with amputation was 55% and limb salvage 58%. Prognostic factors considered significant in relation to development of pulmonary metastases comprised tumor burden (P = .04) and the percentage of tumor necrosis induced by preoperative chemotherapy (P = .01). Histopathologic subtype was marginally significant: chondroblastic was more favorable as opposed to osteoblastic (P = .05). These findings are compared with results and prognostic factors published in the literature. 
Increasing annual incidence of primary malignant brain tumors in the elderly Between 1973 and 1985, total age-adjusted cancer incidence in the United States (all races, men and women) rose by 10.7%, with an average annual percentage change of +0.9%. Analysis of reported age-specific incidence of primary malignant brain tumors over the same years demonstrates that incidence rates increased dramatically between 1973/1974 and 1985. In 1985, incidence rates for persons aged 75-79, 80-84, and 85 years of age and over were 187%, 394%, and 501%, respectively, of rates in 1973/1974. Similar increases were found in both men and women, analyzed separately and combined. Average annual percentage changes in primary brain tumor incidence were +7.0%, +20.4%, and +23.4% in these age ranges, respectively. Reported incidence in younger persons varied little over the same period of time. The most common histologic type of primary brain tumor in the elderly was of glial origin, predominantly the glioblastoma multiforme and astrocytoma. These tumors are highly malignant and invariably fatal. Two possible causes may explain the increased incidence in the elderly: the introduction and extensive use of x-ray computed tomography since 1973 and/or a true increase in incidence occurring independently of diagnostic advances. 
Metastatic carcinoma of the gallbladder from renal cancer presenting as intraluminal polypoid mass. We report a rare case of secondary involvement of the gallbladder by metastatic renal cell carcinoma. A 71-year-old man was diagnosed as having a polypoid mass within the gallbladder when he underwent right nephrectomy for a renal cell carcinoma. A preoperative diagnosis of simultaneous carcinoma of the gallbladder was made, and extended cholecystectomy with regional lymphadenectomy was performed five months after the initial operation. Postoperative histological examination of the polypoid mass within the gallbladder and a pancreatic mass excised during the second surgery revealed these resected tumors to be identical to the clear cell type of renal cell carcinoma. We feel that this case presents synchronous involvement of the gallbladder and pancreas by metastatic renal cell carcinoma of the right kidney. 
Adoptive immunotherapy of human pancreatic cancer with lymphokine-activated killer cells and interleukin-2 in a nude mouse model. A pancreatic cancer cell line was grown in orthotopic and heterotopic positions in young Swiss/NIH nude mice, which were tested with adoptive immunotherapy. Mice were injected with 1 x 10(7) human cancer cells in the subcutaneous tissue and duodenal lobe of the pancreas. The mice were randomly divided into four groups: group IA (LAK + IL-2) (N = 25) received 2 X 10(7) human lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells from normal donors by tail vein injection followed by 10,000 units of human recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) given intraperitoneally every 12 hours for 28 days; group IB (IL-2) (N = 27) was given the same dose of IL-2 alone; group IC (RPMI-1640) (N = 18) received a placebo consisting of 1 ml of RPMI-1640 intraperitoneally every 12 hours; and group ID (LAK) (N = 14) received 2 X 10(7) LAK cells but no IL-2. Toxicity was significantly higher in group IB, with a mortality rate of 45.5% (10/22 animals) versus a 0% mortality (0/25) in group IA. None of the group IA or IB animals died of pancreatic cancer during the experiment. The animals that did not receive IL-2 died before 28 days in 14.2% of group IC and in 16.7% of group ID. The area under the growth curve of subcutaneous tumors during the course of treatment and the pancreatic tumor weight at the end of treatment were compared in each group. Subcutaneous tumors had a reduced rate of growth in group IA animals compared to all the other treatments. Pancreatic tumor growth was slowed in group IA. The animals treated with IL-2 alone (group IB) showed some slowing of tumor growth that was intermediate between group IA, group IC, and group ID. A similar experiment was done with irradiated (375 rad) mice. Nine nude mice with tumors were treated with LAK + IL-2 (group IIA), eight received IL-2 alone (group IIB), and seven received placebo (group IIC). The antitumor effect of IL-2 alone was not present in the irradiated mice. A highly significant difference persisted between group IIA and all other groups. There was no difference in the histologic characteristics of tumors in control mice and in mice with inhibited tumor growth treated with IL-2 or IL-2 and human LAK cells. These results show that adoptive immunotherapy with human LAK cells and human recombinant IL-2 is effective against human pancreatic cancer growing in nude mice. This effect is independent from antitumor activity from IL-2 administrations alone. 
Immunocytochemical characterization of lung tumors in fine-needle aspiration. The use of cytokeratin monoclonal antibodies for the differential diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. In the current study, immunocytochemical typing of intermediate filaments was used for a differential diagnosis of human lung tumors from transthoracic fine-needle aspiration biopsies (TFNAB). The authors have compared the cytologic diagnosis of 53 lung cancer cases with the immunofluorescence patterns obtained using a panel of monoclonal antibodies, five of which (KG 8.13, KM 4.62, Ks B.17, KS 8.12, KK 8.60) react with specific cytokeratin polypeptides and one with vimentin (VIM 13.2). Only in six of 23 samples cytologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma did the immunocytochemical typing of cytokeratins (ICTC) confirm the cytologic diagnosis. In seven cases some of the tumor cells stained positively with antibody Ks B.17 specific for simple epithelial keratin (No: 18), suggesting the presence of some cells of glandular origin. In ten additional cases the ICTC was in conflict with the cytologic diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma (i.e., antibodies Ks 8.12 and KK 8.60 were negative, and antibody Ks B.17, positive) supporting a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma. In 14 of 18 cases cytologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma, the ICTC confirmed the diagnosis whereas in four cases additional presence of some squamous cells was noticed. The ICTC labeling of cases cytologically diagnosed as undifferentiated and large cell carcinomas was similar to that of the group of adenocarcinomas. Thus, the application of cytokeratin typing for TFNAB samples seems to provide a vital complementation to routine cytologic study, especially for cases cytologically diagnosed as squamous carcinoma. 
Endosonography in the localization of parathyroid tumors: a preliminary study. A preoperative transesophageal exploration of the parathyroids by endosonography was performed on 23 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. The system used was a 7.5 MHz transducer mounted on the tip of an endoscope with an external diameter of 13 mm. The field of visualization was 360 degrees. A retrograde exploration was done moving up from the aortic arch to the upper esophageal sphincter. All patients underwent surgery afterward, and adenomas were found. In 12 cases the adenoma was visualized. All 12 adenomas were posteriorly located on the right side (four cases) and left side (eight cases) of the esophagus. Nine of these 12 tumors were on the posterior face of the thyroid lobes, with six tumors in the middle one third of the thyroid lobe and three in the lower one third of the thyroid lobe. The other three tumors were located below the lower pole of the thyroid lobes in the upper posterior mediastinum. Mean tumor weight was 1165 mg. Of the 11 tumors that could not be visualized, eight tumors were anteriorly located; three of these tumors were on the anterior and lateral surface of the lower pole of the thyroid, and five were in the thyrothymic tracts. The remaining three tumors were located on the back of the thyroid lobes; two of these tumors were at the upper esophageal sphincter, and one was on the side of the pharynx. Mean tumor size was 1334 mg. Localization of parathyroid tumors by endosonography appears possible but only if lesions are located posteriorly, close to the esophagus. Endosonography is not indicated before routine cervical exploration for primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism. As in other such studies, endosonography could be useful in cases of persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism. 
Contamination of peripheral blood stem cell harvests by circulating neuroblastoma cells. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are being used as one alternative to autologous marrow rescue for patients with neuroblastoma and other solid malignancies. Some physicians prefer use of PBSC because less risk of tumor contamination is believed to exist. This hypothesis was evaluated by immunocytologic analysis of blood samples and concurrently drawn bone marrow (BM) samples and of PBSC harvests obtained from 31 patients with disseminated neuroblastoma. We found circulating neoplastic cells in 75% of specimens analyzed at diagnosis, in 36% during therapy, and in 14% of PBSC harvests. Tumor cells in blood obtained during therapy did not appear until 3 months after the time of diagnosis. Clearance of circulating neuroblastoma cells was documented after two courses of induction chemotherapy. Six of 13 patients with minimal or no BM disease had positive blood specimens. We conclude that substantial risk of tumor contamination of PB harvests exists and recommend that induction chemotherapy be administered before hematopoietic progenitor cells are collected from blood. 
Complete spontaneous regression of multiple basal cell carcinomas in the basal cell nevus syndrome: the possible role of transepithelial elimination. A 36-year-old Latin American man with the basal cell nevus syndrome had multiple, soft, hairless, depressed scars of the face, scalp, neck, and back, ranging in size from 0.3 x 0.5 cm to 3.5 x 3.9 cm. These areas had never been treated and previously were sites of basal cell carcinomas that underwent complete spontaneous regression 4-5 years from the date of onset. Pathology of these spontaneously regressed sites was consistent with the criteria established by Curson and Weedon (1979). Type III transepithelial elimination was demonstrated for a basal cell carcinoma. Type III transepithelial elimination may play a role in the spontaneous regression of basal cell carcinomas. 
Management of symptomatic lymphocele via percutaneous drainage and sclerotherapy with tetracycline. Lymph collections following pelvic surgery are usually asymptomatic, but may occasionally produce symptoms requiring invasive therapy. We have successfully obliterated a large lymphocele by employing percutaneous drainage and instilling tetracycline. 
Nasopalatine duct cyst: an analysis of 334 cases. The nasopalatine duct cyst (NPDC) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla. However, the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports. The purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic, clinical, and histologic data on a large series of NPDCs, and to compare the findings with those of previous studies. In this study, the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years, and there was a slight male predilection. The mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm, but 75% of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter. Symptoms were present in at least 70% of the cases. Only 28% of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium. There was no correlation between radiographic size, patient's age, presenting symptoms, or type of epithelium. Recurrence was noted in only 2% of the cases. 
Intramedullary spinal cord germinoma: case report. A case of intramedullary spinal cord germinoma within the conus medullaris, with lumbago and pain in the lower extremities, is presented. The intramedullary spinal cord germinoma was determined by a biopsy specimen. After local irradiation of 50 Gy, the tumor markedly decreased in size and clinical symptoms disappeared. 
Feasibility of intraoperative cytodiagnosis of lung cancer. Of 354 thoracotomies, 114 cases involved intraoperative cytopathologic evaluation. The study included 86 men and 28 women, and 184 specimens were examined. Smears were taken from the lung lesion or lymph node and the chest wall or bronchial stump by imprint or needle aspiration. Intraoperative evaluations were compared with histologic findings. In 85 cases not diagnosed as malignant preoperatively, malignancy was confirmed in 97.6 percent of cases and histologic type in 71.8 percent. In the 28 cases diagnosed as malignant preoperatively, there was only one false-negative. The most important finding during thoracotomy is whether a lesion is malignant or not. The time required to obtain a pathologic diagnosis also is important. We are able to obtain the results of a cytologic diagnosis within 10 min. Cytologic diagnosis of malignancy during thoractomy may be a feasible and convenient method of diagnosis, especially where malignancy is suspected. 
Correlation of ultrasound guided and digitally directed transrectal biopsies of palpable prostatic abnormalities. The authors evaluated 51 patients with palpable prostatic abnormalities detected during digital rectal examination. These findings consisted of a nodule or an area of induration. Each palpable abnormality was confined to 1 prostatic lobe and there was no suggestion of extracapsular extension of neoplasm or systemic metastatic disease. All patients underwent 7.0 MHz. sagittal ultrasound guided transrectal biopsy followed by digitally directed transrectal biopsy. Biopsies were obtained only from the area of interest. The procedure was performed in the outpatient clinic without use of sedation or anesthesia. Digitally directed biopsies were positive for adenocarcinoma in 9 lesions. Ultrasound guided biopsies detected adenocarcinoma in 23 lesions, including all those detected by the blind digitally directed technique. This study demonstrates greater diagnostic accuracy using 7.0 MHz. ultrasound guided techniques and its routine use is warranted in the evaluation of palpable prostatic abnormalities. 
High cardiac output as a paraneoplastic syndrome. A high cardiac output (17 1 min-1) was recorded in a young man suffering from lymphoplasmatocytotic lymphoma. The evolution of the blood disease was characterized by two relapses, during which clinical signs of heart failure were prominent but resolved with efficient blood chemotherapy. The known aetiologies of high cardiac output were excluded. The complete normalization of the cardiac parameters with blood remission suggests that the high cardiac output represented an unusual paraneoplastic syndrome, the pathogenesis of which still remains unknown, although several hypotheses were tested. 
Stage A adenocarcinoma of the prostate: transrectal US and sonographic-pathologic correlation. Results of transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) of the prostate and pathologic examination of specimens obtained at transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) were compared in 29 patients with clinical stage A adenocarcinoma. Ten specimens contained no residual tumors larger than 5 mm in diameter; in the remaining 19 glands, 20 discrete cancers were found. At TRUS, 30 peripheral hypoechoic lesions were demonstrated, of which 11 corresponded to carcinoma at pathologic examination. Other hypoechoic peripheral zone lesions included a focal area of dilated acinar glands in 10 cases, post-TURP scarring with fingerlike projections of fibrosis in seven, dysplasia in one, and no correlation in one. Of nine tumors that were not detected prospectively at TRUS, eight were predominantly in the anterior zone and one was in the posterior peripheral zone but was isoechoic. Overall, the sensitivity of TRUS in the evaluation of clinical stage A lesions was 55% and the specificity was 37%. Clinical stage A carcinomas may be difficult to detect at US, and findings are often nonspecific. Any suspicious peripheral zone lesion should undergo biopsy with TRUS guidance before being diagnosed as malignant. 
CT and MR imaging in staging non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma: report of the Radiologic Diagnostic Oncology Group. The accuracies of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and computed tomography (CT) in determining tumor classification and assessing mediastinal node metastases were compared in a prospective cooperative study of 170 patients with non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma. The sensitivity of CT in distinguishing T3-T4 tumors from T0-T2 tumors was 63%; specificity was 84%. These values for MR imaging were not significantly different (56% and 80%). With receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, no difference existed between the accuracies of CT and MR imaging in diagnosis of bronchial involvement or chest wall invasion, but MR imaging was significantly more accurate than CT (P = .047) in diagnosis of mediastinal invasion. Lymph node sampling was performed in 155 patients (642 node stations). Cancerous nodes were found in 14% of stations in 21% of patients. There was no significant difference between the accuracies of CT and MR imaging in detecting mediastinal node metastases (N2 or N3); the sensitivities were 52% and 48%, respectively, and specificities were 69% and 64%. ROC analysis also showed no difference between CT and MR imaging. 
The role of resection in the management of melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland. Melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland diagnosed before death was exceedingly rare before the development of computed tomographic (CT) scanning. The records of 28 patients with melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland seen since 1975 were reviewed. Eighteen patients were men and 10 were women. Twenty-three patients had unilateral disease. Four patients were diagnosed only at autopsy, leaving 24 for analysis of treatment and survival. Twenty-one patients had received specific active immunotherapy, four had received chemotherapy (dacarbazine, lomustin, bleomycin, and vincristine), and three had received both before the diagnosis of their adrenal disease. Adrenal metastases were diagnosed by CT scanning in 14 patients with symptoms, 10 (91%) of whom had pain. Ten patients were diagnosed by CT before entry into a chemotherapy protocol. Of eight patients who underwent resection of all known disease, five underwent unilateral adrenalectomy, two underwent unilateral adrenalectomy and bowel resection, and one underwent bilateral adrenalectomy. Two patients underwent partial resection of large unilateral tumors. Fourteen patients with adrenal metastases and disease elsewhere were initiated or continued with chemotherapy or were treated symptomatically. Mean survival in the group that underwent resection for cure was 59 months (3 to 112 months), whereas survival in the group with unresectable tumors was 15 months (1.5 to 132 months). Four of eight patients who underwent resection for cure lived more than 5 years after detection of adrenal metastasis, whereas in only one of 14 patients with unresectable tumors was the same true. Patients with metastatic melanoma localized to one or both adrenal glands may benefit from early detection and surgical intervention. 
Large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ) compared to carbon dioxide laser in the treatment of CIN: a superior mode of treatment. A series of 199 patients with histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade II or III were allocated by hospital number to receive out-patient treatment by carbon dioxide laser vaporization or large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ). All patients received local anaesthesia. The women in the LLETZ group experienced less post operative haemorrhage, less discomfort, operative time was greatly reduced, and histological material was available for confirmation of the diagnosis. There was no significant difference in recurrence of CIN after treatment between the two groups. At 6 month follow-up, recurrence rates of 8.2% (CIN II) and 7.5% (CIN III) were observed in the laser-group and 5% (CIN II) and 5.3% (CIN III) in the LLETZ group. Further advantages of LLETZ are reduced capital expenditure and no hazard to the eyesight of the surgeon, but laser treatment is preferable in patients with widespread vaginal involvement. 
Intraoperative decision making during thyroid surgery based on the results of preoperative needle biopsy and frozen section. Prognostic factors in well-differentiated thyroid cancer are age of the patient and grade, size, distant metastasis, and extracapsular spread of the disease. However, the surgeon is often not sure about the pathologic diagnosis of thyroid nodules. The accuracy of preoperative studies, such as ultrasonography and thyroid scanning, is limited. The most cost-effective test is fine-needle aspiration, the accuracy of which exceeds 80% in most series. However, a large group of nodules exist for which aspiration cytologic studies are considered to be either suspicious or indeterminate. The decision about the extent of thyroidectomy may be difficult in these patients. Intraoperative frozen section may help the surgeon to distinguish benign from malignant lesions, but as in fine-needle aspiration, the major problem is the distinction between follicular adenoma and follicular carcinoma. The frozen section diagnosis of follicular adenoma was changed to follicular carcinoma in one third of the cases (13 of 38 cases). The decision about the extent of thyroidectomy in patients with follicular adenomas was based on other prognostic factors, such as age and sex of the patient and the size of the nodule. The accuracy of frozen section diagnosis was 95%. Our experience suggests that decisions regarding the extent of thyroidectomy can best be made by preoperative fine-needle aspiration with confirmation by frozen section diagnosis in equivocal cases. 
Germ line p53 mutations in a familial syndrome of breast cancer, sarcomas, and other neoplasms Familial cancer syndromes have helped to define the role of tumor suppressor genes in the development of cancer. The dominantly inherited Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS) is of particular interest because of the diversity of childhood and adult tumors that occur in affected individuals. The rarity and high mortality of LFS precluded formal linkage analysis. The alternative approach was to select the most plausible candidate gene. The tumor suppressor gene, p53, was studied because of previous indications that this gene is inactivated in the sporadic (nonfamilial) forms of most cancers that are associated with LFS. Germ line p53 mutations have been detected in all five LFS families analyzed. These mutations do not produce amounts of mutant p53 protein expected to exert a trans-dominant loss of function effect on wild-type p53 protein. The frequency of germ line p53 mutations can now be examined in additional families with LFS, and in other cancer patients and families with clinical features that might be attributed to the mutation. 
Embryonal carcinoma of the testis presenting as a left heart mass. A 31-year-old man with a history of intravenous drug abuse and tooth abscess was admitted for evaluation of possible infective endocarditis. Echocardiography showed that he had a left atrial mass. The mass removed from the left atrium had the same histology as the primary embryonal carcinoma discovered in the right testicle during hospitalization. The patient made a smooth recovery after surgical intervention and chemotherapy. This is believed to be the first reported case of metastasis from embryonal carcinoma of the testis to the left side of the heart that was successfully removed at surgery. 
HBV-DNA sequences in tumor and nontumor tissue in a patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma. One patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma was found to be seropositive for HBsAg and anti-HBe. DNA from tumor and nontumor areas of the liver was examined by molecular hybridization for hepatitis B virus DNA sequences. Undigested DNA from the tumor gave a high-molecular-weight smear, and restriction-enzyme analysis indicated a single instance of integration. Nontumor liver tissue was analyzed from three separate areas. Hepatitis B virus DNA was detected in two of these; restriction-enzyme digestion suggested they contained different sites of viral integration. As with the typical hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma, analysis of hepatitis B virus DNA from nontumorous liver yielded a different pattern of high-molecular-weight bands, indicating that the virus genome had integrated at different chromosomal locations than that seen in the tumor. The finding of integrated hepatitis B virus DNA, especially in tumorous but also in nontumorous liver, would be consistent with an oncogenic role for hepatitis B virus in certain instances of fibrolamellar tumors and in the more typical hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma. 
The survivors of childhood solid tumors. With the improvement in cancer therapy in recent years, the number of cancer survivors is rapidly increasing. Potential late medical and psychosocial sequelae of cancer therapy are reviewed. A practical guide for the primary health care giver is provided. 
Critical analysis of neoadjuvant therapy for Stage IIIa non-small cell lung cancer [corrected] [published erratum appears in Am Rev Respir Dis 1991 Jun;143(6):1473] Lung cancer is the major cause of cancer mortality. Locally advanced (Stage III) disease constitutes 30 to 40% of the entire group of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Surgical resection offers the best opportunity for cure, but resection of disease is possible in only a minority of patients with Stage IIIa disease. Even among patients who have "successful" surgery systemic relapse is common, and the 5-yr survival after complete resection is only 30%. Preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy is under investigation in an attempt to improve the bleak outcome of patients with Stage IIIa NSCLC. Preliminary trials have shown that this approach is feasible: neoadjuvant treatment can be administered with moderate toxicity and in most cases without compromising the possibility for surgical resection. In some instances, neoadjuvant treatment has produced pathologic complete responses, and in others it has decreased tumor bulk so that inoperable patients became surgical candidates. Whether this latter phenomenon has an impact on survival is unknown. Therefore, the role of neoadjuvant treatment for locally advanced lung cancer will not be known until properly designed randomized trials are conducted. 
CA72-4: a new tumour marker for gastric cancer. To date, tumour markers for gastric cancer have proved unreliable. In this study the value of a new serum marker, CA72-4, was compared with the serum activities of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA19-9 in a consecutive series of patients with gastric cancer. The results show that the CA72-4 assay is significantly better at separating stage I and II disease from normal controls (P less than 0.01) than CEA (n.s.) or CA19-9 (n.s.). CA72-4 also gave better differentiation between patients with positive and negative nodes (P less than 0.01) and between those who were serosa positive and negative (P less than 0.01). CEA differentiated between patients with positive and negative nodes (P less than 0.05) but CA19-9 could not. CA19-9 and CEA could not discriminate between patients who were serosa positive and negative. In this study, at a specificity of 95 per cent, the sensitivities of CEA, CA19-9 and CA72-4 were 0.25, 0.41 and 0.94 respectively. These preliminary findings indicate that CA72-4 is a reliable tumour marker of disease stage and activity in gastric cancer. Further longitudinal studies are required for full evaluation of its clinical utility. 
Survival with regional and distant metastases from cutaneous malignant melanoma. The clinical course of 312 consecutive patients after initial presentation with metastatic melanoma, 165 of whom presented with regional metastases at cutaneous or subcutaneous, or both, nodal sites and 147 with metastases at distant sites, was reviewed. The five year survival rate for regional metastases was 43.4 per cent compared with a five year survival rate for distant metastases of 4.9 per cent (p less than 0.0001). Favorable prognostic variables for survival from first regional metastases included primary melanoma sites on the extremities compared with the head, neck and trunk (p = 0.043) and a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to regional metastases (p = 0.0058). Favorable prognostic variables for survival from the first distant metastasis included a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to distant metastases (p = 0.0092), the type of resection of metastatic disease (p = 0.00027) and the addition of systemic immunotherapy (p = 0.0011). Forty-nine patients with totally resectable distant metastases had a five year survival rate from the treatment of the initial metastasis of 13.1 per cent, whereas 33 patients having palliative resections had a five year survival rate of 7.5 per cent. All 165 patients who did not have resection for distant metastases died within five years. The results of our experience support therapeutic efforts to ablate both regional and distant metastases of malignant melanoma when feasible. 
Amplification by the polymerase chain reaction of hypervariable regions of the human genome for evaluation of chimerism after bone marrow transplantation. We combined the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with oligonucleotide hybridization as a novel and sensitive technique to evaluate posttransplant chimerism. Specific oligonucleotides for hybridization were synthesized homologous to tandemly repetitive core sequences of regions with a variable number of tandem repeats (VNTRs). Polymorphisms at such loci result from allelic differences in the number of repeats. Primers flanking the repeat region of each of the corresponding VNTRs were used for amplification. Recipient and donor pretransplant DNA and recipient posttransplant DNA were amplified. The resultant fragments were analyzed after gel electrophoresis either by hybridization in-gel or after Southern transfer. To confirm our findings, we also performed standard assays of restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs). Evaluation of 13 selected cases indicated mixed chimerism (4), complete chimerism (5), recurrence of leukemia (2), and endogenous repopulation of hematopoiesis (2) after marrow transplantation. Sensitivity of the method was determined by mixing various proportions of recipient and donor DNA; the limit of detection of the minor component in a mixture was 0.1%. PCR data correlated with RFLP data in all cases except two in which PCR proved more sensitive than RFLP. PCR amplification of VNTRs combined with oligonucleotide hybridization is a novel technique for documenting posttransplant chimerism and has advantages over RFLP analysis: high sensitivity, use of small amounts of DNA (250 ng), ease of preparation of DNA, elimination of need for restriction enzymes, and the ability to complete studies in 2 days. 
Sixty consecutive breast reconstructions with the inflatable expander: a critical appraisal. Breast reconstruction using inflatable expanders has become an established and preferred technique. Although our knowledge of the biomechanical changes occurring in expanded skin has increased greatly, little information is available regarding average aesthetic results achieved with this technique. In order to eliminate the bias of best case selection reports, this study of 60 consecutive patients undergoing skin-expansion breast reconstruction was undertaken. Results of the study demonstrated a significant frequency and diversity of complications. In particular, immediate breast reconstruction with skin expanders was identified as a high-risk procedure because of its association with skin necrosis and delayed wound healing. Although two procedures--insertion and replacement--had been anticipated, patients from both the Boston and New York groups required approximately three operations to complete the expansion process. Average aesthetic results, often characterized by problems of symmetry, ptosis, and contour, need to be recognized and improved. 
Chemotherapy of brain metastases from lung carcinoma: a controlled randomized study. A controlled randomized study was carried out to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma. One hundred patients were randomly divided into three groups at the time of diagnosis or after surgery for metastases. Group A received radiotherapy alone; Group B received radiotherapy and chloroethylnitrosoureas (methyl-CCNU, 100-120 mg/m2, or ACNU 80-100 mg/m2, every 6-8 weeks), and Group C received radiotherapy and a combination of chloroethylnitrosoureas and tegafur (300 mg/m2, daily). Of the 100 patients, 88 could be evaluated. The reduction rates of the tumors of the patients in whom tumor was not surgically removed or not totally removed were compared. Complete resolution of the tumor was noted in 29, 69, and 63% of the patients in Groups A, B, and C, respectively. Tumor regression of greater than or equal to 50% was seen in 36, 69, and 74% of the patients in Groups A, B, and C, respectively. The difference in the response rates of Groups A and C was statistically significant (P less than 0.05). Median survival after the start of treatment for brain metastasis was 27, 30.5, and 29 weeks in Groups A, B and C, respectively. There was 1 long-term survivor (more than 5 years) in Group A, 3 in Group B, and 1 in Group C. The main cause of death was deterioration attributable to the primary lesion or systemic metastasis, and no statistical difference was noted in survival time among the groups. 
Strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter We have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter. There were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter (group A), 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter (group B), and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter (group C). The incidence of N0, N1, and N2 disease was 100%, 0%, and 0%, respectively, for patients in group A; 83%, 5%, and 12% in group B; and 62%, 12%, and 25% in group C (N0 versus N2, p less than 0.01). For the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement, "skipping" metastasis was present in 28.6%. The 5-year survival rate was 80% for group A, 74% for group B, and 51% for group C (group B versus group C, p less than 0.01). Of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years, 41% had recurrence, 8% with local recurrence and 33% with distant metastasis. Therefore, it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy. Efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation, even when the lung tumor is small. 
Spinal glioblastomas: report of seven cases and review of the literature. Intramedullary glioblastomas are uncommon tumors. They occur chiefly in the cervicothoracic segments, have a slight tendency to occur in the early decades of life, and have a short clinical history before diagnosis. We report seven cases and discuss the salient features of these tumors, particularly the pathological features and treatment, in light of the relevant literature. 
Minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in the wall of a congenital lung cyst. A case of minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in a congenital lung cyst is reported. Two aspects of this case were notable. First, we were able to make the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma by bronchial lavage at an early stage. Second, to our knowledge, this is the first case of probable de novo origin of squamous cell carcinoma in a congenital lung cyst. 
Leiomyosarcoma of the sinonasal tract. A clinicopathologic study of nine cases. The clinicopathologic features of nine cases of sinonasal tract leiomyosarcoma (SNTL) referred to the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC, during the period from 1970 through 1988 are described. This report represents the largest study to date on SNTL, and our results are compared with the 21 previously reported cases of SNTL. Of the nine cases described, patients ranged in age from 22 to 86 years (mean, 55 years). The most frequent clinical presentation was nasal obstruction unilaterally. The neoplasms were limited solely to the nasal cavity in four cases (44%) and involved both the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses in the remaining five cases. Light microscopic, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural features served to characterize these tumors as malignant neoplasms of smooth-muscle origin. In contrast with previous studies, immunocytochemistry was employed to differentiate SNTL from other spindle cell malignancies of the region, using newly available monoclonal antibodies to smooth-muscle antigens. Treatment was surgical. Radiotherapy or chemotherapy did not appear to affect the progression of the disease. Furthermore, no relationship was found between the aggressiveness of SNTL and morphologic parameters (eg, mitotic count and tumor size). Instead, prognosis was dependent on the distribution of disease at presentation. Of all 30 patients with SNTL described to date, 10 had the neoplasm confined solely to the nasal cavity. The 10 neoplasms did not recur. We conclude that SNTL may best be regarded as a locally aggressive neoplasm with only limited metastatic potential and that it could be curable by complete surgical excision. 
Laser therapy for vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia after hysterectomy. In recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of reported cases of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) after hysterectomy. Until about 10 years ago radiation or surgery had been the therapeutic modality mostly used for this disease. More recently, topical drugs, such as bleomycin and 5-fluorouracil cream, have been used, but they are often ineffective and poorly tolerated. For the last 14 years we have used the CO2 laser for the treatment of VAIN and have treated a total of 143 patients. Our use of a combination of wire sutures through the vaginal mucosa and the introduction of fluids into the underlying submucosal areas allows retraction and ballooning of the recesses and scars and permits us to place the vaginal mucosa at right angles to the laser beam to allow complete treatment. 
Accelerated fractionation for high-grade cerebral astrocytomas. Preliminary treatment results. A Phase I/II accelerated fractionation study for high-grade cerebral astrocytomas began in October 1987. Forty-two patients, 25 men and 17 women, were entered in the study. Median age was 58.5 years of age (range, 32 to 78 years). Performance status was 0, 1, 2, and 3 on Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scale for 13, 19, 9, and 1 patients, respectively. Thirty-six patients had undergone partial resection, and six had stereotactic biopsy only. All patients had histologically proven astrocytomas (6 Grade 3, and 36 Grade 4). Treatment consisted of radiation therapy doses of 4400 cGy in 22 daily fractions to the whole brain plus a boost of 1600 cGy in 8 fractions given concomitantly with the last 8 whole-brain treatments using a twice daily schedule with an interfraction interval of 8 hours. Median survival time was 57 weeks from the date of starting irradiation. Survival was 50% and 28% at 1 and 2 years, respectively. Alopecia and scalp erythema were seen in all patients; nine patients had localized areas of moist desquamation in the retroauricular region. Decreased hearing and serous otitis media were seen in five patients within 1 to 2 months from the end of treatment. Increasing somnolence was marked in eight patients with progressive deterioration of performance status; computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan studies in all eight patients showed evidence of disease recurrence with associated brain edema and mass effect. Three patients had a second resection for a recurrent tumor with no evidence of brain necrosis at craniotomy. To date, the accelerated fractionation schedule appears to be well tolerated with valuable shortening of overall treatment time. The preliminary results are encouraging, and longer follow-up time is required to evaluate tumor control and toxicity. 
src expression in small-cell lung carcinoma and other neuroendocrine malignancies. The proto-oncogene c-src codes for two tyrosine kinases, pp60c-src and pp60c-srcN. The latter protein appears to be exclusively expressed in neurons and neuronally differentiated tumors. In cell lines derived from neuroblastoma and small-cell lung carcinoma, src expression correlates positively with neuroendocrine differentiation. However, pp60c-srcN is expressed only in highly differentiated neuroblastomas. Although c-src expression in neuroendocrine tumors probably reflects and is the result of the differentiation stage at which the tumors have been arrested, high c-src expression and kinase activities in non-neuroectodermal tumors, e.g., colon carcinoma, breast carcinoma, might instead be a part of the malignant phenotype and contribute to the development of these tumors. 
Quantitation of G0 and G1 phase cells in primary carcinomas. Antibody to M1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase shows G1 phase restriction point block. Human cancers have an apparent low growth fraction, the bulk of cells presumed to being out of cycle in a G0 quiescent state due to the inability in the past to distinguish G0 from G1 cells. The allosteric M1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase (M1-RR) is constitutively expressed by cycling cells (i.e., G1, S, G2-M). It is acquired during transition from G0 to G1, lost during exit to G0 and thus distinguishes G0 from G1 cells. To estimate the proportion of G0 and G1 cells in primary human breast (n = 5) and colorectal (n = 12) adenocarcinomas, we used both analytical DNA flow cytometry (ADFC) and immunoperoxidase staining of sections with the monoclonal antibody to M1-RR (MAb M1-RR). ADFC of fresh tumors revealed a low percentage of cells in the S phase (4.0 +/- 3.4%) but immunoperoxidase staining for M1-RR revealed an unexpectedly high proportion of positive cells (52.4 +/- 12.7%) in the G1, S, G2-M phases indicating a high G1 content of primary human tumors. Thus, human cancers are blocked in transition in G1 and are not predominantly in a G0 or quiescent differentiated state. This block was interpreted to mean that human cancers are responding to putative regulatory events at a restriction point in the G1 phase, such as relative growth factor deficiency, density inhibition, antiproliferative cytokines, or gene products. Using flow cytometry for both DNA and M1-RR content we found that human colon cancer cell lines arrest in the G1 but not G0 phase upon serum deprivation or density inhibition. Similarly, human breast cancer cell lines are arrested in G1 but not G0 phase by medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) or tamoxifen exposure. These findings match our in situ observations, and support the concept of a restriction point block in primary human tumors. 
Long-term survival after chest-wall reconstruction with musculocutaneous flaps. Reconstruction of chest-wall defects with musculocutaneous flaps permits resection of advanced chest-wall tumors and of tissues severely damaged by radiotherapy in patients who in a previous era were not surgically treatable. To determine the long-term outcome from this surgery, the records of 96 patients who had undergone chest-wall resection with musculocutaneous flap reconstruction were reviewed. Median survival for the entire group was 20.5 months, but a more accurate prediction of outcome could be obtained by dividing the patients into three groups. In group I, patients free of known malignancy and undergoing resection of radionecrotic tissues, median survival was 60.0 months. In group II, patients with resectable disease and free of tumor following surgery, median survival was 31.1 months. In group III, patients incompletely resected or known to have metastatic disease following surgery, median survival was only 12.5 months. Even in group III, however, some individuals achieved prolonged survival and lasting benefits from the surgery, so these data should not be used to exclude patients from undergoing necessary palliative procedures. 
Bilateral breast cancer. A second primary breast cancer in the opposite breast can be either synchronous or metachronous. The majority are metachronous. A woman who has had breast cancer has a fivefold increase in risk for a second breast cancer. Additional risk factors include multifocal cancer, lobular carcinoma in situ, and an original cancer at an early age with long survival. Lobular carcinoma in situ is predominantly a marker for the subsequent development of a second primary breast cancer. The incidence of synchronous bilateral cancer is approximately 1% to 2% and that of metachronous cancer 5% to 6%. The cancer can be invasive or noninvasive. Mammography has increased the number of synchronous cancers found but not the overall incidence. The incidence of invasive cancer detected by random biopsy of the opposite breast is not high enough to justify routine adoption of this procedure. The remaining breast must be followed for the remainder of the patient's life by physical examination and annual mammography. The treatment of the secondary primary breast cancer should be that appropriate for the stage of the disease. The prognosis for the woman with a second primary breast cancer is quite favorable and is dependent on the stage of both the first and the second cancer. 
The presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) in solitary adult laryngeal papillomas demonstrated by in-situ DNA hybridization with sulphonated probes. Human papilloma virus (HPV) types 6 and 11 have been repeatedly demonstrated in multiple laryngeal papillomas, and there is little doubt that these lesions are caused by HPV. It has been clearly demonstrated in recent reports that the clinical course of solitary adult onset laryngeal papillomas is entirely different from that of multiple papillomas of juvenile as well as of adult onset. We here report the presence of HPV types 6 and 11 in 19 out of 20 solitary papillomas from 16 patients, while HPV types 16 and 18 were totally absent. We conclude that the milder clinical course in such patients is most likely to be due to host factors, rather than to viral factors. 
Hyperthermia alone in the treatment of recurrences of malignant tumors. Experience with 60 lesions. Localized hyperthermia alone has been used for the treatment of cancer recurrences in which previous conventional therapies have failed. Since 1983 and 1988, 57 patients with 60 lesions have been heated by means of a microwave and radiofrequency system. Treatment protocol provided 45 minutes of heating at the intratumor temperature of at least 42 degrees C, twice a week, for a total number of six, eight, or ten heating sessions. Invasive intratumor thermometry was performed for all lesions. Complete response (CR) was obtained in ten cases (16.6%) and partial response (PR) in 14 (23.4%). Higher rates of CR were observed in the chest wall (38.5%) compared with the head and neck area (11.4%), trunk (10%), and limbs (none). Adenocarcinoma was the most responsive histologic type (40%). Squamous cells carcinoma had 7.7% CR. The only case of undifferentiated carcinoma showed CR; there were none on five sarcomas. Long-term local control (24 months) was approximately 7%. The multivariate analysis showed the statistical significance of the histologic variety (adenocarcinoma versus others, P less than 0.0001). Side effects and complications of the treatment were minimal. 
Incorporation of 12-methoxydodecanoate into the human immunodeficiency virus 1 gag polyprotein precursor inhibits its proteolytic processing and virus production in a chronically infected human lymphoid cell line. Covalent linkage of myristate (tetradecanoate; 14:0) to the NH2-terminal glycine residue of the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) 55-kDa gag polyprotein precursor (Pr55gag) is necessary for its proteolytic processing and viral assembly. We have shown recently that several analogs of myristate in which a methylene group is replaced by a single oxygen or sulfur atom are substrates for Saccharomyces cerevisiae and mammalian myristoyl-CoA:protein N-myristoyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.97; NMT) despite their reduced hydrophobicity. Some inhibit HIV-1 replication in acutely infected CD4+H9 cells without accompanying cellular toxicity. To examine the mechanism of their antiviral effects, we performed labeling studies with two analogs, 12-methoxydodecanoate (13-oxamyristate; 13-OxaMyr) and 5-octyloxypentanoate (6-oxamyristate; 6-OxaMyr), the former being much more effective than the latter in blocking virus production. [3H]Myristate and [3H]13-OxaMyr were incorporated into Pr55gag with comparable efficiency when it was coexpressed with S. cerevisiae NMT in Escherichia coli. [3H]6-OxaMyr was not incorporated, even though its substrate properties in vitro were similar to those of 13-OxaMyr and myristate. [3H]13-OxaMyr, but not [3H]6-OxaMyr, was also efficiently incorporated into HIV-1 Pr55gag and nef (negative factor) in chronically infected H9 cells. Analog incorporation produced a redistribution of Pr55gag from membrane to cytosolic fractions and markedly decreased its proteolytic processing by viral protease. 13-OxaMyr and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) act synergistically to reduce virus production in acutely infected H9 cells. Unlike AZT, the analog is able to inhibit virus production (up to 70%) in chronically infected H9 cells. Moreover, the inhibitory effect lasts 6-8 days. These results suggest that (i) its mechanism of action is distinct from that of AZT and involves a late step in virus assembly; (ii) the analog may allow reduction in the dose of AZT required to affect viral replication; and (iii) combinations of analog and HIV-1 protease inhibitors may have synergistic effects on the processing of Pr55gag. 
Doppler ultrasonography of malignant melanomas of the uvea. Doppler shifts were detected using duplex and color Doppler scanning in 41 of 42 patients with malignant melanomas of the uvea. Mean maximum tumor systolic velocity was 18.8 +/- 7.6 cm/s. Time-averaged maximum velocity in the tumor vessels was 12.3 +/- 5.3 cm/s. Maximum tumor velocity increased in four of eight tumors and was unchanged or had diminished in the other four 2 to 3 days after ruthenium plaque irradiation. Doppler shifts were undetectable in three tumors, markedly reduced in three tumors, and unchanged in one tumor 1 to 4 months after treatment. We detected minimal non-pulse-synchronized Doppler shifts in one of three tumors, and no shifts in the remaining two tumors 1 1/2 to 4 years after therapy. Color duplex scanning allowed a rapid overview of tumor vasculature and facilitated study of individual vessels. 
Use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly In Africa, hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly (HMS), which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome, can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The observation that some patients with HMS become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that HMS may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder. To test this hypothesis, 22 Ghanaian patients with HMS and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria, and DNA was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the Jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a DNA probe. Clonal rearrangements of the Jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response, in none of 13 patients with sustained response, and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy. The detection of such rearrangements, and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between HMS and CLL, supports the hypothesis that HMS may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder. 
The influence of autologous lymphokine-activated killer cell infusions on the toxicity and antitumor effect of repetitive cycles of interleukin-2. Twenty patients with refractory malignancies were treated with a protocol evaluating the addition of ex vivo-activated autologous lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells to a clinically tolerable interleukin-2 (IL-2) regimen (four weekly cycles of human recombinant IL-2 at 3 x 10(6) U/m2/day by continuous infusion for 4 days/week). Sixteen patients completed their induction month of therapy, two had a partial response, six had stable disease, and eight had progressive disease. Four patients had clinical toxicity preventing completion of the induction month of therapy, and one of these patients died during therapy. Significant clinical toxicities included decreased performance status, weight gain, catheter-related thromboses, infectious complications, fever, hypotension, and dyspnea or hypoxemia requiring oxygen. Thus, the addition of LAK cell infusions to this IL-2 regimen did not cause a noticeable change in antitumor response rate but did not cause more severe toxicity. 
Ocular melanoma in families with dysplastic nevus syndrome. Five families with the dysplastic nevus syndrome, in each of which one member had ocular melanoma, are reported. These five families were examined within a 3-year period in one medical center. To date only five other families with such a combination have been reported. We suggest a causal relation between ocular melanoma and the familial dysplastic nevus syndrome. 
Chromogranin A storage and secretion: sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. Chromogranin A, co-stored and co-released with catecholamines from adrenal medullary and sympathetic neuronal vesicles, is elevated in the plasma of patients with pheochromocytoma. The usefulness of the hormone in the differential diagnosis of hypertension is examined. An elevated level of chromogranin A had comparable diagnostic sensitivity (83%, 24/29) to, but greater diagnostic specificity (96%, 86/90) than the level of plasma catecholamines when subjects with pheochromocytoma (n = 29) were evaluated in comparison to several reference groups, including normotensive controls (n = 49), subjects with essential hypertension (n = 28), subjects with renovascular hypertension (n = 5), and subjects with primary aldosteronism (n = 3). Subjects with signs or symptoms suggesting pheochromocytoma, but in whom the diagnosis was ultimately ruled out (n = 5) had normal plasma levels of chromogranin A. A modest rise in chromogranin A in those with essential hypertension, and correlation of chromogranin A with diastolic blood pressure in normotensive patients and patients with essential hypertension did not impair the diagnostic usefulness of chromogranin A for pheochromocytoma. Renal failure was associated with an elevated plasma chromogranin A independently of blood pressure. Plasma chromogranin A correlated with tumor mass, tumor chromogranin A content, tumor norepinephrine content, and urinary vanillylmandelic acid excretion; it did not correlate with plasma or urinary catecholamines, nor with blood pressure in patients with pheochromocytoma. Plasma chromogranin A levels did not differ in subjects with pheochromocytoma when stratified by age, sex, tumor location, or tumor pathology. Several drugs used in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma (clonidine, metoprolol, phentolamine, and tyramine) had little effect on plasma chromogranin A concentration. Within the pheochromocytoma, chromogranin A was localized along with catecholamines to the soluble core of chromaffin granules, where it accounted for 18 +/- 5% of vesicle soluble protein. We conclude that 1) chromogranin A emerges along with catecholamines from pheochromocytoma chromaffin granules; 2) plasma chromogranin A is a sensitive and specific diagnostic tool in evaluation of actual or suspected pheochromocytoma; 3) plasma chromogranin A predicts pheochromocytoma tumor size and overall catecholamine production; and 4) drugs commonly employed in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma have little effect on plasma chromogranin A level, preserving the usefulness of chromogranin A in evaluating pheochromocytoma. Thus, measurement of chromogranin A provides a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. 
Antigen-induced cross-linking of the IgE receptor leads to an association with the detergent-insoluble membrane skeleton of rat basophilic leukemia (RBL-2H3) cells. Cross-linking of the IgE receptor on the surface of rat basophilic leukemia cells by multivalent Ag (DNP-BSA) causes a rapid conversion to a detergent-insoluble form. There is a concurrent increase in the amount of filamentous actin associated with the plasma membrane. Both the degree of receptor detergent insolubility and the rise in F-actin content are rapid with a half-maximal response of less than 1 min and can be rapidly reversed by the addition of monovalent Ag (DNP-lysine). These two early steps in the triggering of rat basophilic leukemia cells can be dissociated from each other by pretreatment of the cells with either cytochalasin or sodium azide. These reagents block the increase in F-actin but have no effect on receptor detergent insolubility. This indicates that microfilaments are not responsible for detergent insolubility of the receptor and that it may be the membrane skeleton that is interacting with the complex. This was further confirmed by the finding that cross-linking of the IgE receptors on the surface of purified plasma membranes also leads to detergent insolubility of the receptor. Therefore, all of the components necessary for detergent insolubility of the receptor are present in the plasma membrane, and cytoplasmic components are not needed. These results suggest that detergent insolubility and immobility of the cross-linked receptors are caused by multivalent interaction with the membrane skeleton. Actin filaments may then interact with these receptor-membrane skeletal complexes in order to produce large scale clustering and capping. The membrane skeleton may therefore be acting as an intermediate structure between the cell-surface receptors and microfilaments. 
Dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors occurs in the absence of DNA and is related to the release of the 90-kDa heat shock protein. In this study we have demonstrated that dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors (PR) occurs in the absence of DNA. A specific immune coisolation assay was performed on extracts of T-47D human breast cancer cells with a monoclonal antibody specific for the full-length B form of progesterone receptor (PR-B). This resulted in coisolation of significant amounts of truncated form-A receptors (PR-A), indicating the presence of stable PR-A.PR-B dimers in solution. A positive correlation was observed between the ability of different receptor forms to oligomerize in solution and their ability to bind to specific DNA sequences. The ability to form stable PR-A.PR-B oligomers in the absence of DNA was also found to correlate with release of 90-kDa heat shock protein (hsp90) from the unactivated PR complex. These results support the hypothesis that dimerization in the absence of DNA is an important mechanism controlling receptor DNA-binding function and that hsp90 release may be a key step regulating dimerization. This suggests that hsp90 may function to repress DNA-binding activity indirectly by blocking receptor dimerization. 
Transurethral-resection zone prostate cancer detected at cystoprostatectomy. A detailed histologic analysis and clinical implications. The authors identified incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate in serial cross-sections of prostates from 61 of 100 patients having cystoprostatectomy for bladder cancer. In 20 patients, cancer foci were in the prostatic region accessible to transurethral resection (TUR). Eight of these 20 patients had stage A1 disease (less than or equal to 3 foci); in six of these patients all foci were located at or within the transition-zone boundary only. Twelve patients had stage A2 disease (greater than 3 foci); in none were more than three foci at or within the transition-zone boundary. Among the 20 patients, 84 tumor foci were distributed as follows: 62% in the peripheral zone, 10% in the transition zone, 3% in the central zone, and 25% in the transition zone boundary. The authors' data suggest that Stage A prostate cancer, like larger clinically detectable cancers, is multifocal, multizonal, and similarly distributed with respect to the urethra. No case of Stage A1 disease would have been reclassified as Stage A2 by repeat TUR of the entire transition zone and transition zone boundary. The authors' results confirm those of previous studies that report a high incidence of residual carcinoma in regions not accessible to TUR in patients with presumptive Stage A1 disease and suggest that ultrasonography and ultrasonographically guided biopsies, rather than repeat TUR, may more accurately define the extent of Stage A disease in some patients. 
Phase I clinical trial with floxuridine and high-dose continuous infusion of leucovorin calcium. Sixty-two patients with metastatic disease were treated with continuous infusion folinic acid (leucovorin calcium; Lv) and 2-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (floxuridine; FUDR). Lv was given by constant intravenous (IV) infusion at 500 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 6, while FUDR was given by IV push, days 2 to 6, at 3:00 PM daily with doses ranging from 294 to 1,214 mg/m2/d. This program was well tolerated with dose-limiting toxicities of diarrhea and stomatitis, while hematologic toxicity was minimal. Eighty-two percent of the assessable patients (46 of 56) had failed at least one chemotherapy regimen. One complete remission lasting 9 months and 10 partial remissions ranging from 5 to 10 months were observed in this heavily pretreated patient population for an overall response rate of 20%. These data suggest that the combination therapy with Lv and FUDR may have clinical use. Because of differing patient sensitivity to this drug combination, the recommended dose of FUDR for the initial therapy cycle is 500 mg/m2/d, days 2 to 6, with subsequent escalation to 900 mg/m2/d in those patients without extreme sensitivity. Phase II studies are now in progress with these doses. 
Osteoma of the middle ear. Report of a case. Osteomas of the middle ear are rare. We report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence, combined with congenital cholesteatoma. The osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy. The long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared. The body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella. Histopathologically, the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma. The possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested. 
A downstream initiation element required for efficient TATA box binding and in vitro function of TFIID. The gfa gene encodes glial fibrillary acidic protein, an intermediate filament protein expressed in glial cells. In vitro transcription analysis has shown that the human gfa promoter contains two initiation elements that can independently specify the transcription startpoint. One of the elements is a TATA box 25 base pairs (bp) upstream from the transcription startpoint; the other is located between 10 and 50 bp downstream from the transcription initiation site. We have now shown by transfection that both elements are required for efficient transcription in cultured cells. A partially purified natural human TATA box-binding factor (TFIID) from HeLa cells gave footprints that extended from upstream of the TATA box through the downstream initiator. Deletion of the downstream initiator inhibited both TFIID binding to the TATA box and transcription in vitro. In contrast to natural human TFIID, clone human and yeast TFIIDs expressed in bacteria gave footprints covering only the TATA box region, although hypersensitive sites were observed in the downstream region. The cloned TFIIDs also showed less dependence than natural human TFIID on the downstream initiator for both TATA box binding and in vitro transcription. These results suggest that natural human TFIID contains an additional component(s) that contribute(s) to stable TFIID binding and effective transcription by interacting with the downstream initiator. 
A dose-intensive regimen of 5-fluorouracil for the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) was delivered in a dose-intensive schedule to 23 patients with metastatic or unresectable colorectal carcinoma. The schedule consisted of bolus single-dose 5-FU therapy 400 to 500 mg followed by 4-day infusion of 5-FU, 600 to 800 mg/m2/day, followed by a 17-day to 24-day infusion of 200 to 250 mg/m2/day. Partial remissions were seen in 22% of all eligible patients. Significant toxicity, including mucositis, diarrhea, and hand-foot syndrome, necessitated dose reductions in most patients. The authors conclude that 5-FU given in this moderately intensive schedule is associated with a moderate level of response, as easily achieved with more conventional schedules or with 5-FU-leucovorin combinations. Tumor responsiveness to dose intensive 5-FU regimens may be limited. 
Mechanism of nonresponsiveness to AKR/Gross leukemia virus in AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice. An analysis of precursor cytotoxic T lymphocyte frequencies in young versus moderately aged mice. As young adult AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice reach about 9 wk of age, they begin to develop a nonresponsiveness to AKR/Gross leukemia virus. Unlike young mice that are responders, moderately aged AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice, after immunization and secondary in vitro restimulation in bulk culture with AKR/Gross virus induced tumors, can not generate anti-AKR/Gross virus-specific CTL. The mechanism of conversion to nonresponsiveness in moderately aged AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice is not understood, but it is correlated with increased expression of endogenous ecotropic viral antigens. Our present investigation focuses on determining the frequency of anti-AKR/Gross virus precursor CTL in AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice as a function of age. This was achieved by performing limiting dilution cultures of immune spleen cells obtained from young and moderately aged AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice. Although spleen cells obtained from immune moderately aged mice can not differentiate in bulk cultures into anti-AKR/Gross virus-specific CTL, there was no evidence of substantially decreased frequencies of virus-specific precursor CTL, relative to precursor CTL frequencies observed in young responder AKR.H-2b:Fv-1b mice. 
Variations in sensitivity after sectioning the intercostobrachial nerve. The authors present a prospective study of the variations in sensitivity that appear in the armpit and arm after the intercostobrachial nerve has been sectioned in a modified radical mastectomy. Of a total of 208 patients studied between 1978 and 1987, the intercostobrachial nerve was sectioned in 139 patients, whereas in 30 it remained intact; in 39 patients only peripheral branches of the nerve were sectioned. The patients were examined at regular postoperative intervals in order to evaluate their sensitivity both to touch and to pain in the axilla and arm. Four hundred thirty-three examinations were carried out and the 3 operative groups were assessed accordingly. After the nerve was sectioned, there was increasing anesthesia in the armpit and hypoesthesia on the posterointernal face of the arm, while for the patients in whom the intercostobrachial nerve remained intact, these alterations were less intense and long-lasting. Significant statistical differences between the two groups also exist. In the absence of axillary lymphatic ganglia infiltrated by the tumor, the conservation of the intercostobrachial nerve is recommended. 
Carcinoid tumors. The authors carried out a retrospective study of 32 patients (23 M, 9 F) with carcinoid tumors who were diagnosed and treated at Harlem Hospital Center, New York, from 1967 to 1988. All the patients were black and the commonest sites were the ileum (28.1%), rectosigmoid and rectum (21.9%), and the appendix and lung (15.6% each). Metastasis correlated with site, size, and depth of the primary tumor and occurred in 12 patients (38%), most frequently to the regional lymph nodes and liver. Carcinoid syndrome developed in 12.5% (3 F, 1 M). Surgical resection for cure or palliation was the mainstay of treatment. Overall 5 year survival rate was 66%, and for those with metastases was 0%. The poorer survival rates are probably related to the socioeconomic status of our patient population. The only observed racial difference compared to other series is the preponderance of males, and the disproportionately higher ratio of females with the carcinoid syndrome. 
Etoposide in the management of non-small cell lung cancer. Etoposide is a phase-specific, schedule-dependent derivative of podophyllotoxin that appears to act by inhibiting DNA-topoisomerase II. Early preclinical work demonstrated sharp activity in mouse leukemias and possible synergy with cisplatin. As a single agent (either orally or intravenously), it demonstrated limited benefit in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with response rates around 10%. In combination with cisplatin, it has become a mainstay of chemotherapeutic efforts, either as primary therapy or in conjunction with radiation. Response rates in advanced disease average around 30%, climbing to more than 50% in patients with Stage IIIA or IIIB disease. More recent work suggests that the issue of the true synergy of etoposide with cisplatin in NSCLC needs reassessment. The relative roles of etoposide and cisplatin in the combination are unclear, as several studies conflict. Pharmacokinetic data suggest that multiple daily fractions of etoposide are superior to prolonged infusions, warranting several future trials. The current major role for etoposide plus cisplatin would appear to be in multimodality therapy where the combination can be readily combined with radiation and/or surgery. Several other agents have been studied with etoposide or etoposide plus cisplatin (mitomycin, vindesine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, and carboplatin), but it is unclear whether the addition of any of them offers any response or survival advantage. 
Human papillomavirus type 1-associated squamous cell carcinoma in a heart transplant recipient. The occurrence of squamous cell carcinomas in organ transplant recipients with warts represents a good model to study viral carcinogenesis. Most of the cases were reported in renal transplant recipients. We present the case of a heart transplant recipient in whom multiple common warts, preepitheliomatous keratoses, and squamous cell carcinomas developed. The warts began 4 years after the transplantation and the first carcinoma occurred 2 years after the warts, all the lesions being on sun-exposed areas. Histologic signs of human papillomavirus infection were seen in all premalignant and malignant lesions. Furthermore, human papillomavirus type 1 DNA was detected by in situ molecular hybridization within one of the carcinomas. Human papillomaviruses, along with other carcinogenic factors, play an important role in the development of carcinomas, and benign types could be implicated. Further studies are required to evaluate the frequency of cutaneous malignant neoplasms in heart transplant recipients as compared with renal transplant recipients. 
Computed tomography of metastatic cervical lymph nodes. A clinical, computed tomographic, pathologic correlative study. A retrospective comparative study of 63 neck dissections was undertaken to evaluate further the accuracy of high-resolution computed tomography (CT) in the detection of nodal metastases, as previous studies have indicated a trend toward the superiority of CT scanning over palpation. The respective values of neck examination, CT scanning, and histopathologic examination were assessed in 51 patients with head and neck cancer who underwent a total of 63 neck dissections. The overall agreement between clinical examination findings and histopathologic findings was 92% vs 81% for CT scanning. A retrospective analysis of the CT findings failed to reveal greater accuracy. We found nodes measuring 10 mm or more with central low density always to be malignant. Because CT scanning seems to offer little advantage over palpation in the nonirradiated neck, it should not be regarded as an essential tool in the staging of nodal disease. After radiation therapy, as neck dissection is only performed because of clinical or radiologic suspicion, CT scanning is of utmost importance. 
Thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser. In an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax, the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients. The recurrent (5 patients) or persistent (7 patients) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of (1) blebs in 6 patients, (2) intrapulmonary apical type II bullae in 3 patients, and (3) diffuse bullous emphysema, type III, in 3. The air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type II bulla. Surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated. This technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases. With the use of carbon dioxide laser, it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax. Laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax. 
Survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16/18 by filter in situ hybridization. Histologic specimens (317) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the DNA of human papillomavirus (HPV) 6, 11, 16, and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed tissue (HISTOFISH). HPV DNA was found in 73 of 172 (42%) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 (15%) nonanogenital carcinomas. No HPV DNA was found in normal mouse skin (five samples), human autopsy liver (two samples), or kidney (eight samples), or in carcinomas of the breast (three samples), bladder (five samples), or colon (nine samples). Of the nongenital tumors, HPV DNA was found in the carcinomas of the lung (2 of 5), anus (7 of 18), esophagus (9 of 39), buccal cavity (1 of 5), and larynx (5 of 50). HPV DNA was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions. The detection of HPV DNA in carcinomas of the lung, larynx, and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed. The study also shows that HISTOFISH is a useful method for detecting HPV-DNA in histologic specimens. 
Second primary tumours of the larynx following bronchial carcinoma. The occurrence of multiple primary malignancies in patients with laryngeal cancer is well known. The possibility that lung cancer patients may be at risk of subsequent laryngeal cancer is less well recognized. The possibility of laryngeal cancer developing later has implications for the follow-up of lung cancer patients. Three cases of subsequent laryngeal primary cancer occurring in survivors of bronchial cancer are presented and the implications are discussed. 
Mechanism of fibrous capsule formation surrounding hepatocellular carcinoma. Immunohistochemical study. In 14 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma with capsule, we studied the mechanism of capsule formation by the immunoperoxidase technique using antibodies to types I, III, and IV collagen, antilaminin antibody, and anti-prolyl hydroxylase antibody. Marked round cell infiltration was observed in the noncancerous side of the capsule and around compressed hepatocytes near the capsule. Thin capsules were composed primarily of type III collagen produced by an increased number of fibroblasts, transitional Ito cells, and hepatocytes near the capsule. In thickened capsules, the noncancerous side consisted primarily of type III collagen and the cancerous side of types I and III collagen. Type I as well as type III collagen was produced by fibroblasts, transitional Ito cells, and hepatocytes. The capsule thus formed is suggested to be part of the defense mechanisms against the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Serum trace elements and Cu/Zn ratio in breast cancer patients. Serum copper, zinc, and the Cu/Zn ratio were measured in 55 patients with breast disease (20 with benign breast diseases and 35 patients with breast cancer) and 30 controls. The mean serum copper levels were higher in breast cancer than in benign breast diseases (167.3 micrograms/dl vs. 117.6 micrograms/dl) (P less than 0.001) and controls (167.3 micrograms/dl vs. 98.8 micrograms/dl) (P less than 0.001). Patients with advanced breast cancer had higher serum copper levels than did patients with early breast cancer (177.9 micrograms/dl vs. 130.4 micrograms/dl) (P less than 0.001). The mean serum zinc levels were lowered only in patients with advanced breast cancer as compared with controls (88.6 micrograms/dl vs. 115.1 micrograms/dl) (P less than 0.001). Serum zinc levels were not decreased in patients with early breast cancer and benign breast diseases. The Cu/Zn ratio was increased in breast cancer patients (1.91 vs. 0.86) (P less than 0.001) but not in patients with benign breast diseases. The precise mechanisms responsible for the alterations in trace element levels in breast cancer patients are still unclear and require further evaluation. However, the serum copper levels and the Cu/Zn ratio may be used as biochemical markers in these patients. 
Testicular relapse in children with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. The clinical course and other distinctive features of five children who developed a testicular relapse 4 months to 25 months after the diagnosis of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL) are described. The chief presenting feature at relapse was painless testicular enlargement, as is also seen in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who relapse in the testes. By French-American-British convention, the malignant cells were classified as M4 (myelomonoblastic) in four cases and M2 (myeloblastic) in one. All children received a course of multiagent reinduction chemotherapy and all but one received local irradiation to the testes. Only one of these children, whose relapse was a late event after elective cessation of therapy, is a long-term survivor. A comparison with six previously published cases shows similar clinical characteristics and outcome. Given the poor responses of such patients to conventional treatment, it seems worthwhile to consider the use of intensive reinduction chemotherapy with concomitant bilateral testicular irradiation followed by remission intensification and an autologous or allogenic marrow transplant. 
A clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations (Gardner's syndrome). The eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations (Gardner's syndrome) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. We found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions. The histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium. The other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor. These histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium. This oncogene, which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract, soft tissues, bone, and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium. 
Intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in the management of malignant pleural effusions: a Lung Cancer Study Group trial. Malignant pleural effusions are a common and significant problem in patients with advanced malignancies. Pleurodesis with tetracycline or other sclerosing agents is the usual treatment for malignant pleural effusions. In contrast to this approach, intrapleural chemotherapy has the potential advantage of treating the underlying malignancy in addition to controlling the effusion. Intracavitary cisplatin-based chemotherapy, which is cytotoxic rather than sclerosing, has proven safe and effective via the intraperitoneal route in ovarian cancer and malignant mesothelioma. There has been little previous experience, however, with intrapleural cisplatin-based chemotherapy. As part of a planned series of trials in malignant mesothelioma, the Lung Cancer Study Group first evaluated intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in patients with malignant pleural effusions from a variety of solid tumors. From April 1986 to November 1987, 46 patients with cytologically proven, symptomatic, and previously untreated malignant pleural effusions were entered on study. A single dose of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 plus cytarabine 1,200 mg was instilled into the pleural space via a chest tube, which was then immediately removed. Patients were evaluated for toxicity and response at 24 hours; 1, 2, and 3 weeks; and then monthly. No recurrence of the effusion was considered a complete response (CR). Partial response (PR) was defined as a 75% or greater decrease in the amount of the effusion on serial chest radiographs. One patient experienced reversible grade 4 renal toxicity, four patients had grade 3 hematologic toxicity, and five patients had grade 3 cardiopulmonary toxicity. The overall response rate (CR plus PR) at 3 weeks was 49% (18 of 37 patients). The median length of response was 9 months for a CR and 5.1 months for a PR. The outcome of this trial was sufficiently encouraging that this regimen has been incorporated into subsequent trials for malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Patterns of epidermal growth factor receptors in basal and squamous cell carcinoma. The presence of immunoreactive epidermal growth factor receptors in human skin tumors was investigated using the indirect immunoperoxidase technique. Sixteen basal cell carcinomas and 11 squamous cell carcinomas were evaluated. All of the specimens studied were receptor positive. In 70% of the specimens there was prominent staining of the cell membranes. In 54% of the nodular basal cell carcinoma specimens there was increased staining at the periphery of the tumor cell masses. 
Incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis: a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in Allegheny County, PA 1963-1982. The incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis (PM-DM) among residents of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, PA was determined from 1963 to 1982. Medical records of all Allegheny County hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed PM-DM, and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician, according to specified criteria. Direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex, as new cases/million population/year, with the 1970 Allegheny County population as the standard. One hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5/million population. Incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study, with the greatest increase occurring in black women. Overall, the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1, but during the childbearing years (ages 15-44) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races. Detection of PM-DM is increasing, as shown by temporal trends. Although our series has significantly more adult PM and less DM and overlap cases than other published studies, annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales. 
Congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system: a new clinical classification. The numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician's understanding of the condition. The clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment. Future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities. 
Enhanced expression of c-myc and H-ras oncogenes in Letterer-Siwe disease. A sequential study using colorimetric in situ hybridization. Tissues from two patients with disseminated histiocytosis X (Letterer-Siwe disease) in which histiocytosis X cells exhibited histologic and cytologic features of malignancy were evaluated by in situ hybridization with the use of biotinylated nucleic acid probes to c-myc and H-ras oncogenes. Enhanced expression of these oncogenes was observed in mononucleated and multinucleated cells of histiocytosis X in the terminal proliferative phase but not in the early quiescent phase of Letterer-Siwe disease in both patients. Our findings indicate that deregulation of c-myc and H-ras in histiocytosis X are late events that likely confer a selective growth advantage to histiocytosis X cells. 
Chondrosarcoma complicating total hip arthroplasty in Maffucci's syndrome. A 70-year-old woman who was followed for 60 years for Maffucci's syndrome required a total hip arthroplasty (THA) of the right hip for degenerative arthritis. This did not relieve pain. Three years later, chondrosarcoma of the femur developed around the femoral component and was fatal. The roentgenographic changes after the THA were incorrectly interpreted as being caused by infection. 
Malignant rhabdoid tumor of the liver. A distinct clinicopathologic entity. A malignant rhabdoid tumor occurring as a primary hepatic neoplasm in a six-month-old white infant is reported. It was treated by an attempt at total resection involving right hepatic lobectomy and by chemotherapy with cis-platinum, VP-16, and Adriamycin. Despite this, recurrence of the tumor resulted in the girl's death within three months. The neoplasm showed typical light microscopic features of malignant rhabdoid tumor as well as filamentous cytoplasmic inclusions by electron microscopic examination and staining for both cytokeratin and vimentin by immunohistochemistry. The classic clinicopathologic features of this tumor support the concept that malignant rhabdoid tumors similar to those of the kidney may occur in extrarenal sites. 
Continuous infusion carboplatin on a 21-day schedule: a phase I and pharmacokinetic study. A phase I study with continuous infusion carboplatin for 21 days every 6 weeks using a venous access port and portable pump was performed over a dose range of 12 to 32 mg/m2/d, with increments of 2 mg/m2/d. Forty-four patients received 107 courses (median, two; range, one to nine). World Health Organization (WHO) grade III/IV leukopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in one of seven patients at 30 mg/m2/d, and in two of six and four of six patients at 32 mg/m2/d. Cumulative platelet depression was found at dose levels of 28 mg/m2/d or more. Median glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow, monitored by radioisotope clearances at doses greater than or equal to 20 mg/m2/d, decreased 8.2% (P less than .05) and 10.9% (P less than .01) after two courses. There was a relationship (r = .50, P less than .0002) between the percentage of platelet depression and GFR. No other toxicity was observed. Of the 17 patients who were evaluable, one complete response and four partial responses were observed. In addition, six patients had stable disease. Pharmacokinetic analysis of total and ultrafiltrable platinum (UFPt) was performed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Steady-state plasma levels for UFPt were reached after 8 hours. These levels could be detected from the 20 mg/m2/d dose. During steady state, carboplatin dose and UFPt plasma levels were not correlated, but steady-state UFPt and GFR (r = -.27, P less than .05) were. Twenty-four percent of total platinum (Pt) was present as UFPt during steady state (x = 160 +/- 10 micrograms/L). Total body clearance of UFPt exceeded GFR 2.2 times. Mean area under the curve (AUC) for UFPt during continuous infusion was 4,921.8 +/- 301.72 mg.min/L. For total Pt, steady-state plasma levels were not reached; total Pt plasma levels increased between day 7 and day 21 (P less than .0001). There was a significant relation between total Pt serum levels day 7, 14, and 21 and the drug dose administered. Immunohistochemical analysis of DNA-bound Pt in leukocytes showed a linear increase from day 7 to day 14 to day 21 (r = .97) between DNA-bound Pt and duration of infusion in individual patients. The maximum-tolerable dose of carboplatin is 30 mg/m2/d for 21 days (total dose 630 mg/m2) and is recommended for phase II studies. 
Radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies affecting the airway. Congenital anomalies of the airway are generally uncommon, but a vast array of possibilities exists. Some present life-threatening emergencies at birth, and others go undiagnosed for years. Clinical symptoms are often nonspecific, and radiographic evaluation is frequently requested to localize and characterize the lesion before endoscopy, surgery, or medical management. The most common intrinsic congenital anomalies causing airway compromise in infants include choanal atresia, mandibular hypoplasia, laryngomalacia, vocal cord paralysis, and congenital subglottic stenosis. The radiologist must be on the alert for unsuspected additional anomalies involving the airway, lungs, and esophagus, which occur with relative frequency. Numerous extrinsic congenital masses of the head, neck, and mediastinum may compromise the airway. Hemangiomas, lymphangiomas, and teratomas are more likely to be noted at birth, whereas branchial cleft cysts, thyroglossal duct anomalies, and dermoid cysts frequently present later. Mass location and radiographic characteristics usually allow accurate preoperative diagnosis. Intracranial involvement by nasal or nasopharyngeal masses, intrathoracic involvement by lower neck mass, and intraspinal involvement by posterior neck mass must always be sought for radiographically. Persistence of respiratory symptoms after removal of such masses is not uncommon because tracheal deformity and laxity may take months or years to resolve. Recent advances in cine CT and MR imaging promise to improve imaging of the airway in general and in the pediatric population in particular. Significant limitations in imaging of the pediatric larynx remain. As a result, endoscopy continues to be the primary diagnostic tool for airway anomalies of this region. 
Invasive squamous cell carcinoma in a patient with epidermodysplasia verruciformis. A patient with epidermodysplasia verruciformis died of intracranial invasion by squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). A biopsy of clinically normal skin had revealed perineural invasion by malignant keratinocytes. Because SCCs arising in patients with epidermodysplasia verruciformis may be biologically aggressive, it is best to excise them with careful control of the surgical tissue margins. 
The impact of physician compliance on screening mammography for older women. Screening mammography is underutilized, even for women older than 50 years for whom there is a general consensus that regular annual screening is appropriate and necessary. To evaluate reasons for this underutilization, we studied a random sample of 517 women in Los Angeles, Calif who were older than 50 years. All women were found to be underscreened, especially women older than 65 years. For example, approximately 35% of women 50 to 64 years old and 47% of women aged 65 years and older never had had even one mammogram. Analyses revealed that the most important factor that predicted whether a women ever had had a mammogram was whether her physician had talked to her about mammography. Women were between four and 12 times more likely, depending on their age group, to have had a mammogram at some time if their physicians discussed it with them. The discussions did not need to be lengthy or complex. These results indicate that physicians need to know that discussing screening mammography with their patients has a major impact on breast cancer screening behaviors. 
Successful reinduction therapy with amsacrine and cyclocytidine in acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia in children. A report from the Childrens Cancer Study Group. Amsacrine (AMSA) and cyclocytidine were studied as retrieval therapy in 122 pediatric patients with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL). Patients either failed to achieve sustained initial remissions or were in relapse. Induction therapy consisted of intravenous (IV) AMSA (75 mg/m2) from days 1 to 5 and subcutaneous cyclocytidine (600 mg/m2) from days 1 to 7. Maintenance therapy consisted of IV etoposide (VP-16) (100 mg/m2) for 5 days and IV AMSA (100 mg/m2) on day 1. Of 122 patients, 109 were evaluable. There were 13 early deaths. Ninety-six patients received adequate therapy defined as completion of two courses of therapy. Of these 96 patients, 52 achieved complete remission. Fifteen of 33 patients who failed initial induction achieved complete remission. Eighteen of 39 patients who were resistant to anthracyclines had complete responses. There was no direct evidence of AMSA-induced cardiotoxicity. Remission duration was 28 days to 3 or more years (median, 98 days). AMSA and cyclocytidine were effective retrieval therapy for patients who were in relapse or unresponsive to frontline therapy. Duration of remission was short (median, 98 days). 
Lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells. V. 8-Mercaptoguanosine as an IL-2-sparing agent in LAK generation. Guanine ribonucleosides, substituted at the C8 position with either a bromine or a thiol group, have recently been shown to regulate several immunologic responses. We have previously shown that 8-mercaptoguanosine (8MG) can replace the requirement for cytokines in the generation of MHC-restricted CTL. In this paper, we examined the ability of 8MG to induce MHC-nonrestricted killer cells. We found that 8MG did not induce significant lytic activity from normal resting lymphocytes. However, 8MG was able to synergize with minimal amounts of IL-2 in inducing lytic activity similar to lymphokine-activated killers (LAK) in that both NK-sensitive and NK-resistant tumor cells were killed. Both the precursors and effectors of 8MG-LAK activity were similar to NK cells and were CD4- CD8- asialo-GM1+ NK1.1+. Similar to IL-2-induced LAK, 8MG-LAK were B220+. 8MG appeared to "stage" these precursor lymphocytes to become more responsive to IL-2 because optimal induction of 8MG-LAK required preincubation with 8MG before the addition of IL-2. This "staging" appeared to be due to the release of a "second signal" since it was readily inhibited by cyclosporine A. Anti-IFN-alpha beta was as efficient as cyclosporine A in inhibiting 8MG-LAK generation, whereas anti-IFN-gamma and anti-IL-1 did not exhibit significant inhibition. These findings suggest that 8MG can be of possible utility as an IL-2-sparing agent in LAK generation from NK cells. 
Intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas: Leuchtenberger bodies revisited. The presence of intraepithelial inclusion bodies (Leuchtenberger bodies) was recorded in rectal or colonic specimens from 130 patients. Large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies were recorded in 81.8 percent of 55 colorectal adenomas from patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). Conversely, none of the 55 non-FAP adenomas or of the 20 specimens with ulcerative colitis (10 with dysplasia) had similar amounts of intraepithelial granules. Feulgen studies demonstrated that the granules contain DNA and are probably nuclear fragments of destroyed lymphocytes. Although the pathogenesis of this phenomenon remains obscure, it appears that the presence of large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas should strongly raise the suspicion of FAP. 
Primary undifferentiated small cell carcinoma of the esophagus: clinicopathological and flow cytometric evaluation of eight cases. We present a clinicopathological and flow cytometric evaluation of eight primary small cell carcinomas of the esophagus representing 1.5% of all esophageal malignancies diagnosed during a 22-year period (1965-1987) in the Tampere University Central Hospital. The mean age of the patients (four male and four female) was 67 years (range 55-75 years). Five cases had distant metastases at the time of diagnosis. Three patients were treated by esophageal resection, one by laser vaporisation, and four by chemotherapy. The median survival time was 4 months (range 9 days to 8 months). A complete local response to chemotherapy in serial esophagogramms was detected in one patient. All four patients given chemotherapy survived longer than those treated with esophageal resection only. Four (67%) of the six carcinomas analyzed by DNA flow cytometry contained DNA-aneuploid stemlines. The median S-phase fraction of these small cell carcinomas was high (16.3%), reflecting rapid cell proliferation rate, which may be related to their responsiveness to chemotherapy. 
Total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon: technique and results. We performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy. The surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported. This neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction. The surgical complications were acceptable. Initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time. After 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc, pressures during filling and at capacity were low (average 12 and 16 cm. water) and emptying was satisfactory (residual urine 4 to 80 cc). All patients were continent during the day and 67% were continent at night without excessive voiding habits. Nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the AMS 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra. The detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy. 
Concurrent cisplatin, infusional fluorouracil, and conventionally fractionated radiation therapy in head and neck cancer: dose-limiting mucosal toxicity. After a preliminary dose-finding study involving 12 patients with advanced or locally recurrent head and neck cancer, 27 patients were treated on a phase II protocol, using fluorouracil 350 mg/m2/d by continuous intravenous (IV) infusion over 5 days, followed on the sixth day by a 2-hour IV infusion of cisplatin 50 mg/m2, administered during the first and fourth weeks of radiation therapy to total doses between 60 and 64 Gy, using 2 Gy daily fractions. Eight of these 27 patients had American Joint Committee on Cancer Staging (AJCC) stage III disease, and 12 had stage IV disease. Four had recurrent disease after surgery. Three-year follow-up is now available. Twenty-one (77.8%) remitted completely following treatment, and 11 remain free of local and regional relapse at 3 years. Four have developed systemic metastases. Following successful salvage treatment in two cases, estimated determinate survival at 3 years is 64%. Acute toxicity was manageable with this regime. Eleven instances of grade 3 Radiation Therapy Oncology Group/European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (RTOG/EORTC) mucositis were observed, which caused interruptions to radiotherapy in only four cases. No late sequelae have so far been recorded. It is concluded that the protocol described is tolerable but probably did not cause a greater number of locoregional "cures" than would have been expected following conventional radiotherapy alone in this group of patients. The use of infusional fluorouracil with concurrent conventionally fractionated radiation therapy and cisplatin infusion results in mucositis that limits the dose of fluorouracil to levels that are probably subtherapeutic. 
Characterization of liver-associated natural killer cells in patients with liver tumors. The existence of a marginal lymphocyte population in rat liver sinusoids has already been demonstrated using the sinusoidal lavage method. We used the same technique to study the lymphocyte population in human liver obtained ex vivo after partial hepatectomy for benign or malignant tumors and compared it with peripheral and portal blood lymphocyte populations. Percentages of lymphocyte surface phenotypes were evaluated by flow cytometry. The lymphocyte population obtained from human liver is mainly made up of CD56+ (35%) cells. This percentage is three times greater than that found in peripheral and portal blood. Two-color flow cytometry analysis showed that within the CD56+ liver cell population, at least three distinct subsets could be found: (a) CD3+/CD56+/CD16-; (b) CD3-/CD56+/CD16-; and (c) CD3-/CD56+/CD16+. Although these subsets were also present in peripheral and portal blood, the percentage distribution was completely different because most CD56+ cells in peripheral and portal blood belonged to the CD3-/CD56+/CD16+ subset. These results show the existence of a heterogeneous natural killer cell population in human livers with tumors. The functional significance of this heterogeneity still needs to be explained. 
Pseudocyst of the auricle. Case report and world literature review We treated a patient with pseudocyst of the auricle and reviewed the 113 cases previously published in the world literature. Pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic, noninflammatory cystic swelling that involves the anthelix of the ear, results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity, and occurs predominantly in men (93% of patients). Characteristically, only one ear is involved (87% of patients), and the lesion is usually located within the scaphoid or triangular fossa of the anthelix. Previous trauma to the involved ear is uncommon. The diagnosis may be suggested by the clinical features, and analysis of the aspirated cystic fluid and/or histologic examination of a lesional biopsy specimen will confirm the diagnosis. Therapeutic intervention that maintains the architecture of the patient's external ear should be used in the treatment of this benign condition. 
Prognostic factors for survival of patients with advanced urothelial tumors treated with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin chemotherapy. Between February 1983 and February 1986, 132 patients with advanced urothelial tract tumors were treated with methotrexate, vinblastine, Adriamycin (doxorubicin), and cisplatin (M-VAC) chemotherapy. Analysis of prognostic factors for survival of the first 92 patients was undertaken using the Cox proportional hazards model. Normal alkaline phosphatase and high Karnofsky performance status (KPS) were predominant for long survival. Patients 60 years or older at initiation of therapy were likely to survive longer than younger patients, perhaps indicating physician selectivity of older patients for this therapy, and those with initial hemoglobin in the normal range were also likely to survive longer. The additional 40 patients' data were used to validate the model. Clinical implications of the prognostic factors are discussed. 
Cyclic-AMP binding proteins in the head and neck. Results are presented of a preliminary study in which cAMP binding activity was measured in 34 specimens from a variety of head and neck sites. A wide range of cAMP binding protein levels was detected in all tissues assessed. There appeared to be a subgroup of parotid adenomas with increased cAMP binding activity. The biological significance of these proteins remains to be determined and their relationship to tumour growth in the head and neck is likely to be complex. 
Effect of hyperthermia in vitro and in vivo on adenine and pyridine nucleotide pools in human peripheral lymphocytes. Hyperthermia has been shown in vitro and in vivo to potentiate the effects of ionizing irradiation. Previous studies found that hyperthermia alters the metabolism of adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribose polymers required for recovery from DNA damage and that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase activity is very sensitive to cellular nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide (NAD) levels. Thus, the effect of 41.8 degrees C hyperthermia in vitro and in vivo on NAD and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels was studied in human peripheral lymphocytes. In vitro studies showed significant decreases in oxidized NAD (NAD+) and ATP levels after heating that simulated a clinical whole-body hyperthermia (WBH) treatment. This nucleotide depletion could not be attributed to nucleotide leakage or increased enzymatic NAD+ consumption. As the reduction of NAD observed was sufficient to decrease poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase activity by 50%, the studies were extended to clinica cases. Cellular NAD+ and ATP were measured in previously stored lymphocytes obtained from four patients before and after WBH; a statistically significant decrease in NAD+ was observed after WBH which quantitatively agreed with the in vitro results. Based on these results a prospective study was done in three patients; NAD+ was extracted immediately on sample collection, and the kinetics of WBH-induced NAD depletion were studied. These data, which agree quantitatively with the laboratory results, are presented. 
The importance of calcium regulation in toxic cell injury. Studies utilizing the technology of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy. The regulation of ions within the cell is of critical importance in both acute and chronic toxicology. Recently, new methods have been developed for measuring such changes in living cells and correlating them with studies of structure, function, and biochemistry. A major revolution has occurred from the linkage between the computer and the light microscope, which has resulted in the use of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy and video intensification microscopy coupled with image analysis. These methods have already yielded much additional information and it is anticipated that their further application by pathologists and toxicologists will continue to uncover the important role of ion deregulation and toxic cell injury. 
Endometrial cancer: biochemical and clinical correlates. Some endometrial cancers and endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines show amplified expression of proto-oncogenes (fos, fms, myc, myb, neu, and erb-B) and augmented production of growth factors (colony-stimulating factor 1, epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha, and transforming growth factor beta) and epidermal growth factor receptor. Oncogene expression, the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors, and the fraction of cells in S phase are useful biochemical prognostic indicators of clinical outcome, and markers recognized by monoclonal antibodies are available for use in following the clinical course of the disease and responses to treatment. In vivo and in vitro studies on normal and neoplastic tissues are providing evidence of paracrine influences on epithelial cell proliferation. Long-term administration of tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer has recently been found to increase the risk for development of endometrial cancer. 
Delayed subcapsular hematoma after percutaneous liver biopsy as a manifestation of warfarin toxicity. Guidelines for the management of patients receiving chronic anticoagulation therapy who require liver biopsy are not clearly defined. In patients with normal coagulation, liver biopsy is a relatively safe procedure with a morbidity of less than 0.1% and a mortality of less than 0.01%. We report a patient with a prosthetic aortic valve who developed a large subcapsular hematoma 12 days after a percutaneous liver biopsy as a consequence of warfarin toxicity. Based on the experience with this patient, reinstitution of anticoagulant therapy should be avoided for at least 72 h after a percutaneous liver biopsy. Intravenous heparin should be resumed first, and warfarin added if no bleeding has occurred after an additional 48-72 h. The prothrombin time should be maintained at 1.5 times the baseline. 
Serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders. Serum erythropoietin (S-EPO) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders (ACD), classified into three groups according to their aetiology: inflammatory (n = 20), infectious (n = 15) and neoplastic (n = 15). The inflammatory group showed a higher mean S-EPO level (mean value +/- SEM, 69 +/- 11 mU ml-1) than the neoplastic (43 +/- 5 mU ml-1; P less than 0.05) and infectious groups (27 +/- 4 mU ml-1; P less than 0.01). The S-EPO level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls (36 +/- 3 mU ml-1; P less than 0.05). Fourteen patients with added iron deficiency (12 subjects from the inflammatory group) showed the highest S-EPO concentration (72 +/- 17 mU ml-1). Conversely, S-EPO levels were lower in febrile subjects (12 patients with infection and five with malignancy) than in non-febrile patients (28 +/- 4 mU ml-1 vs. 55 +/- 7 mU ml-1; P less than 0.01). In the infectious group, the logarithm of S-EPO correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values. We conclude that differences in S-EPO concentration in ACD may be further related to the patient's iron stores and temperature. A decrease in EPO production may contribute to the pathogenesis of ACD secondary to infection. 
Transhepatic portal vein catheterization for localization of insulinomas: a ten-year experience. One of the most important factors in the management of insulinomas is the ability to localize the tumor accurately either before or during surgery. We prospectively carried out transhepatic portal venous sampling (THPVS) for tumor localization in 35 of 40 patients with organic hyperinsulinism during a 10-year period. In 32 patients who underwent THPVS and in whom a single tumor was subsequently identified surgically, the maximal insulin gradient was located in the vicinity of the tumor in 100% of cases. Specific regionalization of the tumor on the basis of the site of the maximal insulin gradient to one of three regions (the tail, the body/neck region, and the head/uncinate region) gave a sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 91%. In contrast, the use of specific cutoff levels for the insulin gradient as a guide to the presence of a tumor in one of these three regions did not increase the accuracy, leading instead to a significant loss of sensitivity with no comparable increase in specificity. There were no major complications from the procedure in any patient. The initial use of computed tomographic/ultrasound scanning and selective angiography localized only 46% of tumors, whereas subsequent THPVS led to the accurate preoperative localization of 100% of all tumors submitted to surgery. Although the surgeon would have identified 81% of the tumors correctly at operation, in 19% (n = 6) he would have failed. Four tumors were in the uncinate and two were in the head. It seems that in patients with proved or established organic hyperinsulinism, THPVS may continue to be of value, if only to regionalize the tumor, especially those in the pancreatic head and uncinate process so as to preclude noncurative operations on the body and tail of the pancreas. 
Undifferentiated carcinoma of the ovary. Thirty-five cases of ovarian carcinomas, which had as the predominant histologic component solid areas of epithelial cells without differentiation into mullerian carcinomas, were reviewed. The patients' ages ranged from 39 to 72 years (mean age, 54 years). Two patients had clinical stage I disease, one had stage II, 26 had stage III, and six had stage IV. Microscopically, the malignant cells formed large groups or sheets with desmoplastic stroma around them. Foci of papillary serous carcinoma, unclassified adenocarcinoma, or transitional cell carcinoma were seen in 26 tumors, foci of necrosis were seen in 30 tumors, and vascular invasion was seen in seven tumors. Six of 13 carcinomas tested expressed CA125 reactivity, and 12 of 13 carcinomas reacted to B72.3 monoclonal antibody. The primary tumors were treated by aggressive surgical reduction in 32 patients and by multiple biopsy procedures in three patients. After the first operation, 30 patients had residual disease, smaller than 2 cm in five patients and larger than 2 cm in 23 patients. After surgery, 33 patients received chemotherapy; three of these 33 also received radiotherapy. One patient was treated with postsurgical radiotherapy only, and one patient refused further treatment. Thirty-four patients (97%) died of disease between 8 and 108 months (mean, 27 months) after initial surgery, 29 patients died in less than 32 months. Four patients (11%) survived more than 5 years: two patients with stage I disease who died at 82 and 102 months, one patient with stage II who died at 72 months, and one patient with stage III who has no evidence of disease after 116 months. Five-year survival of patients with undifferentiated ovarian carcinoma is worse than the reported survival of patients with serous carcinoma or ovarian carcinoma with a pattern resembling transitional cell carcinoma. The distinction between these three carcinomas that have solid areas carries prognostic significance. 
Dilatation in the duplex kidney: 3 unusual cases. Dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele. By contrast, vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter. We report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated. 
The Patterns of Care Outcome Study for cancer of the uterine cervix. Results of the Second National Practice Survey. This report summarizes the outcome results of the Patterns of Care Study (PCS) of cancer of the uterine cervix from 565 patients treated in 1978. The 5-year survival with no evidence of disease was: Stage I, 74%; Stage II, 56%; and Stage III, 33%. The 5-year local in-field failure rate was: Stage I, 12%, Stage II, 27%; and Stage III, 51%. Extent of parametrial involvement, unilateral versus bilateral, may be important in determining survival and local failure. The four-year actuarial survival was 58% for unilateral involvement versus 47% for bilateral (P = 0.06), and the local failure rate was 32% for unilateral versus 45% for bilateral (P less than 0.05). When analyzed by stage, patients with Stage IIb disease with unilateral parametrial involvement showed a trend toward improved survival and decreased local failure compared with those with bilateral Stage IIb cancers (P = 0.1). The use of intracavitary irradiation significantly improved survival and reduced local failures. Furthermore, the number of intracavitary applications was important. When two or more intracavitary applications were used compared with one application, local in-field failure was significantly reduced, 29% versus 17% at 4 years (P less than 0.001), and four-year survival was improved, 60% versus 73% (P = 0.01). The four-year actuarial rate of major complications depended on the stage: Stage I, 8%; Stage II, 15%; and Stage III, 13%. There was a statistically significant increase in major complications in patients undergoing laparotomy for staging versus no laparotomy 23% versus 11% at 4 years (P less than or equal to 0.01) and a trend toward increased major complications in patients who were thin or had prior abdominal surgery. This study confirmed the stage-dependent outcome of treatment of cancer of the uterine cervix with radiation and indicated that further division of Stage IIb to indicate prognostic significance of unilateral or bilateral parametrial involvement may be warranted. This study also confirmed the importance of intracavitary radiation in optimizing control established by the 1973 PCS. It further suggests that where possible, two intracavitary insertions may yield better results than one insertion. 
Interleukin-2: prospects for lymphocyte-mediated destruction of pediatric malignancies. Immunologic therapy of cancer was speculated on at the turn of the century. In animals, in vitro, and most recently in patients, irrefutable evidence has been obtained that lymphocyte responses can have a reproducible and beneficial antitumor effect. These results indicate that "biologic response modification" may truly become a fourth modality for cancer treatment, to be integrated into the standard approaches of radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery. To what extent these immune approaches may enable eradication of microscopic amounts of residual diseases in children who would otherwise have a recurrence of their malignancies remains the critical issue for testing over the next decade. Enthusiasm regarding this approach is abundant, but critical evaluation of all clinical trials is essential to best focus these mechanisms into effective therapy. 
Association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation. Previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t(11;14) (q13;q32) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation (IDL), a distinct type of low grade B-cell lymphoma. This finding suggested that the bcl-1 region (located at band q13 of chromosome 11) might be involved in this neoplasm. Using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus, we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases, 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region. In contrast, bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade B-cell lymphoma, specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma (FL). To further assess the molecular pathology of IDL, we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene, which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas. None of the 19 cases of IDL had rearrangements. Furthermore, none of the 36 cases of CLL/SLL showed bcl-2 rearrangements, whereas, as expected, 21 of 27 cases of FL had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus. Our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50% of IDLs and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of IDL. 
Photopheresis for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma. We investigated the use of extracorporeal chemotherapy (photopheresis) in eight patients with cutaneous T cell lymphoma. Initially described by Edelson et al. for the treatment of erythrodermic cutaneous T cell lymphoma, we have expanded the treatment to include patients with extensive patch/plaque disease as well as tumor-stage disease. Four of five patients with erythrodermic stage disease had either a complete or a partial clinical remission with photopheresis alone. One patient with extensive patch/plaque disease continued to have a partial clinical remission of 7 months' duration with photopheresis alone. Of the two patients with tumor-stage disease, one remained without evidence of clinical disease at 10 months with photopheresis alone, whereas the second patient had a partial clinical remission of 5 months with a combination of local radiation therapy followed by monthly photopheresis. The skin biopsy specimen obtained from the patient with tumor-stage disease in complete clinical remission did not show cutaneous T cell lymphoma. We conclude that photopheresis is an effective modality alone or in combination with adjunctive therapy for erythroderma, extensive patch/plaque disease, and some tumor-stage disease. 
The genetics of retinoblastoma. Relevance to the patient. The understanding of the molecular biology of human cancer has advanced rapidly in the last decade, in part due to discoveries in the rare, pediatric ocular tumor, retinoblastoma. RB studies have led to recognition of a class of human genes, the tumor suppressor genes, that are critical in the initiation and progression of the malignant process. Mutations in the RB1 gene initiate RB and other specific tumors. They may also contribute to progressive stages of many other malignancies. The protein product of RB1 (p110RB1) is a basic regulator of the cell cycle. In the absence of normal protein, the cell proceeds to the next cell division without the potential to become quiescent. Understanding the genetics of RB has benefited the patients, as the precise identification of the RB1 mutations in families has led to accurate prediction of individuals at risk for RB tumors. It seems unlikely, in the foreseeable future, that direct genetic manipulation of mutant RB1 genes will play a role in therapy, but complete understanding of the function of p110RB1 may eventually allow exploitation of its powerful antiproliferative effect. Other molecular genetic events in addition to RB1 mutations are documented in RB tumors, and may play a critical role in the full malignant phenotype. The oncogene, N-myc, is amplified in some RB tumors and is expressed in normal fetal retina. The cytogenetic abnormality, i(6p), is almost unique to RB tumors. The molecular and tissue-specific roles of these abnormalities are not yet known. Many RB tumors also acquire excessive expression of the cell surface membrane glycoprotein, p170, linked to multidrug resistance, whether or not the RB tumor has been exposed to chemotherapy. We anticipate that ways to avoid or counteract the drug resistance of excessive p170 expression will be developed for other pediatric tumors and eventually will be applied to chemotherapy for RB patients. 
Who is being screened for melanoma/skin cancer? Characteristics of persons screened in Massachusetts. We conducted a survey of persons who voluntarily attended melanoma/skin cancer screenings in Massachusetts in 1987. Of 1219 persons asked to fill out a questionnaire, 1116 (92%) completed it. Our study demonstrates that persons attending the melanoma/skin cancer screening program were, for the most part, at risk for the disease and appropriately selected themselves to be screened. Most were women, well educated (with college or advanced degrees), and white. More than 86% had at least one risk factor for melanoma/skin cancer whereas 78% had at least two risk factors. Future studies are necessary to determine whether our experience can be verified. Additional efforts should try to attract those who are at risk but perhaps are less willing to attend screening programs--men and those of lower socioeconomic status. These efforts can help target screening to those at highest risk and maximize the yield of these public health efforts. 
Cardiac rhabdomyoma. Rare cause of fetal death. Two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported. Case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia, and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography. Autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall, the sinoatrial node, and the left ventricle. The left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue, causing left ventricular myocardial infarction. Case 2 had a unique, pedunculated, ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice. The causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed. 
Identification of transforming growth factor beta family members present in bone-inductive protein purified from bovine bone. Characterization of the polypeptides present in bone-inductive protein extracts from bovine bone has led to the cloning of seven regulatory molecules, six of which are distantly related to transforming growth factor beta. The three human bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) we describe herein, BMP-5, BMP-6, and BMP-7, show extensive sequence similarity to BMP-2, a molecule that by itself is sufficient to induce de novo bone formation in vivo. The additive or synergistic contribution of these BMP-2-related molecules to the osteogenic activity associated with demineralized bone is strongly implicated by the presence of these growth factors in the most active fractions of highly purified bone extract. 
Pleuroperitoneal shunting for intractable pleural effusions. Pleuroperitoneal shunts were implanted in 17 patients with intractable pleural effusions, 15 of which were malignant and 2 benign. Complicating factors included 13 instances of severe trapped lung and 3 cases of synchronous ascites. There was one hospital death. Palliation of dyspnea at rest was achieved in all patients, although 3 required oxygen with exertion. Four shunts became occluded between 1 and 10 months after placement. Two of these were replaced. The remaining conduits continued to function to the present or until the patients' deaths between 1 and 28 months. Shunting allowed hospital discharge and provided symptomatic relief in a group of patients in whom other approaches had failed or were not applicable. 
The epidemiology of ophthalmic malignancies in New York State. The epidemiologic characteristics of more than 1400 primary eye cancers (ICD-9, site 190) diagnosed among New York State (NYS) residents between 1975 and 1986 are described. Among NYS male residents, the average annual age-adjusted incidence rate was 7.5 per 1,000,000, and among NYS female residents, the rate was 5.4 per 1,000,000 (male:female rate ratio, 1.39). The majority of ophthalmic malignancies were included within three histologic groupings: melanomas (70.4%), retinoblastomas (9.8%), and squamous cell carcinomas (9.2%). The average annual incidence of retinoblastoma among persons in NYS who were less than 5 years of age was 9.5 per 1,000,000 for boys and 8.7 per 1,000,000 for girls (male:female rate ratio, 1.09). The average annual incidence (age-adjusted) of ocular melanomas was 4.9 per 1,000,000 among men and 3.7 per 1,000,000 among women in NYS (male:female rate ratio, 1.32). Expanded knowledge of the epidemiology of ophthalmic cancers can help to develop a foundation on which to monitor disease patterns and can serve to stimulate further etiologic research involving these rare malignancies. 
Immunohistochemical studies on the main entrance-route of CA19-9 into the peripheral venous blood of gastric cancer patients. Correlation with CA19-9 levels in peripheral and portal blood. The correlation between CA19-9 levels of portal and peripheral venous blood, and immunohistochemical variables of cancer lesions was examined in 53 gastric cancer patients and eight patients with benign diseases. Immunohistochemically, CA19-9 was found in 33 (62.5%) of 53 primary lesions. The antigen was found in the cancer cells of invasive lymphatics and node metastases of every CA19-9 localized cancer, although the cancer cells in veins showed little or no CA19-9. There was little or no antigen in the cancer cells in veins, lymphatics, or metastases of 20 CA19-9 nonlocalized primary lesions. Patients with CA19-9 nonlocalized cancer or with benign diseases showed no elevation of the antigen levels in peripheral or portal blood. CA19-9 levels of portal blood (mean, 76.4 U/ml; positive rate, 33.3%) were not different from those of peripheral blood (mean, 91.5 U/ml; positive rate, 33.3%). Additionally, the antigen levels of the blood in patients with lymphatic invasion or node metastases were significantly higher than those in patients without the invasion or the metastases, and every patient without the invasion showed no elevation of the antigen. These results suggest that production of the antigen in cancer cells may be a premise of CA19-9 elevation in peripheral blood and that CA19-9 may be drained by the thoracic duct of the lymphatic system via node metastases or invasive lymphatics, but not by the hematogenous portal system. 
Automated immunohistochemical estrogen receptor in fixed embedded breast carcinomas. The authors immunohistochemically assessed the presence of estrogen receptor (ER) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 68 breast carcinomas by an automated method using Pronase (CalBiochem, La Jolla, CA) predigestion and alkaline phosphatase detection (Method 1). These results were compared with those obtained by an automated peroxidase-antiperoxidase method with DNAse pretreatment of fixed embedded sections (Method 2), with ER immunostain on frozen sections (Method 3), and with biochemical results (dextran-coated charcoal cytosolic [DCC] assay). Compared with the DCC assay, Methods 1, 2, and 3 gave sensitivities of 54%, 25%, and 89%, respectively. The sensitivity for Method 1 was increased to 74% in those cases with DCC results showing greater than 50 fmol/mg protein. These findings indicate that ER immunohistochemical studies on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues (as assayed by Method 1) provide useful clinical information when the results are positive. A negative result, especially if surrounding normal elements are not positive, may indicate no receptors, receptor levels less than 50 fmol/mg protein, or improper tissue preservation. In the absence of fresh tissue for ER assay by DCC assay or of frozen sections for immunostaining, and with an understanding of its limitations, this method may be useful. 
Neoadjuvant Cis-DDP in esophageal cancers: an experience at a regional cancer centre, India. We are analysing the results of 80 patients who underwent surgery during 1983-84 for esophageal cancer. Forty patients who received pre-operative single agent Cis-DDP were grouped under "A" and 40 patients who went for surgery directly were grouped under "B". Twenty-two patients (55%) of Group A showed tumor necrosis. Both groups underwent resection and hand-sewn anastamosis of the esophagus. There were 10 post-operative deaths among 80 resected cases, 9 of them being from anastomatic leak. Cis-DDP has induced negligible side effects. A comparatively high survival rate during early years in patients who responded to Cis-DDP suggests that neoadjuvant chemotherapy might be of value. 
Fungal brain abscesses (aspergillosis/mucormycosis) in two immunosuppressed patients. Although the mortality rate for fungal brain abscesses in immunosuppressed patients remains unacceptably high, this figure may be reduced if computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging scans are performed more promptly in susceptible individuals with seemingly mild intracranial complaints. Earlier presumptive amphotericin B treatment and more timely surgical debridement may minimize neurological injury and enhance survival. These assumptions were only tentatively supported by the clinical courses of two patients, one an alert patient with promyelocytic leukemia and an aspergillosis brain abscess who survived, and the other, a comatose intravenous drug abuser with mucormycosis who died. 
The use of molecular probes to distinguish new primary tumors from recurrent tumors in gynecologic malignancies. This is the first report using DNA molecular probe technology to distinguish between recurrent tumor and a second primary malignancy in a patient. Tumor DNA was extracted from squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix at the time of radical hysterectomy. Eighteen months later a squamous cell cancer was found in a vaginal apex biopsy from which DNA was extracted. Tumor DNA from both lesions was subjected to restriction enzyme digestion and DNA molecular hybridization with human papillomavirus (HPV) probes. Although both lesions were positive for HPV 16, their respective restriction enzyme patterns had different HPV genetic arrangements, thereby demonstrating their distinctness. 
Surgical approach to the retrocrural lymph nodes. Removal of retrocrural lymph nodes requires an approach other than the infradiaphragmatic retroperitoneal access generally used in the surgical management of testicular tumours. The transperitoneal route given access, at best, to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, but advanced testicular tumours occasionally require retrocrural node dissection. We describe a useful surgical approach to these nodes and the underlying anatomy. 
Effective ultraviolet irradiation of platelet concentrates in teflon bags. Several plastic materials used in blood storage were evaluated for their ability to transmit ultraviolet B (UVB) light. A plastic bag manufactured from sheets of transparent Teflon efficiently (78-86%) transmitted UVB light and was employed in subsequent functional studies of lymphocytes and platelets exposed to UVB light while contained in these bags. In vitro experiments showed a UVB dose-dependent abrogation of lymphocyte responder and stimulator functions, with concurrent preservation of platelet aggregation responses. In a phase I pilot study, UVB-treated platelet concentrates were administered to four bone marrow transplant recipients. Adverse effects attributable to the transfusions were not observed, and patients showed clinically effective transfusion responses. No patient developed lymphocytotoxic HLA or platelet antibodies. These studies suggest that platelets can be effectively irradiated with UVB light in a closed system. However, numerous variables, including container material, volume and composition of contents, steady exposure versus agitation, and exact UV wavelength, must be considered. 
Ki-67 immunostaining in human breast tumors and its relationship to prognosis. Ki-67 labeling was quantified in 37 nonmalignant breast tissues and in 63 breast carcinomas by counting ten random high-power fields each in three section planes (RC) or by evaluation of the area with the highest labeling density (HDC). Both procedures proved to be highly correlated (rs = 0.94). Ki-67-positive fractions of the nonmalignant tissues (mean, 2.1% for RC and 4.1% for HDC) were significantly lower as compared with the carcinomas (mean, 14.5% for RC and 17.5% for HDC). In carcinomas the Ki-67 labeling was significantly associated with pT stage, axillary lymph node status, and tumor grading and inversely related to progesterone receptor status. Using the medians of both counting methods (12% for RC and 17% for HDC) as cutoff points, significantly different curves for overall and disease-free survival (median follow-up, 37 months) were obtained. However, Cox multivariate analysis failed to demonstrate an independent effect of Ki-67 labeling. In contrast, Ki-67 reactivity seems to be of independent prognostic value if a higher cutoff level was selected. 
Tumor of the atrioventricular nodal region. A clinical and immunohistochemical study. Autopsy specimens of 17 tumors of the atrioventricular nodal region were studied. Sudden death occurred in 14 children and adults; seven of these patients had a history of atrioventricular block or syncope. Three tumors were incidental findings in infants with other congenital anomalies; diaphragmatic agenesis, pulmonary hypoplasia, and Meckel's diverticulum in one patient; mitral atresia in one; and congenital hydrocephalus, ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, coarctation of the aorta, and patent omphalovitelline duct in the third. Immunohistochemical stains demonstrated strong positivity for carcinoembryonic antigen in 13 of 13 cases, B72.3 antigen in 5 of 7 cases, and cytokeratin in 11 of 11 cases. Twenty control cases of mesothelioma and mesothelial hyperplasia were all negative for B72.3; one showed focal carcinoembryonic antigen staining. Ultrastructural analysis of one case demonstrated short rudimentary microvilli not characteristic of mesothelial cells. We conclude that so-called mesotheliomas of the atrioventricular nodal region are not of mesothelial origin, because of strong carcinoembryonic antigen positivity and occasional positivity with B72.3, as these antibodies react with glycoproteins found in endodermally derived tissue and generally not with mesothelial tissue. Conduction system tumors are most likely congenital rests of endodermal origin, can be associated with other congenital anomalies, and often cause symptoms of heart block and sudden death. 
Scoring system for the preoperative evaluation of metastatic spine tumor prognosis. An assessment system for the prognosis of metastatic spine tumors was evaluated for 64 cases who had undergone surgery. Six parameters were employed in the assessment system: 1) the general condition, 2) the number of extraspinal bone metastases, 3) the number of metastases in the vertebral body, 4) metastases to the major internal organs (lungs, liver, kidneys, and brain), 5) the primary site of the cancer, and 6) the severity of spinal cord palsy. Each parameter ranged from 0 to 2 points. The total score obtained for each patient can be correlated with the prognosis, while being valuable in predicting it. However, the prognosis could not be predicted from a single parameter. In conclusion, an excisional operation should be performed on those cases who scored above 9 points, while a palliative operation is indicated for those who scored under 5 points. 
Human central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor expressing nerve growth factor receptors: CHP707m. A primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) presented as a cerebral hemispheric mass in a 33-year-old man. Bone marrow metastases were discovered 11 months later. A cell line (CHP707m) was derived from these metastases. In culture, the cells showed features of neuronal differentiation, forming short neurites and synthesizing low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein. Northern blotting showed the tumor cells express nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor messenger RNA, and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting demonstrated NGF receptors on the cell surface. Western blotting showed CHP707m NGF receptors are truncated. The receptors are functional; they bind iodine 125-labeled mouse NGF with an affinity of 1.6 x 10(-9) M, and short-term treatment with NGF induces expression by the tumor cells of the proto-oncogene, c-fos. Although CHP707m is the first central nervous system PNET cell line proven to express NGF receptors, immunohistological survey of tissue sections prepared from human central nervous system PNETs showed that 13 of 35 contained NGF receptor-positive tumor cells. Thus, more than one-third of such tumors might be responsive to the effects of NGF. 
Phase II study of fluorouracil and recombinant interferon alfa-2a in previously untreated advanced colorectal carcinoma. We conducted a phase II clinical trial of fluorouracil (5FU) and recombinant interferon alfa-2a (rIFN alpha-2a) in 52 previously untreated patients with bidimensionally measurable metastatic colorectal cancer. During week 1, 5FU was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion, 750 mg/m2/d for 5 consecutive days. Intravenous bolus administration of 5FU 750 mg/m2 was given weekly for 7 weeks starting on day 12. rIFN alpha-2a (Roferon; Hoffman-LaRoche, Nutley, NJ), 9 x 10(6) U, was administered subcutaneously three times weekly during weeks 1 to 8. Patients were evaluated for response on week 9. Of 52 patients enrolled in the study, 51 were assessable for toxicity, and 45 were assessable for response. Fifteen patients experienced partial response, and one patient achieved a clinical complete response for an overall response rate of 35% (95% confidence interval [CI], 22%, 50%). Median duration of response is 7.5 months (range, 4 to 11 months). Seventy percent of patients entered on the study are alive with a median follow-up duration of 7 months. Twenty-five percent of patients developed grade 4 toxicity, and 82% developed grade 3 toxicity. One drug-related death in the presence of sepsis was reported, and two treatment-related seizures occurred. Our experience with this schedule produced a lower response rate with greater toxicity than previously reported. Current randomized trials comparing this schedule of 5FU with rIFN alpha-2a to 5FU plus folinic acid (leucovorin) or single-agent 5FU may determine its role in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinomas. 
Increasing incidence of cecal and sigmoid carcinoma. Data from the Connecticut Tumor Registry. We have studied both the distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer using The Connecticut Tumor Registry, the oldest tumor registry in the United States. During the time period 1973 to 1985, left-sided colon cancers accounted for 63% of the cancers, right-sided cancers 33%, and cancers with unspecified sites 4%. Indeed, this pattern of distribution has remained constant for 25 years. For the period 1935 to 1985, we calculated the sex-specific, age-adjusted (normalized to the 1970 U.S. Census) incidence. Age-adjusted incidence of rectal cancer has remained stable for 50 years: for men, 22.8 cases/100,000/year, and for women, 13.9 cases/100,000/year. During these 50 years, the age-adjusted incidence of cecal carcinoma for men has increased from 3.6 to 16.7 cases/100,000/year, while for women, it has increased from 4.9 to 14.2 cases/100,000/year. Sigmoid carcinoma for men has increased from 8.8 to 18.7 cases/100,000/year, and for women, it has increased from 7.7 to 12.8 cases/100,000/year. The incidence of colon cancer at each site has been and continues to be increasing at a constant rate. Age-adjusted incidence for all colorectal cancers has increased from 35.2 to 70.2 cases/100,000/year for men and from 32.1 to 49.2 cases/100,000/year for women. Thus, distribution of colorectal cancers by site in Connecticut has remained stable for 25 years. More importantly, however, the age-adjusted incidence of colon cancer has continued to increase for 50 years, whereas that of rectal cancer has remained relatively stable. 
Touch preparation cytology of breast lumpectomy margins with histologic correlation. Residual microscopic disease after lumpectomy for breast cancer may cause significant local recurrence. We evaluated one hundred fourteen consecutive breast lumpectomy margins in this study by touch preparation cytology. Cytologic preparations were intraoperatively correlated with gross and frozen section results and subsequently with permanent histologic sections of representative margins. Three specimens were cytologically unsatisfactory and 86 yielded benign findings, while material suggestive or diagnostic of malignancy was obtained from 25 specimens. Gross, frozen section, and permanent histologic margins were positive in 10, 17, and 22 cases, respectively. There were three false-positive touch preparation cytologic results, while frozen section specimens were false-negative in five cases. Sensitivity and specificity of touch preparation cytology were 100% and 96.6%, respectively, with a diagnostic accuracy of 97.3%. Touch preparation cytologic examination rapidly and reliably evaluates lumpectomy margins and overcomes sampling errors and artifacts related to frozen section evaluation. This technique currently complements frozen section evaluation of lumpectomy margins as part of a protocol aimed at reducing local recurrence of breast cancer. 
Fourth branchial pouch anomaly. We present an extremely rare case of fourth branchial fistula in a 23-year-old male. The characteristic clinical feature was a recurrent left lower neck abscess which did not respond to appropriate medical and surgical therapy. Radiography and a computed tomographic scan with contrast material revealed a fistula running from the apex of the left pyriform sinus (internal opening) to the left lower neck abscess. The fistula tract was excised surgically. Histological examination of the excised fistula revealed a squamous epithelial lining and subepithelial lymphoid tissue. This pyriform sinus fistula is thought to be of fourth pharyngeal pouch origin, because of its surgical aspects and the histological findings of the excised fistula. 
Effect of the somatostatin analogue octreotide acetate on hemostasis in humans. Octreotide acetate is a somatostatin analogue that has been shown to ameliorate the side effects of excessive secretion of hormone from benign and malignant tumors. The ability of this drug to inhibit the growth of malignant cells and to control gastrointestinal hemorrhage will prompt additional clinical trials. Because some of these patients may have thrombocytopenia, platelet dysfunction, or a coagulopathy, we studied tests of platelet function and blood coagulation in 15 patients before and after 14 days of therapy with octreotide acetate at a dosage of 500 micrograms three times daily. We found no substantial change in the results of these tests, and no patient experienced bleeding or thrombosis. These results suggest that octreotide acetate does not adversely affect platelet function or the coagulation system in humans. 
Adenocarcinoma arising in Barrett's esophagus. A review of nine adenocarcinomas of the esophagus arising in Barrett's epithelium was undertaken. We found the disease among white males disproportionately. Risk factors and incidence rate remain to be clarified. Only one patient was in a surveillance program and only he had carcinoma discovered "early." He still survives while only one of the eight whose diagnosis followed investigation of symptoms remains alive. 
Glomus tumor of the coccyx. A curable cause of coccygodynia. A 30-year-old woman presented with recurrent severe coccygodynia. She underwent exploration for a possible pilonidal sinus and was found to have a precoccygeal glomus tumor that also involved bony trabeculae of the coccyx. To our knowledge, a glomus tumor involving the coccygeal bone has not been previously documented. In view of the relief of this patient's pain following the surgical excision of coccyx and tumor, a causal role is suggested. 
The use of flow cytometry for the prognosis of stage II adjuvant treated breast cancer patients. Characterization of breast cancer cells by histology, flow cytometry, and steroid receptors was performed on 197 Stage II breast node positive cancer patients given adjuvant chemotherapy, plus tamoxifen for patients with positive hormone receptors. Histologic and steroid receptor assays were performed using standard techniques; flow cytometric analysis was performed from paraffin-embedded blocks obtained from the primary tumor. Quality control studies on reproducibility, tissue heterogeneity, and analysis procedures have been included. Of the 197 patients studied, aneuploidy was found in 102 (52%); the median %S value was 8% with a range of 0.4% to 38%. Our results demonstrated that number of positive nodes, receptor status, and grade were of prognostic value. Cell cycle kinetic data were not of independent prognostic value in this series. However, ploidy could differentiate in prognosis in the receptor-negative subgroup. Patients with receptor-negative tumors had a significantly better overall survival if the tumor was diploid in nature. Cell kinetics was not significantly prognostic for either receptor subgroup, although patients with higher %S tended to have better relapse-free and overall survival. This is in disagreement with other studies and may demonstrate that treatment has confounded our results and diminished the ability of flow cytometry data to help predict outcome. 
Breast cancer and dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin A. A case-control study of breast cancer was conducted in Buffalo. Participants completed a food frequency questionnaire and donated a fasting blood sample before definitive workup for breast masses. Dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and retinol for 83 women found to have breast cancer were compared with those of 113 women found to be free of breast cancer (control subjects). There were no case-control differences in dietary estimates of vitamin A intake or in plasma alpha-carotene and lycopene. However, subjects with breast cancer had lower concentrations of plasma beta-carotene than did control subjects (P = 0.02). There was no overall association between plasma retinol and breast cancer but a positive relationship was observed between retinol and breast cancer in the subgroup with low beta-carotene values. These results suggest that low plasma beta-carotene is associated with increased risk of breast cancer. Other studies will need to determine whether low carotene concentrations are a subtle effect of the disease or might be causally related to breast cancer. 
Adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum in patients less than 40 years of age. From 1962 to 1988, 50 of 801 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum treated at the National Naval Medical Center were less than 40 years old. Symptoms were present in 47 of the younger patients at presentation. The mean duration of time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis in this group was 4.9 months. Risk factors for carcinoma of the colon and rectum were identified in 14 of 50 patients less than 40 years old. A significantly greater proportion of patients less than 40 years old had Stage C disease compared with the older group of patients (42 versus 22 per cent, p = 0.014). Stage B disease was more common in patients more than 40 years of age (44.8 versus 26.0 per cent, p = 0.014). The proportion of patients with Stages A and D disease was similar in both age groups. The cumulative survival rate in this group at five and ten years was 43 and 34 per cent, respectively. The five year survival rate in patients less than 40 years old with Stage B disease was 76 per cent and with Stage C disease, 37 per cent. All young patients with Stage D disease were dead at 28 months. Synchronous and metachronous carcinomas of the colon and rectum were uncommon in patients less than 40 years old. Patients less than 40 years of age with carcinoma of the colon and rectum are usually symptomatic and have advanced disease at the time of presentation. Survival time for these patients for each stage of disease is similar to the over-all population of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum. 
Invasive papillary carcinoma of the breast: mammographic appearance. The mammographic findings in 18 patients with invasive papillary carcinoma were studied retrospectively. The mammograms of 10 patients showed a multinodular pattern, and seven patients had solitary nodules. One patient had an irregular, ill-defined mass in the retroareolar region. Two patients were found to have carcinoma in the contralateral breast, and two patients had intraductal carcinoma adjacent to the invasive papillary carcinoma. The varied mammographic features that may occur with this rare breast malignancy are discussed. 
Second cancers following non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The risk of second malignancies following non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) was estimated in 29,153 patients diagnosed with NHL between 1973 and 1987 in one of nine areas participating in the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program. Compared with the general population, NHL patients were at a significantly increased risk of developing second cancers (observed/expected [O/E] = 1.18; O = 1231). The O/E ratio increased significantly with time to reach 1.77 in 10-year survivors. Significant excesses were noted for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (O/E = 2.88), cancers of the bladder (O/E = 1.30), kidney (O/E = 1.47), and lung (O/E = 1.57), malignant melanoma (O/E = 2.44), and Hodgkin's disease (O/E = 4.16). Chemotherapy appeared related to subsequent acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) and bladder cancer. Radiation therapy was associated with ANLL and possibly cancers of the lung, bladder, and bone. Malignant melanoma was not clearly related to initial NHL treatment. 
Oncologic imaging. Staging and follow-up of renal and adrenal carcinoma. Computed tomography (CT) has emerged from the 1980s to play a dominant role in the pretreatment staging of renal and adrenal carcinomas. For detection, definition (staging), and determination of resectability or recurrence, CT with intravenous contrast enhancement, and more recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium-DTPA, may be the only cross-sectional imaging studies required before institution of appropriate therapy. Carcinoma of the kidney is frequently diagnosed by serendipity or detected on incidental ultrasound or CT examinations. Real-time ultrasound and color flow Doppler offer unique information on tumor vascularity and major venous vascular involvement. Positive predictive values of 96% can be achieved for the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma using contrast-enhanced CT scanning. For follow-up CT and MRI are the best imaging techniques for evaluation of the retroperitoneum. MRI may distinguish tumor recurrence from fibrosis in selected cases. Because primary neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare and often exceed 10 cm at the time of initial diagnosis, the functional nature (endocrine) of adrenal carcinoma may be part of the clinical presentation. Because initial stage is critical to survival and extent of surgical therapy, a knowledge of tumor classification is essential to the optimal diagnostic evaluation. Newer imaging tests, CT and MRI, have superseded conventional urography, ultrasound, and radionuclide studies for the diagnosis and staging of adrenal cancer. Early diagnosis and low stage at presentation are critical to survival in patients with adrenal carcinoma. The current concepts for pretreatment imaging evaluation and the role of CT, MRI, and ultrasound are outlined. An oncologic imaging approach based on tumor staging and classification for patients with real or suspected renal cell carcinoma and adrenal carcinoma is essential to optimal patient care. 
Reconstruction after mastectomy. Advances in materials and techniques, especially those involving transposition of muscle and skin flaps, have made breast reconstruction possible for most women who undergo mastectomy for breast cancer. The availability of this option can alleviate the breast and chest wall deformity that results from virtually all local treatment of breast cancer. It is essential that the reconstruction surgeon be part of the breast cancer management team from the beginning of treatment planning and that this surgeon work closely with the general surgeon, medical oncologist, and radiation therapist as well as the adjunctive treatment team members. The patient's clinical status and the type of local treatment will be significant determinants of the reconstructive options. For women with stage I breast cancer, these decisions may be based largely on the oncologist's local and adjunctive therapy procedures and the woman's desire to proceed or delay. For women with systemic disease, all members of the breast management team may need to agree on the advisability and timing of reconstruction. Central to all of the numerous decisions described in this paper regarding the timing, type, and extent of breast reconstruction is the primary goal of the entire team: the best possible management of the breast cancer itself. The promise of attractive, symmetric, and natural appearing breasts, complete with a symmetric nipple-areolar complex, has eased somewhat the diminishment of self-esteem and the threat to femininity that can accompany the loss of a breast. By lowering fear, the widely recognized availability of breast reconstruction may encourage more women to monitor their breasts and seek diagnosis of changes and may influence selection of the type of local treatment if cancer is detected. Because of the psychological and cultural significance of the breast, the reconstructive surgeon must be particularly sensitive to the psychological and aesthetic expectations of the patient. Even in those patients with metastases and limited life expectancy, breast reconstruction can enhance the quality of life. 
Rising incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia Analyses of cancer incidence data from nine areas of the United States revealed steadily rising rates from 1976 to 1987 of adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia. The increases among men in this period ranged from 4% to 10% per year, and thus exceeded those of any other type of cancer. In contrast, there were relatively stable trends for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and slight declines for adenocarcinoma of more distal portions of the stomach. Adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia disproportionately affected white men and rarely occurred among women. By the mid-1980s, among white men, adenocarcinomas accounted for about one third of all esophageal cancers, while cardia cancers accounted for about one half of all stomach cancers with specified subsites. The rising incidence rates and similar demographic patterns point to the need for investigation into the causes of these poorly understood cancers. 
Pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis. Presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. A 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever, hyponatremia, and mononeuritis multiplex. Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established. The absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy. Autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature. An early diagnosis of MAE in the setting of fever and SIADH may be possible via transbronchial biopsy. 
Soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck in adults. We reviewed the clinical records and pathologic material of 176 adults with primary soft tissue sarcomas treated at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center between 1950 and 1985. Seventy-two patients (41%) had low-grade sarcomas and 104 (59%) had high-grade sarcomas. All but 18 patients underwent some form of excision as initial therapy. Adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy combined with surgical excision showed no significant effect. A significantly increased risk of treatment failure was associated with large tumor size, positive surgical margins, bone involvement, local recurrence, metastatic spread, and high histologic grade. Except for recurrence, the p value by univariate analysis in the log-rank test for comparison of survival according to these clinical and pathologic characteristics was p less than 0.0001. Although the overall survival was 75% at 2 years, 55% at 5 years, and 46% at 10 years, only 20% of the patients with high-grade sarcomas were alive 10 years after treatment. Most patients with rhabdomyosarcoma, high-grade peripheral nerve tumor, and high-grade fibrous histiocytoma and all patients with high-grade angiosarcoma died of disease less than 5 years after diagnosis. New therapeutic strategies are needed to improve the survival of adult patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck. 
Symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients: the role of fluid cytology. Clinical and cytologic findings in 21 breast cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion are presented. The etiology of the pericardial effusion was definitely malignant, by cytology/histology in 13 patients (62%), and suspected malignant by cytology in 2 patients (9%). One patient (5%) with definitely nonmalignant pericardial effusion by cytology was found to be histologically positive at autopsy. In 5 patients (24%) there was no histological/cytological evidence of malignancy; radiation pericarditis could be the etiology in 4 of these 5 patients. The median time from the diagnosis of breast cancer to the development of symptomatic pericardial effusion was 60 months (range: 1-219 months). Ten patients developed cardiac tamponade; they were treated by either pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy. The mean survival of patients with negative cytology/histology was 12 months; patients with suspicious cytology had a mean survival of 9 months; patients with malignant effusion, treated by pericardiectomy, had a mean survival of 22.3 months, while patients with malignant pericardial effusion, who were not subjected to surgery, had a mean survival of 4.7 months, only. It is concluded that the etiology of symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients is not always malignant, which emphasizes the role of fluid cytology in establishing definite diagnosis. The survival probability is a function of the extent of extracardiac disease; among patients with malignant pericardial effusion those selected for pericardiectomy have a longer than average survival. 
Developmental regulation of granulocytic cell binding to hemonectin. Hemonectin (HN), a component of the bone marrow (BM) extracellular matrix which promotes adhesion of cells in the granulocytic lineage, was purified to near homogeneity and tested for its ability to mediate attachment of normal and leukemic cells of granulocytic lineage. Purified HN immobilized on plastic substrates promoted serum-free attachment of normal granulocyte/macrophage progenitor cells (CFC-GM), using an in situ attachment assay in which cell attachment is inhibited by specific polyclonal antisera. When unfractionated BM cells were allowed to attach to purified HN and stained in situ, HN preferentially bound cells at earlier stages of granulocytic differentiation. These observations were confirmed using cells of the HL-60 progranulocytic cell line which mirrored this differentiation-stage specific binding to HN. HN promoted attachment of 60% of uninduced HL-60 cells which were arrested at the progranulocyte stage, whereas only 15% of uninduced HL-60 cells attached to uncoated plastic and 4% to attached plastic coated with equal microgram quantities of bovine serum albumin (BSA). When HL-60 cells were induced to differentiate along the granulocytic pathway by incubation with dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), attachment to hemonectin was reduced. Thus, both primary BM granulocytic cells and a granulocytic cell line show preferential attachment of those cells at earlier stages of differentiation. This developmentally regulated binding suggests a mechanism for release of maturing BM into the peripheral circulation. 
Advances in data assessment. Application to the etiology of nausea reported during chemotherapy, concerns about significance testing, and opportunities in clinical trials. Typical inferential statistical procedures, such as the t-test and analysis of variance, compare differences in mean values of variables. This approach can sometimes obscure rather than illuminate research data. Here we present and discuss alternative data analytic techniques. Potential advantages of box plots over conventional t-tests for understanding data are shown by comparing the area under high and low frequencies from spectral curves of autonomic changes following chemotherapy treatment. Typical t-tests provide information regarding statistical significance in terms of the differences in group means; box plots and related exploratory techniques provide information regarding the characteristics of the distributions within the groups as well as examination of potential outliers. Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) and other multivariate techniques are commonly used to deal with potentially complex data sets with multiple outcome measures. The potential advantages of visual clustering techniques such as star plots, Chernoff faces, and Andrew's Function Plots are demonstrated by examining changes in facial pallor caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Typical MANOVA approaches can identify potential differences in mean values between groups; visual clustering approaches do this by graphically presenting complex interrelationships for individual cases. This approach enhances the visual interpretation of potential interactions that would be obscured by simply focusing on overall mean values. Preliminary data from a meta-analysis on the effect of metoclopramide on chemotherapy-induced vomiting demonstrates the potential uses and advantages of this summary technique over simple tabular summaries. We found significant relationships between the effect size of the drug and variables such as the year of study publication and whether the publication was an article or an abstract. While none of these techniques are meant to replace traditional inferential statistics, they offer advantages in terms of data exploration and understanding relationships within data sets that are not clearly addressed by other methods. They are potentially valuable alternatives worthy of exploration. Finally, we discuss issues of interim analyses and multiple endpoint assessment for clinical trials. 
Induction of in vitro graft-versus-leukemia activity following bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia. We studied the in vitro effects of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells from the peripheral blood of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients after allogeneic and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). LAK cells were generated by incubating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients post-BMT with recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) (500 U/mL) in 10% AB serum for 7 days. They were phenotyped and tested for activity in a standard 4-hour 51Cr release assay (n = 37) and in a CFU-GM assay (n = 24). We found that the LAK cells were mainly activated natural killer cells, but some were CD3+ T cells. In the 51Cr release assay LAK cells from 20 of 33 (61%) allogeneic and 2 of 4 syngeneic recipients killed recipient CML cells and in 22 of 37 (60%) cases also killed the HLA disparate CML cells. In the CFU-GM assay the LAK cells incubated together with the CML cells in liquid culture before plating inhibited (P less than .05) colony growth in 16 of 22 allogeneic and 2 of 2 syngeneic recipients. Cell-cell contact was necessary for optimal effect. There was little or no inhibition of proliferation of donor marrow CFU-GM. This in vitro graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect could also be demonstrated after LAK effectors were depleted of CD3+ T cells. It was inducible in recipients of both T cell-depleted and T cell-replete donor marrow and in recipients with or without graft-versus-host disease. These results suggest that a major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted GVL effect is inducible following allogeneic and syngeneic BMT. The use of IL-2/LAK cells after BMT could reduce the risk of relapse. 
The effect of the gastrin receptor antagonist proglumide on survival in gastric carcinoma. Gastric cancer remains a disease with a very poor prognosis, and there is no safe and effective form of therapy for advanced disease. Evidence is now abundant to show that gastrin stimulates the growth of both gastric and colorectal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and that blockade of gastrin receptors can prolong survival in xenografted nude mice. We have thus performed a randomized, controlled study of the gastrin/cholecystokinin receptor antagonist proglumide as therapy in 110 patients with gastric carcinoma. Proglumide had no overall effect on survival (Mantel-Cox statistic = 0.5, P = 0.48). The 95% confidence interval for the proglumide treated group was 260 to 474 days compared to 230 to 372 days for the control group. No significant difference was seen with proglumide, which has a relatively low affinity with the gastrin receptor and also has partial agonist activity. Drugs that are far more specific and potent gastrin receptor antagonists are becoming available, which may have a greater effect on survival, and further clinical trials of such compounds are clearly indicated to determine the efficacy of hormonal control of gastrointestinal malignancy. 
Sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled probes for detection of human papillomavirus by in situ hybridisation. The sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled DNA probes for the detection of human papillomavirus (HPV) by dot blotting and in situ hybridisation was compared in tissues from cervical, laryngeal, and anogenital neoplasia. Probes were either labelled with digoxigenin by the random primer technique and detected with anti-digoxigenin antibody, or labelled with biotin by nick translation and detected with streptavidin, both methods having a common final visualisation procedure using alkaline phosphatase. Digoxigenin labelled probes proved two to 10-fold more sensitive by quantitative dot blotting and four-fold more sensitive in detecting HPV 16 DNA in a series of 31 anal carcinomas, compared with biotinylated probes. The digoxigenin method also produced less non-specific background staining of tissue sections than biotin labelled probes. It is concluded that digoxigenin DNA labelling and detection provides a simple, reliable, and efficient alternative to the use of biotin or radioactive isotopes for the detection of HPV DNA by in situ hybridisation. Digoxigenin labelled probes also offer the possibility of double labelling in situ hybridisation procedures when used with biotin labelled probes to provide simultaneous identification of different DNA sequences. 
Thoracoscopy for the diagnosis of pleural disease. OBJECTIVE: To assess the accuracy and safety of thoracoscopy for the evaluation of pleural disease. DESIGN: Prospective evaluation of patients referred for thoracoscopy. SETTING: University hospital specializing in chest diseases. PATIENTS: We studied 102 patients with pleural disease, the cause of which had not been determined after initial investigation, including thoracentesis and needle biopsy. Eighty-six patients had pleural effusion, 11 had pleural mass, and 5 had pleural effusion in association with a known primary lung carcinoma. INTERVENTION: All patients had thoracoscopy under local anesthesia with mild sedation. Visually directed biopsies were done of parietal pleura. MEASUREMENTS: We recorded clinical characteristics, laboratory data, findings and duration of thoracoscopy, and any complications associated with the procedure. Hospital and clinic follow-up records were reviewed, and patients were contacted by telephone 12 and 24 months after thoracoscopy to assess their health status. MAIN RESULTS: One hundred and four thoracoscopies were done in 102 patients. A definitive diagnosis was established in 95 patients: 42 had malignant pleural disease and 53 had benign pleural disease. A diagnosis of benign pleural disease using thoracoscopy could not be confirmed in the remaining 7 patients because of insufficient follow-up information. Overall, thoracoscopy was 96% accurate with a sensitivity of 91%, a specificity of 100% and a negative predictive value of 93% for the diagnosis of pleural malignancy. Thoracoscopy was well tolerated under local anesthesia and entailed hospitalization for less than 24 hours in most cases. No deaths occurred, although 1.9% of patients had major complications, and 5.5% had minor complications. CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with pleural disease remaining undiagnosed after usual initial investigation, thoracoscopy done under local anesthesia is a rapid, safe, and well-tolerated procedure with an excellent diagnostic yield that is equivalent to that of thoracotomy. 
Expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor and its receptor in gynecologic malignancies. Recently, hematopoietic growth factors have been implicated in protean nonhematopoietic processes. In the current study, expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and its receptor (the c-fms proto-oncogene) was investigated in 42 samples of gynecologic tissues. There were 15 samples of normal ovarian and uterine tissue or benign conditions of these organs; 11 samples of primary ovarian cancer tissue; seven samples of metastatic ovarian cancer tissue; and nine samples of primary endometrial cancer tissue. Steady state transcript levels were assessed by Northern Blot analysis. Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) expression was not observed in any of the specimens of benign abnormalities or of normal organs; c-fms expression was detected in two of 15 (13%) of these specimens, albeit at very low levels. In contrast, 14 (78%) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens, and five (55%) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed M-CSF. Similarly, 16 (89%) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens and six (67%) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed c-fms. Most positive malignant tissues (19 [86%] of 22) showed coexpression of M-CSF and c-fms. Of interest, M-CSF and c-fms mRNA were detected in tumor, but not in adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, M-CSF and c-fms transcripts were produced by all metastatic tumors, including two cases in which the corresponding primary tumor from the same patient was negative. Because M-CSF mediates its effects by binding to its receptor, the increased levels of both these gene products in gynecologic malignancies suggest that an interaction between M-CSF and c-fms may participate in the development of ovarian and endometrial carcinomas and especially in progression to the metastatic state. 
Stimulatory effects of maitotoxin on insulin release in insulinoma HIT cells: role of calcium uptake and phosphoinositide breakdown. In hamster insulinoma (HIT) cells, maitotoxin (MTX) induces a time-dependent and concentration-dependent release of insulin that requires the presence of extracellular calcium. The response is nearly completely blocked by cinnarizine and cadmium, but is not inhibited by the L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine or by manganese. MTX induces 45Ca+ uptake in these cells in a dose-dependent mode, and the uptake is blocked with cinnarizine, nifedipine and cadmium, and is partially inhibited by manganese. MTX induces phosphoinositide breakdown in HIT cells, and the response is partially blocked by cadmium, but is not affected by nifedipine, cinnarizine or manganese. High concentrations of potassium ions also induce insulin release and calcium uptake in HIT cells. Both effects of potassium are blocked partially by nifedipine, cadmium and cinnarizine. High concentrations of potassium do not induce phosphoinositide breakdown in HIT cells. The results suggest that MTX-elicited release of insulin is attained by two mechanisms: 1) a nifedipine-sensitive action, which results from MTX-induced activation of L-type calcium channels, which can be mimicked with high potassium concentrations; and 2) a nifedipine-insensitive action, which may be initiated by the activation of phosphoinositide breakdown by MTX. Such an activation of phospholipase C would result in the formation of 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate, a release of intracellular calcium and then release of insulin to the extracellular space. Cinnarizine is proposed to block both MTX-elicited mechanisms, the first by blockade of calcium channels and the second by blocking 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate-induced release of internal calcium. Either mechanism alone appears capable of eliciting release of insulin. 
Methodologic issues in assessing the quality of life of cancer patients. Although quality of life assessments have been employed successfully in descriptive and evaluative studies in oncology, their use in cancer clinical trials has, to date, been limited. A range of issues have impeded the conduct of clinical trial-based quality of life investigations. These include: the absence of theoretical models to guide the development of quality of life measures; over-reliance on ad hoc approaches to quality of life assessment; and insufficient attention to the practical constraints operating in clinical research settings. Of primary importance is the need to develop multidimensional quality of life instruments that are brief and psychometrically robust. It is suggested that future work on instrument development focus on refining currently available generic or cancer-specific measures, and on developing new diagnostic-specific questionnaire modules. This psychometric work should be guided by appropriate theoretical models of the relationship among health-related quality of life domains. Although it is widely accepted that the patient represents the most appropriate source of quality of life data, it is suggested that efforts also be directed toward improving the validity and reliability of physician-generated assessments of patients' performance status and of treatment toxicities, and toward determining the feasibility of employing family members as proxy raters of the psychologic and social health status of patients who are unwilling or unable to provide such information. Additional attention should be paid to the many logistical problems that arise in clinical trial-based quality of life investigations. In particular, research designs and data collection procedures should be selected that minimize patient, medical staff, and institutional burden. 
Epithelial tumors of the ovary: CT findings and correlation with US. One hundred thirty patients with 170 epithelial ovarian tumors were prospectively studied with computed tomography (CT) before surgery. Ultrasound (US) was performed in 108 patients with 138 tumors. At pathologic examination, 78 tumors (46%) were benign, 14 (8%) borderline, and 78 (46%) malignant. CT results were compared with surgical and pathologic findings in all patients. CT enabled detection of 148 of 170 tumors (87%), and US enabled detection of 118 of 138 tumors (86%). Benign serous cystadenomas (n = 42) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 69% at CT and 70% at US. Benign mucinous cystadenomas (n = 21) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 62% at CT and 50% at US. Malignancy was suggested in nine of 14 patients (64%) with borderline tumors at CT and in five of 14 (36%) at US. The overall accuracy of characterization of benign versus malignant tumors (including borderline tumors) was 94% with CT and 80% with US. In the 108 patients studied with both CT and US, the sensitivity of CT was significantly superior to that of US (P less than .03), whereas there was no significant difference in specificity (P = .125). 
p53 mutations in colorectal cancer. Immunohistological staining of primary colorectal carcinomas with antibodies specific to p53 demonstrated gross overexpression of the protein in approximately 50% of the malignant tumors examined. Benign adenomas were all negative for p53 overexpression. To determine the molecular basis for this overexpression we examined p53 protein expression in 10 colorectal cancer cell lines. Six of the cell lines expressed high levels of p53 in ELISA, cell-staining, and immunoprecipitation studies. Direct sequencing and chemical-mismatch-cleavage analysis of p53 cDNA by using the polymerase chain reaction in these cell lines showed that all cell lines that expressed high levels of p53 were synthesizing mRNAs that encoded mutant p53 proteins. In two of those four cell lines where p53 expression was lower, point mutations were still detected. Thus, we conclude that overexpression of p53 is synonymous with mutation, but some mutations would not be detected by a simple immunohistochemical analysis. Mutation of the p53 gene is one of the commonest genetic changes in the development of human colorectal cancer. 
Internists' practices in health promotion and disease prevention. A survey. OBJECTIVE: To estimate internists' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities, and to explore demographic, professional, behavioral, psychological, cognitive, and organizational factors associated with the use of such practices. DESIGN: Mail survey. SETTING AND SUBJECTS: A sample of 2610 members and fellows of the American College of Physicians (ACP) participated in the study. They engaged in patient care activities more than 20 hours per week and were stratified by gender and region. They lived in four geographic areas of the United States (Northeast, Southeast, Central, and West), comprising 21 ACP regions. MEASUREMENTS: A questionnaire requesting background information as well as information about personal health; record keeping; use of immunizations (pneumococcal, influenza, tetanus, hepatitis B); use of screening tests and procedures for detecting cancer (breast examination, Papanicolaou smear, stool occult blood test) and other diseases (electrocardiograms, cholesterol level tests, chest radiographs); and behavioral counseling to promote health (in the areas of smoking, exercise, and alcohol and seat belt use). MAIN RESULTS: Internists used effective preventive interventions less frequently and ineffective practices more frequently than experts recommend. Internists' use of health promotion and disease prevention activities is associated with habit, attitude, and a lack of adequate knowledge. Younger physician age, general internal medicine practice, and personal health promotion and disease prevention practices were strongly associated with more appropriate use of recommended practices (P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Internists' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities falls short of expert recommendations. Programs to improve the delivery of preventive services might be aimed at improving physicians' personal health practices, might be directed toward patients, and might include the development of effective systems to remind physicians. 
In vivo selection and characterization of a murine mammary tumor subline with high potential for spontaneous lymph node metastasis. A transplantable mammary adenocarcinoma, grown in Balb/c mice, with a marked enhancement in its draining lymph node metastatic ability (MM3LN), was obtained through an in vivo procedure from a variant tumor moderately metastatic to lymph nodes (MM3). Both MM3 and MM3LN presented a similar latency and tumor growth rate and reached the same tumor mean diameter at death. MM3LN tumor-bearing mice exhibited a larger mean survival time. The new variant showed a 2.5-fold higher incidence of tumor-draining lymph node metastases than MM3 line, with no differences in the incidence of lung metastases. Morphology as well as cytogenetic and in vitro adhesion properties were studied in order to characterize the new subline. This murine tumor model has potential application in the study of the metastatic process in lymphoid tissue. 
Intralesional interferon therapy for basal cell carcinoma. In a clinical trial of 172 patients at four medical centers, interferon alfa-2b (1.5 x 10(6) IU) or a placebo was injected directly into biopsy-proved noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas three times weekly for 3 weeks, for a cumulative dose of 13.5 million IU. Efficacy of treatment was determined at 16 to 20 weeks by examination of biopsy specimens that demonstrated cure of lesions in 86% of interferon-treated patients and in only 29% of placebo-treated patients. During the treatment course and follow-up, an initial inflammatory response was observed at the treatment sites, followed by diminished erythema, improvement in overall appearance, and a decrease in size of lesions. Side effects of treatment, mainly flu-like symptoms, were usually mild and transient and occurred more commonly in the interferon-treated group. Only three patients, all in the interferon-treated group, discontinued therapy because of side effects. One year after initiation of therapy, 81% of interferon recipients and 20% of those given the placebo remained tumor free. Noduloulcerative and superficial lesions were equally responsive to treatment with interferon. For some patients with noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas, intralesional interferon alfa-2b may be an alternative, effective treatment. 
1990 Ogura memorial lecture: moral dilemmas in head and neck cancer. Neither morality nor dilemma can be defined meaningfully in the concept of the practical management of head and neck cancer. Although both have important implications, particularly with regard to ethnic and social factors, they play a relatively minor role in determining management policy. With little knowledge of the intrinsic causes of cancer and with a treatment strategy limited to radiotherapy and surgery, our desire for cure must be tempered by concern to avoid any increase in patient privations. My philosophy, based upon the care of more than 3500 patients over almost 30 years, reflects some of the difficulties of applying the concept "do nothing that may cause harm," while offering each patient the opportunity for long-term cure. 
Hemangiopericytoma of the sciatic nerve. Case report. The authors report the case of a hemangiopericytoma arising in a sciatic nerve. It was found to be invasive within the epineurium but sparing surrounding tissues. Adequate resection required sacrifice of the nerve. Hemangiopericytomas can be added to the short list of mesodermal peripheral-nerve tumors. 
Monocytoid B-cell lymphoma arising in extranodal organs. Six cases of monocytoid B-cell lymphoma (MBCL) developing in extranodal sites (thyroid, three; stomach, two; rectum, one) are described. Patients were all women aged 46 to 65 years (median, 53 years). Three patients with thyroid lymphoma presented with an increasing goiter, two with positive serum antithyroid antibodies, and one patient had chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLTH). The histologic type of surgically resected specimens was a diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cells with monocytoid appearance, i.e., abundant pale cytoplasm with distinct cell border and small reniform nucleus. These cells were CD20+, 22+, 24-, 9- showing their B-cell origin. The monoclonal nature of the proliferating cells was confirmed by restricted expression of immunoglobulin (Ig) light chain and/or gene rearrangement study in three cases. Two cases of thyroid lymphoma in which the monoclonality could not be confirmed had histologic appearances characteristic of malignant lymphoma. All three patients with gastric or rectal lymphoma had reactive lymphoid hyperplasia (RLH) near the tumors. These findings showed presence of MBCL in the extranodal sites with invariable coexistence with lymphoid follicles formed by CLTH in thyroid or RLH in stomach and rectum. 
Management of spinal cord compression secondary to metastatic prostatic carcinoma. Spinal cord or cauda equina compression from prostatic cancer is an oncologic emergency necessitating prompt evaluation and treatment. The strong correlation between pretreatment motor status and treatment outcome underscores the importance of immediate treatment before further neurologic deterioration and before the damage to the spinal cord becomes permanent. Patients with known osseous metastases should be alerted by their clinicians to seek medical help within hours should they develop weakness in an extremity. Prompt MRI of the entire spine should be done prior to treatment. Myelography should be reserved for those patients who cannot undergo a technically adequate or expeditious MRI study. The convenience of MRI relative to myelography allows clinicians to diagnose actual or impending spinal cord compression earlier. High-dose steroids (dexamethasone) should be instituted immediately, and endocrine therapy should be started if not already in use. Ambulatory and moderately paraparetic patients seem best treated initially with radiation alone. Immediate surgical decompression should be used in patients with an expected lifespan of at least 6 months who deteriorate during radiation, who have had previous radiation to the involved site, or who have a potentially correctable unstable spine. In addition, paraplegic patients or severely paraparetic patients with recent neurologic deterioration should be treated with immediate surgical decompression if they are judged reasonably able to tolerate the surgery. These patients should then receive postoperative radiation treatment. 
End stage renal disease serum contains a specific renal cell growth factor. End stage renal disease (ESRD) kidneys display abnormal growth characterized by a continuum of cystic disease, adenoma and carcinoma. This study evaluates the hypothesis that serum of patients with ESRD contains increased amounts of a growth factor which specifically induces proliferation of renal cells. ESRD sera compared to sera from normal controls induced a two to three-fold increase in the proliferative rate of renal cell carcinoma cell lines and normal kidney explants compared to cell lines from other sites. The increased proliferative activity of ESRD sera on renal cells was paralleled by an increase in cytosolic free calcium. The growth factor activity was encoded by a polypeptide of between 15 and 30 kd. The activity of ESRD sera on renal cells was not mimicked or inhibited by epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet derived growth factor indicating that the renal cell specific growth factor activity in ESRD is different from these factors. 
Calcium ionophore, A23187, induces commitment to differentiation but inhibits the subsequent expression of erythroid genes in murine erythroleukemia cells. Murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cells are a useful model for studying the processes that regulate erythroid differentiation because exposure of these cells to a variety of chemical inducing agents results in expression of erythroid-specific genes and the resultant loss of cellular immortality. Previously it has been suggested that the calcium ionophore, A23187, has effects on the early cellular events that lead to the commitment of these cells to differentiation, but was not in itself sufficient to induce differentiation. We demonstrate here that A23187, as well as another calcium ionophore, ionomycin, are capable of inducing commitment to differentiation. Unlike other inducing agents, continual exposure to A23187 inhibits transcription of the erythroid-specific genes, beta-globin and Band 3. This effect is not attributable to an increase in cytosolic calcium concentration, because cells induced by ionomycin produce normal amounts of hemoglobin. These effects of A23187 on MEL cells confirm that commitment to differentiation is a distinct event from the subsequent transcriptional activation of erythroid genes. The ability of both ionophores to induce commitment to differentiation suggests that an increase in cytosolic calcium can trigger commitment to differentiation. These agents should prove useful in investigating the cellular processes that are responsible for commitment to differentiation. 
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (parapsoriasis en plaque). An association with pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta in young children. Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) and pityriasis lichenoides chronica (PLC) are related benign disorders without recognized association with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). We report the cases of two children with documented PLEVA evolving into CTCL over several years. One child had the clinical lesions of PLC but the dermatopathologic findings of PLEVA at age 2 years. At age 12 years, he had skin changes of poikiloderma atrophicans vasculare and dermatopathologic findings consistent with parapsoriasis en plaque. The second child presented at age 7 years with scaling dermatitis and dermatopathologic findings of PLEVA. At age 12 years, the histologic diagnosis was parapsoriasis. Monoclonal antibody studies performed on biopsy specimens from both patients revealed 70% to 100% cells staining with CD5, 80% to 90% staining with CD4, 30% to 50% staining with CD8, and an increase in CD1-staining cells in the papillary dermis, indicating a predominantly helper T-cell infiltrate. We believe that PLC and PLEVA may be part of the spectrum of CTCL. Furthermore, CTCL may be more common in young children than once thought. 
Serial CA 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial CA 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer. CA 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin, etoposide, and Adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy (median eight). Eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy CA 125 levels (median 233 U/mL). CA 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed. The median level at the time of relapse was 56 U/mL. Levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients (56%). Serial CA 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. 
The Lewis X antigen. A new paraffin section marker for Reed-Sternberg cells. Using a monoclonal antibody specific to the Lewis X antigen (anti-Lex), the authors studied 103 cases of Hodgkin's disease (HD) in comparison with 57 cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL); three cases of granulocytic sarcoma (GS); two cases of malignant histiocytosis (MH); one case of monoblastic leukemia (ML); one case of interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma (IRCS); six cases of histiocytosis X (HX); one case of reticulohistiocytoma (RH); 44 various reactive conditions of the lymph node (LN). Reed-Sternberg and related (R-S) cells stained selectively in 80 of 92 cases of HD (87.0%), excluding 11 cases of lymphocyte predominance type. The stain was better in B-5-fixed specimens than in formalin-fixed specimens, showing a dense deposit of reaction products at a paranuclear site and on the cell surface. The staining results were compared with those of Leu-M1 and found to be superior both qualitatively and quantitatively (detection rate of R-S cells: 87.0% versus 68.5% of Leu-M1). Granulocytes, rare epithelioid histiocytes, and some endothelial and/or erythrocytes also stained with anti-Lex. The stain had positive results in three cases of GS showing a diffuse cytoplasmic staining pattern. Of NHL, two of 29 peripheral T-cell lymphomas stained to show rare paranuclear deposits without cell surface staining. The stain had negative results in MH, ML, IRCS, HX, and RH. Of 45 reactive LN, minute subcapsular collections of Lewis X+, altered-appearing Langerhans'-like cells, were observed in all ten LN from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated persistent generalized lymphadenopathy (PGL). The stain had negative results in all other various reactive conditions of LN. In conclusion, Lewis X staining is useful as a marker for R-S cells in paraffin sections with staining results superior to those of Leu-M1. Lewis X staining also detects subcapsular clustering of altered-appearing Langerhans'-like cells in PGL, which has not been described previously and warrants additional study. 
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands: a reappraisal of the influence of tumor differentiation on prognosis. Thirty-nine cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands were reviewed for a reappraisal of the influence of the grade of differentiation on the outcome of the disease. The age of the patients ranged between 7 and 84 years. Fifteen patients were females and 24 males. The tumors were located at the parotid gland (n = 30), the submaxillary gland (n = 1), the soft palate (n = 5) and the oral mucosa NOS (n = 3). At presentation 4 tumors were intraglandular and 35 extraglandular; three patients had lymph node metastases and one patient lung metastases. The grade of differentiation was assessed using the criteria of Healey et al. Twelve tumors were classified as grade I, 17 as grade II, and 10 as grade III. Follow-up information was obtained with a duration of 5-144 months (mean 44.7 months). Six cases recurred locally and 5 developed metastases. Five years cumulative survival was 100% for grade I, 70.1% for grade II, and 47.2% for grade III. The results point to the usefulness of the assessment of the grade of differentiation as a guide to anticipate the outcome of the disease. 
Superficial bladder cancer in patients under 40 years of age. Efficacy of topical prophylaxis. In patients under the age of 40 years with primary superficial bladder cancer the efficacy of adjuvant topical treatment was the same as in elderly patients (recurrences 23%, progression rate 8%). Patients should therefore be treated on the basis of stage and grade of the tumour regardless of their age. 
Cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma. Apart from choriocarcinoma, involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) by gynecologic malignancy is rare. A 10-year retrospective review at the University of Washington Medical Center (Seattle, WA) and Swedish Hospital and Medical Center Tumor Registry (Seattle, WA) identified 14 patients with cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma. Median age at diagnosis of cerebral metastases was 52.5 years. Median interval from the diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma to the diagnosis of CNS metastases was 14.5 months. Seven patients had received cisplatin therapy before CNS relapse. Seven patients underwent second-look procedures before developing CNS metastases; in three, results were negative. Eight patients had evidence of extraperitoneal spread to other sites at the time of CNS relapse. Clinical manifestations included motor weakness, seizures, headache, confusion, and speech disturbance. All lesions were contrast enhancing on computed tomography (CT) scans and were located in the cerebral hemispheres. Nine patients had single lesions, five of whom underwent surgical resection of the lesion with histologic confirmation of metastases from the primary site. Median survival was 2 months in patients receiving radiation therapy alone and 17 months in patients who received surgery and radiation. Median survival of the entire series was 3 months. The presence of multiple cerebral metastases or evidence of extraperitoneal spread elsewhere in the body was adversely associated with survival. The prognosis of patients with cerebral metastases from ovarian carcinoma appears poor. However, early diagnosis by routine CT scanning followed by surgical resection and radiation may improve overall survival in a select group of patients. 
Pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure. We report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure, requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks. Common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out; as renal function returned, severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed. We suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia. 
Genotypic characterization of centrocytic lymphoma: frequent rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus. Centrocytic lymphomas are defined in the Kiel classification as B-cell lymphomas composed exclusively of cells resembling cleaved follicular center cells (FCC). These lymphomas have been shown to be histologically, immunophenotypically, and clinically distinct from other cleaved FCC lymphomas. DNA from 18 centrocytic lymphomas (14 patients) was analyzed using Southern blotting and probes for immunoglobulin heavy (JH) and kappa light chain (JK) joining gene, T-cell receptor beta chain constant gene (CB), bcl-1, bcl-2, and c-myc gene rearrangements. All of the lymphomas had JH and JK rearrangements, confirming their B-cell origin. None of the specimens had detectable CB, bcl-2, or c-myc rearrangements. However, 4 of 14 patients (28.6%) had rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus. Therefore, centrocytic lymphomas are genotypically distinguishable from the majority of other small cleaved FCC lymphomas by their lack of demonstrable bcl-2 rearrangements. This supports the distinct nature of centrocytic lymphomas and suggests the lack of importance for the putative oncogene bcl-2 in these cases. Furthermore, the frequent rearrangement of bcl-1 suggests a possible role for this locus in the pathogenesis of at least some centrocytic lymphomas. 
Lung cancer risk associated with cancer in relatives. Family history data from an incident case-control study of lung cancer conducted in the Texas Gulf Coast region between 1976 and 1980 were analyzed to evaluate the contribution of cancer in first-degree relatives to lung cancer risk. Odds ratios (OR) increased slightly as the number of relatives with any cancer increased (reaching 1.5 with 4 or more relatives with cancer). Risks were higher for tobacco-related cancers (OR = 1.5 for 2 or more relatives with these tumors) and greatest for first-degree relatives with lung cancer (OR = 2.8 for lung cancer in 2 or more relatives). For cases of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the lung, risks with 3 or more relatives with any cancer were increased 2-fold (OR = 1.8 and 1.9 respectively), and a significantly elevated risk was found for having a first-degree relative with lung cancer for each histologic type (ORs from 1.7-2.1). Having a spouse with lung cancer increased lung cancer risk (OR = 2.5), and cases with lung cancer reported in a first-degree relative were diagnosed at an earlier age, as were case siblings with lung cancer. 
Hematoporphyrin photodynamic therapy: is there truly a future in head and neck oncology? Reflections on a 5-year experience. Photodynamic therapy, which consists of the selective destruction of tumors using a combination of a photosensitizer administered systemically (dihematoporphyrin ether) and an argon dye-pumped laser, has provoked profound interest amongst oncologists and has particularly titillated head and neck oncologists with its potential. Unfortunately, no multi-institutional trials for head and neck tumors have been introduced, and the literature is replete with anecdotal reports from individual researchers on the management of advanced cancers for palliation, superficial early cancers, and field cancerization of the mucosa ("condemned mucosa"). A personal 5-year experience with 41 head and neck cancers was reviewed, as was the current literature. An attempt was made to place in perspective the true role and future direction of this technology. 
Cold-knife and laser conization for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. In a 5-year study, 425 women had conization performed for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I, II or III. Conization was performed only in cases of positive endocervical curettage or when colposcopy was inconclusive. In all other cases, local destruction was the operation of choice. In the early years of the study, conization was done by the cold-knife method (N = 201), whereas CO2 laser was used in the latter part of the study (N = 224). Success and complication rates were the same for the two methods. Abnormal cytology after conization was found in a total of 53 cases (12.5%), but a histologic confirmation of residual or recurrent CIN was made in only 27 women (6.4%). This corresponds to a success rate of 92% after cold-knife and 95% after laser conization. The CIN grading of the residual or recurrent CIN was similar to or less than the CIN diagnosis of the cone. Because our success rate was comparable to that of other series with much less strict referral criteria, our policy seems adequate. 
Malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy. Of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon, 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy (31 patients, group I) or by radical segmental resection (18 patients, group II) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure. The operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group I and 11 per cent in group II (not a statistically significant difference). However, substantial differences were found for major morbidity (6 versus 44 per cent in groups I and II respectively; P less than 0.01) and mean length of hospital stay (17 days in group I versus 35 days in group II; P less than 0.05). All three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma. Six patients (19 per cent) in group I required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period. However, subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients. It is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of experimental rat brain tumors: histopathological evaluation. Using RG-C6 glioma-transplanted rats, we studied precontrast and postcontrast magnetic resonance imaging, extravasation of Evans blue, and histology. In all rats, tumor was enhanced with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA). The necrotic portion in the tumor, however, was not enhanced. Hemorrhage and hydrocephalus were clearly visualized on both the precontrast and postcontrast images. Blood-brain barrier-disrupted areas stained with Evans blue and areas enhanced with Gd-DTPA on magnetic resonance imaging were nearly consistent. It is suggested that the mechanism of brain tumor enhancement with Gd-DTPA on magnetic resonance imaging is simply related to the degree of alteration of the blood-brain barrier. The Gd-DTPA-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, even with low magnetic field, is useful for the evaluation of size, shape, and location of experimental rat brain tumors. 
Complications of percutaneous abdominal fine-needle biopsy. Review. To determine whether the increasing use of percutaneous fine-needle biopsy of abdominal lesions is associated with an increase in serious complications, the author updated a literature search and evaluated a questionnaire (distributed among selected hospitals in the United States in 1986 and 1987) that followed up a questionnaire distributed in 1983. The updated literature review revealed a total of 24 deaths and 20 needle tract seedings. The updated questionnaire revealed five deaths after 16,381 biopsies (0.031%), whereas the previous questionnaire had shown four deaths after 63,108 biopsies (0.006%). Two similar European questionnaires revealed mortality rates of 0.008% and 0.018%, respectively. Of the total of 33 deaths, 21 involved biopsies of liver lesions; six involved pancreatic biopsies. Seventeen of the 21 deaths after liver biopsies were secondary to hemorrhage; five of the six deaths after pancreatic biopsies were due to pancreatitis. Of the 23 instances of needle tract seeding, 10 occurred after biopsies of pancreatic malignancies. The frequencies of needle tract seeding in the four questionnaires were 0.005%, 0.006%, 0.003%, and 0.009%, respectively. Although infrequent, serious complications may be associated with this procedure. The author makes suggestions that may help minimize them. 
The 1989 presidential address. International Society for the Study of Vulvar Disease. Major changes in the terminology for vulvar disease have taken place in the past 20 years under the influence of the members of the International Society for the Study of Vulvar Disease. Major terminology changes have been made for vulvar nonneoplastic disorders, vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia and superficially invasive squamous cell carcinoma. 
Detection of Ki-67 proliferation rate in breast cancer. Correlation with clinical and pathologic features. In situ determination of proliferative activity was performed on 203 breast cancers by use of Ki-67 monoclonal antibody and immunohistochemical methods. Tumor proliferation rate was analyzed and correlated to tumor size and nodal status. The relationship between Ki-67 proliferative activity and nuclear estrogen receptor content was also investigated on adjacent tissue sections. Ki-67 values ranged from 1 to 75%, with a median value of 10%. Premenopausal patients had greater Ki-67 values (median value, 14.1%) than postmenopausal ones (median value, 9.8%). The authors observed no correlation with lymph nodal involvement, whereas a statistically significant relationship with tumor size was found (P less than 0.01). An inverse correlation (Spearman's coefficient = -0.56; P less than 0.001) was seen between Ki-67 values and nuclear estrogen receptor content. These results, similar to those reported for other kinetic measurements, suggest that in situ detection of Ki-67 proliferation rate is a useful method for obtaining cell cycle information. Follow-up studies will be needed to assess an eventual prognostic relevance. 
Contributions of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The salient contributions of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have made it unique. No pancreatic endocrine tumor described before (insulinoma) or subsequently (glucagonoma, somatostatinoma, vipoma, pancreatic-polypeptidoma) has been the topic of such a variety of studies, or has been such an inspiration and rich source of new ideas for investigation and ultimate improvement in patient care. 
Ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer. A population-based study. BACKGROUND. The risk of colorectal cancer is increased among patients with ulcerative colitis. The magnitude of this increase in risk and the effects of the length of follow-up, the extent of disease at diagnosis, and age at diagnosis vary substantially in different studies. METHODS. To provide accurate estimates of the risk of colorectal cancer among patients with ulcerative colitis, we studied a population-based cohort of 3117 patients given a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from 1922 through 1983 who were followed up through 1984. RESULTS. Ninety-two cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 91 patients. As compared with the expected incidence, the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort was increased (standardized incidence ratio [ratio of observed to expected cases] = 5.7; 95 percent confidence interval, 4.6 to 7.0). Less extensive disease at diagnosis was associated with a lower risk; for patients with ulcerative proctitis, the standardized incidence ratio was 1.7 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 3.2); for those with left-sided colitis, 2.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 4.4); and for those with pancolitis (extensive colitis, or inflammation of the entire colon), 14.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 11.4 to 18.9). Age at diagnosis and the extent of disease at diagnosis were strong and independent risk factors for colorectal cancer. For each increase in age group at diagnosis (less than 15 years, 15 to 29 years, 30 to 39 years, 40 to 49 years, 50 to 59 years, and greater than or equal to 60 years), the relative risk of colorectal cancer, adjusted for the extent of disease at diagnosis, decreased by about half (adjusted standardized incidence ratio = 0.51; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.46 to 0.56). The absolute risk of colorectal cancer 35 years after diagnosis was 30 percent for patients with pancolitis at diagnosis and 40 percent for those given this diagnosis at less than 15 years of age. CONCLUSIONS. Close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis, especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis. 
Computed tomography and bronchoscopy in chest radiographically occult main-stem neoplasm diagnosis and Nd-YAG laser treatment in 8 patients. We studied 8 adult patients with variable symptoms of cough, dyspnea, stridor, wheezing, or hemoptysis. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy in all showed complete or nearly complete endobronchial obstruction of a main-stem bronchus by neoplasm with a mean bronchial diameter of 1.9 mm +/- 1.6 mm (mean +/- standard deviation). In 4 patients, a lobar bronchus was also completely obstructed. No mass was visible on chest radiographs of any patient; however, computed tomography in each showed main-stem endobronchial obstruction, lobar obstruction (4 instances in 3 patients), and in 6 patients hypoperfusion of the involved lung. Computed tomographic scan showed additional abnormalities that were unsuspected on viewing chest radiographs or at bronchoscopy, including mediastinal adenopathy in 3 patients and an extraluminal tumor component in 4. After therapy with Nd-YAG laser, main-stem airway diameter increased to a mean of 9.6 mm +/- 1.0 mm (P less than .05) and pulmonary functions improved. Results suggest the complementary role of computed tomography and fiberoptic bronchoscopy in the detection and laser-treatment planning of chest radiographically occult severe neoplastic obstruction of the main-stem bronchus. 
Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma. Diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis, and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the TNM classification. Carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5%. Differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5%. Overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion (T) was 76.9%. Limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma. Assessment of regional lymph node metastasis (N) was at a sensitivity of 81.8% and specificity of 92.9%, for an overall accuracy of 89.7%. We believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma. 
Procarbazine chemotherapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure. The Brain Tumor Study Group has shown procarbazine (PCB) to be as effective an adjuvant treatment as 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). We treated 35 patients with recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure with successive courses of PCB 150 mg/m2/d for 28 days every 8 weeks. After 2 courses, 2 patients had complete responses, 7 had partial responses, 11 had stable disease, and 15 had progression. Significantly more patients receiving PCB had complete or partial responses or stable disease than a similar group of patients in a previous trial who received intra-arterial (IA) cisplatin (DDP). There is a significant advantage in time to disease progression for those receiving PCB compared with those receiving IA diaziquone (AZQ). Our results suggest that PCB is a more effective 2nd agent than IA DDP or AZQ following radiation and nitrosourea failure. 
Hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma: impact of surgical resection on the natural history. From 1960 to 1987, 1209 patients with colorectal liver metastases were recorded, and followed until 1 January 1990. In 242 cases the diagnosis was based on external imaging, whereas 967 patients had operative confirmation and staging of their liver disease. Three groups of patients were analysed: group 1 involved 921 cases, of whom 902 were deemed non-resectable whereas 19 could not be unequivocally classified. Only 21 patients lived for longer than 3 years, seven survived for 4 years, but there were no 5-year survivors. Group 2 comprised 62 highly selected patients who at laparotomy demonstrated resectable metastatic spread confined to the liver, but this was not treated mainly because of a formerly different therapeutic approach. These patients had a significantly longer median survival time (14.2 versus 6.9 months), but also failed to achieve 5-year survival. The 226 patients forming group 3 underwent hepatic resection with intent to cure. Nine of them had minimal macroscopic disease left, and 34 with all gross tumour removed had positive margins. Survival of patients with these 43 eventually non-radical resections followed an identical course as in group 2 (median survival 13.3 months, maximum 42 months). Of the 183 patients with potentially curative resection ten died after surgery (5.5 per cent). Actuarial 5 and 10-year survival rates in the remaining 173 patients were 40 and 27 per cent with 25 and seven patients alive at respective periods of time. Until 1 January 1990, 64 patients remained free from recurrent disease for up to 24 years. In three patients the tumour status at death was unclear. The other 106 patients developed definite cancer relapse. Nevertheless they demonstrated a prolongation of survival time by a median of 1 year when compared with the 43 non-radically resected patients or the 62 untreated patients with resectable liver-only metastases, and accomplished a maximum survival time of 8 years. Radical excision of colorectal secondaries to the liver therefore offers effective palliation, and in a small number the chance of a cure. 
Surgical treatment of thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas. Thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas have been diagnosed more frequently as radiographic techniques and biochemical assays have improved; however, they remain uncommon and are unfamiliar to most neurosurgeons. This report concerns eight patients with hyperthyroidism, inappropriately elevated levels of serum thyrotropin and alpha-subunit, and radiographic evidence of pituitary tumor. All underwent surgery and had pathological confirmation of a thyrotropin-secreting adenoma, and most had been subjected to prior ablation of the thyroid gland. Only one tumor was a microadenoma; the others ranged in size from 1.4 to 12 cm, and invasion of parasellar structures was common. Thyrotropin, triiodothyronine, thyroxine, and alpha-subunit were measured preoperatively and at intervals postoperatively. Coexistent hormonal abnormalities (which occurred in all patients) included acromegaly and hyperprolactinemia and were also monitored. All four patients who had tumors less than 2 cm in diameter remain alive. Complete extirpation of tumor in these patients produced rapid correction of all hormonal abnormalities and resolution of clinical hyperthyroidism. The other four patients had larger invasive tumors: two died soon after surgery, one died of disseminated tumor 8 years after presentation, and one remains alive with residual tumor. Tumors secreting thyroid-stimulating hormone are less easily cured by surgery than are other types of pituitary adenoma because of the large size and invasive features that many attain during the delay to diagnosis; medical therapy can subdue the tumor but not cure it. The experience with these patients establishes the importance of early diagnosis and surgical excision for successful treatment, and demonstrates the utility of modern diagnostic techniques for finding these lesions. As occurs in Nelson's syndrome after adrenalectomy for Cushing's disease, ablation of the target organ may allow the tumor to convert to a more clinically malignant form which is resistant to cure. 
Apocrine mammary carcinoma. A clinicopathologic study of 72 cases. Apocrine carcinoma (AC) is an uncommon, poorly characterized type of breast tumor. In this review, 55 patients with intraductal (ID) AC and 17 patients with infiltrating (IF) AC were analyzed retrospectively to define the histologic features and clinical course of this neoplasm. Recurrences in the breast occurred in 3 of 20 ID-AC patients treated by biopsy alone, but not in the 2 patients who received local radiation therapy after biopsy. One patient with ID-AC had axillary metastases at the time of treatment by mastectomy and died of disease five years later. The remaining patients with ID-AC treated by mastectomy have remained disease free. One of the three patients with IF-AC treated by biopsy alone died of disease, and one of two patients with IF-AC treated by biopsy and radiotherapy was alive with carcinoma. Twelve patients with IF-AC were treated by mastectomy. Ten of them were recurrence free at the time of last observation. More than one-third of the cases of ID-AC and IF-AC were detected by mammography alone. Survival analysis of IF-AC cases compared with nonapocrine duct carcinoma cases matched for stage revealed no statistical difference in estimated recurrence-free survival or estimated survival probability. AC is a distinct morphologic entity with a natural history similar to that of nonapocrine ductal carcinoma. 
Cytostatic and cytotoxic effects of recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha on sensitive human melanoma cells in vitro may result in selection of cells with enhanced markers of malignancy. Monolayer cultures of the human melanoma cell lines StML-12, StML-11, StML-14 (third, respectively, twenty-fifth subculture), and SKMel-28 derived from specimens representing different stages of tumor progression were treated with 10-10,000 U/ml rTNF-alpha applied for 72 h. The effects of rTNF-alpha on cell proliferation, DNA synthesis, cell viability, cloning efficiency, cell division, cell morphology, and the immunophenotype were studied in triplicate experiments. The cell line StML-14(3) revealed a significantly dose-dependent reduction of growth due to both cytostatic and cytotoxic activities of rTNF-alpha as well as a decrease of CE. Increased numbers of cells in prophase were observed 24 h after addition of r-TNF-alpha. In addition, dislocation of chromosomes in the metaphase, formation of micronuclei, and dose-dependent increases of cells exhibiting micronuclei and the DNA amount per cell were detected at the end of treatment. On the other hand, only a slight sensitivity to the anti-proliferative effect of rTNF-alpha was observed with StML-14(25) and SKMel-28, whereas StML-12 and StML-11 were significantly resistant. The last four cell lines were serially subcultivated and presented common phenotypic patterns with more malignant characteristics than the cell line StML-14(3) before treatment. Overall, rTNF-alpha enhanced the malignant immunophenotype of the cell lines tested. It increased the expression of the "late" melanoma progression markers A.10.33 and A.1.43, and Ki67, and it decreased the expression of the "early" progression marker K.1.2. The expression of HLA-I, HLA-DR, and ICAM-1 was also enhanced after rTNF-alpha treatment, whereas in contrast to other cytokines, rTNF-alpha did not induce the de novo expression of HLA-DR in HLA-DR-negative melanoma cell lines. These findings indicate that rTNF-alpha induces cytostasis and decreases cell viability of certain rTNF-alpha-sensitive melanoma cells. These effects may result in selection of rTNF-alpha-non-sensitive human melanoma cell populations with higher proliferation rates and a more aggressive immunophenotype in vitro. 
Association of disease-free survival and percent of ideal dose in adjuvant breast chemotherapy. The relationship between percent of ideal dose and disease-free survival was examined in 256 Stage II and III patients who participated in a 2-year breast adjuvant chemotherapy trial consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (CMF) given postoperatively. When analyzed analogously to previous work, the results confirmed a dose-response relationship: that is, there appeared to be an improved disease-free survival for patients receiving higher doses of adjuvant chemotherapy. The major criticism of such an analysis is its bias. This bias was addressed by considering only patients who were still receiving therapy at 6, 12, and 24 months; then, the dose-response relationship was no longer seen. Although causality cannot be inferred, the apparent differences in disease-free survival among the dose groups can be attributed to recurrences in the first 2 years among patients receiving lower doses of chemotherapy. 
The cellular biology of bone tumors. New knowledge in cell and molecular biology has begun to expand the understanding of the biology of osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma. Studies on osteosarcomas have revealed abnormalities in the growth-inhibiting retinoblastoma gene, which may release cells from normal growth control. Abnormalities in growth factor production or response tend to inappropriately activate cell growth. Tumor cell DNA content and cytogenetics may affect the diagnosis and prognostic grouping of osteosarcomas. In Ewing's sarcomas, a characteristic translocation between Chromosomes 11 and 22 has been identified; this translocation is also found in malignant neuroepitheliomas. A variety of studies point to both neuroectodermal and mesenchymal origins for Ewing's sarcomas. Applications of new biologic knowledge and technology to clinical problems will lead to significant changes in the diagnosis, and perhaps in the treatment, of these tumors in the coming years. Collaborations between community and referral center physicians and scientists are critical for continued progress. 
Carbon dioxide laser vaporization of diaphragmatic metastases for cytoreduction of ovarian epithelial cancer. Three patients with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics state IIIC ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent CO2 laser vaporization of large-volume (5-6 cm) and miliary right hemidiaphragmatic metastases at the conclusion of standard debulking surgery to effect optimal cytoreduction. Destruction of diaphragmatic metastases was accomplished rapidly with no added morbidity or blood loss. The hand-held CO2 laser is a useful modality for removal of isolated large- and small-volume diaphragmatic disease, particularly if only the peritoneum is involved, and avoids the morbidity that may accompany entry into the pleural space. 
Rapid analysis of carcinoembryonic antigen levels in gallbladder bile. Identification of patients at high risk of colorectal liver metastasis Recently it was found that immunoanalysis of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels in gallbladder bile may be a sensitive method to detect colorectal liver metastases in humans. Methods used in the past for the detection of CEA in various body fluids were cumbersome and time consuming, requiring acid extraction, extensive dialysis, and column purification. Single-step, solid-phase radioimmunoassays, designed specifically for serum CEA analysis, were developed commercially to replace these methods. Parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for Parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for use with gallbladder bile are presented here. A combination of pretreatment procedures for bile, before radioimmunoassay, permit rapid, reproducible, and accurate measurement of CEA levels in gallbladder bile. 
Regulation of insulin, epidermal growth factor, and transforming growth factor-alpha levels by growth factor-degrading enzymes. The mechanisms by which growth factors are degraded and the role this process plays in the regulation of cell growth are not well understood. Insulin degradation is believed to be mediated by a specific metalloprotease, insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE). We have previously shown that IDE can also degrade transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha), but not epidermal growth factor (EGF), in vitro. This selectivity was surprising, since TGF alpha and EGF are structurally similar and bind to the same receptor with comparable affinities. Using a spectrum of protease inhibitors, we have now analyzed the degradation of TGF alpha, EGF, and insulin by human hepatoma HepG2 cells. The results suggest that bacitracin-sensitive metalloproteases are involved in the degradation of TGF alpha and EGF as well as insulin, and that the degradation of TGF alpha, but not EGF, is mediated in part by IDE. Inhibiting the activity of these metalloproteases decreased growth factor depletion, suggesting that these enzymes play an important role in the control of extracellular growth factor levels. The existence of separate degradative pathways for EGF and TGF alpha may explain how the two factors exert differential effects in some systems, and degradation of TGF alpha by IDE would provide a possible mechanism for interaction between the insulin and TGF alpha/EGF signalling systems. 
Surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity against malignant human glioma cells. A method for incorporating palmitate-derivatized antibody molecules into effector cells and the influence of these incorporated antibodies (surrogate receptors) on the lytic potential of peripheral blood lymphocytes is described. This surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity provides a means by which killer cells are directed specifically to the desired target glioma cells. The cytotoxic activity does not require the Fc region of the incorporated antibody molecules and shows more lytic potential than ordinary antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. By complement-mediated cell depletion and Percoll gradient separation, the effector cell populations for surrogate receptor-mediated cellular cytotoxicity are found to be natural killer cells, as in the murine system. This strategy of surrogate receptor incorporation into effector cells may provide not only valuable insights into the mechanism of cell-mediated cytotoxicity, but also a means of generating target-specific effector cells for clinical applications in neurosurgery. 
Immunohistochemical alterations in basement membrane components of squamous cell carcinoma. To investigate alterations in the basement membrane (BM) in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), we investigated 20 tumors. Four had the cytologic characteristics of Bowen's disease (SCC-BD) and 16 did not have them (SCC-NB). Tumors were studied immunohistochemically by double immunofluorescent staining by using mouse monoclonal antibodies to the core protein of heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) and chondroitin 6-sulfate glycosaminoglycan (Ch6S) as well as rabbit antiserum to laminin (LN) and type IV collagen (C-4). In well-differentiated and highly keratinized SCC-NB, LN, C-4, and HSPG could be detected in the tumor nest BM and showed no loss of continuity, but they were largely lost in poorly differentiated and poorly keratinized SCC-NB. This suggests that poorly differentiated SCC-NB cause greater enzymatic degradation of BM components than well-differentiated SCC-NB. Ch6S was detected in parts of the BM of SCC-BD, but it was absent in all SCC-NB examined. It appears that SCC-NB have lost the ability to synthesize Ch6S, and that SCC-BD degrade Ch6S although they continue to produce it. Thus, it appears that in SCC the BM is qualitatively different from that of normal epidermis, and that SCC-BD can be distinguished from SCC-NB by the Ch6S content of the BM. 
Excision repair of pyrimidine dimers induced by simulated solar radiation in the skin of patients with basal cell carcinoma. One prominent lesion induced in DNA by ultraviolet (UV) radiation is the cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimer formed between adjacent pyrimidines on the same DNA strand. We investigated whether people who have developed basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin have an altered ability to repair UV-induced pyrimidine dimers in DNA. Twenty-two patients with at least one basal cell carcinoma, aged 31-84 years, and 19 healthy volunteers, aged 25-61 years, took part in the study. Both groups were given one minimal erythema dose (MED) of simulated solar radiation on the lower back. DNA was extracted from the irradiated skin 0 to 6 h later, and the number of UV-induced pyrimidine dimers was determined using a dimer-specific endonuclease. At time 0, the average number of dimers per unit of DNA was similar in the two groups. After 6 h, an average of 22 +/- 4% of the dimers were removed in the group with basal cell carcinoma compared to 33 +/- 4% in the cancer-free group. In the basal cell carcinoma group, only 23% of the patients repaired more than 30% of the dimers after 6 h, compared with 53% of the cancer-free subjects (p less than 0.05). We conclude that patients who develop basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin may have a decreased ability to repair pyrimidine dimers induced in skin exposed to simulated solar radiation. 
Social support and the cancer patient. Implications for future research and clinical care. This review assesses past progress, current practices, and future needs in research and clinical practice involving the social support needs of cancer patients. A review is given of the various conceptualizations of the social support/stress paradigm and of the state of the art of measuring social support. Then the current work in the field of social support and cancer is considered and an argument is made for the use of social support measures, which are relevant to the experiences of the cancer patient. Potential adaptations of an existing instrument (the Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Scale) are demonstrated, and a taxonomy of stages of cancer that would require additional types of social support measures and interventions is outlined. Interventions are discussed in terms of the traditional support groups as well as interventions by the oncologist and primary care physician. An argument is made for the inclusion of quality of life or functional measures as outcomes in clinical trials and the care of the cancer patient. Finally, the need to address the existential, philosophic, or religious issues surrounding cancer and its treatment is discussed. 
Prolonged response to carboplatin in an infant with brain stem glioma. Adults and children with brain stem gliomas have a mean survival time of 15 months after radiation therapy (XRT). Infants with this tumor present additional complexities for treatment because of possible neurotoxicity of the radiation to the developing brain. We report a 15-month-old child with biopsy-proven brain stem glioma with clinical and radiographic evidence of disease progression. She was treated with 24 monthly courses of carboplatin without radiation therapy and has had a 39+ month response. The clinical response started after 3 months and the radiographic evidence was documented at 10 months by magnetic resonance imaging. The toxicity was minimal. Longitudinal neuropsychological assessment demonstrated continued improvement at 36 months post diagnosis but with some motor functioning below expected age levels. Cervico-medullary astrocytoma in a young patient may be the appropriate clinical setting for future trials of chemotherapy without XRT. 
Value of monoclonal anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO7) for diagnosing acute leukaemia. The expression of myeloperoxidase (MPO) was studied in 100 cases of acute leukaemia (83 with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and 17 acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) by both a conventional cytochemical method and the immunocytochemical antiperoxidase (APAAP) technique using the monoclonal antibody MPO7. In each case the staining was evaluated by light microscopical examination (percentage of positive cells). Of the 83 cases of AML, 78 (93.9%) were positive for MPO7 compared with 70 (84.3%) by cytochemistry. Antibodies against the myeloid markers CD13 and CD33 were positive in 71 (85.5%) and 70 (84.3%) cases, respectively. Importantly, all cases of ALL were negative for both MPO7 and cytochemical MPO staining even when they were positive for CD13 and CD33. These results indicate that the anti-myeloperoxidase antibody MPO7 is the most sensitive and specific reagent for the diagnosis of AML and should therefore be included in routine immunophenotyping panels. 
Direct extension of laryngeal carcinoma to the skin of the neck. Invasion of the skin of the neck by laryngeal carcinoma is relatively uncommon. Twelve cases of cancer of the larynx fungating through the cervical skin are presented. They mostly followed initial treatment by deep X-ray therapy or partial laryngectomy. A high tracheostomy was also considered to be a contributing cause for the occurrence of such a mishap. The management and follow-up of these patients is described. 
Clinical analyses and short-term prognoses of neonates with subependymal cysts. Twenty-one neonates with subependymal cysts detected by neurosonography soon after birth were prospectively examined. The clinical and cranial sonographic findings were evaluated with respect to short-term prognosis. The prognosis was poor in 6 patients with congenital viral infection (4 with cytomegalovirus infection and 2 with rubella infection). Five patients also had neurodevelopmental abnormalities (2 with neonatal epileptic seizures, 2 with chromosomal abnormalities, and 1 with lissencephaly). The remaining 10 patients had normal psychomotor development. The incidence of congenital viral infection was statistically correlated with a poor neurodevelopmental outcome. A correlation did not exist between the short-term prognosis and each of the other clinical factors or cranial sonographic findings. Our evidence suggests that further investigation of possible subependymal cyst etiologies is required during a careful, long-term follow-up period. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma developing in bone 44 years after shrapnel trauma. Tumors induced by foreign bodies are uncommon in humans, but they are a relatively common occurrence in some experimental animals. The development of sarcoma in association with metallic foreign bodies has rarely been reported. The development of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a 65-year-old man 44 years after shrapnel fragments lodged in his left arm is described. The literature regarding metallic foreign body-induced cancer in humans is reviewed. 
Primary treatment of large and massive adult sarcomas with iododeoxyuridine and aggressive hyperfractionated irradiation. For a decade, the authors have experimented with treatment for unresectable adult soft tissue and bony sarcomas. Over the last 6 years, they have combined hyperfractionated radiation therapy and intravenous iododeoxyuridine as a radiosensitizer, in regimens designed to minimize toxicity and permit delivery of aggressive radiation therapy. Patients with solitary lesions and those with metastasis (38%) were treated in the hope of both potential cure in some and durable palliation in others. The most formidable of these cancers have been those that are large or massive, often requiring five or more fields and extensive treatment planning. The authors report results from 36 patients with large unresectable sarcomas (tumors ranging from 5 to 35 cm; average 14 cm) treated with hyperfractionated radiation therapy, with a minimum follow-up of 1 year, follow-up of 4 or more years (in 50%), or follow-up until death. Overall local control has been 60%, with control of 66% of lesions from 5 to 9 cm, 63% of those from 10 to 14 cm, 63% of those from 15 to 19 cm, and 57% of those greater than 20 to 40 cm. Morbidity has been modest. This experience compares favorably with the authors' earlier trials with misonidazole, and toxicity has been reduced considerably. 
Reversed helper/suppressor T-lymphocyte ratio in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with breast cancer and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) usually occurs in patients with hematologic malignancies and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Patients with solid tumors represent a very small fraction of the reported cases of PCP. Over an 18-month period, PCP was diagnosed in three patients who had received radiation and chemotherapy for breast cancer. In all three patients, there was no serologic or clinical evidence of AIDS. Direct staining of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) revealed Pneumocystis carinii, and cellular analysis of BAL revealed an increased percentage of lymphocytes with reversed helper/inducer:suppressor/cytotoxic T-cell (CD4:CD8) ratio. Because decreased CD4:CD8 ratio in BAL is commonly accepted as findings consistent with hypersensitivity pneumonitis and AIDS, we conclude that similar findings in patients without AIDS are not specific for hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and P. carinii should be ruled out in the appropriate clinical setting. 
Suppressive effects of visceral tumor on the generation of antitumor T cells for adoptive immunotherapy. Antitumor reactive cells can be generated from lymphoid organs of mice bearing subcutaneous (SC), but not liver or lung, tumors by in vitro sensitization with irradiated tumor and interleukin 2. To examine whether visceral tumors mediated tumor-induced suppression, in vitro sensitization cells were generated from mice bearing SC tumors with and without concomitant liver or lung tumors. Antitumor efficacy of these cells was assessed in adoptive immunotherapy experiments. The presence of visceral tumors suppressed the ability to generate therapeutic in vitro sensitization cells from mice with SC tumors. By establishing visceral tumors at different intervals in relationship to SC tumor inoculation, we found that visceral tumor appeared to suppress directly the development of a host immune response to SC tumor, rather than inhibit function of established immune cells. Our model affords a means to study mechanisms of tumor-induced immunosuppression. 
T-cell subsets with a naive phenotype are selectively decreased in the peripheral blood of patients with mycosis fungoides. Peripheral blood lymphocytes of 33 patients with histopathologic confirmation of mycosis fungoides and 27 healthy controls matched for age and sex were analyzed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies using both single and dual color immunofluorescence. Patients with mycosis fungoides had a significant reduction in the percentage of circulating T cells with a naive phenotype (i.e., CD4+2H4+ and CD4+Leu8+), as well as a significant reduction in the absolute numbers of circulating lymphocytes with the phenotype CD8+Leu8+ compared to the control cohort. The reduction in circulating naive T cells was found to occur irrespective of stage of disease, duration of disease, or mode of treatment. The depletion of circulating naive T cells may reflect increased conversion to memory T cells in the peripheral blood or skin. 
Epidermal growth factor receptor expression in colorectal cancer. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor expression was estimated in 50 invasive human colorectal cancers using immunohistochemistry and the degree of expression was quantified from integrated optical density measurements on the stained sections. All tumours stained positively, but Dukes' C tumours exhibited significantly higher levels of receptor than either Dukes' A or B tumours. In addition, histologically high grade cancers expressed receptors more strongly than those of low grade. It is concluded that a high EGF receptor concentration is associated with poor prognostic factors in colorectal malignancy. 
Basal cell carcinoma recurring after radiotherapy: a unique, difficult treatment subclass of recurrent basal cell carcinoma. Twenty-seven basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) recurring following radiation therapy alone or in addition to other treatment modalities were treated with Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) from 1983 to 1989. Mean tumor size was 2.1 cm. Of the tumors, 70.4% arose in the mid-face region, 55.6% had undergone multiple previous treatment modalities. The present recurrence rate is 7.4% (mean follow-up: 25 months). Basal cell carcinoma recurring following radiotherapy deserves special subclassification among recurrent BCC. It is very difficult to eradicate, with high recurrence rates following standard surgical excision or further radiotherapy. Tumors are usually large, aggressive, and invasive. Most arise in the cosmetically crucial mid-face region, where extension into subcutaneous tissue planes is common. Mohs surgery, with its inherent abilities to examine all margins, map tumor extension, and conserve tissue, is uniquely suited to treatment of these difficult tumors. 
Depressed adenoma of the stomach, revisited. Histologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical profiles. For 52 patients with depressed adenomas of the stomach, histopathologic studies were done on 56 tumors and for 43 of them, histochemical and immunohistochemical features were examined. In addition, nondepressed adenomas (n = 57) and the depressed type of early gastric adenocarcinomas of the well-differentiated variety (n = 44) were studied as the controls. Depressed adenomas in the majority (73%) involved the entire thickness of the mucous membrane of the stomach with tubules of atypical epithelium, presenting a severe grade in many of the cases (41%). Paneth's cells were found in cases of a depressed adenoma, in significantly higher percentages (61%) than in those with a nondepressed adenoma (P less than 0.01). The frequency of cases with argyrophil cells was also higher in depressed adenoma (63%) than in nondepressed adenoma (36%) or in cases of early gastric carcinoma (32%). Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 were noticed in tumor cells, immunohistochemically in 28% of the cases with depressed adenoma, the frequency being intermediate between cases of a benign nondepressed adenoma (6% for both CEA and CA 19-9) and cases of early gastric carcinoma (71% for CEA and 66% for CA 19-9). No difference was noticed in lectin reactivity and mucin content between depressed and nondepressed adenomas, whereas tumor cells in the early depressed carcinoma had a higher lectin reactivity and less mucin content than those seen in the adenomas. It would thus appear that depressed adenoma is a benign neoplastic lesion; however, the malignant potential of this lesion is somewhat higher than the nondepressed counterpart, as indicated by the immunoreactivity to tumor markers and follow-up results reported by colleagues previously. 
Osteoid osteoma of the scapula. A case report and review of the literature. The scapula is a rare location for osteoid osteoma, which in most cases does not involve the flat bones. The en bloc excision in this uncommon location can be problematic since the surgical exposure is difficult, and shoulder joint function can be affected if the lesion is subchondral. In an 18-year-old man, an osteoid osteoma was located in the subchondral area of the glenoid. A guided needle biopsy of the nidus resulted in complete healing. This mode of treatment, with proper follow-up examination, is acceptable for a benign lesion situated in a problematic location. 
Effect of intraarterial versus intravenous cisplatin in addition to systemic doxorubicin, high-dose methotrexate, and ifosfamide on histologic tumor response in osteosarcoma (study COSS-86). In osteosarcoma, intraarterial (IA) administration of systemic treatment has been advocated to improve local tumor response preparing for, or even obviating, definitive surgery. Because data from the literature did not unequivocally support the local superiority of IA infusion, a comparative study was started in 1986. Preoperative chemotherapy consisted of 45 mg/m2 of doxorubicin on days 1 and 2; 12 g/m2 of high-dose methotrexate on days 15 and 22; and 3 g/m2 of ifosfamide on days 29, 30, 50, and 51 followed on days 31 and 52 by intravenous (IV) versus IA tourniquet infusion of cisplatin (DDP). A strict randomization of patients was not feasible. A balanced distribution of risk factors was strived for by stratifying and allocating the appropriate patients centrally. The infusion time was prolonged from 1 to 5 hours in the IV group, and the DDP dose was reduced from 150 to 120 mg/m2 in both arms when intolerable ototoxicity became apparent. A multivariate analysis was performed to exclude a bias on the response rates from risk factor distribution and from modifications of DDP infusion time and dosage. The overall fraction of histologic good responders (greater than 90% necrosis) was not found to be different after IA versus IV treatment (34/50 [68%] vs. 41/59 [69%]). Intraarterial instead of IV use of DDP within an aggressive systemic treatment does not seem to improve the local tumor response. 
Retroviral recombination and reverse transcription. Recombination occurs at a high rate in retroviral replication, and its observation requires a virion containing two different RNA molecules (heterodimeric particles). Analysis of retroviral recombinants formed after a single round of replication revealed that (i) the nonselected markers changed more frequently than expected from the rate of recombination of selected markers; (ii) the transfer of the initially synthesized minus strand strong stop DNA was either intramolecular or intermolecular; (iii) the transfer of the first synthesized plus strand strong stop DNA was always intramolecular; and (iv) there was a strong correlation between the type of transfer of the minus strand strong stop DNA and the number of template switches observed. These data suggest that retroviral recombination is ordered and occurs during the synthesis of both minus and plus strand DNA. 
Cervicography for evaluating the "atypical" Papanicolaou smear. A study was designed to compare various case-finding procedures in the evaluation of patients with an "atypical" Papanicolaou smear. Six hundred eighty-one consecutive patients were referred to the Denver General Hospital Colposcopy Clinic for smears showing evidence of atypical nuclear and/or cytoplasmic changes insufficient to justify a cytologic diagnosis of dysplasia. A full colposcopic evaluation with appropriate directed biopsies was carried out on all the patients. Fourteen percent of the patients demonstrated cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), and 29% had condyloma without CIN. Both cervicography and the colposcopist's impression, though not ideal, were superior to a repeat smear, human papillomavirus typing or both. Cost effectiveness criteria and ease of training appear to justify the use of cervicography in the evaluation and triage of patients with atypical Papanicolaou smears. 
Preoperative cell-mediated immune function and the prognosis of patients with gastric carcinoma. The cell-mediated immune function of 83 patients with gastric carcinoma was assessed preoperatively and the results were compared to that of 52 patients with benign lesions. The data were subjected to an analysis in order to evaluate their prognostic significance. The abilities to induce allogeneic cytotoxicity and to produce interleukin 2 (IL2) in patients with stage IV carcinoma were significantly depressed, as compared to those in patients with benign lesions, whereas natural killer (NK) cell activity was not significantly impaired. There was no significant correlation among these immune functions. When the patients were stratified into two groups, those who had high (greater than the mean value in patients with benign lesions) and low (less than the same value) values of these immune reactivities, the survival of patients with high NK activity (greater than or equal to 43%) was significantly better, as compared to that of patients with low cytotoxicity (less than 43%). However, there was no correlation between the survival and allogeneic cytotoxicity in these patients. The high ability to produce IL2 (greater than or equal to 1.3 U/ml) correlated with the better survival in the patients, but not in the group of patients who underwent curative resection. 
Immunophenotypic analysis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia using routinely processed bone marrow specimens. Monoclonal antibodies have been recently developed that react with antigens expressed on T and B lymphocytes in routinely processed, paraffin-embedded lymphoid tissues. In this study, we assessed bone marrow clot and/or core biopsy sections of 19 cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) using routinely decalcified, B5- or formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections and a panel of monoclonal antibodies, including LN1, LN2, L26, Leu-22, UCHL-1, and LCA. Each case had been previously phenotyped using freshly obtained aspirate material and a standard immunophenotypic protocol. Our results demonstrate the utility of the LN2 antibody in differentiating between precursor B-cell (pre-B) and precursor T-cell ALL. The LN2 antibody stained 11 of 12 cases of pre-B ALL and did not react with any of the seven T-cell ALLs. The other antibodies tested were less helpful. The Leu-22 antibody stained both pre-B and T-cell ALLs, while the results with UCHL-1 revealed peculiar nuclear staining of pre-B and T-cell ALLs; this we attributed to processing artifact. The L26 antibody reacted with only one case of pre-B ALL (also CD20 antigen positive), while the LN1 antibody did not react with any pre-B ALLs. Neither L26 nor LN1 stained any cases of T-cell ALL. The LCA antibody stained in only four (21%) of 19 cases, two pre-B and two T-cell ALLs. The results also suggest that this panel of antibodies may be useful in differentiating ALL from mature B-cell and T-cell lymphomas involving the bone marrow. 
Synergistic inhibition by verapamil and quinine of P-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance in a human myeloma cell line model. In an effort to develop a clinically useful approach to overcoming P-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance (MDR1), we evaluated combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine in a multidrug-resistant (MDR) human myeloma cell line model. In clonogenic assay, verapamil was used at concentrations from 0.1 to 1.0 micrograms/mL, bracketing the plasma levels achieved by oral administration and high-dose intravenous (IV) infusion, respectively. The dose of quinine was held constant at 1.0 micrograms/mL, a plasma concentration readily achieved by oral administration. At each dose level of verapamil tested, the combination with quinine proved more effective than either drug individually in reversing resistance to doxorubicin and vinblastine and synergistic chemosensitizing interaction was observed. Verapamil at 0.1 microgram/mL combined with quinine was capable of restoring sensitivity to doxorubicin fully and reduced resistance to vinblastine as effectively as verapamil alone at 1.0 micrograms/mL. Furthermore, the combination of 1.0 mumol verapamil with 10 mumols quinine increased accumulation and retention of anthracycline in the resistant cells to a greater extent than did either drug individually (P less than .001) and inhibited drug efflux as effectively as verapamil alone at 10 mumols. Our findings suggest that combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine may prove useful for overcoming MDR1 in patients with drug-refractory B-cell neoplasms such as multiple myeloma or non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. 
Partial and total penectomy for cancer. Squamous carcinoma of the penis remains an uncommon tumor in the United States. In the properly selected patient, partial or total penectomy performed with an understanding of the salient surgical anatomy results in adequate local control of these cancers with excellent functional and cosmetic results. 
Oral findings in HIV-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine: the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of HIV disease The occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients, including 35 patients with AIDS, who had been admitted to a Department of Internal Medicine. Lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients (74 per cent). Oral candidiasis (50 per cent), hairy leukoplakia (14 per cent), periodontal disease (13 per cent), and oral Kaposi's sarcoma (4 per cent) were the most common lesions. Oral mucosal lesions suggestive of HIV infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown HIV status in whom Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected. Close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of HIV-infected patients and may influence the CDC classification of this disease. 
Multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types. Multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types are rare. We report nine patients with multiple intracranial tumors, who did not have a history of trauma, irradiation, or phacomatosis. The clinical, radiological, and histopathological findings as well as indications for operations in patients with asymptomatic second tumors are discussed. 
Immunohistochemical evaluation of seven monoclonal antibodies for differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma. A panel of seven monoclonal antibodies including anti-vimentin, anti-keratin markers AE1/AE3 and EAB902, human milk fat globule (HMFG-2), B72.3, anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and anti-Leu-M1 were used for an immunoperoxidase staining assay to determine their value in the differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma. Anti-vimentin positively identified 86% of the mesotheliomas and none of the adenocarcinomas. AE1/AE3, EAB902, and B72.3 reacted with a high percentage of both mesothelioma and adenocarcinoma specimens. With HMFG-2, both membrane and cytoplasmic staining was observed in 92% of the adenocarcinomas and in 14% of the mesotheliomas, whereas 26% of the mesotheliomas only exhibited membrane staining. Eighty percent of the adenocarcinomas and 8% of the mesothelioma tissues stained with anti-Leu-M1. Anti-CEA did not react with any of the 50 mesotheliomas tested but did react with 95% of the lung adenocarcinomas tested. From this study, it was concluded that anti-CEA and anti-Leu-M1 were the most effective of the seven tumor markers evaluated; and that 100% of the pleural mesothelioma tissues could be correctly differentiated from lung adenocarcinomas using a panel consisting of anti-vimentin, HMFG-2, anti-CEA and anti-Leu-M1 monoclonal antibodies. 
Primary Ewing sarcoma: follow-up with Ga-67 scintigraphy. While avid accumulation of gallium-67 citrate and technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate (MDP) occurs initially in most cases of primary Ewing sarcoma, uptake after therapy is less well defined. Thirty patients with Ewing sarcoma who underwent Ga-67 and bone scintigraphy at diagnosis, at completion of therapy, and at relapse from 1978 to 1988 were evaluated. All 30 patients showed less primary site Ga-67 activity following therapy. Twenty-three of 28 patients who underwent corresponding bone scintigraphy showed less uptake, but residual activity was usually more intense than with Ga-67. Avid reaccumulation of Ga-67 occurred in four of five patients with primary site relapse, while patients who underwent bone scintigraphy showed less change. It was concluded that a greater decrease in Ga-67 than in Tc-99m MDP uptake often occurs in patients successfully treated for primary Ewing sarcoma. Information obtained at Ga-67 scintigraphy is most likely to be helpful if results of bone scintigraphy remain abnormal or if occult relapse is suspected. 
Primary malignant melanoma of the lower respiratory tract. Report of a case and literature review. The authors report a case of primary bronchial malignant melanoma, occurring in a 34-year-old woman presenting with persistent cough. At bronchoscopic examination, a polypoid mass was found to occlude the left mainstem bronchus. Biopsies showed a malignant epithelioid tumor resembling an atypical carcinoid. Histochemistry, electron microscopic study, and immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis of melanoma. Physical examination and additional clinical history to exclude other possible primary sites were negative. The patient underwent thoracotomy with left pneumonectomy. Nineteen months after resection she was found to have a histologically similar tumor involving her left adrenal gland. Review of the literature shows that melanoma of the lower respiratory tract has been reported only in adults and has a tendency to present as a central polypoid growth that may be responsive to surgical resection. 
Multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera. The spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented. In support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow, immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts. The cytogenetic findings of 20q- and unbalanced t(1;7) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow. These transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone. These data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials. 
Evaluation of serum CA 125 as a tumor marker in non-small cell lung cancer. Serum CA 125 levels were evaluated in 130 healthy subjects and 133 patients with untreated pulmonary lesions. These were 33 patients with benign pulmonary conditions and 100 with lung cancer. The mean concentration of CA 125 was higher in patients with lung cancer (37 +/- 81 U/ml) than in those with nonmalignant disease (4.2 +/- 5.7 U/ml) (P less than 0.01). In the healthy control group CA 125 concentrations were significantly lower (0.63 +/- 1.5 U/ml) (P less than 0.001). In patients with lung cancer the concentration of this tumor marker was related to the tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage. At a cut-off value of 15 U/ml, CA 125 had a sensitivity of 44%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, and negative predictive value of 65% with respect to healthy subjects; in patients with benign pulmonary conditions, these values were 44%, 94%, 94%, and 31%, respectively. At this cut-off value, a correlation between the respectability prognosis and the likelihood of survival 24 months posttreatment was observed. These findings suggest that CA 125 can be used as an adjunctive test in the management of patients with lung cancer patients. 
Fingernail deformities secondary to ganglions of the distal interphalangeal joint (mucous cysts). Twenty-six nail deformities secondary to ganglions of the distal interphalangeal joint were retrospectively reviewed to assess the important aspects of their management. The patients' ages ranged from 41 to 79 years. The long and index fingers were most commonly involved. A depression or groove was present in 23 of 26 digits reviewed. Two had gross disruption of the nail. Fifty-eight percent of the cysts had spontaneously drained or had been drained by the patient or a physician preoperatively. Degenerative arthritic changes were seen in 87 percent of those with x-rays or a radiology report available. Most underwent surgical removal of the cyst and debridement of associated osteophytes of the distal interphalangeal joint. The cyst was located above the germinal matrix in all but two digits. Osteophytes were found in all 20 digits in which the joint was explored. No recurrences were seen in those available for postoperative follow-up (22 of 25). Normal nail growth was found in 14 of 22, although follow-up was short in one. All eight postoperative nail deformities were quite mild and of little concern to the patient. There was no correlation between preoperative cyst drainage and aesthetic postoperative nail growth. Nail removal at the time of surgery appeared to be unnecessary unless the nail was grossly disrupted. 
Ewing's sarcoma. Prognostic factors, disease control, and the reemerging role of surgical treatment. Advances in the treatment of Ewing's sarcoma have been dramatic. Present treatment protocols control local disease by radiotherapy, surgery, or both; systemic spread is limited by aggressive multiagent chemotherapy. In patients with localized osseous Ewing's sarcoma, five-year survival rates now range from 54% to an estimated 74%. With late relapse not uncommon, control of the primary lesion is critical to long-term survival. Several studies now show improved local control and possibly improved survival of patients with surgical treatment of primary osseous Ewing's sarcoma. 
Prognostic implications of tumor diameter in carcinoma of the head of the pancreas. Two hundred twenty patients with a carcinoma in the head of the pancreas were divided into three tumor diameter groups: group 1, 0.5 to 4.4 cm (n = 72); group 2, 4.5 to 6.0 cm (n = 77); and group 3, 6.1 to 15.0 cm (n = 71). For these tumor diameter groups a six-fold eliminatory curability analysis was performed. Of the patients with liver metastases in group 1 the last patient had died at 10 months and in groups 2 and 3 no patients were alive at 18 months after the start of complaints. Patients with extrahepatic metastases did not survive 12 months in group 1, 16 months in group 2, and 25 months in group 3. The 6% actuarial survival rate for inoperable patients was reached in group 1 after 17 months, in group 2 after 36 months, and in group 3 after 27 months after the start of complaints. For groups 1 through 3 in curable, but not curatively operated patients, the respective 0% actuarial survival rate was reached at 24 months, 23 months, and 14 months. The 0% actuarial survival rate in patients with irresectable vessel invasion was reached in group 1 at 33 months, in group 2 at 23 months, and in group 3 at 25 months. The 0% actuarial survival rate in patients with an irresectable tumor was reached at 33 months, 31 months, and 27 months after the start of complaints in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. The 0% actuarial survival rate in curatively operated patients was reached in group 3 after 26 months and in group 2 after 29 months. In group 1 25% of the patients were alive at 36 months after the start of complaints. Small tumors were associated with the greatest chance of curative operation and on average had the longest survival. However, small tumors with liver or other metastases carried a worse prognosis than large tumors with liver or other metastases. If tumors were found not to be resectable at the time of operation, the size of the tumor did not appear to affect survival. 
Olfactory neuroblastoma: clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical characterization of four representative cases. Olfactory neuroblastomas are rare tumors whose clinical prognosis is not predictable by assessment of initial stage or grade. The pathologic diagnosis is often difficult because of the wide range of the patient's age and histologies. In this report, we document that the diagnosis of olfactory neuroblastoma can be clarified by immunohistochemical demonstration of a unique antigenic profile that can be obtained in routinely processed biopsies. We describe four cases of olfactory neuroblastoma diagnosed and treated from 1979 to 1989, each confirmed by immunohistology. One of our patients was misdiagnosed twice at an outside institution, first as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma and then as having small-cell, undifferentiated "oat cell" carcinoma. Despite accurate tumor diagnosis and appropriate therapy, we found that there was no apparent correlation of clinical outcome with Kadish clinical stage or histologic grade of tumor. 
Ileocolic neobladder post-cystectomy: continence and potency. Incontinence and impotence are 2 of the primary complications associated with total bladder reconstruction after cystectomy for carcinoma. These and other features are addressed in 25 patients who underwent total neobladder reconstruction following cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma. Of these patients 20 had a urethral anastomosis. No patient had to wear a pad or device. Enuresis was rare. When the radical cystoprostatectomy population was contrasted with a radical prostatectomy patient population, continence was achieved more rapidly in the neobladder group. Potency was maintained in 15 of 21 (71%) evaluable patients. This ileocolic neobladder produces a large volume and low pressure, and provides excellent day and night continence. With preservation of the neurovascular bundle potency can be maintained in the majority of patients. 
Intraatrial extension of thyroid cancer: technique and results of a radical surgical approach. An occlusion of the superior vena cava by a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium was diagnosed in three patients with a follicular thyroid cancer. All patients showed the typical clinical picture of the superior vena cava syndrome. A right parasternal thoracotomy was performed for preparation of the major vessels. The superior vena cava was opened and the entire intravascular tumor thrombus was removed. The cavotomy was closed directly in two patients. In the third patient the left brachiocephalic trunk was resected and reconstructed with a vascular (polytetrafluoroethylene) graft. This patient had bone and brain metastases and an occlusion of the graft 3 months after surgery after anticoagulation was stopped. The other two patients were clinically symptom free without local recurrence 13 and 50 months after surgery. An aggressive surgical approach is justified in grossly invasive thyroid cancer to decrease local recurrence and death rates, to correct the disturbing clinical symptoms of superior vena caval occlusion, and to prevent tumor embolism and the development of distant metastases. By reducing tumor mass, an even better basis for radioiodine treatment can be prepared. 
Malignant cyst of the lateral aspect of the neck: branchial cleft carcinoma or metastasis? A 58-year-old man had a left jugulodigastric mass, which was found to be cystic by computed tomography, and no evidence of other lesions. Grossly and histologically, the surgical specimen consisted of a thin-walled, fluid-filled cyst lined by squamous epithelium that varied in appearance from benign to invasive squamous cell carcinoma. The findings supported a differential diagnosis of branchial cleft carcinoma (BCCA) versus cystic growth of a lymph node metastasis from an occult malignancy. On this basis, guided biopsies of the upper aerodigestive tract were performed, with strong suspicion of a tonsillar bed lesion. Microscopic examination revealed the primary tumor within tissue excised from the left tonsillar fossa. Comparison of the current case with cases of BCCA and cystic tonsillar metastases from the literature illustrated the potential pitfalls in rendering a diagnosis of BCCA. Recognition of this lesion as a distinctive clinical variant of oropharyngeal carcinoma is warranted. 
The relationship of prostate specific antigen levels and residual tumor volume in stage A prostate cancer. Preoperative serum prostate specific antigen correlates well with morphometrically determined prostate tumor volume in prostatectomy specimens. However, since prostate specific antigen is produced by hyperplastic as well as malignant prostatic epithelium, the contribution of hyperplastic epithelium (benign prostatic hyperplasia) to serum prostate specific antigen interferes with the ability of serum prostate specific antigen to predict tumor volume in individual patients. We wondered if the removal of benign prostatic hyperplasia tissue would increase the correlation between prostate specific antigen and tumor volume, and, thus, make prostate specific antigen a more accurate predictor of residual cancer volume after transurethral resection of the prostate. A total of 67 patients with clinical stage A cancer underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy (22, or 33%, with stage A1 and 45, or 67%, with stage A2 disease), and had pre-radical prostatectomy measurement of serum prostate specific antigen and morphometric determination of residual cancer volume in the radical prostatectomy specimen. The correlation between serum prostate specific antigen and residual cancer volume for all 67 patients was 0.66, and for stages A1 and A2 disease it was 0.64 and 0.70, respectively. All stage A1 cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of 1 ng./ml. or less had residual tumor volumes of less than 0.5 cc and all stage A cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of more than 10 ng./ml. had residual tumor volumes of greater than 0.5 cc. Of the patients 51% had levels of 1 to 10 ng./ml. and serum prostate specific antigen was not useful to predict residual tumor volume in this group. Serum prostate specific antigen measurements may be helpful in stage A1 cancer patients with levels of 1 ng./ml. or less, or greater than 10 ng./ml. in choosing the most appropriate therapy. 
Clonal origin of pituitary adenomas. Benign pituitary adenomas are among the most common neurosurgical tumors and account for a diversity of clinical syndromes due to their hormone content and release. To determine whether these tumors arise from a single cell or multiple cells, the authors studied X chromosome inactivation in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) isolated from pituitary adenomas in women. Tumors of three different hormonal subtypes were examined. One tumor contained cells immunoreactive for prolactin and human growth hormone; one tumor contained foci immunoreactive for the beta-subunits of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone; and the third tumor had no immunoreactive prolactin, human growth hormone, beta-subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, or follicle-stimulating hormone, or the alpha-subunit. Analysis of the DNA revealed that, in each of the three pituitary tumors, one X chromosome was active in all cells and one X chromosome was inactive, indicating that each of these tumors was monoclonal in origin. It is concluded that clinically evident pituitary tumors arise from a genetic mutation in a single cell. 
The beta-type transforming growth factor. Mediators of cell regulation in the lung. An increased interest in the role of growth factors in the regulation of processes concerning normal and pathologic lung physiology has spurred a flurry of research in this area. Peptide growth factors are known to control not only cell proliferation but other events such as differentiation, chemotaxis, and matrix deposition as well. The transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) family of regulatory peptides serves as a prime example to illustrate the multiplicity of effects elicited by peptide growth factors in various lung-derived cell types. At present, the TGF beta family consists of at least 17 proteins and, based on sequence analysis, they can be divided into two groups: a cluster that shows very high sequence similarity to TGF beta 1, the closely related group, and a cluster that shows weaker sequence similarity to TGF beta 1, the distantly related group. The purpose of this brief review is to summarize the salient features of TGF beta structure and regulatory abilities of the closely related group. In addition, we will outline the evidence suggesting a role for TGF beta in normal lung development and physiology. Emphasis will be placed on studies with the closely related members TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 because, until recently, purified protein was available only for these two proteins. 
Cytogenetic studies in untreated Hodgkin's disease. Very little data have been published on cytogenetic abnormalities in Hodgkin's disease (HD) and their correlation with clinicopathologic features are scanty. We have performed chromosomal analysis of lymph nodes from 60 previously untreated HD patients and obtained analyzable metaphases in 49 patients (82%). Chromosomal abnormalities were found in 33 patients (55%) but only 31 karyotypes could be, at least partially, described. Twenty-nine cases showed numerical abnormalities that involved all chromosomes with the exception of chromosomes 13 and Y, which were gained less frequently and lost more frequently than other chromosomes. Structural abnormalities were found in 30 cases, involving all chromosomes except Y. Chromosomal regions 12p11-13, 13p11-13, 3q26-28, 6q15-16, and 7q31-35 were rearranged in more than 20% of the analyzable cases. No correlation was found between cytogenetic findings and initial characteristics. When compared with diffuse B-cell lymphomas, defects in regions 2p25 (P less than .01), 12p11-13 (P less than .01), 13p11-13 (P less than .01), 14p11 (P less than .01), 15p11-13 (P less than .02), and 20q12-13 (P less than .05) were more frequent in HD. When compared with T-cell lymphomas, only defects in regions 12p12-13 (P less than .01) and 13p11-13 (P less than .01) were more frequent in HD. Failure to obtain analyzable metaphases was correlated with stage IV of the disease (P less than .05) and with a poor survival (P less than .01), but cytogenetic results showed no other correlation with clinical outcome. We conclude that molecular studies in HD should be focused on the short arms of chromosomes 12 and 13. Determination of the clinical significance of cytogenetic findings will require a larger number of patients and a longer follow-up period. 
Neuromesenchymal hamartoma of the small bowel. We present the case of a long small bowel stricture with pathological features similar to those described as "neuromuscular and vascular hamartoma," showing in addition extensive fatty submucosal infiltration and fibrous intramural nodules. In the controversy about the nature of this disorder, we consider it a separate entity. Taking into account that other mesenchymal tissues than the originally described can participate, we propose the alternative term of "neuromesenchymal hamartoma" of the small bowel. 
Photoelectric quantitative evaluation of argon laser treatment of port wine stains. Sixty patients with port wine stains were treated with the argon laser and graded visually into four subjective categories for changes in skin colour. For objective quantitative evaluation a photoelectric colorimeter was used. Reproducible definition of the lightness of the lesions into numbers was obtained. Differentials in lightness between normal contralateral skin and the port wine stain before and after treatment were quantified for each individual. The objective evaluation revealed a statistically significant difference between the four categories (P less than 0.05). The best clinical therapeutic effect was found to correlate with only 80-90% blanching. The average lightening obtained was 46.5%. Local heating of port wine stains in 12 patients showed no measurable darkening in the colour of the lesions, whereas the normal contralateral skin reacted with marked reddening. Determination of changes in lightness by photoelectric colorimetry provides an objective, quantitative means to evaluate the effects of laser treatment of port wine stains. 
Immunoprofile of mucoepidermoid carcinomas of minor salivary glands. Because the data on the antigenic phenotype of mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) are incomplete and somewhat disparate, 45 MECs were evaluated immunohistochemically for low- and high-molecular-weight keratins, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, smooth muscle actin, and S-100 protein. Tumors stained uniformly for keratins and, on occasion, focally for vimentin. Tumors were nonreactive with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and, with few exceptions, to muscle-specific actins and S-100 protein. Clear cell and papillary histologic variants were seen as potential diagnostic pitfalls. If used with hematoxylin-and-eosin-stained sections, limited potential is seen for this antibody panel in surgical pathology. Myoepithelial cell-associated antigens are expressed to a very limited extent in MECs. 
Relation of meat, fat, and fiber intake to the risk of colon cancer in a prospective study among women. BACKGROUND. The rates of colon cancer in various countries are strongly correlated with the per capita consumption of red meat and animal fat and, to a lesser degree, inversely associated with the consumption of fiber. METHODS. We conducted a prospective study among 88,751 women 34 to 59 years old and without a history of cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, or familial polyposis who completed a dietary questionnaire in 1980. By 1986, during 512,488 person-years of follow-up, 150 incident cases of colon cancer had been documented. RESULTS. After adjustment for total energy intake, animal fat was positively associated with the risk of colon cancer (P for trend = 0.01); the relative risk for the highest as compared with the lowest quintile was 1.89 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.13 to 3.15). No association was found for vegetable fat. The relative risk of colon cancer in women who ate beef, pork, or lamb as a main dish every day was 2.49 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.24 to 5.03), as compared with those reporting consumption less than once a month. Processed meats and liver were also significantly associated with increased risk, whereas fish and chicken without skin were related to decreased risk. The ratio of the intake of red meat to the intake of chicken and fish was particularly strongly associated with an increased incidence of colon cancer (P for trend = 0.0005); the relative risk for women in the highest quintile of this ratio as compared with those in the lowest quintile was 2.49 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.50 to 4.13). A low intake of fiber from fruits appeared to contribute to the risk of colon cancer, but this relation was not statistically independent of meat intake. CONCLUSIONS. These prospective data provide evidence for the hypothesis that a high intake of animal fat increases the risk of colon cancer, and they support existing recommendations to substitute fish and chicken for meats high in fat. 
Pulmonary complications of combination therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone. Oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone are standard treatment for some neoplasms and necrotizing systemic vasculitis and are advocated with increasing frequency for idiopathic interstitial lung disease. During a 15-month period, we observed four cases of acute respiratory failure from Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone. One patient each had polyarteritis nodosa, Wegener's granulomatosis, bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with red blood cell aplasia. Hypoalbuminemia (serum albumin level less than 3.0 g/dl) and daily therapy were associated with increased risk for development of PCP (p less than 0.05). None of the patients had leukopenia (less than 3,500/cu mm) or neutropenia (less than 1,000/cumm) at diagnosis. All were negative for the human immunodeficiency virus. Patients receiving oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone may be at higher or increasing risk for PCP. A high index of suspicion and aggressive evaluation for opportunistic infection are needed in these patients; consideration for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis and development of more quantitative measures of immunosuppression are needed. 
Debulking of pelvic and para-aortic lymph node metastases in ovarian cancer with the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator. Six patients with metastatic ovarian cancer with extensive involvement of the pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodes underwent surgical debulking with the Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator. Intraoperative and postoperative morbidity was minimal. It is suggested that this technique may be used for cytoreductive surgery in combination with standard surgical techniques. 
Elevated prostaglandin E2 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma. Understanding local pulmonary immunoregulatory mechanism(s) in patients with carcinoma of the lung is an important step towards the development of innovative methods of treatment. Prostaglandin E2 plays an integral role in immunoregulation. Therefore, we evaluated PGE2 concentrations in BALF from 18 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma, compared to that from six patients with pulmonary diseases other than carcinoma and ten normal smokers of similar age. The level of PGE2 in patients with lung carcinoma (158.1 +/- 88.7 pg/ml) was significantly (p less than 0.001) higher than the other two groups (16.2 +/- 6.9 and 4.4 +/- 3.4 pg/ml). Levels of PGE2 also varied among patients with carcinoma of different cell types. Patients with SQCA had significantly (p less than 0.001) higher levels of PGE2 (242.7 +/- 29.4 pg/ml) than patients with ADCA or SCCA (82.3 +/- 27.9 and 66.3 +/- 15.2 pg/ml, respectively). Furthermore, there was a marked difference in PGE2 concentration between carcinomatous lung and clinically noninvolved lung in patients with SQCA and ADCA. Further study is warranted to determine the interactions between PGE2 and other cytokines (interleukin-1, IL-2, and tumor necrosis factor), as well as the activity of cytolytic lymphocytes (LAK cells) in the lungs of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma. 
Psychological and behavioral implications of abnormal mammograms. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate women's psychological responses to abnormal mammograms and the effect on mammography adherence. To identify psychological responses and other factors that predict mammography adherence in women with normal or abnormal mammograms. DESIGN: Survey study with prospective analysis of factors associated with mammography adherence. SETTING: Health Maintenance Organization of Pennsylvania and New Jersey (HMO PA/NJ). PATIENTS: Study patients, members of HMO PA/NJ who were 50 years of age or older, and who had had mammography done 3 months earlier, included women with normal mammograms (n = 121), women with low-suspicion mammograms (n = 119), and women with high-suspicion mammograms (n = 68), but not women with breast cancer. MEASUREMENTS: Psychological responses 3 months after mammography and adherence to subsequent annual mammography were assessed. MAIN RESULTS: Women with high-suspicion mammograms had substantial mammography-related anxiety (47%) and worries about breast cancer (41%). Such worries affected the moods (26%) and daily functioning (17%) of these women, despite diagnostic evaluation excluding malignancy. For each variable, a consistent trend (P greater than 0.05) was seen with degree of mammogram abnormality. Sixty-eight percent of women with normal results, 78% of women with low-suspicion results, and 74% of women with high-suspicion results obtained their subsequent annual mammograms (P greater than 0.05). The number of previous mammograms (odds ratio, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.6 to 6.2) and the effect of the previous results on concerns about breast cancer (odds ratio, 0.5; CI, 0.2 to 1.0) were independent predictors of adherence in logistic regression analyses (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: A substantial proportion of women with suspicious mammograms have psychological difficulties, even after learning that they do not have cancer. Such sequelae do not appear to interfere with subsequent adherence. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of cardiac rhabdomyosarcoma. Quantifying the response to chemotherapy. This report illustrates the use of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to quantify the initial extent of a cardiac rhabdomyosarcoma and, more importantly, its response to chemotherapy. Image slices spanning the heart and adjacent structures were analyzed using Simpson's rule applied to the image slices to estimate the tumor volume initially, then after 5 weeks, and again after 4 months of chemotherapy. A substantial, progressive reduction in tumor volume during chemotherapy was shown. After chemotherapy was discontinued, an increase in tumor volume was shown. It is suggested that, in addition to being useful in patient care, the technique may be useful in clinical investigations by providing an objective, quantitative measure of tumor response to therapy. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, vincristine and CCNU for patients with Dukes' C colorectal cancer. The Swedish Gastrointestinal Tumour Adjuvant Therapy Group. A prospective controlled randomized trial testing adjuvant postoperative combination chemotherapy (5-fluorouracil, lomustine (CCNU) and vincristine) versus no adjuvant therapy in patients operated on for Dukes' C colorectal cancer is reported. In total 334 patients aged less than 70 years were recruited: 205 patients with colonic and 99 with rectal cancer, but there were three protocol violations and these cases are excluded from further consideration. Twenty-seven patients had a limited resection of their cancer. After 5 years' follow-up there was no significant difference in the tumour-free survival rate or in the survival rate between the treated and control groups. Twenty-nine of the 147 patients who started chemotherapy discontinued this treatment because of side-effects, mainly from the gastrointestinal tract. In 30 patients treatment was discontinued because of recurrent disease. The conclusion is that systemic administration of combination chemotherapy for colorectal cancer after operation is not worthwhile in routine clinical practice. 
Laryngeal metastasis from colonic adenocarcinoma. Metastases to the larynx from distant primaries are very rare. Usually the secondary lesion comes from an hypernephroma or malignant melanoma. A case of metastatic laryngeal tumour from a colonic adenocarcinoma, occurring in a 59-year-old woman, is presented and the routes for laryngeal spread are discussed. The poor survival-rate of these patients justified only conservative surgery. 
Primary osteosarcoma of the lung. Report of two cases and review of the literature. Two cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung are presented. In one case, the radiologic, clinical, and cytologic findings led to a preoperative diagnosis of undifferentiated carcinoma of the lung. In the second case, a lung nodule was discovered during postchemotherapy follow-up in a patient with lymphoma. Fine needle aspiration in the second case showed lymphoma, and further chemotherapy was instituted; however, persistent growth of the nodule prompted a resection. Microscopic examination of the resected tumors in both cases revealed histologic features of high-grade osteosarcoma. Flow cytometric analyses of the primary tumors showed abnormal hyperdiploid deoxyribonucleic acid populations in accordance with those seen in high-grade malignant neoplasms. Immunohistochemical studies supported a mesenchymal origin for these tumors. These tumors shared clinical features with other reported cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung such as large size at diagnosis, occurrence in older individuals, and aggressive behavior. 
New concepts in the treatment of stage D1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Stage D1 disease will be encountered in 20 per cent of patients by those who treat prostate cancer. There is marked heterogeneity among cancers discovered at this stage, with 5-year disease-free survival rates ranging from 0 to 95 per cent. Generally, when prostate cancer has escaped the confines of the gland, metastasis occurs, and widespread systemic disease prevails. Any significant chance for long-term cure will then depend on systemic therapy. From maturing data in retrospective reviews, preliminary data from prospective trials, and recent well-conducted animal studies, chemotherapy and hormonal deprivation appear most effective when tumor volumes are the smallest. This evidence supports the removal of all cancer possible and the early institution of systemic treatment. Caution must be exercised in extrapolating the aforementioned evidence to include cases of more extensive prostate cancer (i.e., patients with bulky pelvic or retroperitoneal disease, distant metastasis, or significant elevation of serum markers). It is doubtful that "debulking" with removal of the prostate and lymph nodes will provide any justifiable advantages in these patients. Whether removal of the prostate affords any local palliative benefit is an issue for debate. Certainly, the primary tumor, if left untreated, will progress locally and cause symptoms necessitating further procedures in more than half these patients, whereas the incidence of local recurrence and the adverse effects of these recurrences in patients with D1 disease after radical prostatectomy and adjuvant therapy is less than 10 per cent. Surgical refinements coupled with acceptably low morbidity now associated with radical prostatectomy have led some authors to endorse the palliative benefits of removing the primary tumor in selected patients. The purpose of this article is not to endorse or disparage the aggressive treatment of patients with stage D1 prostate cancer. The evidence suggests that if long-term survival is the endpoint used to compare treatment groups, then to date no treatment option offers significant advantages. On the contrary, if progression rates or disease-free survival are compared, then cytoreductive surgery and early systemic adjuvant treatment (testosterone deprivation or chemotherapy) provides significant advantages for selected patients with stage D1 disease. Although ploidy analysis, receptor mapping, and oncogene assays are promising, today, there is no practical way to identify patients who will benefit most from multimodality treatment approaches.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Induction of protein kinase C mRNA in cultured lymphoblastoid T cells by iron-transferrin but not by soluble iron. Iron-transferrin (FeTF) is an essential growth factor required for proliferation of lymphoid cells. FeTF activates protein kinase C (PKC) in the lymphoblastoid T-cell line, CCRF-CEM. We have treated CEM cells with human FeTF, then examined levels of PKC mRNA by hybridization analysis using cDNA probes specific for alpha-, beta-, and gamma-PKC subspecies. CEM cell mRNA hybridized with the beta-subspecies probe but not with probes for alpha- or gamma-subspecies. After exposure to FeTF an increase in PKC-beta mRNA was detectable at 10 minutes, peaked at 12 hours, and was sustained for 72 hours. Nuclear transcription assays demonstrated that rates of PKC-beta mRNA transcription were increased in FeTF-treated cells. By contrast, steady state levels of PKC-beta mRNA did not increase after treatment of cells with apotransferrin or gallium TF. Similarly, treatment with soluble iron as ferric ammonium citrate did not increase steady state levels of PKC-beta mRNA, despite producing a marked increase in cellular ferritin content. Ferritin increased from a baseline value of 63 ng/10(6) cells to 98 and 100 ng/10(6) cells in CEM cells treated for 1 hour with ferric ammonium citrate or FeTF, respectively. FeTF did not increase cytoplasmic-free calcium in CEM cells loaded with fura-2, indicating that binding of FeTF to transferrin receptors did not open membrane Ca2+ channels or release intracellular Ca2+. In addition, pretreatment of cells with desferrioxamine, but not ferrioxamine, blocked the FeTF-induced increase in PKC-beta transcripts. Therefore, iron as FeTF (not soluble iron or nonferric TF) stimulates transcription of the CEM cell PKC-beta gene. Transcriptional rate of the PKC-beta gene does not correlate with cellular iron content as judged by ferritin measurements. Furthermore, the requirement for FeTF does not appear to reflect activation of a classic agonist pathway as judged by stable cellular Ca2+. These data suggest that delivery of iron by FeTF to one or more specific cellular compartments may stimulate PKC-beta gene transcription in CEM cells. 
Adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma in Brazil and its relation to HTLV-I In a series of fourteen patients with adult T-cell lymphoma-leukaemia (ATLL) in Brazil the main features were lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, hypercalcaemia, and high leucocyte counts, with abnormal lymphoid cells which had irregular nuclei. The series included the youngest patient with ATLL so far (18 months). Analysis with monoclonal antibodies showed a mature T-cell phenotype (CD4+, CD8-). Antibodies to HTLV-I and/or integration of HTLV-I proviral DNA were found in eleven patients. In the other three HTLV-I DNA could not be demonstrated even by means of the polymerase chain reaction; they therefore had HTLV-I-negative ATLL. This report of ATLL in Brazil corroborates serological reports that HTLV-I may be endemic in some parts of that country. Follow-up studies are required to identify precisely the main route of transmission of HTLV-I in South America and the risk factors for the development of ATLL in carriers. 
Liver tumor imaging. Liver tumor imaging is the paradigm of the dilemma of diagnostic decision-making in the current era of abundant high technology. In part, this is a reflection of the multiplicity of imaging techniques now in wide use worldwide. These include ultrasound (US), radionuclide scintigraphy (RNS), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and techniques especially designed for staging the extent of known liver cancer, such as computed tomography during arterial portography (CTAP) and intraoperative ultrasound (IOUS). Most authorities concede that CT scanning is the single test most closely fitting the designation "gold standard" for liver tumor imaging, although MRI, a less mature technique, is already preferred by some. Local factors profoundly influence the selection and sequence of imaging studies, including available equipment, radiologic skills, institutional interests, and especially the specific clinical circumstances of the patient. Thus, diagnostic algorithms or decision trees for sequential imaging workup of liver tumor suspects tend to be somewhat institution specific. 
Diagnostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the differential diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma. The histologic and cytologic distinction of malignant mesothelioma from carcinomas metastatic to the pleura or peritoneum is often problematic. For this reason immunologic methods are being increasingly used as diagnostic adjuncts. This review summarizes 40 studies on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen in mesotheliomas and in lung and other carcinomas involving the pleura or peritoneum. Carcinoembryonic antigen was identified immunohistochemically in 11% of mesotheliomas and in 84% of carcinomas examined and immunocytochemically (in serous effusions) in 4% and 58%, respectively. In serum and in pleural or ascitic fluid, significantly elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen are commonly associated with (lung) carcinomas but rarely with mesotheliomas. Thus, together with identification of the antigen in serum, pleural fluid, or ascitic fluid, immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques for detecting carcinoembryonic antigen provide a valuable aid for distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from metastatic carcinomas. 
Efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups. In practice, some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes. Therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems. In this article, doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension, namely, left ventricular hypertrophy, hyperlipidemia, noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency, pheochromocytoma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, peripheral vascular disease, and smoking. Doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension, and the results of relevant studies are discussed. 
Leiomyosarcoma of bone. A clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of five cases. The authors identified five leiomyosarcomas (LMS) in a review of 13 nonmatrix-producing spindle cell sarcomas of bone. Only two were initially recognized as LMS; the others had been diagnosed as malignant fibrous histiocytoma (two) and fibrosarcoma (one). The patients, four of whom were women, ranged in age from 32 to 70 years. Sites included proximal humerus (two), distal femur (two), and rib (one). All tumors presented with clinical and radiographic features consistent with a diagnosis of primary bone neoplasms, although one probably represented a solitary metastasis from a primary uterine LMS. Radiographs showed lytic bone destruction with a moth-eaten appearance, and three cases had soft tissue extension. Histologically, all tumors showed broad, interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with pleomorphic nuclei, frequent mitoses, and necrosis. Two cases had a focal storiform pattern and bizarre multinucleated cells, and two other cases had focally prominent osteoclast-like giant cells. Extensive immunoreactivity for muscle actin was seen in all cases and for desmin in three. In each case, electron microscopy showed definite smooth muscle differentiation including cytoplasmic filaments with densities. At this writing, two patients are free of disease (including the patient with a presumed metastasis), one is alive with locally recurrent disease, and two are dead of disease. Experience suggests that LMS of bone is a distinct clinicopathologic entity that may be more common than previously recognized. Application of immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to nonmatrix-producing bone sarcomas should facilitate diagnosis of additional cases. 
Bowenoid papulosis. Bowenoid papulosis is an uncommon genital dysplasia induced by human papillomavirus infection. Clinically, it usually resembles persistent warts, but histologically it may be suggestive of squamous cell carcinoma in situ. This unusual disorder and recent advances in our understanding of it are reviewed. 
Concomitant cisplatin chemotherapy and radiotherapy in advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Long-term results of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group study 81-17. One hundred twenty-four eligible patients with advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were entered into a pilot study of concomitant cisplatin (100 mg/m2 given every 3 weeks for three doses) and standard irradiation. The initial complete response (CR) was 71% with an additional two cases salvaged by surgery for an overall 73% CR. When no keratin was identified in the histologic specimen (41 patients) the CR was 90%. The nasopharynx showed the best CR (89%) among the sites. At 4 years after treatment, the estimated locoregional tumor control rate was 43% and the survival, 34%. When no keratin was present in the specimen, the estimated locoregional control of tumor was superior (56% versus 38% with keratin identified, P = 0.02) and the estimated survival was also superior (48% versus 26%, P = 0.008). Acute treatment-related toxicities included one death due to renal damage and two patients with life-threatening renal damage. The delivery of radiotherapy was not altered. Late toxicity included necrosis -3%, fibrosis -4%, and one fistula. The results of this study justify a randomized trial for the comparison of this combination of cisplatin and radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in advanced mucosal carcinomas of the head and neck. 
Squamous cell carcinoma antigen (TA-4) in penile carcinoma. TA-4 antigen, originally isolated from women with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, is elevated in the sera of patients with squamous cell carcinomas of several sites, including esophagus, lungs, and head and neck. In this study, we compared the serum levels of TA-4 in normal volunteers, patients with resected penile squamous cell carcinoma, and patients with metastatic penile squamous cell carcinoma. TA-4 values were elevated in 5 of 11 patients (45%) who had metastatic disease. In 2, TA-4 was normal the first time metastasis was clinically detected but rose as the disease progressed. Moreover, in 3 patients in whom serial determinations were made, serum TA-4 values correlated well with disease progression and response to treatment. We conclude that TA-4 values are elevated in some patients with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the penis and may become a useful marker for monitoring response to therapy. 
Paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy: a treatable neuropathy. Paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described. We report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment. A 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy, electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy, high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein, and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy. The patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement. 
Pulmonary blastoma with malignant melanoma component. Pulmonary blastomas are rare primary tumors that consist of tubular or glandular structures embedded in an undifferentiated mesenchymal stroma. Focal cartilage, bone, and skeletal muscle as well as squamous differentiation have been described in these tumors. We report a unique case of a pulmonary blastoma showing a malignant melanoma component. Immunohistochemical stains for S100 protein and HMB-45 were positive in the areas of melanocytic differentiation. 
Decrease in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose after high-dose methotrexate in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia. We measured changes in the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGlu) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography for the assessment of neurotoxicity in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia treated with high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) therapy. We studied 8 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (mean age: 9.6 years) treated with HD-MTX (200 mg/kg or 2,000 mg/M2) therapy. CMRGlu after HD-MTX therapy was most reduced (40%) in the patient who had central nervous system leukemia and was treated with the largest total doses of both intrathecal MTX (IT-MTX) and HD-MTX. CMRGlu in the whole brain after HD-MTX therapy was reduced by an average of 21% (P less than 0.05). The reductions of CMRGlu in 8 patients were correlated with total doses of both IT-MTX (r = 0.717; P less than 0.05) and systemic HD-MTX (r = 0.784; P less than 0.05). CMRGlu of the cerebral cortex, especially the frontal and occipital cortex, was reduced more noticeably than that of the basal ganglia and white matter. We suggest that the measurement of changes in rCMRGlu after HD-MTX therapy is useful for detecting accumulated MTX neurotoxicity. 
Analysis of interleukin 2 and various effector cell populations in adoptive immunotherapy of 9L rat gliosarcoma: allogeneic cytotoxic T lymphocytes prevent tumor take. Recombinant interleukin 2 (rIL-2) and various effector cell populations were used for adoptive immunotherapy in the Fischer strain 9L rat gliosarcoma model. The in vivo cytotoxicities of nonspecifically activated lymphocytes and specifically activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) were assessed in a modified in vivo neutralization (Winn) assay. Effector cells (10(6)) and 9L tumor cells (10(5] were combined with 10(4) units of rIL-2 and stereotactically implanted into the right frontal centrum semiovale of the Fischer (F344) rat. At 7 and 14 days, additional effector cells (10(6] and rIL-2 (10(4) units) were administered through the same burr hole. Nonspecifically activated splenocytes were lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, both plastic-adherent and nonadherent, whereas specifically activated CTLs were either syngeneic (genetically identical) or allogeneic (genetically dissimilar). Syngeneic CTLs were T lymphocytes from Fischer rats primed in vivo with 9L cells and restimulated in vitro. Allogeneic CTLs were generated by exposing DA rat lymphocytes either to irradiated Fischer lymph node cells or to 9L Fisher tumor cells in vitro. Control groups included rats bearing 9L tumor who were untreated, those who received peripheral (i.p. or s.c.) administration of rIL-2, or those who received syngeneic unstimulated T lymphocytes and rIL-2. For a set of animals given the same inoculum of 9L tumor, significantly improved survival was shown for groups treated with nonadherent or adherent LAK cells (P less than or equal to 0.0003), syngeneic CTLs (P = 0.0327), or allogeneic CTLs (P = 0.0025) over untreated control animals by using Mantel-Haenzel nonparametric logrank equations. Only treatment with allogeneic CTLs prevented tumor take. 
Mammography and early breast cancer detection. Screening mammography has been shown to reduce breast cancer mortality. Both film-screen mammography and xeromammography are highly sensitive and specific. Mammography accreditation programs assure physicians and patients that a facility provides mammography of the highest quality, using the lowest possible radiation dose. Mammographic signs of early cancer include a small mass, calcifications, architectural distortion and a neodensity. Dense tissue may result in a false-negative examination even when a cancer is palpable, with adverse effects if biopsy is delayed. 
Lower extremity weakness as the initial manifestation of lung cancer [published erratum appears in Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1991 Jan;72(1):61] A 55-year-old woman had progressive lower extremity weakness. She had an 80-pack-per-year history of cigarette smoking. Electromyographic findings were consistent with the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. Despite a normal chest x-ray, normal laboratory studies, and negative bronchoscopy, investigation for lung cancer was pursued. The final thoracotomy and pathology reports indicated a diagnosis of oat cell carcinoma. After treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, clinical and electrophysiologic findings have resolved. Two years after diagnosis, the patient remains in good health without evidence of recurrence. 
Fludarabine phosphate: a synthetic purine antimetabolite with significant activity against lymphoid malignancies. Fludarabine phosphate is the 2-fluoro, 5'-monophosphate derivative of vidarabine (ara-A) with the advantages of resistance to deamination by adenosine deaminase (ADA) and improved solubility. The mechanism of cytotoxic action of the compound appears to involve metabolic conversion to the active triphosphate. Fludarabine phosphate has substantial activity against lymphoid malignancies, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Its single-agent activity in CLL appears at least comparable to those of other conventional combination regimens. Its activity in Hodgkin's disease, mycosis fungoides, and macroglobulinemia, although suggestive, needs to be further defined and clinical trials are warranted in hairy cell leukemia, prolymphocytic leukemia, and previously untreated myeloma. The compound does not appear active against most common solid tumors. Early clinical trials indicated significant myelosuppression and the potential for severe neurotoxicity. Toxicity on the currently used low-dose schedules includes transient and reversible myelosuppression, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, somnolence/fatigue, and elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum creatinine. Possible pulmonary toxicity has been suggested in several patients. The currently used low-doses of fludarabine phosphate, even with repeated administration, are well tolerated and appear safe with a negligible risk for severe neurotoxicity. Based on its single-agent activity and tolerability, the Food and Drug Administration recently granted group C designation of the drug for the treatment of patients with refractory CLL outside the clinical trials setting. The use of fludarabine phosphate in combination regimens and its impact on the natural history of the lymphoid malignancies is yet to be determined. Fludarabine phosphate may well occupy a pivotal role in the management of CLL and low-grade NHL. 
Evaluation of endosonography in TN staging of oesophageal cancer. Strategies for the treatment of cancer of the oesophagus depend on the tumour stage at the time of diagnosis. Resection, the only curative treatment, is confined to early tumour stages. Tumours with local infiltration are usually unresectable and require palliative treatment. Computed tomography has been widely used for preoperative staging but often fails to define this correctly. Endoscopic ultrasound allows direct visualisation of the parietal wall and may be useful in staging gastrointestinal tumours. In a comparative prospective study, 52 patients with tumours of the oesophagus were investigated preoperatively both by endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography to determine the stage of tumour infiltration and local lymph node involvement. Thirty seven of these patients underwent operation, resection, or dissection and entered the study. The intraoperative findings or the histopathological assessment, or both, were taken as a reference. For all TN stages of oesophageal tumours, correct preoperative staging was accomplished by endoscopic ultrasound in 89% for T stage and 69% for N stage compared with 51% and 51% respectively by computed tomography (highly significant using Fisher's exact test). This study shows that endoscopic ultrasound is useful in preoperative TN staging of tumours of the oesophagus. 
The frequency of uterine leiomyomas. As a leading cause of hysterectomy in premenopausal women. uterine leiomyomas are a major public health problem. However, very little work has been done on their epidemiology. Indeed, their true frequency has never been established using systematic and meticulous methods. In this study, gross serial sectioning at 2-mm intervals was applied as an adjunct to routine pathology processing in 100 consecutive total hysterectomy specimens. This tripled the number of leiomyomas noted in routine pathology reports. There were 649 leiomyomas in 77 of 100 uteri, with multiplicity of leiomyomas in 84%. Although leiomyomas were more numerous and larger in women with a clinical diagnosis of myomatous uterus, the incidence was no higher than in uteri removed for other reasons. The postmenopausal incidence of leiomyomas was no lower than the premenopausal incidence, although postmenopausal leiomyomas were smaller and fewer. These findings suggest that epidemiologic studies of leiomyomas may not be valid if they are based only on clinical diagnoses or routine pathology reports. 
Anesthesia for craniotomy: a double-blind comparison of alfentanil, fentanyl, and sufentanil. Using a prospective, randomized, and double-blind study design, alfentanil (n = 15), fentanyl (n = 14), or sufentanil (n = 16), in combination with N2O, were administered to patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial tumor resection. Physicians were given two syringes, one of which was labeled as "load" for the initial loading dose and the other as "maintenance" for continuous infusion. The concentration of drug in each syringe was adjusted to permit administration on a milliliter per kilogram basis. The target loading doses for alfentanil, fentanyl, and sufentanil were 75, 10, and 1 microgram/kg, respectively, and initial infusion rates were 33.5, 2.0, and 0.3 microgram.kg-1.h-1, respectively. Additional supplementary boluses and changes in maintenance infusion rate were made according to predetermined guidelines. Isoflurane, in increasing 0.2% inspired increments, was used only when the maximum allowed opioid dose had been given (i.e., supplementary bolus doses equal to 75% of the calculated loading dose or supplementary bolus doses equal to 50% of the calculated loading dose combined with a 50% increase in the maintenance infusion rate). Opioid infusions were stopped at the time of bone flap replacement. Antihypertensive medications and naloxone were subsequently given at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. Group demographics were not different. Total volumes of drug were similar among groups indicating equipotent preparations. Administration of isoflurane, antihypertensive medications, and naloxone were not different among groups. Although decreases in blood pressure seen with induction were similar among groups, alfentanil-treated patients received ephedrine more frequently before intubation. Thirty minutes after entry into the postanesthesia recovery area, respiratory rate and pH were lowest in sufentanil-treated patients. 
Influence of organ environment on extracellular matrix degradative activity and metastasis of human colon carcinoma cells Orthotopic implantation of human colon carcinoma cells is useful for studying the behavior of metastatic subpopulations. We observed that the parental line and variants of human colon carcinoma KM12 cells were all tumorigenic following implantation into the subcutis or cecal wall of BALB/c nude mice. Their ability to metastasize to distant organ sites varied, however, with the site of growth. Subcutaneous (SC) tumors did not produce visceral metastases, whereas cecal tumors metastasized to the regional mesenteric lymph nodes and to the liver. To examine the influence of organ environment on the extracellular matrix-degrading activity of the tumors, we inoculated human colon carcinoma cells into the subcutis or cecal wall and after 7 weeks isolated and cultured the tumors in serum-free medium. The conditioned media of SC tumors contained very low levels of type IV collagenase (gelatinase) and heparanase (heparan sulfate-specific endo-beta-D-glucuronidase), whereas the media of the cecal wall tumors contained high levels of both. Zymograms of the media revealed that the intracecal human colon carcinomas secreted more than three times the amount of latent and active forms of 92-kd type IV collagenase than did the SC tumors. Moreover, only the conditioned media of intracecal tumors contained latent and active forms of 64-kd type IV collagenase. Histochemical analysis using rabbit antiserum raised against the synthetic peptides of 72-kd procollagenase type IV showed type IV collagenase in the intracecal tumors; human colon carcinoma growing SC, however, were not stained significantly. These results suggest that factors in the organ environment may affect production and secretion of tumor extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes, and these factors may modify the metastatic behavior of human colon carcinoma cells in nude mice. 
The role of adrenalectomy in Cushing's syndrome. Forty-four patients with Cushing's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989. Twenty patients had adrenal adenomas: 13 with obvious Cushing's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical, detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass (es). Twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for Cushing's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation. Six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia, five as manifestations of Carney's complex. Two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors. Four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy. Three are alive from 8 years to 5 months. There was one postoperative death (2.3%) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three (7%) minor postoperative complications. Follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95% of patients. It is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of Cushing's syndrome regardless of the cause. It is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas, carcinomas, primary hyperplasia, and selected patients with Cushing's disease. 
Does increased detection account for the rising incidence of breast cancer? BACKGROUND: The incidence of breast cancer has been increasing over time in the United States. METHODS: To determine the role of screening in this increase, trends in the incidence of in situ and invasive carcinoma of the breast were evaluated using records of the metropolitan Atlanta SEER program between 1979 and 1986. From a sample of records, evidence of symptoms and mammographic screening prior to diagnosis was recorded. RESULTS: The average annual age-adjusted incidence of invasive disease rose 29 percent among Whites and 41 percent among Blacks. Incidence increased in all age groups. A trend towards earlier detection of invasive disease was found. Asymptomatic tumors accounted for only 40 percent of the increased incidence among whites and 25 percent of the increased incidence among blacks, with mammography as the principal contributing procedure. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that increased detection accounts for some but not all of the rising incidence of breast cancer in the United States. 
Enhanced modulation of antibodies coating guinea pig leukemic cells in vitro and in vivo. The role of Fc gamma R expressing cells. We have investigated the antigenic modulation induced by a number of antibody fragments and derivatives directed against the idiotype of the surface Ig of the L2C guinea pig B lymphoblastic leukemia, and studied the effects upon such modulation of the simultaneous presence of cells expressing Fc gamma receptors (FcR). In vitro studies confirmed previous work showing that antibody bivalency is required to induce modulation in vitro in simple systems. However, in the presence of isolated Kupffer cells, Fc-containing univalent antibodies were found to induce significant antigenic modulation, and the modulation induced by intact IgG was also found to be more rapid and extensive. Fragments that did not contain Fc regions behaved similarly in the presence or absence of Kupffer cells. Further investigations demonstrated that all three classes of human FcR can mediate modulation enhancement, and suggest that the mechanism involves indirect cross-linking of cell surface Ag via the antibody and effector cell FcR. In vivo studies showed that univalent antibody derivatives containing Fc regions did induce antigenic modulation, but that this was significantly reduced in comparison with bivalent antibodies, confirming their potential advantage for immunotherapy. 
Basement membrane of cervical adenocarcinoma: an immunoperoxidase study of laminin and type IV collagen. The basement membrane components type IV collagen and laminin were examined immunohistochemically in 14 cases of adenocarcinoma of the cervix. The patterns of staining in adenocarcinoma in situ, invasive adenocarcinoma, and early invasive adenocarcinoma were compared to see whether characteristic patterns could be delineated. Adenocarcinoma in situ had a uniform intact basement membrane, whereas the basement membrane of invasive adenocarcinoma was fragmented and irregular. Cases of early stromal invasion showed early gland buds and outpouchings with defective basement membrane staining. The degree of histologic differentiation of the tumor was not clearly related to the amount of basement membrane component staining. The concept of early stromal invasion in cervical adenocarcinoma, as supported by our immunohistochemical studies, is discussed as it relates to a possible pathogenic mechanism in early invasion and infiltration of adenocarcinoma of the cervix. 
Decreased expression of integrin adhesive protein receptors in adenocarcinoma of the breast. The integrin superfamily represents a major class of receptors mediating cell-substrate adhesion. Our recent study of the tissue distribution of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin, a cell-surface collagen receptor, revealed that high levels of receptor expression were associated with orderly, regulated epithelial cell proliferation. Those observations prompted the present investigation of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrins in adenocarcinoma of the breast. The alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly expressed on the epithelium of the ducts and ductules of normal breast tissue. Normal or nearly normal levels of the receptor were expressed in fibroadenomas. In contrast, markedly decreased or undetectable alpha 2 beta 1 expression was typical of poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas. Well-differentiated lesions exhibited intermediate levels of expression. Similar, but less extensive, decreases in expression were observed for the alpha 5 beta 1 (fibronectin receptor) and alpha v beta 3 (vitronectin receptor). Significant expression of the beta 1 subunit on even poorly differentiated tumors suggests that the expression of other undefined members of the beta 1 family is not reduced to the same low level as alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1. Expression of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly correlated with estrogen-receptor expression. Decreased expression of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrin adhesive protein receptors probably contributes to the altered adhesive properties of tumor cells characteristic of the malignant phenotype. 
Misdiagnosis of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome due to hyperlipidemia. Most authorities feel that diagnosis of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is established when the serum gastrin level is greater than 1000 pg/mL (1000 ng/L) in a patient with gastric acid hypersecretion and clinical manifestations consistent with the diagnosis. A patient with recurrent peptic ulcer disease is reported who was thought to have had the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome based on two serum gastrin level measurements greater than 1000 pg/mL (1000 ng/L). Subsequent evaluation revealed the gastrin elevation to be spurious because the sample was hyperlipidemic. Lipemic serum samples may yield falsely elevated serum gastrin determinations as determined by radioimmunoassay. 
Microdochectomy for discharge from a single lactiferous duct. Microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct was performed in 162 women. Invasive or in situ ductal carcinoma was diagnosed in 16 patients (10 per cent), none of whom had a palpable lump. The discharge was blood-stained in 14 of these women and in two it was clear. Mammography was performed in 15 of these 16 patients and was abnormal in only five. Three patients had atypical ductal hyperplasia, one of whom subsequently developed an invasive ductal carcinoma. Microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct is curative and gives a diagnosis of the cause. It remains the treatment of choice whether the discharge is blood-stained or clear. 
Subrenal capsule assay as a chemosensitivity test for primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The efficiency of the subrenal capsule assay (SRCA) was studied with fresh tissue of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The day-to-day changes in 10 carcinoma cases were evaluated for 9 days. The cancer cells continued to proliferate from the 3rd to the 7th day after the implantation and then decreased. The host reaction was recognized histologically from the 3rd or 4th day to the 9th day. However, the immune reaction did not significantly influence the evaluation of SRCA until the 7th day. The immunohistochemical staining with anti-bromodeoxyuridine monoclonal antibody revealed the existence of cancer cells at the DNA synthesizing stage (S stage) in the graft until the 7th day. In chemosensitivity test by SRCA, 21 patients were studied, and all were evaluable. 5-FU administration produced a response in 8/21 cases (38.1%), VDS in 8/21 (38.1%), and CDDP in 3/21 (14.3%). Used in combination, CDDP + VDS was effective in 7/18 cases (38.9%) and CDDP + BLM in 6/18 cases (33.3%). 
Comparative investigation of c-erbB2/neu expression in head and neck tumors and mammary cancer. Normal tissues, primary tumors, and metastases of mammary and salivary glands and oral/laryngeal mucosa have been analyzed with Northern-blots employing 32P-labeled RNA probes for the expression of the neu oncogene. Neu oncogene expression of a mRNA species of 4.6 kilobases was found in all normal salivary (five) and mammary glands (four) as well as in two normal or inflamed samples of tongue mucosa. This expression was regarded as baseline activity of the neu gene for the respective tissues and was used as standard for the evaluation of benign and malignant tumors. None of 14 squamous cell carcinomas of the oral and laryngeal mucosa showed enhanced neu transcription level. Five fibroadenomas, one benign variant of phylloid tumor, one carcinosarcoma, and one of two proliferative fibrocystic diseases of the breast showed lacking or normal baseline expression of the neu oncogene, as did one monomorphous cystadenolymphoma of the parotid gland. In contrast, four parotid pleomorphic adenomas and one salivary gland adenocarcinoma showed enhanced neu expression. For mammary adenocarcinomas, increased neu oncogene expression concerned ten of 34 cases--all being variants of ductal carcinomas--and all metastases analyzed (six) deriving from three primaries. One adenoid cystic carcinoma also showed enhanced neu expression. Neu overexpression may reflect accidents of genomic reconstitutional events occurring regularly within the differentiation pathway of epithelial/myoepithelial cells. This assumption was supported by further immunohistochemical analysis which showed stainings of myoepithelial and myoepithelia-like cell populations in tumors, especially pleomorphic adenomas and adjacent normal-looking tissues. 
Testicular calcifications and neoplasia in patient treated for subfertility. A subfertile male with a history of left cryptorchism underwent scrotal ultrasound that revealed stippled calcifications, without associated mass, in the right testicle. Six months later, while on a regimen of clomiphene citrate, a testicular tumor became palpable. This was sonographically confirmed to be surrounding the calcifications. Testicular calcifications are most commonly associated with benign conditions. We review the literature regarding their relationship to neoplasms and the significance of the ultrasonic findings. Furthermore, this is the sixth reported case of testicular tumor developing during hormonal treatment for oligospermia. Although these cases may be circumstantial, closer surveillance and screening ultrasound may be indicated for subfertile males taking clomiphene citrate. 
99mTc-anti-CEA radioimmunoscintigraphy of lung adenocarcinoma. Anti-carcinoembryonic antigen radioimmunoscintigraphy (anti-CEA RIS) in colorectal adenocarcinoma has been reported to allow a better estimation of the local tumor extension than other radiologic methods. This study evaluated the clinical feasibility of a 99mTc-labeled anti-CEA monoclonal antibody (BW 431/26, Behring Institute, FRG) in 11 patients for staging of primary adenocarcinoma of the lung. The primary tumor size ranged from 3 to 8 cm with a mean of 4 cm. Mediastinal and hilar nodes were present in four patients, intrapulmonary metastases were present in two patients, and pleural and liver metastases were present in one patient each. The CEA levels were in the range of 2 to 265 ng/ml and elevated (greater than 5 ng/ml) in six patients. Planar scintigraphy was performed at 6 h and 24 h post injection (pi). Analog and digitized images were interpreted by two observers. One patient was imaged twice and experienced serum sickness due to human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA) after the second study, which showed marked unspecific tracer uptake in liver, spleen, and bone marrow, but no specific uptake by the tumor and was excluded from further analysis. Visual interpretation identified the primary tumor clearly in seven patients. No tumor imaging was observed in two patients. Two patients were classified as having questionable imaging due to a poor separation of tumor uptake from mediastinal blood pool. The primary tumor could be clearly delineated in both patients after comparison with the chest radiograph. Thus, the overall sensitivity for imaging of the primary tumor was 82 percent. The average target/background ratio was 1.31 +/- 0.17:1 at 6 h pi, and 1.30 +/- 0.16:1 at 24 h pi. Hilar and mediastinal nodes were correctly suspected in three patients, but the cardiac blood pool hampered a clear interpretation. Intrapulmonary and pleural metastases were diagnosed in all cases. The single liver metastasis was missed because of the high unspecific tracer uptake. Planar anti-CEA RIS with 99mTc BW 431/26 was superior to computed tomography (CT) in one case with subtotal tumor resection. We summarize that at present, planar anti-CEA RIS with 99mTc BW 431/26 cannot be advised as a routine staging procedure in adenocarcinoma of the lung, but it may be helpful in the detection of residual or recurrent tumor tissue. 
Morphine-induced transactivation of HIV-1 LTR in human neuroblastoma cells. Infection by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is followed in many cases by a clinically quiescent or latent phase that appears to continue as long as host antiviral defense is intact. This has raised the possibility that certain host susceptibility factors (i.e., environmental cofactors) might influence the progression of the disease. In this study we demonstrate that morphine can function to activate HIV/LTR-CAT fusion gene (HIV-long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase) when transfected into undifferentiated human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. The stimulatory effect of morphine is amplified in SH-SY5Y cells that have been induced to differentiate first with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and is much less in cells differentiated with retinoic acid (RA). Morphine does not appreciably activate HIV/LTR-CAT expression in human MOLT-3 and other T cells. Morphine activation of HIV/LTR-CAT in the SH-SY5Y cells is not reversible by naltrexone and appears to involve a Fos/Jun signaling system. Our results suggest that narcotics such as morphine may lead to activation of latent HIV infection. This may be particularly important in tissues, such as brain, which can host latent HIV infection and which is uniquely damaged in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) as evidenced by neuronal degeneration and dementia. We also predict that these findings may have important implications for the pathogenesis of AIDS, particularly in opiate drug abusers. 
Vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for reconstruction of defects around the groin and pelvis. We present our experience using the vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for the repair of defects around the groin and pelvis. It is a relatively new technique, with many advantages over other flaps used in this area, though it has limitations. The history, anatomy and surgical technique of raising the flap are described and clinical cases are discussed. The importance of patient selection is highlighted. 
Menopausal estrogen replacement therapy and breast cancer We conducted a meta-analysis of the literature concerning breast cancer and estrogen replacement therapy. The overall relative risk of breast cancer associated with this therapy was 1.07. However, the variation of the estimated risks among the studies was far greater than could plausibly be explained by chance alone. To explain this variation, we looked at the effects of type, duration, and dosage of treatment. Overall, women who took 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens had a risk of breast cancer that was 1.08 times that of women who did not receive this therapy (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.96 to 1.2). The relative risks from these individual studies of low-dosage therapy did not differ significantly from each other. Women who took 1.25 mg/d or more of conjugated estrogens had a breast cancer relative risk of 2.0 or less in all studies. However, the variation in observed risks at this higher dosage was significant. This implies that other risk factors varied among these studies, making it difficult to estimate the overall risk associated with this dosage. The relative risk of breast cancer associated with estrogen replacement therapy among women with a history of benign breast disease was 1.16 (95% CI, 0.89 to 1.5). The combined results from multiple studies provide strong evidence that menopausal therapy consisting of 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens does not increase breast cancer risk. 
Xeroderma pigmentosum lesions related to ultraviolet transmittance by clothes. Xeroderma pigmentosum is associated with severe actinic degeneration of the skin. Our patient with xeroderma pigmentosum showed increasing actinic damage in some areas covered by clothes. We therefore performed a complete evaluation of the patient's exposure to ultraviolet radiation. This included transmission measurements of the patient's clothes, glasses, and car windows. The transmission of UVB (280 to 320 nm) by the clothes varied from none to 17.8%. The transmitted UVB radiation was proportional to the clinical manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum. The patient's wardrobe was changed, and UVA-blocking film was applied to the windows of the car and house. A decline in manifestations was seen after 18 months of improved ultraviolet protection. 
Pelvic lipomatosis associated with cystitis glandularis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder. Pelvic lipomatosis is a rare condition characterized by an overgrowth of normal fat in the perivesical and perirectal spaces. Cystitis glandularis, cystica or follicularis has been observed in 75% of the patients with pelvic lipomatosis. Although cystitis glandularis is widely regarded as premalignant few reports have documented its transition to adenocarcinoma. We describe a 41-year-old man with pelvic lipomatosis in whom primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder developed 6 years after a histological diagnosis of cystitis cystica and glandularis was established. To our knowledge this is the second case reported of pelvic lipomatosis associated with proliferative cystitis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder, indicating that intestinal metaplasia of the urothelium may be a precursor of malignancy in these patients. 
The glucose transporter and blood-brain barrier of human brain tumors. The glucose transporter of the human brain has been localized to endothelial cells expressing the blood-brain barrier, but little is known regarding its mechanism of induction or whether its expression is exclusively linked with restricted vascular permeability. We investigated glucose transporter expression by vessels in human astrocytic tumors and pulmonary metastases to the brain using immunohistochemical techniques. Vessels in 9 of 10 low-grade astrocytomas and 8 of 10 anaplastic astrocytomas were positive for glucose transporter. Glioblastoma vessels were transporter-positive in only 2 of 10 specimens. Vessels in all three metastatic tumors were negative for the glucose transporter. The decrease in transporter expression observed in higher-grade tumors occurred independently of increases in vascular permeability. In low-grade astrocytomas and glioblastomas transporter expression and contrast enhancement were inversely related, but vessels in 6 of 9 anaplastic astrocytomas were transporter-positive despite contrast enhancement. These findings suggest that separate mechanisms induce the glucose transporter and the permeability restrictions of the human blood-brain barrier. They also have potential implications for the therapy and prognosis of astroglial neoplasms. 
Elevated expression of the c-fes proto-oncogene in adult human myeloid leukemia cells in the absence of gene amplification. Expression of the 93-kd tyrosine kinase encoded by the human c-fes proto-oncogene (also known as FES) is restricted to mature hematopoietic cells of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages, suggestive of a function essential to normal myeloid differentiation. However, recent studies have shown that c-fes can transform fibroblasts if sufficient levels of gene expression are achieved. These findings indicate that strict regulation of the c-fes gene is critical to normal myeloid development, whereas elevated c-fes expression may contribute to malignant transformation. In the present study, we compared the c-fes messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in leukemia blasts from patients with myeloid or lymphoid leukemia with those of peripheral monocytes from a normal donor with the use of a quantitative ribonuclease protection assay. The presence of c-fes mRNA was readily detected in both acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells, but c-fes mRNA was present in low levels or was absent in lymphoid leukemia cells. The leukemia cells of two of five AML patients and four of four CML patients expressed more c-fes mRNA than monocytes from a normal donor, with more than a threefold elevation in the cells of one CML patient. No evidence of amplification or rearrangement of the c-fes gene was detectable by Southern blot analysis of myeloid leukemia DNA, suggesting that the variation in c-fes mRNA levels are related to differences in transcriptional activity and/or message stability. These results indicate that elevated c-fes expression is a common feature of myeloid leukemia cells that could potentially contribute to the leukemia phenotype. 
Enhanced hepatic drug clearance in patients with cystic fibrosis. To examine whether hepatic drug metabolism is altered in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), we evaluated the pharmacokinetics of three model pharmacologic substrates (antipyrine, a marker of hepatic oxidative metabolism; lorazepam, a marker of hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity; and indocyanine green (ICG), a marker of hepatic blood flow and biliary secretion) in 14 patients with CF (14.6 to 29.2 years of age) and in 12 children and adolescents with cancer (7.2 to 19.4 years of age), which was treated with only surgery and radiation. Each study subject received a single intravenous dose of the combined model substrates (0.03 mg/kg lorazepam, 10 mg/kg antipyrine, and 0.5 mg/kg ICG) for 5 minutes, followed by repeated blood sampling (n = 10) during a 24-hour postinfusion period. Patients with CF had a significantly greater plasma clearance of lorazepam (56.5 +/- 5.2 vs 25.9 +/- 1.9 ml/min/m2) and ICG (892.5 +/- 176.4 vs 256.5 +/- 41.7 ml/min/m2) but not of antipyrine (27.2 +/- 3.8 vs 20.7 +/- 2.0 ml/min/m2) in comparison with control subjects. The apparent steady-state volume of distribution for lorazepam, ICG, and antipyrine was significantly higher in the patients with CF (2.0-, 3.1-, and 1.4-fold, respectively) than in control subjects. Clearance of the model substrates did not correlate with standard biochemical markers of hepatic function. Similarly, no significant relationships were observed between the clearance or steady-state volume of distribution of the compounds and the National Institutes of Health prognostic scores for the patients with CF. These data demonstrate that the plasma clearance of lorazepam and ICG is increased in patients with CF and suggest that hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity and biliary secretory capacity are enhanced in this disease. 
Leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and residential proximity to industrial plants. The risks of developing leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma from living near industrial facilities were evaluated among men from Iowa and Minnesota in a population-based, case-control study. We found a statistically significant increase in the risk of developing non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (RR = 1.4) and a slight, nonsignificant excess for leukemia (RR = 1.2) among individuals who lived .8-3.2 km (1/2-2 miles) from a factory. Risks were greater for certain histologic types: follicular lymphoma (RR = 1.5), acute lymphocytic leukemia (RR = 5.4), and acute myelocytic leukemia (RR = 2.2). For non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (but not for leukemia), the relative risks for those living within .8 km (1/2 mile) of a factory were similar or slightly larger than for those living .8-3.2 km (1/2-2 miles) from a factory. Risks did not increase with duration of residence near a factory. The elevated risks of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were particularly associated with residing near stone, clay, or glass industry facilities. The risk of developing leukemia was greater among persons who resided near chemical and petroleum plants. These preliminary findings raise the possibility that general environmental exposure associated with certain industrial activities may elevate the risk of developing leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Evaluation of data on proximity to industrial plants from studies in other geographic locations is needed to determine whether our results represent a meaningful association. 
Single cell levels of hypothalamic messenger ribonucleic acid encoding luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in intact, castrated, and hyperprolactinemic male rats. We have examined the changes that occur in neuronal expression of LHRH mRNA in response to castration and hyperprolactinemia in male rats. Single cell levels of LHRH mRNA were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry using an 35S-labeled synthetic 48-base oligodeoxynucleotide probe and quantitative autoradiography. Nine days postcastration, a 10.4-fold increase in mean plasma LH titers was observed which was associated with significantly increased LHRH mRNA in rostral hypothalamic neuronal cell bodies. Both increases were blocked in rats rendered hyperprolactinemic by the presence of the 7315a PRL-secreting pituitary tumor. The location and number of neurons expressing LHRH mRNA were unchanged, indicating that these differences were attributable to amounts of mRNA expressed per neuron. Experimental differences occurred in LHRH perikarya situated throughout the rostral hypothalamus from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the caudal extent of the medial preoptic nucleus. These results suggest that gonadal steroids and PRL are involved, either directly or indirectly, in regulating the biosynthesis of LHRH in the rostral hypothalamus. 
Rapid diagnosis of lung cancer from palpable metastases by needle thrust. This study encourages the use of percutaneous FNB to diagnose and stage advanced lung cancer in patients with palpable metastases in supraclavicular lymph nodes or soft tissues. Percutaneous FNB of metastases is much easier to learn than transthoracic needle aspiration: the superficial target is anchored and sampled with multiple passes using a short needle grasped directly in the fingers. It is fast, accurate, economical and nearly free of risk and pain. The technique saves time and money because it is the only procedure needed by many patients with palpable disease in stage IIIB and IV. Bronchoscopy, transthoracic needle aspiration and open surgical biopsy thus can be avoided in most patients with palpable metastases. Prompt diagnosis by FNB of metastases speeds palliation for patients with urgent need. Tumor cell type from FNB correlated with cytologic findings from sputum samples, bronchoscopy specimens and autopsy results. 
Immune-competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients: II. Immunohistochemical analysis of Leu-7+ cells. Distribution of Leu-7+ cells in cancer tissues and regional lymph nodes was immunohistochemically examined to estimate the role of NK cells in colorectal cancer patients. Leu-7+ cells were rarely observed both in the primary and distant metastatic lesions, but the number of these cells was large in the germinal center of the lymph nodes. Studies of Leu-7+ cell population in the lymph node indicated that intermediate nodes in n0 and n1 groups showed significantly higher values than those in the control group. Comparative study of the population in identical patients revealed a significantly higher rate in the intermediate nodes than in the paracolic nodes both in n0 and n1 groups. These data suggest that Leu-7+ cells might be related to the defense mechanism of regional lymph nodes against tumor. 
Surgical strategy in thyroid disease. Over the past 8 years, 311 patients have undergone surgical treatment by the senior authors for thyroid disease. Over 80% of the cases were performed by the head and neck surgical service at Olive View County Hospital, Sylmar, Calif, with the remainder performed at UCLA-affiliated institutions. This service is an important source of thyroid surgical training for UCLA head and neck residents who rotate through this major affiliate. The purpose of this communication is to review our experience with these cases; to describe our overall surgical strategy; and to detail the specifics of our surgical procedure, which we have developed to safely train residents in the treatment of these challenging cases. This article deals with the specific problems of preservation of the recurrent nerve, the parathyroid glands, and the techniques for reimplantation of injured parathyroid glands; the management of larger, substernal thyroid glands; and our techniques for partial thyroid surgery. In addition, the difficult decisions in the management of thyroid cancer, such as completion thyroidectomy; the management of lymph node mestastases; and how tracheal, esophageal, or laryngeal invasion should be managed are discussed. An initial section describing the general preoperative examination of these patients is also included, so that the proper surgical strategy can be developed prior to entering the operating room. 
Trends in primary breast cancer management. Where are we going? The treatment of cancer during any period has been based not on the whim of a clinician but on the therapeutic consequences of the dominant biologic model of the disease. Until the 1960s, the dominant model of breast cancer was of a disease that spread centrifugally along anatomic pathways, with time being the only determinant of prognosis. An alternative model, that of biologic determinism, posits that the outcomes of treatment are determined by the extent of microscopic dissemination that occurred before the tumor became detectable. This model, too, has flaws, and the author suggests that it is time for a Kuhnian paradigm shift. Breast cancer exhibits a heterogeneity of phenotypes resulting from one or perhaps two mutations. The multiple prognostic variables may be epiphenomena, expressing different degrees of amplification of a limited domain of the genome. 
Multiple granular cell tumors associated with giant speckled lentiginous nevus and nevus flammeus in a child. We describe an 11-year-old girl in whom multiple cutaneous granular cell tumors were associated with a giant speckled lentiginous nevus and an extensive nevus flammeus. An association between granular cell tumors and pigmented skin lesions has been reported twice previously and supports a neural origin for these tumors. An abnormality of neural crest development is proposed to explain the coexistence of three uncommon and unusually extensive cutaneous disorders in this patient. This case may represent a further variant of phakomatosis pigmentovascularis. 
Epirubicin cardiotoxicity: a study of 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. The cardiotoxicity of epirubicin (EPI) was evaluated clinically, radiologically, with ECG, and with multiple ECG-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer. The EPI doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule. The median cumulative dose of EPI was 500 mg/m2 (range, 47 to 1,563). Eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure (CHF). Of 67 patients treated with EPI less than 500 mg/m2, none developed CHF. Among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2, one had CHF (2%; 95% confidence limits, 0.1 to 11.1). Among 20 patients who received EPI from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2, seven developed CHF (35%; 95% confidence limits, 15.4 to 59.2). Four patients died due to cardiotoxicity. The risk of EPI cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2. At doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of CHF decreases, and at doses below 500 mg/m2, it is negligible. For all patients, the prevalence of CHF was 6% and the sensitivity of LVEF high (95%), mainly due to the low incidence of CHF. Among the 20 patients who received EPI at more than 1,000 mg/m2, the prevalence of CHF was 35% and the sensitivity only 64%. The specificity was maximally 62%. Our results suggest that LVEF is of no value as a predictor for CHF. 
Nevus flammeus. Discordance in monozygotic twins. Nevus flammeus has been described as an inherited vascular anomaly. We report two cases of nevus flammeus, each appearing in one of two monozygotic twins. This finding supports the idea that nevus flammeus results from embryologic mishap rather than genetic transmission. 
Cytotoxic effects of high energy shock waves in different in vitro models: influence of the experimental set-up. High energy shock waves (electromagnetically generated, Siemens Lithostar) were studied for their effects in vitro on different (tumor) cell types. Cells were exposed to the shock waves as a single cell suspension or as a cell pellet on the bottom of a test tube. In both cases, a dose dependent direct cytotoxicity, established by trypan blue dye exclusion, was observed after treatment with 1000 or 2000 shock waves. Also, the antiproliferative capacity as determined by clonogenic potential (double layer soft agar) and growth rate (plastic) were affected in this way. However, comparing the results after treatment in suspension or pellet, a discrepancy was evident. The cell lines showed a different susceptibility in pellet vs. suspension. Also the differential sensitivity of the cell types varied in these two treatment models. Furthermore the outcome depended on the cell concentration; direct cytotoxicity in a cell suspension was more pronounced at higher cell concentrations, while in a pellet this was increased by decreasing the number of cells. Finally, no shock wave induced cytotoxicity could be seen after fixation of cells in gelatine or by placing the pellet on a bottom layer of gelatine. Pressure measurements revealed no adequate explanation for this phenomenon. These results indicate that in vitro effects depend on the way cells are exposed to the shock waves and can be greatly influenced by changing the conditions of the microenvironment. Therefore, precise descriptions of the experimental set-up and careful interpretations of their outcome are obligatory. 
Interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia for the treatment of recurrent malignant brain tumors. Between June 1987 and June 1989, 29 recurrent malignant gliomas or recurrent solitary brain metastases in 28 patients were treated in a Phase I study of interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia. Patient age ranged from 18 to 65 years, and the Karnofsky Performance Status scores ranged from 40 to 90%. There were 13 glioblastomas, 10 anaplastic astrocytomas, 3 melanomas, and 3 adenocarcinomas. Catheters were implanted stereotactically after computed tomography-based preplanning. Hyperthermia was administered before and after brachytherapy, using one to six 2450- or 915-MHz helical coil microwave antennas and one to three multisensor fiberoptic thermometry probes. The goal was to heat as much of the tumor as possible to 42.5 degrees C for 30 minutes. Within 30 minutes after the first hyperthermia treatment, implant catheters were afterloaded with high-activity iodine-125 seeds delivering tumor doses of 32.6 to 61.0 Gy. Most patients had no sensation of heating. Complications included seizures in 5 patients, reversible neurological changes in 9 patients, a scalp burn in 1, and infections in 3. Of 28 evaluable 2-month follow-up scans, 11 showed definite improvement in the radiological appearance of the tumor, 4 were slightly improved, 7 were stable, and 6 showed tumor progression. Ten patients underwent reoperation for persistent tumor and/or necrosis. Eleven of 28 patients are alive 40 to 97 weeks after treatment. Thirteen patients died of a brain tumor, 2 died of extracranial melanoma metastases, 1 died of new brain melanoma metastases, and 1 died of a pulmonary embolus. The median survival was 55 weeks overall. Median survival has not yet been reached for the anaplastic astrocytoma subgroup. We conclude that interstitial brain hyperthermia using helical coil microwave antennas is technically feasible. The level of toxicity is acceptable, and the computed tomographic response rate is encouraging. 
The dichotomous distribution of gastrinomas. Our experience with 47 sporadic gastrinomas suggests that no less than 85% of these tumors are located to the right of the superior mesenteric artery. This finding is unexpected because approximately 75% of insulinomas and glucagonomas are located to the left of the superior mesenteric artery. All of our extrapancreatic gastrinomas have been located to the right. These observations prompted us to determine if other extrapancreatic gastrinomas were also predominantly located to the right side. We searched the world's literature and found 10 cases of ovarian gastrinomas and one case of a renal gastrinoma. Nine of these remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas were located on the right side. This distribution of remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas is similar to our experience with peripancreatic gastrinomas. This unexpected right-sided preponderance of both remote and peripancreatic gastrinomas suggests a common origin for both. 
Lack of prognostic value of nucleolar organizer region enumeration in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Enumeration of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions is of limited use in grading transitional cell tumors of the bladder. We attempted in this article to establish whether or not such a technique would be helpful in predicting the prognosis of such tumors within rather than between grades. In the study population of 11 high-grade transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder, no correlation was found between clinical outcome and mean nucleolar organizer region count. 
Alternative therapies, 1990. An overview. The availability of alternative therapies for many health problems is a well-documented historical fact. Alternative therapies are generally understood to be those therapies outside of the usually accepted medical therapies for disease processes, such as cancer, arthritis, diabetes, psoriasis, lupus, and AIDS. Some other descriptive terms utilized include questionable, unproven, dubious, unorthodox, and unconventional. These alternative therapies vary from active involvement in promotion of one's own health (exercise, diet) to quackery. In today's society, with emphasis on self-involvement with individual health, metabolic therapies have become the most widely practiced alternative therapy. In an antiestablishment, anti-intellectual climate, with an increasingly mobile, rootless population, alternative therapies are in somewhat of a renaissance. Some confusion exists regarding clinical trials and alternative therapies in the general population and in the noninvolved health profession. Various studies indicate that from 10% to 50% of cancer patients use some alternative therapy, with national expenditures ranging as high as $10 billion annually. Better-educated patients with higher-than-average income are more likely to choose alternative therapies and are frequently supported by a physician in this choice. Most cancer patients continue under a physician's care and continue usual therapy while pursuing alternative methods. Approximately 5% of cancer patients abandon appropriate therapy and pursue potentially harmful alternative methods. A variety of sociomedical questions are brought forth by studies of the use of alternative therapies. A great need for public and professional education regarding this subject is evident. 
Pedunculated giant lipoma of the esophagus. A patient with a giant lipoma of the esophagus presented with progressive dysphagia and odynophagia, fever, and recurrent melena. Two years previously, when the symptoms were less pronounced, it had been misdiagnosed as achalasia. After surgical removal of the lipoma, the patient became symptom free. 
Adenotin and adenotin-like proteins coexist with adenosine receptors in mammalian tissues. The relationship of adenotin, a low-affinity adenosine-binding protein, to adenosine receptors was examined in two human tissues and two mammalian cultured cell lines. An adenosine A2 receptor exists in the membranes from platelets, PC-12 cells, and JAR cells as shown by a stimulation of adenylate cyclase related to 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) or a NECA-related increase in intracellular cAMP levels. In contrast, binding studies with tritiated NECA revealed typical adenotin-like low-affinity binding sites on the membranes from the sources studied with agonist potencies as follows: NECA greater than 2-chloroadenosine greater than R-PIA. No evidence was found of coupling to a guanine nucleotide regulatory protein. Solubilization of platelet and placental membranes and precipitation with polyethylene glycol separated adenotin or the adenotin-like protein from a second adenosine binding site in each tissue. The pharmacologic properties of the precipitated binding sites were compatible with an adenosine A2 receptor in platelets and an adenosine A1 receptor in placenta. Our observations indicate that adenotin-like proteins exist outside the placenta. In addition, adenotin and adenotin-like proteins coexist with the adenosine A1 or A2 receptor in a number of cells and tissues and do not couple to a guanine nucleotide regulatory protein and stimulate adenylate cyclase. Therefore, adenotin is pharmacologically distinct from adenosine receptors, and its function remains to be discovered. 
Induction chemotherapy with a new regimen alternating cisplatin, fluorouracil with mitomycin, hydroxyurea and bleomycin in carcinomas of nasopharynx or other sites of the head and neck region. Sixty-six patients with locally advanced (Stages III and IV) carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with three cycles of induction chemotherapy, consisting of cisplatin, fluorouracil (FU) infusion, bleomycin, mitomycin, and hydroxyurea, followed by radiotherapy and/or surgery. There were 48 men and 18 women with a median age of 55 years (range, 18 to 75 years) and Karnofsky performance status of 80 (range, 40 to 90). Primary site was nasopharynx (28 patients), followed by larynx (12) and others (26). Forty-one (62%) patients were presented with Stage IV disease. The response rate to induction chemotherapy was 27% complete response, 50% partial response, 20% stable disease, and 3% progressive disease. There was no significant difference in response rate between patients with cancer of nasopharynx or other sites (P greater than 0.1). Survival was 61% at 24 months. Patients with cancer of nasopharynx had a better survival than those with other primaries (P = 0.033). Toxicities from chemotherapy included alopecia (73%), nausea/vomiting (66%), leukopenia (54%), stomatitis (36%), anemia (32%), thrombocytopenia (16%), and diarrhea (9%). Grade IV toxicity was not observed. Induction chemotherapy with this new regimen resulted in a high response rate but may not be superior to cisplatin and FU alone. It can be safely combined with radiotherapy as a potentially curative therapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy may yield survival similar to radical surgery in laryngeal and other head and neck cancers. 
In situ hybridization of prostate-specific antigen mRNA in human prostate. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) mRNA was detected by in situ hybridization utilizing a 428 base pair [35S]-labelled cDNA probe from the 3' noncoding region of the PSA gene. Thirty six fresh surgical specimens were collected from patients undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy for carcinoma of the prostate. Quantitative analysis of the levels of PSA mRNA in both the benign and malignant tissues was performed using an IBAS 2000 Image Analysis System. The results of this study demonstrated that there is a significant decrease in the expression of PSA mRNA in the carcinoma tissue when compared to the benign epithelium. The average binding (number of silver grains/1 x 10(4) microns. 2) for 20 specimens of malignant epithelium was 475 +/- 161 and 586 +/- 140 for 16 specimens of benign epithelium (p less than 0.05). Eleven patients had both benign and malignant tissue from the same surgical specimen available for study. From these paired specimens, the PSA mRNA expression was also significantly reduced in the malignant epithelium when compared to the benign epithelium, 445 +/- 162 and 588 +/- 135 respectively (p less than 0.005). The PSA protein was detected using a monoclonal antibody to PSA with an immunohistochemical staining technique. The PSA protein expression paralleled the expression of the PSA mRNA in the majority of the tissue sections. Many of the tumor specimens showed a heterogeneous expression of PSA, whereas all of the benign epithelium had a uniform high level of PSA expression. In conclusion, PSA mRNA and protein are located only within the glandular epithelial tissue, the expression of PSA protein parallels that of the PSA mRNA, and both the PSA protein and PSA mRNA are significantly decreased in the malignant epithelium when compared to benign prostatic epithelium. 
Survey of Alabama physicians' use of mammography, 1989. In early 1989 we surveyed by questionnaire Alabama primary care physicians (N = 1800) concerning their attitudes toward and use of mammography. There were 681 respondents (37.8%). The majority (83%) recommend mammograms for their patients according to the American Cancer Society guidelines and obtain baseline studies in asymptomatic women between the ages of 35 and 40 years. It appears that the cost of mammograms is decreasing in Alabama; a screening study was available for $50 or less to 34% of responding physicians. Almost one half (48%) of the physician respondents believe that more than 50% of their patients have had at least one mammogram. 
Social environment and social support. Research on the relevance of social support to cancer has been plentiful since the first American Cancer Society workshop on methodological issues in behavioral and psychosocial science. Nonetheless, critical shortcomings continue to characterize the attempt empirically to establish such things as the extent to which social support predicts adjustment to cancer diagnosis and treatment. Prominent among these is the failure to adequately address large elements of the social structure, such as social class and urbanization, and to investigate how they shape the well being of persons with or at risk for cancer and their caregivers. We recommend that more psychosocial research on the link between social support and cancer be conducted within populations beset by poverty and without adequate access to health care. Funding is needed for the training and maintenance of multidisciplinary and multicultural teams of researchers working within community-based organizations and hospitals serving the underserved. 
The presence of human papillomavirus type 16 in squamous cell carcinoma of the proximal finger and reconstruction with a bilobed transposition flap. In a 71 year old white female a clinically diagnosed keratoacanthoma on the dorsum of the right third finger was removed using Mohs micrographic surgery and histologically diagnosed as a squamous cell carcinoma. It was shown by dot blot hybridization to have HPV type 16 DNA in the tumor. The wound was reconstructed with a bilobed transposition flap. 
Premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population: evaluation of the role of human papillomaviruses. To evaluate the role of human papillomaviruses (HPV) in the development of premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population, 314 biopsies obtained from 227 patients with benign neoplasms, premalignant lesions, and cancers of the skin and from 25 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lip were analyzed by Southern blot hybridization. DNA probes specific for various cutaneous and genital HPV types were used in hybridizations conducted under nonstringent or stringent conditions. HPV DNA sequences were only detected in eight specimens obtained from six patients: HPV 34 in one case of periungual Bowen's disease, HPV 36 and an as yet uncharacterized HPV in two cases of actinic keratosis, HPV 20 in one case of basal cell carcinoma, an as yet unrecognized HPV in one case of squamous cell carcinoma, and HPV 16 in one case of squamous cell carcinoma of the lip. None of the specimens of cutaneous horn and keratoacanthoma contained detectable HPV DNA. In contrast, HPV DNA sequences, mostly HPV 16, were detected in 13 of 23 cases of anogenital Bowen's disease and invasive Bowen's carcinoma. HPV DNA sequences were not detected in 90 cutaneous samples further analyzed by the polymerase chain-reaction technique, using amplification primers that contain conserved sequences among the genomes of HPV. These results strongly suggest that the known HPV types play only a minor role, if any, in skin carcinogenesis in the general population. 
Studies evaluating antioxidants and beta-carotene as chemopreventives. Cancer chemoprevention research takes leads from epidemiologic and laboratory research and develops them through in vitro and in vivo preclinical research and initial human studies into randomized controlled clinical trials. At present, the chemoprevention program is sponsoring 21 human efficacy studies. These trials are testing the potential of agents (beta-carotene, folic acid, 13-cis retinoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide, vitamins C and E, and minerals) as inhibitors of a variety of cancers in humans (colon, lung, esophagus, cervix, bladder, and skin). Endpoints in these studies include overall incidence of cancer, incidence of specific cancers, rate of regression or progression of preneoplastic changes, and changes in cellular or biochemical parameters. Study participants include volunteers from the general population; populations at high risk for cancer because of occupation, lifestyle, or place of residence; persons with previously treated cancers; and persons with preneoplastic lesions. Study designs include single agent randomization, combination of agents and complete factorial designs. 
The pathology of nonpalpable breast cancer. A principal goal of mammographic screening is the early detection of breast cancer. We reviewed records of 125 women who were referred because of nonpalpable, suspicious abnormalities on mammogram, which subsequently proved to be cancer, requiring mammographic localization biopsy and subsequent surgery for therapy. We found that 72 (57.6%) had invasive tumors, 15 (12%) showed evidence of microinvasion and 38 (30.4%) were noninvasive. A total of 115 patients had lymphadenectomy as part of their definitive surgery. Nine (12.7%) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had between one and 10 malignant nodes on histologic section. None of the patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors were found to have involved nodes. The mammographic abnormalities which led to biopsy in our series were: calcifications in 74 (59.2%) patients, mass lesions in 39 (31.2%), mass lesions with calcifications in 11 (8.8%), and asymmetry in one (0.8%). Of the nine patients with nodal metastases, seven (77.8%) had a mass with or without calcifications as the indication for biopsy. Increasing tumor size was found to correlate with invasive tumors on histopathologic examination and the incidence of lymph node metastases. Thirty-seven (54.4%) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had a tumor size greater than 1 cm. Further, seven (77.8%) of the nine lymph node positive patients had tumors between 1 and 3 cm in size. Of note, however, is that two (22.2%) patients with microscopic tumors had involved nodes. The 4-year actuarial survival in patients with infiltrating tumors was 85.2 per cent, while that for patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors was 100 per cent (median follow-up of 20 months). 
Misinterpretation of the upper parathyroid adenoma on thallium-201/technetium-99m subtraction scintigraphy. Pre-operative thallium-technetium subtraction scintigraphy of 50 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, which was subsequently proven on histology to be due to an adenoma, was compared with operative findings. Six scans were negative and seven uninterpretable. Of the remaining 37 patients, 34 had correct scan prediction of the anatomical locations of the adenomas. On examination of the origins of the adenomas, all six scintigraphic predictions of upper adenomas corresponded to tumours arising from the upper gland found at operation. Of the 25 lower predictions, there was one false positive and 16 were correct, i.e. of lower gland origin, but eight were found to originate from the upper gland. This misinterpretation is though to be due to the prolapse of an adenoma arising from the upper gland towards the lower pole of the thyroid, thereby mimicking a lower lesion on the scan. 
Is local recurrence of minor importance for metastases in soft tissue sarcoma? The authors analyzed the relationship between treatment, local recurrence, and metastases in a population-based series of 375 patients with soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities and the trunk wall. Treatment was inadequate (marginal excision alone) in 107 patients, local recurrence occurred in 112, and 128 patients developed metastases. Local recurrence was 3.5 times more common after inadequate treatment than after adequate and 2.5 times more common in patients with metastases than in those without. However, metastases were only 1.2 times more common after inadequate treatment than after adequate. Of the 128 patients who developed metastases, 63 had local recurrence and 65 had not. In these two subgroups the timing of metastases and the distribution of clinicopathologic factors--age, sex, tumor size, localization, depth, histotype, and malignancy grade--were similar. These findings indicate that local recurrence is of minor importance for development of metastases in soft tissue sarcoma. The increased local recurrence rate in metastatic tumors may be an expression of the aggressiveness of the primary tumor; highly malignant tumors combine a potential both for local and distant spread. 
Macrophage colony-stimulating factor activity in malignant pleural effusions. Its augmentation by intrapleural interleukin-2 infusions. The activity of endogenous colony-stimulating factor (CSF) in malignant pleural effusions of lung cancer patients before and during daily intrapleural infusions of recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) was measured quantitatively by colony-forming bioassay and radioimmunoassay (RIA). Before therapy, malignant pleural effusions had various levels of CSF activities, and this CSF activity was neutralized almost completely by anti-M-CSF antibody. RIA also showed that the effusions contained various amounts of M-CSF. Daily intrapleural infusion of recombinant IL-2 caused significant increase in the CSF activities and M-CSF levels in pleural effusions. These results indicate that in vivo treatment with IL-2 induces production of endogenous M-CSF. 
Ki-B5: a monoclonal antibody unrelated to CD45 recognizes normal and neoplastic human B cells in routine paraffin sections. In the search for immunoreagents appropriate for the histopathologic diagnosis of malignant B-cell lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections, a new monoclonal antibody, Ki-B5, was generated using a high-grade B-cell lymphoma as the immunogene. Ki-B5 is a mouse IgG1/kappa that recognizes five protein fractions of about 84, 82, 55, 48, and 27 Kd after biosynthetic radiolabeling and immunoprecipitation. Protein fractions with the molecular weights of approximately 84 and 82 Kd were expressed on the cell surface and show that Ki-B5 is probably unrelated to CD45. It was possible through electron microscopy to visualize the membrane-bound portion of Ki-B5. Extensive immunohistologic studies on normal human tissue and various neoplasias demonstrated the high specificity of Ki-B5 to normal human B cells and a minor subgroup of plasma cells. Except for ML-2, which is a myelomonocytic human cell line, Ki-B5 exclusively recognized the B-cell lineage, including EB-3, BALL-1, and NALM-1. All carcinomas, sarcomas, and malignant melanomas tested with Ki-B5 were negative. Although normal granulocytes and monocytes were constantly negative, three of eight myelomonocytic leukemias coreacted with this antibody. Eight of the 57 T-cell lymphomas studied were positive to Ki-B5. Five were classified as lymphoblastic, two represented T8-CLL, and one was classified as immunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Only 3 of 126 cases of B-cell lymphoma, including rare types not considered in the current classifications, were negative to Ki-B5. Plasmacytomas were also negative, except for one case. Irrespective of the cases of lymphoblastic lymphoma and plasmacytoma, Ki-B5 represents a new monoclonal antibody appropriate for the diagnosis and immunophenotyping of malignant lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections. 
Carcinoma of female urethra. Manitoba experience: 1958-1987. Fourteen female patients with primary urethral carcinoma were treated at the Manitoba Cancer Foundation in the last twenty-nine years. The relationship of natural history to the stage, location, and therapeutic modality has been reviewed. A higher stage and length of urethral involvement affected prognosis negatively, whereas lower stage had a positive prognostic effect and location of tumor had no prognostic influence. Two patients with Stage C, who failed to received inguinal node radiotherapy, died of disease recurring in the inguinal area. Patients who received inguinal radiation (3 patients Stages B, C, and D1) had no regional recurrence. It is suggested that, for all female urethral carcinoma, bilateral ilioinguinal nodes be included in the radiation field. For radical treatment, iridium 192 insertion in combination with external beam treatment is recommended. 
Sensitivity of urinary quantitative immunocytology with monoclonal antibody 486 P3/12 in 241 unselected patients with bladder carcinoma. We investigated the sensitivity of quantitative immunocytology with our monoclonal antibody 486 P3/12 in 241 unselected patients with transitional cell carcinoma. Immunocytology yielded a sensitivity of 91.8%, 89.4% and 92.9% for grade 1, 2 and 3 tumors, respectively. Standard cytology was positive in 59.2%, 63.8% and 84.7%, respectively. Deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry, used in the first 69 patients, was positive in only 27.7%, 48.6% and 57.1%, respectively. 
Cutaneous malignant melanoma in Rochester, Minnesota: trends in incidence and survivorship, 1950 through 1985 In Rochester, Minnesota, 107 incidence cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma (in 46 male and 61 female patients) were diagnosed during the years 1950 through 1985. Overall crude incidence rates were 6.0 and 6.6 per 100,000 males and females, respectively. Evaluation of trends in 9-year periods showed that the rates increased from 3.2 to 8.9 for males (P = 0.015) and from 4.4 to 11.7 for females (P less than 0.001). Age-specific rates suggested that the highest incidence occurs in the age-groups 50 to 59 years and 70 years or older for males and 40 to 49 years and 70 years or older for females. Lesions were most common in the head and neck area among males (P = 0.044) and on the lower extremities among females (P = 0.018). The most frequent histologic type was superficial spreading melanoma (61%). Five-year survival was diminished overall for patients with cutaneous malignant melanoma--0.72 in comparison with 0.88 expected for the general population. Statistically significant risk factors for survival were depth of invasion of the lesion (Clark level), thickness of the lesion, histologic type, and age of the patient. 
Adjunctive surgery after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors: recommendations for patient selection. One hundred eighty-five patients who underwent surgery within 6 months of completing chemotherapy were identified from 360 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (NSGCT) treated with Memorial Hospital front-line cisplatin- or carboplatin-based combination chemotherapy protocols between 1979 and 1988. Clinical, pathologic, and radiologic features were correlated with the pathologic findings at surgery. The size of a residual retroperitoneal mass, the degree of shrinkage that occurred with chemotherapy, and the presence of teratomatous elements in pretreatment pathology specimens were each correlated with the pathologic findings of retroperitoneal resections after chemotherapy. Multivariable logistic regression analysis of those undergoing retroperitoneal resections identified the size and shrinkage of the residual mass and the prechemotherapy lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and alphafetoprotein (AFP) levels as the best predictors of finding only necrotic debris. No factors could be found, however, that could selectively exclude patients who had residual viable malignancy or teratoma in the retroperitoneum. Of 39 patients with residual retroperitoneal masses measuring less than or equal to 1.5 cm in maximal diameter, three had residual malignancy and five had teratoma resected. No factors were identified for residual lung or mediastinal masses that could be used to select a group of patients who could safely avoid surgery. If serum markers have normalized after chemotherapy for NSGCT, resection of all residual abnormalities on imaging studies of the retroperitoneum, lungs, and mediastinum is recommended. In addition, retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) is recommended for all patients with initial bulky metastases (greater than or equal to 3 cm in diameter) in the retroperitoneum, irrespective of the findings of postchemotherapy computed tomography (CT). 
Remission induction and continuation therapy in children with their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia. A Pediatric Oncology Group study. Between January 1979 and April 1983, 113 children undergoing their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) at any site were registered in Pediatric Oncology Group study 7834; 98 were eligible and evaluable. In addition to radiotherapy administered to sites of local relapse, induction consisted of vincristine, doxorubicin, and prednisone (VAP) chemotherapy. Continuation therapy consisted of triple-drug intrathecal therapy and regimens of 6-thioguanine and cytarabine alternating with vincristine, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, and cytarabine. Randomization in continuation was between VAP pulses or no pulse, regardless of the site of relapse. This report provides long-term follow-up of these patients. Thirty-two of 39 children with bone marrow involvement achieved a complete response (CR). Only one of these is alive in an unmaintained remission, a child who did not have an initial CR. Thirty-four of 36 evaluable children with central nervous system involvement as the site of relapse achieved CR. Of these ten are alive; eight are in continuing CR. Nineteen of 20 boys with testicular relapse achieved CR. Of these, 14 are still alive and not receiving therapy, although only one half received treatment in compliance with the protocol described. These results illustrate the possibility of cure of patients who have relapsed with ALL when it is (1) confined to a meningeal or gonadal site and (2) treated vigorously with radiotherapy and a new regimen of systemic chemotherapy. The results reconfirm the need to prevent an initial relapse at any site. 
Intrapericardial pheochromocytoma. In a 34-year-old man with hypertension and increased urinary catecholamine excretion for 12 years, an m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine scan and chest computed tomography located an intrapericardial pheochromocytoma in the left atrium. The tumor was excised through a left thoracotomy with cardiopulmonary bypass and circulatory arrest. At 34-month follow-up, blood pressure and urine catecholamine levels were normal. In the 15 cases of intrapericardial pheochromocytoma treated by resection reported in the literature, all 11 survivors were symptom-free except 1 who had residual left atrial tumor and multiple skeletal metastatic lesions. Computed tomography directed by the m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine scan can be used for detailed location of the tumor. Appropriate surgical approach and use of cardiopulmonary bypass are critical in the resection of these highly vascular tumors. 
Flow cytometric analysis of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) is a useful marker for lymphoid precursor cells. In this study, the authors used flow cytometry (FCM) to analyze TdT expression in human hematopoietic malignancies. Cells were fixed in 0.5% formaldehyde, briefly exposed to nonionic detergent, and subsequently labeled with mouse monoclonal anti-TdT antibodies followed by fluorescein-conjugated antimouse IgG and propidium iodide (PI), which was used for the simultaneous analysis of DNA content. Cells from 20 of 22 acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL), 4 of 7 mixed lineage leukemias, 2 of 21 acute myeloid and myelomonocytic leukemias, 1 of 2 chronic myeloid leukemias in blast crisis, 1 lymphoblastic lymphoma, and 1 thymoma were TdT positive. Cells from 13 nonlymphoblastic lymphomas, 3 myelodysplastic bone marrows, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 normal individuals were negative. An excellent correlation was seen between this assay, the conventional slide immunofluorescence technique, and an enzyme immunoassay method. The FCM assay detected as few as 2% blasts in mixing experiments of TdT-containing leukemic cells with normal peripheral lymphocytes. Furthermore, the combined analysis of TdT and DNA allowed the recognition of aneuploid TdT positive cells in four cases of ALL. The high sensitivity, the quantitative information obtained, and the capability of simultaneously analyzing DNA content make this method of TdT analysis more valuable than conventional techniques. 
Radioimmunology. Imaging and therapy. Targeting of radioactivity to tumors using antitumor antibodies is evolving from a laboratory curiosity toward a practical diagnostic and therapeutic technique that promises widespread benefits for many common human cancers. The development of the hybridoma technique by Kohler and Milstein for producing monoclonal antibodies is probably the single most important contribution to the development of this field. A large array of monoclonal antibodies against many human tumors have been created and labeled with a variety of radioisotopes; 110 clinical trials have been identified from the literature between the interval of 1978 to the present. These studies are beginning to form the basis for certain conclusions regarding likely benefits for certain combinations of antitumor antibodies and isotopes in specific instances of clinical management in patients with malignant neoplasms. For example, in melanoma, lymphoma, neuroblastoma, and colorectal malignancies, radiolabeled antibodies have demonstrated occult tumors, which could not be disclosed with conventional methodologies. Radioimmunotherapy of malignant lymphoma is achieving durable remissions in patients who have failed conventional forms of therapy. For the most part, these advances have been achieved through intelligent application of known principles of immunochemistry, imaging physics, and tumor immunology. Progress has been slow but steady. In a few instances, the term "magic bullet" is warranted in describing the targeting of a particular radiolabeled antibody to a human tumor. I-131, 3-F8, an IgG3 against the GD2 antigen of neuroblastoma, which was introduced by Cheung, and In-111 T-101, against the CD5 antigen of T-cells, which was developed by Royston, stand out because of the consistency and high concentration of radioactive targeting to human tumors in clinical trials. If certain technical innovations fulfill their initial promise, the future will be bright for radioimmunologic methods of diagnosis and therapy. Genetic engineering will permit the development of "humanized" antibodies with biologic properties that favor tumor localization. New chemical approaches will broaden the range of isotopes available as diagnostic and therapeutic radiolabels. Application of modern imaging methodologies, such as positron emission tomography (PET), will detect more lesions of smaller size and permit quantitative imaging for dosimetry considerations. Greater speed and ease of use of computerized work stations will lead to the broader application of fusion imaging in which radioantibody images will be viewed simultaneously with TCT or MRI for better anatomic correlation of abnormal sites of antigen-reactive tumor deposits. 
Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography in pediatric head and neck masses. Fifty-three magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 25 computed tomography (CT) studies of 53 head and neck masses in pediatric patients were reviewed retrospectively. All lesions had pathologic proof except for 2 metastatic and 2 recurrent lesions, which only had prior pathologic confirmation at their primary sites. These included 12 malignant tumors, 23 benign tumors, 6 inflammatory masses, and 12 congenital lesions. The MRI performance ranged predominantly from good to excellent in detection of the lesion and the extent of involvement and in contrast to the surrounding tissue; when CT comparison was available, MRI proved to be equal to or better than it in detection of these factors and in preoperative diagnosis. Our results suggest that MRI should be the method of choice for the initial evaluation of the pediatric head and neck region, especially in those patients requiring multiple examinations. However, CT and MRI should be used conjunctively in complicated cases, especially those possibly involving lesions with calcifications or bony involvement. 
Reproducibility of image interpretation in immunoscintigraphy performed with indium-111- and iodine-131-labeled OC125 F(ab')2 antibody injected into the same patients. An important criterion for the clinical use of a new imaging technique is the correct reproducibility of interpretation. Forty-six paired immunoscintigraphic examinations were performed on 43 patients with suspected ovarian carcinoma recurrence using F(ab')2 fragments of OC125 antibody labeled first with indium-111 and then with iodine-131. Planar scintigraphy (PS) and emission computed tomography (ECT) images were interpreted blindly and separately by three observers, and reproducibility was evaluated by a kappa concordance index. Intra- and interobserver reproducibility were generally satisfactory (kappa values of 0.6 and 0.7, respectively). Binomial analysis of kappa values for ECT showed the superiority of indium-111 for intraobserver (p = 0.035) and interobserver (p = 0.0039) study. However, for PS there was no significant difference in reproducibility with the two radionuclides. 
Ganglioneuroma of the spinal cord. This report describes a 2-year-old boy who harbored an intramedullary ganglioneuroma involving almost the entire length of the spinal cord. The terminology, pathology, and neurobiological behavior of this tumor is discussed. 
Modified Van Nes rotationplasty for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia in children Above-knee amputation has been the traditional treatment for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia. Recent advances in chemotherapy have encouraged the development of limb-salvage techniques. Van Nes rotationplasty for malignant lesions of the distal femur has increased in popularity as a reconstructive technique, but no similar procedure has been described for lesions of the proximal tibia. We have developed a modified rotationplasty for this lesion and have performed it in four children. The surgical technique, postoperative management and results of the procedure are described. Two patients had delayed wound healing. No other complications have developed and our patients were disease-free at follow-up, while the appearance of the leg was well accepted by the patients and their parents. This procedure is a useful addition to the armamentarium of the tumour surgeon for the treatment of malignant lesions of the proximal tibia. 
Immunoblastic T-cell lymphoma presenting as an eyelid tumor. A 59-year-old white man presented with an ulcerating mass of the left upper eyelid of 6 months' duration. A biopsy specimen of the tumor was diagnosed as an immunoblastic T-cell malignant lymphoma. The lesion completely regressed after 4000 cGy of cobalt-60 radiation therapy. In the ensuing 33 months, multiple, widespread skin nodules of the same neoplasm developed including a right upper eyelid tumor. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of an immunoblastic T-cell lymphoma initially manifesting as an eyelid neoplasm. 
Use of m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine in the treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma. The efficacy and safety of m-[131I]iodobenzylguanidine ([131I]MIBG) were assessed in 15 patients with malignant pheochromocytomas in a nonrandomized, single arm trial, in which patients were treated with [131I]MIBG (SA, 740 megabequerel/mg) every 3 months. Seven of these patients had bone and soft tissue metastases, 4 had only soft metastases, and 4 had only bone metastases. The follow-up period ranged from 6-54 months; the number of doses ranged from 2-11, with 2.9 (78.4 mCi) to 9.25 gigabequerel (GBq) (250 mCi)/administration and a cumulative activity from 11.1-85.90 GBq (300-2322 mCi). The absorbed cumulative dose in tumors ranged from 12-155 Gy. A beneficial effect of the treatment was observed in 9 patients (60%). No complete remission of the disease was observed. Seven patients died during the study, among whom 4 never responded to the treatment. Seven had hormonal responses (4 complete and 3 partial), with a duration ranging from 5-48 months. Among these patients, 4 relapsed, and 3 died within 3 months. Five patients had partial tumoral responses mainly located in soft tissues and for a duration ranging from 29-54 months. All patients with a hormonal response had objective improvement in clinical status and blood pressure. There was no clear-cut relationship between the cumulative dose and the responses. The main side-effect observed in 1 patient with widespread bone metastases after three doses (12.9 GBq) was a pancytopenia, which resolved after treatment was discontinued. This study suggests that repeated [131I]MIBG treatment could be effective in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma. 
Ten cases of transitional cell carcinoma of bladder causing ureteric obstruction. A review was carried out on 10 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (Ta lesions) that were causing ureteric obstruction. Evidence of upper tract obstruction did not necessarily indicate deep invasion. 
Follicular cell predominance in the cytologic examination of dominant thyroid nodules indicates a sixty percent incidence of neoplasia. The interpretation of aspiration cytologic smears that contain a predominance of follicular components often presents a dilemma to the clinician who is treating a patient who has a dominant thyroid nodule, especially when thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression does not produce any significant involution of the dominant nodule. We reviewed a consecutive series of 555 fine-needle aspiration cytologic examinations of dominant thyroid nodules. All specimens that contained colloid or follicular cells mixed with lymphocytes or Hurthle cells were excluded from this review. Additionally, nine aspirates contained degenerated follicular cells with insufficient material for cytologic diagnosis. The remaining 76 specimens contained a predominance of follicular cells: 27 specimens were interpreted as containing "normal" follicular cells, and the remaining 49 specimens were read as "atypical" follicular cells. Histopathologic examination of the resected specimens indicated a 60% incidence of neoplasia (30% carcinoma, 30% adenoma) in which the aspiration cytologic study was interpreted as "normal" follicular cells. On the other hand, a 63% incidence of neoplasia (27% carcinoma, 36% adenoma) occurred in which the cytologic study was read as "atypical." In conclusion, aspirates showing a predominance of follicular cells, whether "normal" or "atypical" indicate a 60% incidence of neoplasia in dominant thyroid nodules that do not decrease significantly in size with thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression. 
The use of monoclonal antibody 44-3A6 in cell blocks in the diagnosis of lung carcinoma, carcinomas metastatic to lung and pleura, and pleural malignant mesothelioma. Monoclonal antibody (MoAb) 44-3A6 recognizes a glandular differentiation-associated antigen and has been used to identify exocrine differentiation in pulmonary carcinomas. The authors assessed its value in the diagnosis of lung carcinomas metastatic to lung/pleura and pleural malignant mesothelioma (MM), using cell blocks derived from cytologic specimens. Sixty-three primary lung carcinomas, 31 metastatic adenocarcinomas (ACs) (from breast, gastrointestinal tract, or genitourinary tract), and 36 MMs were immunostained with 44-3A6, Leu-M1, and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). The results confirm the value of 44-3A6 in identifying ACs but do not allow distinction between those of pulmonary, breast, GIT, or ovarian mucinous derivation. Endometrial, ovarian serous, and renal ACs are essentially nonreactive, as are almost all MMs. The occurrence of one positive MM predicates caution in interpreting 44-3A6 positivity in isolation, but, judiciously used with other discriminating antibodies such as Leu-M1 and anti-CEA, 44-3A6 is of value in the differential diagnosis of ACs and MMs. Further, its applicability to cytologic specimens may obviate the need for more invasive diagnostic procedures and lead to rapid, accurate diagnosis. 
Insulin-like growth factor I expression by tumors of neuroectodermal origin with the t(11;22) chromosomal translocation. A potential autocrine growth factor. Expression of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) mRNA by some tumor cell lines of neuroectodermal origin has been described. To further explore the significance of IGF-I mRNA expression in these tumors, a more extensive analysis was performed. Most (9 of 10) neuroectodermal tumor cell lines with a t(11;22) translocation (primitive neuroectodermal tumor [PNET], Ewing's sarcoma, esthesioneuroblastoma) expressed IGF-I mRNA, whereas 0 of 15 cell lines without the translocation (PNET, neuroblastoma) expressed IGF-I. Furthermore, inasmuch as all neuroblastoma (12 of 12) cell lines examined expressed IGF-II RNA, the pattern of IGF expression could distinguish between these closely related tumors. CHP-100, a PNET cell line with the t(11;22) translocation, was shown to secrete both IGF-I protein and an IGF binding protein, IGFBP-2. This cell line also expressed the type I IGF receptor mRNA, and blockade of this receptor by a monoclonal antibody (alpha IR3) inhibited serum-free growth. These data demonstrate that IGF-I expression is a property of neuroectodermal tumors with a t(11;22) translocation and that interruption of an IGF-I autocrine loop inhibits the growth of these tumor cells. 
The cellular composition of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland: an immunohistochemical analysis. Four cases of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland were examined immunohistochemically to characterize their cellular composition. In all cases epithelial membrane antigen and keratin were detected in the inner luminal cells; some cells also showed positive staining for secretory functional markers, indicating their differentiation toward secretory epithelium. In tubular and trabecular types the outer cells consistently displayed an intense staining for vimentin and some were also positive for actin, indicating their myoepithelial nature. In the solid type, most tumor cells resembled the ductal cells or basal cells of larger ducts in normal gland with regard to their immunoreactivity. Our results may suggest that the proportion and arrangement of heterogeneous tumor cells are responsible for different histologic patterns of the salivary basal cell adenoma. 
Immunophenotypic aberrancy in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Some recent reports indicate a high frequency of immunophenotypic aberrancy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). To investigate this issue with regard to adult ALL, the authors reviewed the immunophenotyping data from 39 cases analyzed in their clinical laboratory. Flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood and/or bone marrow was performed with the use of a panel of 21 B-cell, T-cell, and myeloid monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs). The surface antigen profiles of the leukemic cells were compared with those of normal bone marrow and thymic counterparts, as defined by current models. Twenty-six cases were B-precursor ALL, 8 were T-ALL, and 3 were B-ALL (Burkitt's leukemia). Only two cases coexpressed lymphoid and myeloid antigens. In contrast, intralineage aberrancy was quite common. Immunophenotypes from 13 of 26 B-precursor ALL cases deviated from normal B-lineage marrow cells as defined by a recent classification. The T-ALL cases were also immunophenotypically heterogeneous. This high incidence of aberrant antigen expression in adult ALL suggests that leukemogenesis also involves aberrant differentiation rather than purely a process of maturational arrest. 
Multiple parathyroid adenomas: report of thirty-three cases. An increasing number of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are found to have two or three enlarged parathyroid glands. Of 865 patients successfully operated on by one surgeon (J.N.A.), multiple enlarged parathyroid glands (adenomas) were found and resected in 33 cases (3.8%), with resulting normocalcemia lasting from 1 to 22 years (mean 5.8). Twenty-nine patients had two adenomas and four had three adenomas. In 28 patients the multiple adenomas were synchronous. Twenty-five patients underwent removal of all of the enlarged parathyroid glands in one operation; in three patients one adenoma was removed, reoperation for persistent hypercalcemia was performed, and a second adenoma was resected with cure. In five patients one adenoma was removed, normocalcemia ensued for 3 to 18 years, and a second (metachronous) adenoma occurred and was resected successfully. Although 10 of 70 enlarged parathyroid glands removed were labeled hyperplasia, cure in all but one of our patients by selective resection of only enlarged parathyroid glands emphasizes the unreliability of histologic criteria in differentiating between parathyroid adenoma and hyperplasia. Based on this study, we support the existence of multiple adenomas and advocate removal of only macroscopically enlarged parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. 
Interferon alpha-2a and 5-fluorouracil for advanced colorectal carcinoma. Assessment of activity and toxicity. Preclinical data showed that the cytotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) are augmented by interferon (IFN). In a small study, 13 of 17 patients with advanced colorectal cancer responded to a regimen of 5-FU with IFN. Using the same dose and schedule as in this pilot study, 38 previously untreated patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma were treated with continuous intravenous (IV) infusion of 5-FU 750 mg/m2 daily for 5 days, followed by weekly bolus 5-FU at 750 mg/m2 and subcutaneous IFN at 9 million units three times per week. Of 35 evaluable patients, nine (26%) had a partial response (95% confidence limit, 11% to 41%), with a median response duration of 7.5 months (range, 4.4 to greater than 11.7 months). Seven patients (20%) had a minor response, and ten (28%) had stable disease. The most common toxicities observed were stomatitis (52%) and diarrhea (43%). Neurotoxicity was seen in 34% of patients and consisted of gait disturbance, dizziness, confusion, memory loss, and dementia. Because of toxicity, 84% of patients required a reduction of the IFN dose by at least 50%, and 63% required reduction of the 5-FU dose by at least 25%. Although the combination of 5-FU and IFN in patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma has some activity, the regimen was toxic, and the observed response rate (26%) was not substantially superior to alternative 5-FU programs. 
Results of treating ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast with conservative surgery and radiation therapy. To determine the frequency, pattern, and time course of tumor recurrence in the breast, the outcome of 38 women with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy between 1976 and 1985 was studied. Surgery typically consisted of local excision without evaluation of the microscopic margins of resection. The median radiation dose to the tumor site was 6400 cGy. With a median follow-up time of 81 months, eight patients (21%) have experienced a recurrence in the breast. The time course to recurrence was protracted in some cases, with failures occurring at 17, 27, 43, 63, 71, 83, 92, and 104 months. The 5-year and 8-year actuarial rates of tumor recurrence in the breast were 8% and 27%, respectively. Seven patients had a recurrence at or near the primary tumor site, four with invasive carcinoma, and one had an invasive recurrence at a site elsewhere in the breast. No clinical or pathologic factor was significantly associated with an increased risk of recurrence, but the number of patients in the study population was small. The authors reached the following conclusions for patients with DCIS treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy without careful mammographic and pathologic evaluation: (1) recurrence in the breast may be seen in at least one fifth of the patients; (2) recurrence typically occurs at or near the primary site; and (3) recurrence can occur long after treatment. Careful mammographic and pathologic assessment may be useful in reducing the local recurrence rate and should be considered essential if patients are considered for conservative surgery and radiation therapy. 
HiC-COM: a 2-month intensive chemotherapy regimen for children with stage III and IV Burkitt's lymphoma and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We designed a protocol that included 2 months of intensive Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide; Bristol-Myers Co, Evansville, IN), high-dose methotrexate (MTX), high-dose cytarabine (ara-C), and vincristine (HiC-COM) to improve event-free survival (EFS) for patients with advanced-stage Burkitt's lymphoma and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We also wished to test the feasibility of rapidly cycling Cytoxan and high-dose ara-C based on signs of early marrow recovery. Twenty patients including 12 with stage III Burkitt's lymphoma and eight with stage IV Burkitt's lymphoma or B-cell ALL were entered onto this pilot study. The rate of complete remission was 95%. Four patients have relapsed. The 2-year actuarial EFS was 75% (median follow-up, 37 months). Two of the initial five patients developed transverse myelitis, which we believe may have been secondary to the concomitant administration of intrathecal (IT) and high-dose systemic ara-C. We conclude that this short but intensive regimen is highly effective for patients with advanced Burkitt's lymphoma and B-cell ALL. EFS has improved over previous less intensive regimens, and is comparable to regimens of longer duration. 
Trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy. Vaginal hysterectomy, as currently performed at the University of Vienna, was first described by Halban in 1932. From 1955 to 1985, a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed. The vaginal route was used for 6,078 (60.9 per cent) of these procedures. Sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous, 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous. A comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends: the incidence of uterine myomas (30.6 to 27.1 per cent), in situ carcinoma of the cervix (6.5 to 7.9 per cent) and endometrial carcinoma (1.4 to 0.6 per cent) remained largely constant. In the past decade, indications for positional abnormalities (uterine descent and prolapse) were encountered more often (27.6 to 41.6 per cent) than in the first observation period, while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline (33.9 to 22.8 per cent). The most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation, lesions of the bladder, hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively (around 0.5 per cent, respectively). During the second observation period, no postoperative fistulas developed. Two instances of tubal prolapse were seen. Laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances. Two patients died of septic complications. Whenever possible, we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate, low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity. 
Transthyretin receptors on human astrocytoma cells. Transthyretin (TTR), a transport protein for T4 and retinol-binding protein, is the principal T4-binding protein of cerebrospinal fluid. Its function in regard to the delivery of its ligands and in other respects is unclear. The binding of [125I] TTR to cultured human astrocytoma cells was studied to determine whether these cells carry receptors for TTR. Scatchard analysis was consistent with a single class of binding sites with a Kd of 3 nM. No significant cross-reactivity with transferrin or serum albumin was observed. Internalization of TTR was temperature dependent and proportional to receptor occupancy. Dilutions of cerebrospinal fluid displaced [125I]TTR in proportion to their content of radioimmunoassayable TTR and in parallel with purified TTR. The uptake and internalization of TTR increased in the presence of high T4 or T3 concentrations. These results demonstrate that TTR binds to specific high affinity receptors on human astrocytoma cells. Receptor binding of TTR provides a potential mechanism for the delivery of its ligands within the central nervous system. 
Introduction to limb-salvage surgery for sarcomas. This article provides a history of limb-salvage surgery and definitions of terms used to describe aspects of the procedure. Staging is also discussed. 
L-methionine uptake by human cerebral cortex: maturation from infancy to old age Age-associated changes in amino acid transport from blood to normal frontal cortex were studied using positron emission tomography (PET). Seventeen patients, 1.8-71 yr, were injected intravenously with tracer doses of [11C] L-methionine and a baseline PET scan was obtained. To assess competitive inhibition of [11C]L-methionine uptake, patients received either oral L-phenylalanine or an i.v. infusion of amino acids 1 hr before a second PET study. Uptake of [11C]L-methionine by frontal cortex decreased seven-fold between 1.8 and 71 yr (r = -0.71; p less than 0.05). Blood-to-brain transfer of [11C]L-methionine, at 4.5 yr, exceeded mean adult values by more than five-fold. Competitive inhibition reduced L-methionine uptake in all patients older than 4.6 yr. These developmental changes parallel findings in animals. The neutral amino acid transport system may modulate human brain amino acid levels to meet changing developmental metabolic needs. 
Myeloma manifesting as a large jugular tumor: case report. The authors report a case of cranial plasmacytoma with multiple myelomas and palsy of the lower cranial nerves. The osteolytic lesion adjacent to the jugular foramen was demonstrated by an angiogram to be exceedingly hypervascular, with arteriovenous shunting resembling that seen in paragangliomas. Forty-five cases of cranial and intracranial plasmacytoma from the literature were reviewed. The findings indicate that a cranial plasmacytoma commonly appears to be a hypervascular tumor, whereas most dural tumors or intraparenchymal tumors have poor vascularity. 
Rapid sequence treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract: a pilot study. A review of the literature suggested that prolonged treatment time may lessen the probability of cure for patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract. To shorten treatment time, rapid sequence treatment (RST) was devised in which chemotherapy, surgery, and irradation were administered in a total treatment time of 8 weeks. Twelve patients were treated and followed 3 years or longer. Medical complications were minor. Osteonecrosis occurred in each of the first five patients and was the only major complication of the protocol. Surgical techniques were modified, and no additional patient developed osteonecrosis. No patient developed local or regional recurrence. Two patients developed distant metastases and three other patients developed second primaries. Absolute survival was 50%. Rapid sequence treatment is an aggressive and potentially hazardous protocol that yielded encouraging results in this pilot study. 
Chondrosarcoma of the jaws: clinical findings, histopathology, and treatment. Three cases of chondrosarcoma involving the jaws are presented, one in the maxilla and two in the mandible. The salient points of clinical presentation elucidated by this series of cases are that a widened periodontal ligament space is present in chondrosarcomas as well as in osteosarcomas, and that a slowly increasing diastema may be the earliest clinical sign. The most important lesson to be learned from the histopathology is that one should not accept a diagnosis of a benign cartilaginous tumor of the jaws. Treatment of these lesions should consist of wide surgical excision and consideration of adjunctive or palliative radiotherapy, especially in the maxilla. It should also be noted that recurrences may develop 10 to 20 years later, and follow-up should be lifelong. 
Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. A clinicopathologic study of 60 cases. Sixty cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) were analyzed clinicopathologically (24 VIN I, 9 VIN II, 27 VIN III). The ages of the patients ranged from 21 to 83 years (mean, 53.7). Colposcopic examinations showed the presence of white areas in 29 cases, red areas in 9, acetowhite areas in 6 and other alterations in 13. One-third of the lesions were multifocal. Pruritus and burning were present in 65% of the cases. Fifty-one percent of the cases showed histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection; the mean age of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients without HPV infection. In 15 cases of VIN, HPV DNA testing was performed with Southern blot hybridization; in three (20%) of those specimens HPV 16 episomal DNA was identified. Epithelial alterations surrounding the areas of VIN were found in 24 cases (40%)-23 squamous cellular hyperplasias and 1 lichen sclerosus. Different types of treatment were performed according to the different grades of VIN: medical therapy, diathermocoagulation, local excision, hemivulvectomy and total vulvectomy. Follow-up was possible in 52 cases, with a mean of 33 months (range, 3-98). Two cases of VIN I showed progression of disease over 12-24 months. 
Carcinoma of the external auditory canal: an update. This review is a continuation of the series of 35 cases of carcinoma of the external auditory canal originally reported by the senior author and colleagues. Eighteen additional cases have been evaluated and treated since 1976. Preoperative high-resolution computed tomographic scanning has replaced polytomography, and improved surgical skull base approaches have allowed for extended resections of advanced lesions. A revised classification for local and extensive lesions is presented. The prognosis for localized tumors treated by en bloc resection remains excellent, whereas prognosis for extensive lesions might be more dependent on histologic type and grade of tumor. 
Development and characterization of a new, highly specific antibody to the human chorionic gonadotropin-beta fragment. In addition to high concentrations of hCG, pregnancy urine contains even higher concentrations of a fragment of the hCG beta-subunit. This biologically inactive material complicates immunological measurement of hCG, since it cross-reacts with many polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to the hCG beta-subunit that are employed for assays of hCG in urine. Although we and others have developed antibodies to this fragment, specific measurement of the fragment in the presence of free hCG beta has remained difficult due to intrinsic cross-reactivity of these antibodies with the intact hCG beta. Rather than attempt to increase specificity by assay optimization, we developed a new, highly specific monoclonal antibody, designated B210, which cross-reacts less than 0.1% with the free hCG beta-subunit in both liquid and solid phase immunoassay formats. We have used this new monoclonal antibody in immunoradiometric assays to measure specifically the hCG beta fragment in urine throughout pregnancy as well as in the sera of two individuals with cancers producing the hCG beta-subunit. We discovered that the hCG beta fragment can bind three monoclonal antibodies simultaneously, indicating that although the epitope for antibody B210 is a new determinant exposed on the hCG beta fragment and not on intact hCG or on free hCG beta-subunit, the hCG beta fragment retains at least two other hCG beta-related epitopes intact, i.e. those that bind monoclonal antibodies B108 and B201. 
Combined gadolinium-enhanced and fat-saturation MR imaging of renal masses. Combined gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement and fat-saturation (FS) spin-echo (SE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for the detection and characterization of renal masses was evaluated in 43 patients with a total of 71 lesions (28 solid masses and 43 cysts). SE MR sequences compared were the following: short repetition time (TR)/echo time (TE), conventional SE, short TR/TE FS SE, long TR/TE conventional SE, gadolinium-enhanced short TR/TE conventional SE, and gadolinium-enhanced short TR/TE FS SE techniques. MR findings were compared with findings of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) and with pathologic findings in all patients. The sensitivities for detection of renal masses with gadolinium-enhanced FS (71 of 71 lesions) and with gadolinium-enhanced short TR/TE conventional (65 of 71 lesions) SE sequences were significantly (P less than .01) greater than with any unenhanced (short TR/TE conventional [40 of 71 lesions], or long TR/TE [39 of 71 lesions]) SE sequence. Lesion characterization was also best with the gadolinium-enhanced FS SE sequence (65 of 71 lesions correctly classified). When combined pre- and postcontrast short TR/TE FS SE images were analyzed with both qualitative (visual) and quantitative (region-of-interest measurements) assessment, lesion characterization improved even further (70 of 71 lesions were correctly characterized). All lesions detected with CT were visualized with the gadolinium-enhanced FS SE MR sequence, which in addition depicted seven cysts and two small renal cell carcinomas. In summary, the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine, especially when combined with the FS technique, was superior to unenhanced MR imaging for detection and characterization of renal lesions. 
Nonendoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy. Tight peritoneal adherence of the stomach to the abdominal wall as a prerequisite of percutaneous gastrostomy can be achieved by a newly developed cannula. It serves for puncture and fixation of the gastric wall. Thus, percutaneous gastrostomy can be established safely even in instances of an endoscopically nonaccessible stomach. Further applications of the device for the purpose of intestinopexy and facilitation of endoscopic procedures are being evaluated. 
Sensitivity and specificity of various morphological features of cervical condylomas. An in situ hybridization study. Fifty-seven cervical biopsy specimens or endocervical curettings showing condyloma, changes suggestive of condyloma, or no changes of condyloma were analyzed for presence of nuclear atypia (nuclear enlargement and irregularity in superficial epithelium), presence of multinucleated cells, and presence of perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing in superficial squamous epithelium. The findings were correlated with results of in situ hybridization with biotin-labeled human papillomavirus DNA probes. Moderate nuclear atypia was significantly more specific than perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing and 100% sensitive for predicting cases positive for human papillomavirus. Of the various morphological features analyzed, perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing had the lowest specificity for predicting positive results on in situ hybridization. 
Unusual skin tumors in Langerhans' cell histiocytosis. A case of Langerhans' cell histiocytosis with unusual skin manifestations in the form of multiple large skin tumors is described. The skin lesions responded partially to chemotherapy with etoposide and prednisone, and residual lesions were excised surgically. The patient developed central diabetes insipidus during treatment. 
Variables influencing tumor uptake of anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies radioiodinated using para-iodobenzoyl (PIB) conjugate Tumor uptake was examined with respect to antigen expression, time-dependent biodistribution, dose of Mab injected, tumor size, and tumor site (i.e., subcutaneous versus lung or liver metastases). NR-ML-05, 96.5, and P94 showed significantly greater uptake in subcutaneous tumors than CL207 and 5.1 (p less than 0.05). NR-ML-05 had a significantly higher tumor uptake at 24 hr (11.9 +/- 0.51) than at 72 hr (4.0 +/- 0.37) or 144 hr (2.7 +/- 0.84) after injection (p less than 0.001). The other four Mabs had similar tumor distribution at all three time points. The tumor uptake of four Mabs (96.5, P94, CL207. 5.1) differed with respect to in vitro versus in vivo binding to tumor, tumor type, dose of Mab, and tumor site (subcutaneous versus metastases). In contrast, NR-ML-05 demonstrated consistent uptake in tumors independent of the above parameters. These data suggest that certain host parameters can influence in vivo tumor targeting depending on characteristics of each Mab studied. 
Submandibular cystic hygroma resembling a plunging ranula in a neonate. Review and report of a case. Cystic hygromas are large lymphangiomas that are most often found in the posterior triangle of the neck and the axilla in children. They are most frequently found before age 2 and may be massive. After upper respiratory infection, they may become infected and enlarged, causing dysphagia and toxemia. The diagnosis can usually be made by history and physical examination and confirmed by biopsy. Treatment is by surgical excision of small lesions and staged debulking excisions in more severe cases. A patient with a cystic hygroma having many clinical characteristics of a plunging ranula is presented. The cyst fluid was aspirated and analyzed for its amylase, sodium, potassium, chloride, urea nitrogen, glucose, and total protein content. The characteristics of the fluid were also compared with those of lymph and saliva. This report demonstrates the difficulty in determining the diagnosis of a tumor that has the clinical features of a cystic hygroma, as well as a plunging ranula. The necessity of a proper presurgical diagnosis is essential since the form of therapy for each is different and conflicting. A method that distinguishes between the cervical cystic hygroma and a plunging ranula by means of aspirated fluid is discussed. 
Lymph node metastasis from papillary-follicular thyroid carcinoma in young patients. A total of 117 patients under 20 years of age with papillary and/or follicular thyroid cancer presented to the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1949 and 1987. The most common presenting symptom was a cervical mass. Twenty percent of the patients had a history of prior irradiation. Sixty percent initially had palpable lymph nodes, while 26% who had clinically negative examinations had pathologically positive lymph nodes. Recurrence was highest in regional lymph nodes at 24%, with only a 4% recurrence rate at the primary site and a 3% recurrence rate at distant sites. There were no deaths due to the thyroid cancer. To maintain a low rate of recurrence, near-total thyroidectomy with neck dissection followed by iodine 131 treatment should be considered in these young patients. 
Granular cell neoplasm of the extrahepatic biliary tree: morphological, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical study and review of the literature. A recent case of a biliary granular cell tumor of the cystic duct prompted a literature review and an extensive pathological examination of the tumor in question. A total of 44 cases have been described mostly in black females. Most cases present with biliary symptoms, and simple surgical resection allows complete control of this benign condition. Granular cell tumors are most likely derived from neural crest cells. 
Alternative splicing of endothelial cell fibronectin mRNA in the IIICS region. Functional significance. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) is thought to play a role in modulating vascular cell function in vivo. In vitro, it decreases endothelial cell proliferation and migration. We postulated that these biologic activities could be mediated through TGF-beta 1 modulation of specific gene expression. Therefore we differentially screened a human umbilical vein endothelial cell cDNA library with cDNAs prepared from both untreated and TGF-beta 1-treated bovine aortic endothelial cells. Using this technique, we isolated many TGF-beta 1-induced cDNA clones. Sequence analysis of these cDNAs showed that many of them corresponded to alternatively spliced fibronectin mRNAs. These fibronectin clones all contained the extradomain I (ED I) but three different forms of the type III connecting segment (IIICS). These different fibronectin cDNAs were expressed in bacteria and the recombinant proteins used to study the effects of IIICS alternative splicing on cell attachment, spreading, and migration in bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells and B16F10 melanoma cells. The results of these experiments show that attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells depend primarily on the presence of the Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser (RGDS) sequence in the recombinant fibronectin proteins. However attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial cells are modulated by alternative splicing in the IIICS region. Specifically splicing of the IIICS region decreases spreading and increases migration rates of the endothelial cells. On the contrary, using a cell line (B16F10 melanoma cells) that is known not to require the RGDS sequence for adhesion confirmed previous findings that B16F10 melanoma cells do not require the presence of the RGDS sequence for attachment and spreading. Indeed B16F10 cells were able to attach and spread on two recombinant proteins that did not contain the RGDS sequence. However attachment and spreading of B16F10 were dramatically inhibited when a 75-base pair DNA fragment was removed from the 5' end of the IIICS region. These results suggest that various regions of the fibronectin molecule may be able to interact with different cell populations to promote cell attachment and spreading, and that alternative splicing may modulate this process. 
Obesity, body fat distribution, and sex hormones in breast cancer patients. This study addresses the relationship between female sex hormones, obesity, body fat distribution, and breast cancer. Increasing obesity correlated with a progressive fall in sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) level and an increase in testosterone level. Premenopausal breast cancer patients were found to have significantly lower levels of SHBG compared with age-matched and weight-matched controls. This difference in SHBG level was not noted in postmenopausal breast cancer patients. The SHBG level decreased with increasing upper body fat localization in breast cancer patients and controls. This effect was more marked in breast cancer patients which may explain our earlier finding that women with upper body fat localization are at increased risk for developing breast cancer. 
HTLV-I-associated leukemia/lymphoma in south Florida. We report here 10 cases of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) seen in South Florida between February 1988 and July 1989. All were seropositive for human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) and seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). DNA extracted from tumor biopsies/peripheral blood lymphocytes of nine patients was shown by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to contain HTLV-I proviral DNA. Blot hybridization of DNA extracted from seven patients with an HTLV-I cDNA probe revealed a monoclonal pattern of proviral integration consistent with a diagnosis of ATL. Eight of the 10 patients were women. Six patients were from Haiti, three from Jamaica, and one from the Bahamas. All patients had very aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Two patients presented with sinus and retro-orbital involvement; another had gastric lymphoma that perforated. Nine patients developed hypercalcemia. Eight patients died within 1 year of diagnosis. Two were lost to follow-up. During the course of this study, 66 new cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were diagnosed at this hospital. Ten of these cases were ATL. The prevalence of HTLV-I-related lymphoma in this sample was 15%. Since tissue from all patients was not available for HTLV-I screening, however, it is possible that other cases of ATL went undetected. We conclude from this initial survey that a retroviral etiology should be considered in patients from populations known to be at risk for HTLV-I infection who present with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. 
Transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after M-VAC (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) chemotherapy. The M-VAC (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. We report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with M-VAC. Review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique, and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with M-VAC may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases. Carcinomatous meningitis, although rare, is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated. However, prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status. We review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis. 
The nursing role in limb salvage surgery. Limb salvage surgery has proven itself as a valuable option for sarcoma patients. The reconstruction options are vast and include metallic implants, allografts, and a combination of both. The nursing implications for these patients are unlimited. The patient needs to be educated and assessed closely for complications such as infections, nonunion of the allograft, and limited mobility. Although the nursing care is more complicated, the rewards with working with these patients are great. 
Long term effects of gastrocystoplasty in rats. Twenty prepubescent rats underwent microsurgical gastrocystoplasty by a technique which is described. An equal number of control rats had their bladders opened and closed. Rats were sacrificed at 16 to 18 months postoperatively. There were no differences in final weight, serum electrolytes, or renal function between the two groups. Prominent histopathologic changes of the bladder occurred in the gastrocystoplasty group. These changes included papillomas present in five of the 15 rats surviving long term. No significant changes occurred in the bladders of the control group of rats. Possible etiologies and the significance of the rats. Possible etiologies and the significance of the gastrocystoplasty related lesions are discussed. 
Photodynamic therapy of spontaneous cancers in felines, canines, and snakes with chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine. This is the first report on the photodynamic treatment with a second-generation sensitizer, chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine (CASPc) of spontaneously arising tumors and on the photodynamic therapy (PDT) of snake neoplasms. Each of 10 cats, 2 dogs, and 3 snakes presenting with a variety of tumor types (squamous cell carcinoma, mast cell malignant tumor, and mixed carcinoma/sarcoma) was given an intravenous injection of 1 mg of CASPc per kilogram body weight 48 hours prior to irradiation with 675-nm light. Some larger tumors (greater than 1.5 cm deep) were surgically debulked prior to PDT. No significant systemic toxicity or skin photosensitization was observed in any animal. The tumor responses were comparable to those seen with conventional cryotherapy, hyperthermia, or surgery. PDT with CASPc of these cases led to 67% (12 of 18) complete response, 22% (4 of 18) partial response, and 11% (2 of 18) no response (less than 50% reduction in tumor size). Four cases could not be evaluated. Since the overall tumor response to CASPc is very good, and the problem of skin photosensitivity is nonexistent, it is expected that using CASPc-PDT to eradicate human tumors would also yield comparable results. Further studies with long-term follow-up are necessary to optimize the use of CASPc-PDT in veterinary and human medicine. 
Inhibition of growth of experimental prostate cancer with sustained delivery systems (microcapsules and microgranules) of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist SB-75. Inhibitory effects of the sustained delivery systems (microcapsules and microgranules) of a potent antagonist of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone N-Ac-[3-(2-naphthyl)-D-alanine1, 4-chloro-D-phenylalanine2, 3-(3-pyridyl)-D-alanine3, D-citrulline6, D-alanine10]LH-RH (SB-75) on the growth of experimental prostate cancers were investigated. In the first experiment, three doses of a microcapsule preparation releasing 23.8, 47.6, and 71.4 micrograms of antagonist SB-75 per day were compared with microcapsules of agonist [D-Trp6]LH-RH liberating 25 micrograms/day in rats bearing Dunning R3327H transplantable prostate carcinoma. During 8 weeks of treatment, tumor growth was decreased by [D-Trp6]LH-RH and all three doses of SB-75 as compared to untreated controls. The highest dose of SB-75 (71.4 micrograms/day) caused a greater inhibition of prostate cancer growth than [D-Trp6]LH-RH as based on measurement of tumor volume and percentage change in tumor volume. Doses of 23.8 and 47.6 micrograms of SB-75 per day induced a partial and submaximal decrease, respectively, in tumor weight and volume. Tumor doubling time was the longest (50 days) with the high dose of SB-75 vs. 15 days for controls. The body weights were unchanged. The weights of testes, seminal vesicles, and ventral prostate were greatly reduced in all three groups that received SB-75, and testosterone levels were decreased to nondetectable values in the case of the two higher doses of SB-75. LH levels were also diminished. Similar results were obtained in the second experiment, in which the animals were treated for a period of 8 weeks with microgranules of SB-75. Therapy with microgranules of SB-75 significantly decreased tumor growth as measured by the final tumor volume, the percentage change from the initial tumor volume, and the reduction in tumor weight. The results indicate that antagonist SB-75, released from sustained delivery systems, can produce a state of chemical castration and effectively inhibit the growth of experimental prostate cancers. The efficacy of the antagonist SB-75 in inhibiting androgen-dependent Dunning prostatic carcinoma and the absence of side effects suggest its possible usefulness for the treatment of hormone-sensitive tumors. 
Health effects of radon exposure. Report of the Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association. The consensus of scientists is that exposure to radon is hazardous, but disagreement exists about the effects of lower radon concentrations. Studies of underground miners have indicated that the risk of lung cancer increases in proportion to the intensity and duration of exposure to radon, and a recent authoritative report (BEIR IV) has concluded that estimates based on those studies are appropriate for estimating risks for occupants of homes. The BEIR IV report concluded that smoking cigarettes increases the risk of lung cancer associated with radon. Average radon levels in US homes range from 0.055 to 0.148 Bq/L (1.5 to 4 pCi/L), depending on the circumstances of measurement. Few studies have investigated health outcomes in occupants of homes with high radon levels. In advising patients about reducing the risks associated with radon, physicians should consider the costs, as well as the benefits, of remedial actions, and they should emphasize that, by far, the best way to avoid lung cancer is to stop smoking. 
Meningiomas involving the clivus: a six-year experience with 41 patients. A series of 41 meningiomas involving the clivus operated on from July 1983 to January 1990 is reported. The presenting symptoms and signs of these patients were similar to those reported previously. All the patients were evaluated by pre- and postoperative thin-section, high-resolution computed tomography using soft tissue and bone algorithms. Most of the patients also underwent magnetic resonance imaging. The regions of the clivus involved by tumor were divided into upper, middle, or lower regions on the basis of anatomical landmarks. The diameter of the tumor was measured in three axes, and a tumor volume and a tumor equivalent diameter were computed to categorize tumors as small, medium, large, or giant types. There were 9 medium, 27 large, and 5 giant tumors in this series. Some simple and some complex operative approaches were employed to effect tumor removal. Large and giant tumors often required more than one operative approach to remove the tumor. Intraoperative technical difficulties included tumor consistency, vascularity, dissection from the brain stem, and vascular and cranial nerve encasement. Postoperative computed tomographic scans documented total excision in 32 patients (78%). Residual tumor remained in the clival or cavernous sinus areas. These patients were either being observed, or were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. There was one operative death due to pneumonia (2%), and three patients (7%) suffered permanent major neurological changes, presumably due to vascular occlusions in the posterior circulation. In the follow-up period, which ranged from 3 to 76 months, 2 patients (6%) with tumors that had appeared to be totally excised experienced recurrence. These patients were treated by a second operation, alone or in combination with radiation therapy. Two patients who had subtotal excisions (25%) had evidence of regrowth. In 2 patients, tumor growth continued despite gamma knife radiosurgery or external beam radiotherapy. 
A dentist's dilemma: nonsurgical endodontic therapy or periapical surgery for teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion. First presented is a brief review of nonsurgical versus surgical treatment of radicular cysts. This is followed by a consideration of the use of radiographs for differential diagnosis of periapical radiolucent lesions. Some of the nonendodontic local and systemic lesions that can occur periapically are then presented. Next examined are the fallibilities of pulp vitality testing methods. The need for histopathologic examination of periapical lesions is the subject of the next discussion. The dentist's dilemma is then examined: should teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion have routine surgical treatment including biopsy or should they be treated nonsurgically and have periodic follow-ups? A possible resolution of this dilemma is the final consideration. 
Intraoperative pleural lavage cytology in lung cancer patients. Cytology of intraoperative pleural lavage was examined in 164 lung cancer patients who underwent pulmonary resections. None of the patients had any pleural effusion or dissemination. Cytology was performed three times: (1) at thoracotomy, (2) immediately after resection, and (3) after washing the pleural cavity with 5,000 mL of physiological saline solution just before closure of the chest wall. Twenty-three patients (14%) had more than one positive cytological finding. The frequency of positive cytological findings was significantly correlated with pathological T classification, pleural status, and pathological stage. The positive lavage group had a significantly higher recurrence rate than the negative lavage group in patients with stage I or stage II cancer. Four patients in the positive lavage group (17.4%) had recurrence in pleura or pericardium whereas only 1 patient in the negative lavage group (0.7%) had a recurrence in pericardium. The positive cytological finding of pleural lavage has more important meaning as a prognostic factor in stage I and stage II and indicates a greater possibility of recurrence in pleura or pericardium, but further examinations to evaluate the viability of detected malignant cells are required so that the positive cytological findings of pleural lavage can be regarded as subclinical pleural dissemination. 
Vaginal epithelial abnormalities in patients with CIN: clinical and pathological features and management. Of 4147 women who had CIN treated by laser at the Regional Gynaecological Oncology Centre, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Gateshead, 103 (2.5%) had co-existing vaginal epithelial abnormalities. CIN 3 was the histological diagnosis most often associated with vaginal lesions. The upper vagina was almost always involved. In 67% the lesion in the cervix appeared to be confluent with that in the vagina. Even when the lesions were confluent, biopsies form the cervical and vaginal components did not always show the same grade of intraepithelial neoplasia and in some biopsies they showed different lesions. Laser treatment appears to be effective for the vaginal lesions and is therefore recommended although, in selected patients, careful follow up alone may suffice. 
Autologous bone marrow transplantation in multiple myeloma: identification of prognostic factors. Multiple myeloma remains a universally fatal malignancy with a median survival time not exceeding 3 years. A clinical trial was undertaken to determine feasibility and efficacy of marrow-ablative chemoradiotherapy supported by unpurged autologous bone marrow (ABMT) and to define prognostic variables. Total body irradiation and either melphalan or thiotepa were administered to 55 patients (median age 53 years; range 20 to 66 years). The group of 21 patients with resistance to standard melphalan-prednisone and to continuous infusions of vincristine and Adriamycin with high dose dexamethasone (VAD) included 7 with primary unresponsive disease and 14 with resistant relapse; among the 34 patients achieving remission with the VAD regimen, 14 were in first and 20 in a subsequent remission. Marked cytoreduction by greater than or equal to 75% was observed among all 21 patients with refractory myeloma, whereas further cytoreduction of this magnitude was noted in only 56% of the 34 patients already in remission after VAD. Five of the 6 early deaths among all 55 patients occurred in the 14 patients with resistant relapse, none of whom achieved complete remission and who, as a group, had median durations of relapse-free and overall survival of only 8 and 7 months, respectively. Among the 41 remaining patients, there was only one early death, and 27% achieved complete remission including a 36% incidence among the 14 patients treated in first remission; their projected 4-year survival rate was 82% regardless of their disease status (first or later remission or primary resistance). When information about sensitivity to prior therapy is unavailable, the presence before ABMT of both high beta-2-microglobulin levels (greater than 3 mg/L) and non-IgG isotype helped identify 9 among the 55 patients with a very poor prognosis: all 8 responders relapsed within 9 months, and 8 patients died within 15 months. By contrast, a 4-year projected survival rate of over 70% for the other patients (about 80% of this series) justifies further investigation of this novel treatment approach in comparison with standard dose regimens. Our results indicate that marrow-ablative therapy cannot be recommended for myeloma patients with resistant relapse or those with a combination of risk factors (advanced tumor burden, absence of IgG isotype). The apparent lack of an adverse effect of even marked plasmacytosis in autografts (up to 30%) emphasizes the need for better cytoreduction rather than bone marrow purging. 
Therapeutic outcome of patients suffering from malignant melanomas of the conjunctiva. Eighty-one cases of conjunctival melanoma treated between 1960 and 1988 were studied to determine factors that might affect outcome in patients with such lesions. The therapeutic procedures performed were local excision (16), local excision followed by brachytherapy with Sr-90/Y-90 (32), local excision followed by cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen (16), brachytherapy with Sr-90/Y-90 (12), local excision followed by external beam irradiation (3), and local excision followed by brachytherapy and cryotherapy (2). The median follow-up period was 5.5 years (longest 26, shortest 1 year). Sixty two patients (76.5%) showed a complete regression of the melanoma, 19 (23.5%) developed recurrences, and 15 (18.5%) died from metastases. The melanomas had developed with almost equal frequency from a pre-existing naevus (25.9%), from primary acquired melanosis (25.9%), and 'de novo' (30.9%). Small tumours had a higher chance of regressing (80.6%) than larger ones (68.6%). The cumulative survival rate was 76% after five years and 60% after 10 years from any causes of death and 87.6% after five years and 76.3% after 10 years from deaths caused by metastases. Most deaths from metastases occurred within 5 years. At 88.5%, the cumulative survival rate of patients with small tumours (less than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and less than 2 mm thickness) was significantly higher than that of patients with larger tumours (more than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and/or more than 2 mm thickness) with 65% after eight years. Local excision followed by beta ray irradiation (Sr-90/Y-90) or cryotherapy can be recommended as the treatment of choice. Nevertheless the behaviour of conjunctival melanomas remains unpredictable in individual cases. 
Expression of class I and II human leukocyte antigens by thyrocytes and lymphocytic infiltration on human thyroid tumors. An immunofluorescence study. Surgical thyroid sections from 30 papillary carcinomas (PC), six medullary carcinomas (MC), three anaplastic carcinomas (AC), two follicular carcinomas (FC), and 16 adenomas (AD) were examined with an indirect immunofluorescence technique employing different monoclonal antibodies to evaluate the expression of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A, B, C (Class I) and DR, DP, DQ (Class II) by thyrocytes, together with the phenotype and distribution of inflammatory cells. Ten PC and four FC were also investigated for the presence of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). In situ deposits of immunocomplexes and circulating thyroid autoantibodies were also evaluated. An increased expression of Class I antigens was found in all PC and FC, in 33% of MC and AC, and in 31% of AD. An anomalous expression of Class II antigens was observed in 70% of PC, in 50% of FC, in 33% of AC, in 19% of AD, and in none of the MC. Expression of DP or DQ was revealed only in a portion of the DR-positive glands. A reduction of microsomal autoantigen expression was found. No ICAM-1-positive thyrocytes were detected. A moderate T-lymphocytic infiltrate was noticed only in PC, where it was correlated with DR and DP and/or DQ coexpression. B-cells and natural killer cells were virtually absent. The authors speculate that the weak Class II antigens expression, together with the partial or complete loss in microsomal autoantigen and the absence of ICAM-1 by thyrocytes, may account for the limited engagement of immunocompetent cells observed in thyroid tumors. 
Medulloblastoma: a population-based study of 532 cases. Five hundred thirty-two cases of medulloblastoma (males n = 327 and females n = 205), aged 0 to 86 years diagnosed between 1973 and 1986 were studied to determine the incidence in different geographic regions of the United States and to evaluate the effect of various factors on survival. The median age was 9 years and average follow-up time was 45 months. The overall incidence rate was 1.8 per one million person-years. Variables that were statistically significant (p less than 0.05) in a multivariate model determining survival in rank order were treatment group, sex, geographic region, year group and age. This observational study found that 1) age and sex were statistically significant factors in describing the incidence rates, whereas year group and geographic region were not; 2) no incidence peak in the third decade of life was observed; 3) a significant improvement in survival was observed in the combined 1978 to 1986 year groups relative to the 1973 to 1977 year group; 4) the overall 5-year survival probability was 45%; and 5) there has been an increase over time in the use of more than two modalities of treatment. 
Different effect of benzylacyclouridine on the toxic and therapeutic effects of azidothymidine in mice. It has been reported that in vitro uridine (Urd) can reverse azidothymidine (AZT) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. Our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine (BAU), an inhibitor of Urd breakdown, also reduces AZT hematologic toxicity, presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of Urd. We now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous Urd, various doses of BAU, or the combination of BAU and Urd, administered daily, on AZT-induced toxicity. In mice receiving concomitant AZT, daily doses of Urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce AZT-induced hematologic toxicity. However, the range of effective doses is narrow, and higher doses of Urd (greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity. At its most effective dose, (2,000 mg/kg/d), Urd produces 28% mortality. In contrast, BAU doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced AZT-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality. Higher daily doses of BAU and the combination of BAU with low doses of Urd were not more effective. Studies conducted in mice infected with the Rauscher murine leukemia virus (RLV) indicate that BAU does not impair the antiretroviral effect of AZT when administered at doses that reduce AZT-induced anemia and leukopenia. These findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related complex. 
Infiltration of the lower respiratory tract by helper/inducer T lymphocytes in HTLV-1-associated adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. The human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), a disorder in which peripheral blood and multiple organs are infiltrated by malignantly transformed T lymphocytes. We investigated the nature of pulmonary disease in a patient with serologic evidence of HTLV-1 infection. In this case, endobronchial biopsy specimens showed infiltration of the bronchial mucosa by pleomorphic cells exhibiting a high degree of nuclear irregularity. These cells were morphologically identical in appearance to malignant cells found in peripheral blood and infiltrating the dermis, expressed the OKT4/Leu3 phenotype and the receptor for interleukin 2, and, by analogy to gene rearrangement studies on leukemic blood cells, were monoclonal in origin. However, in situ hybridization of endobronchial biopsy specimens with full-length HTLV-1 probes failed to detect retroviral RNA or proviral DNA. These studies indicate that T lymphocytic involvement of the lower respiratory tract in HTLV-1-associated ATLL is characterized by expression of a malignant phenotype despite the inability to document actual cellular infection with this retrovirus by a molecular hybridization technique. 
Proliferation markers Ki-67 and p105 in soft-tissue lesions. Correlation with DNA flow cytometric characteristics. Frozen tissue immunoreactivity with Ki-67, a monoclonal antibody that recognizes a nuclear antigen in nonresting or proliferating cells, was compared to DNA flow cytometry results (from fresh tissue) in a diverse group of 60 soft-tissue lesions. Both DNA index and Ki-67 score were independently reported to be associated with grade and prognosis in sarcomas, but no direct comparison of these two variables was made. It was attempted to measure proliferative activity in fixed paraffin-embedded tissues immunohistochemically in a subset of lesions using an antibody to another nuclear proliferation antigen, p105. Lesions were given a grade according to lesion category (reactive, 1; benign, 2; low-grade malignant, 3; and high-grade malignant, 4). Ki-67 reactivity correlated relatively well with this grading system (r = 0.59); benign lesions usually exhibited a low Ki-67 score and malignant lesions usually but not always exhibited a high score. For example, some malignant fibrous histiocytomas contained only rare positive cells. Some disparity between Ki-67 score and grade and within histologic types indicates some independence from these features, a fact that may be important when correlation with prognosis is performed. However Ki-67 did not correlate well with flow data such as percentage S phase (r = 0.30), percentage S + G2M phases (r = 0.37), or DNA index (r = 0.39). This probably is due to the fact that Ki-67 also marks cells in the G1 phase, whereas these are excluded in flow data analyses. Anti-p105 highlighted almost all nuclei in all cases tested, including fibromatosis, and did not correlate with Ki-67 score, histologic grade or DNA flow cytometric data. Results with p105 could not be favorably affected by titration experiments. It is reasonable to conclude that the Ki-67 score is a variable related to but independent of histologic grade, histologic type, and DNA flow values. Whether it is prognostically important in human sarcomas, as has been suggested, awaits further clinicopathologic study. 
Cyclosporine in the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma. We present our observations on the use of cyclosporine in the treatment of three patients with mycosis fungoides and two patients with Sezary syndrome. The patients with mycosis fungoides showed mild improvement of short duration. One patient with Sezary syndrome had significant improvement during 2 years of treatment. It is unlikely that cyclosporine alone will be sufficient therapy for cutaneous T cell lymphoma. However, lower doses in conjunction with other immunomodulators may minimize potential side effects and lead to longer lasting clinical improvement. 
Uptake of 2-deoxy, 2-(18F) fluoro-D-glucose in bladder cancer: animal localization and initial patient positron emission tomography. An orthotopically transplanted, locally metastasizing rat bladder tumor model was developed to evaluate the extent of uptake of fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG) in bladder cancer. Significant uptake of FDG in localized bladder tumors in rats was shown, with an average tumor-to-blood ratio of 39 at 2 hours after intravenous FDG administration. Metastases (3 nodal and 1 peritoneal) also showed significant uptake of FDG, with an average metastasis-to-blood ratio of 21.7, and tumor involved-to-normal lymph node ratio of 5.3. Because FDG is excreted in the urine, urinary FDG potentially could prevent the use of FDG/positron emission tomography (FDG/PET) scanning for localized bladder cancer. Bladder lavage successfully reduced the retention of FDG in the normal rat bladder, with an estimated uptake ratio of tumor-to-normal bladder of 13.1 after 5 ml. saline irrigation. Based on these data, we performed an FDG/PET scan of a patient with biopsy proved recurrent intravesical bladder cancer after radiation therapy. Computerized tomography (CT) of the pelvis showed abnormalities consistent with radiation scarring and extravesical tumor. Due to the scarring, the extent of tumor growth could not be determined. The patient also had pulmonary opacities seen on chest radiography. The FDG/PET scan of this patient showed significant extravesical uptake in the pelvis, confirming the abnormality noted on CT. Good images of the clinically apparent metastases in the chest also were obtained. These preliminary data indicate that FDG/PET imaging of bladder cancer is feasible and it may provide new information for the diagnosis and staging of patients with bladder cancer. 
Second primary cancer following Hodgkin's disease: updated results of an Italian multicentric study. The risk of second primary cancer (SPC) was evaluated in 947 patients treated for Hodgkin's disease (HD) during the period January 1969 to December 1979. The median follow-up of this series was 10.5 years (range, 9 to 19). Treatment categories included radiotherapy (RT) alone (115 patients, 12%), chemotherapy (CHT) alone (161 patients, 17%), combined RT plus CHT (381 patients, 40%), and salvage treatment for resistant or relapsing HD (290 patients, 30.6%). Fifty-six SPCs were observed, occurring between 1 and 17 years from initial treatment. Among these, secondary acute nonlymphoid leukemia (s-ANLL) was the most frequent SPC (23 cases). Secondary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (s-NHL) occurred in 5 patients, whereas a secondary solid tumor (s-ST) was observed in 28 patients. The calculated actuarial risk (+/- SE) of developing SPC was 5.0% (+/- 0.9%) and 23.1% (+/- 5.8%) at 10 and 19 years, respectively. Concerning treatment modalities and s-ANLL risk, no cases were observed in the radiotherapy group, whereas CHT plus RT and salvage groups showed the highest actuarial risk. This was, in fact, at 10 and 19 years, 3.1% (+/- 0.9%) and 8.1% (+/- 4.0%) in the former group, and 1.8% (+/- 1.0%) and 16% (+/- 9.0%) in the latter. A statistically significant difference was observed when the CHT plus RT group was compared with CHT and RT groups (P = .04). Concerning the relationships with chemotherapeutic regimens, 12 s-ANLL cases occurred in the mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP) plus RT group, and only one case in the group receiving doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) plus RT. A statistically significant difference of s-ANLL actuarial risk was found comparing patients receiving MOPP plus RT to all other treatment groups (P = .04). With respect to s-ST, the actuarial risk at 10 and 19 years was 2.0% (+/- 0.6%) and 13.0% (+/- 3.8%), respectively. No significant differences were found among groups treated with different modalities. These data were confirmed by a multivariate analysis, which indicated treatment modality and age as independent variables for s-ANLL and s-ST development, respectively. Based on the prolonged follow-up analysis, the actuarial SPC risk at 10 years hereby reported should reflect the real SPC incidence in our series. 
Leiomyoma of a digital artery. Benign, soft-tissue masses of the hand are common. A vascular leiomyoma is an unusual tumor of smooth-muscle origin. In a 62-year-old man, the tumor arose from within a digital artery. Persistent symptoms prompted an excisional biopsy, requiring resection of a portion of the artery. Adequate collateral circulation preempted the need for a vascular graft. Vascular repair or grafting may be necessary if collateral circulation is not adequate. 
The reliability of palpation in the assessment of tumours. There is now a joint UICC-AJC classification for cervical lymph nodes based mainly on the size of the nodes. There is a recognized error in palpation, not only for detecting the presence of tumour but also its size. This study used an animal tumour model system to compare the ability of 6 independent observers of varying experience to detect and stage superficially transplanted growths. A preclinical medical student was as good as a Consultant ENT Surgeon in predicting the presence of tumour but the ability to stage tumours accurately was related to experience. Whilst the most experienced observers accurately estimated the size of tumours less than 2 cm, they were less accurate for larger (greater than 2 cm) tumours which were constantly understaged. This phenomenon may have important clinical implications particularly related to current nodal staging criteria. 
Interphase cytogenetic analysis detects minimal residual disease in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and resolves the question of origin of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. We used in situ hybridization with a probe for the X chromosome to study interphase cells of bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from a male patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by hyperdiploidy, including trisomy X. In a posttreatment bone marrow specimen, which was interpreted as a regenerating bone marrow morphologically and which demonstrated a normal karyotype cytogenetically, trisomy X was found in 16 of 1,000 interphase cells. This finding indicated the presence of leukemic cells that were undetected by conventional morphologic and cytogenetic techniques (ie, minimal residual disease). Cytogenetic studies of a relapse specimen obtained after a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant showed only a normal female karyotype in each of 40 metaphase cells, suggesting that the relapse occurred in donor cells. However, interphase analysis demonstrated trisomy X in more than 80% of interphase cells and indicated that the relapse was of the original clone and was not a transformation of donor cells. This case illustrates that interphase analysis can be useful as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis in the detection of minimal residual disease and in the analysis of interphase cells that are not accessible to routine cytogenetic methods. It also illustrates that previously reported instances of relapse of leukemia in donor cells could have been incorrect if supported by cytogenetic data alone. 
Comparison of 1073 MBq and 3700 MBq iodine-131 in postoperative ablation of residual thyroid tissue in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer. In a randomized prospective study, we compared the efficacy of low dose (1073 MBq) and high dose (3700 MBq) iodine-131 administration in postoperative ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue in 63 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer. We were unable to demonstrate any difference between the low- and the high-dose of radioactive iodine in scintigraphic ablation of remnant tissue. In 81% (21/26) of the patients, 1073 MBq ablated after the first dose, 77% (21/26 + 3/5 = 24/31) after the first plus second dose, and 69% (24/31 + 0/4 = 24/35) after the first, second, and third dose. Radioiodine (3700 MBq) ablated in 84%, 73%, and 69% of the patients after respectively 1., 1. plus 2., and 1. plus 2. plus 3. dose. Forty percent of the patients ablated with the low dose and 44% ablated with the high dose had elevated thyroglobulin levels at the time of complete scintigraphic ablation. In conclusion, we did not find any difference between 3700 MBq and 1073 MBq iodine-131 as regard to number of doses needed for complete scintigraphic ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue. 
Prostate-specific antigen and external beam radiation therapy in prostate cancer. This study of 133 patients with localized prostate cancer (Stages A2 to C), treated by external beam radiation therapy (XRT), was undertaken for two reasons: (1) to investigate the usefulness of pretreatment serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in evaluating patients before XRT; and (2) to investigate post-XRT changes in PSA values and their likely clinical significance. It was found that pretreatment PSA values in patients with localized disease exhibit wide patient to patient variability with a greater than 100-fold difference between the lowest and highest values. Although mean PSA values were significantly higher in Stage C disease (51 patients; mean PSA, 17.3 ng/ml) than in Stage A2 disease (31 patients; mean PSA, 9.0 ng/ml), Stage B1 disease (23 patients; mean PSA, 9.1 ng/ml), or Stage B2 disease (28 patients; mean PSA, 10.6 ng/ml), individual values were of virtually no help in assigning individual patients to a clinical stage. PSA levels did not correlate with grade. After XRT, PSA values fell significantly and dramatically in virtually all patients (98%) by 3 months follow-up. Mean PSA fell from 12.5 to 2.6 ng/ml, and median PSA fell from 6.6 to 1.9 ng/ml. In most patients, PSA continued to fall up to 12 months after XRT and then stabilized at 21 months. Although PSA values fell dramatically after XRT, PSA was detectable in the serum of all patients. PSA values tended to transiently and mildly elevate during XRT. In a small proportion of patients, rising PSA values were observed after 6 months. The full significance of this requires further follow-up, of four such patients, one has relapsed. PSA is a more sensitive marker of prostatic radiation than prostatic acid phosphatase. 
Cystic hygroma: massive recurrence in adult life. Cystic hygroma is considered a disease of childhood. It may appear for the first time in adult life but recurrence by that stage is rare and may present difficulties in diagnosis due to previous treatment. The authors present a case where early pharmacological intervention may have prevented a potentially life threatening situation. The world literature is also reviewed. 
Histologic pattern analysis of basal cell carcinoma. Study of a series of 1039 consecutive neoplasms. This study attempts to define histologic patterns in 1039 consecutive cases of basal cell carcinoma and to correlate these patterns with adequacy of margins of surgical excision. Five major histologic patterns were identified: nodular, 218 cases (21%); superficial, 181 cases (17%); micronodular, 151 cases (15%); infiltrative, 77 cases (7%); and morpheic, 11 cases (1%). A mixed pattern (two or more major histologic patterns) was present in 401 cases (38.5%). Our study indicates that nodular and superficial basal cell carcinomas can be completely removed by simple surgical excision in a high percentage of cases (93.6% and 96.4%, respectively) whereas the micronodular, infiltrative, and morpheic basal cell carcinomas have a higher incidence of positive tumor margins (18.6%, 26.5%, and 33.3%, respectively) after excision. Mixed patterns that consisted of combinations of the nodular, micronodular, or infiltrative types exhibited a behavior similar to the pattern that resulted in a greater chance of incomplete surgical removal. 
Expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor gene in human colorectal tumor. Expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI) gene was examined by Northern blotting analyses in 31 human colorectal tumors that included two benign adenomas and 26 adenocarcinomas. Among the total of 28 cases which proved to be adequate for mRNA analyses, all but one showed the expression of PSTI at various levels. In contrast, PSTI expression was not detected in two malignant lymphomas of the rectum. The level of PSTI expression was not correlated with the patient's age, sex, tumor location or size, stage of differentiation, lymph node metastasis, or progression stage. Some colorectal adenocarcinomas were also shown to express genes that can hybridize with human trypsinogen cDNA probe. It looks as though in these tumors, a protease(s) and its inhibitor are produced simultaneously as part of a cellular self-defense mechanism. 
Imaging bone tumors in the 1990s. Progress in bone tumor management has occurred as a result of cooperation among surgeons, oncologists, pathologists, and radiologists. During the 1990s radiologists will contribute to care of patients with bone tumors in major ways. Tumor detection and preliminary diagnosis will be accomplished by radiography. Tumor local extent will be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to a lesser degree by computed tomography (CT). Distant spread of malignancy will be documented by radionuclide scintigraphy (skeleton) and by CT (lungs). The combined estimate of local extent and distant spread will assure adequate staging before definitive management decisions. Preoperative closed percutaneous biopsy for histologic diagnosis will be accomplished on an outpatient basis under fluoroscopic or CT guidance. Arteriography will be employed for delivery of local chemotherapy. Some combination of arteriography, MRI, and MR spectroscopy will be used to evaluate tumor response. After limb-salvage surgery, MRI will sequentially assess the tumor bed; bone scintigraphy and CT will detect skeletal and pulmonary metastases. The radiologist's role will undergo continuous redefinition. 
Paratesticular myxoma: an unusual benign intrascrotal neoplasm. We have presented a case of paratesticular myxoma and have described the clinical history, findings on light microscopy and immunohistochemistry, and possible pathogenesis. Although primary paratesticular myxoma is a rare lesion, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intrascrotal mesenchymal tumors. 
Lymphoma presenting as a popliteal mass in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. A patient with HLA-B27 and rheumatoid factor positive rheumatoid arthritis presented with a painless swelling in his popliteal fossa. Clinical features were atypical for a Baker's cyst, and subsequent investigation showed this lesion to be a primary malignant lymphoma. 
Watch and wait after careful surgical treatment and staging in well-differentiated early ovarian cancer. Patients with well-differentiated epithelial ovarian cancer Stages Ia, Ib, Ic, and IIa (FIGO 1976) were observed after surgical treatment without adjuvant therapy. Careful surgical staging was required, and the extent of the staging procedure was assessed in each individual patient. There were 107 patients entered in the study by nine Dutch oncology centers. Of these 107, 21 did not fulfill all of the inlet criteria of the study and were excluded. Central pathologic review was performed in the remaining 86 cases, revealing that there was borderline tumor in seven patients, moderately or poorly differentiated tumor in nine patients, and tumor of nonepithelial histologic cell type in one patient. In two cases, no material for histologic review was available. After exclusion of these 19 cases, 67 patients were further analyzed. None of these 67 patients was lost during the follow-up period that ranged from 19 to 99 months (mean, 50 months). Tumor recurrence was found in four patients after 11, 25, 34, and 34 months of follow-up, all of whom died shortly after diagnosis of the recurrence without satisfactory response to secondary treatment. For the patients who underwent the most extensive staging procedure, disease-free 5-year survival was 100%. For the patients who were inaccurately staged, disease-free 5-year survival was 88%. It was concluded that well-differentiated early stage (Ia-IIa) ovarian cancer carries an excellent prognosis after surgical treatment and complete surgical staging, with the possible exception of patients with Stage Ic disease with malignant peritoneal washings. Furthermore, it was considered that the application of more objective and consistent ways of assessing tumor grade should be encouraged. Surgical staging should be regarded as the golden standard in defining subsets of low-risk patients and should be included and clearly defined in future trials on early ovarian cancer. 
Massive metastasis from squamous carcinoma of the tonsil. Squamous carcinomas of the oro-pharynx are associated with a high incidence of distant metastases at post-mortem. A case of a massive distant metastasis from a squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil is presented. This occurred despite excellent local control. The pathology and the possible management implications are discussed. 
Total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction. The technique of total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction is described as a surgical option for the management of pelvic sarcoma in adults and for highly selected patients with other types of advanced pelvic malignancy. The surgical technique is presented in detail as performed in a 43-year-old man who presented with extensive primitive pelvic sarcoma. We believe that this approach may provide the benefits of an exenterative operation without the undesirable psychosocial sequelae of a permanent colostomy and external urinary diversion. 
Autopsy-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after M2 chemotherapy. Multiple myeloma was diagnosed in a 65-year-old woman in 1974 who thereafter received five-drug M2 chemotherapy. All protein abnormalities subsequently returned to normal and serial bone marrow studies documented complete bone marrow remission. Destructive bone lesions persisted radiographically, but did not progress. In 1987, a localized sigmoid adenocarcinoma was resected. In 1988, the patient presented with multiple brain metastases associated with a primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma that proved rapidly fatal. At autopsy, no evidence of multiple myeloma was found. This report describes the first tissue-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after diagnosis and initiation of M2 chemotherapy. The possible association of multiple myeloma with other malignancies is also discussed. 
Bilateral papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum of the parotid gland without accumulation of technetium 99m pertechnetate: report of a case and review of the literature. An unusual case of bilateral papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum of the parotid with multiple lesions showing no active uptake of 99mTc pertechnetate is presented. Similar cases showing no accumulation of radionuclide are reviewed. 
Compound blue nevus: a variant of blue nevus with an additional junctional dendritic component. A clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical study of six cases. We studied six cases of heavily pigmented melanocytic lesions with features of blue nevi within the dermis, but with an additional junctional dendritic component. This compound variant of blue nevus is an uncommon lesion that has not been previously identified as a distinct histologic entity. Immunoperoxidase staining for S100 protein and counterstaining with azure B distinguished the presence of melanocytes among numerous melanophages within the dermis. The compound variant of blue nevus can be distinguished histologically from combined blue nevus, pigmented spindle cell nevus, malignant melanoma, and melanosis due to a regressed malignant melanoma. The six lesions were from three men and three women whose ages ranged from 11 to 51 years (mean, 31 years). Three lesions were located on the trunk, two on the extremities, and one on the head. After a mean follow-up period of 47 months (range, 38 to 58 months), there was no evidence of recurrence. 
Expression of insulin-like growth factor II, alpha-fetoprotein and hepatitis B virus transcripts in human primary liver cancer. Insulin-like growth factor II is a fetal growth factor structurally and functionally related to insulin and insulin-like growth factor I. Its mRNA expression is developmentally regulated in human liver, the reexpression of insulin-like growth factor II fetal transcripts being often observed in primary liver cancer. Insulin-like growth factor II and alpha-fetoprotein mRNAs were studied in 16 human primary liver cancers, most of which were highly differentiated. Hepatitis B virus transcripts were also analyzed in the tumors from hepatitis B virus chronic carriers. alpha-Fetoprotein mRNA was detected in only four tumors and in one nontumorous cirrhotic tissue; all these samples also displayed insulin-like growth factor II fetal transcripts. Furthermore, fetal insulin-like growth factor II mRNAs were observed in five tumors and six nontumorous cirrhotic areas not expressing alpha-fetoprotein mRNA. The presence of hepatitis B virus RNA was only observed in tissues not expressing alpha-fetoprotein or fetal insulin-like growth factor II mRNA. In conclusion, fetal insulin-like growth factor II transcripts are more frequently observed than alpha-fetoprotein mRNA in highly differentiated liver cancers and in surrounding cirrhotic areas. The reexpression of fetal insulin-like growth factor II transcripts might then be a marker of early steps of liver cell transformation. 
Liposarcoma arising in the cheek: report of a case and review of the literature. The following points can be made about liposarcoma of the oral cavity: 1) it is rare and slow growing; 2) it is often mistaken for a benign lesion; 3) there is a direct correlation of microscopic appearance with biological behavior and prognosis; 4) treatment is primarily surgical, with radiation used for selected cases; and 5) the better-differentiated tumors seem to respond more favorably to radiation. 
Metastatic melanoma to the facial nerve. Isolated metastatic malignant melanoma to the facial nerve has never been reported. This presentation illustrates a primary melanoma of the helix of the ear that was treated by excisional biopsy and then wedge resection in 1983. The primary melanoma was Clark's level IV and 1.3 mm in thickness. In 1985, a facial paresis slowly developed. There was no gross evidence of recurrent melanoma in the ear or neck, but CT scan showed a mass in the region of the stylo mastoid foramen. A reoperation of the primary site revealed metastatic melanoma in the facial nerve, expanding it to approximately 10 times its normal size. A composite resection was done for the melanoma, and the paralyzed face was immediately rehabilitated by a masseter muscle transfer. The patient received 6000 rads to this area postoperatively and has remained free of disease to date, having returned to his profession as a dentist. A detailed study of all the specimens indicated that this represented a primary metastasis to the facial nerve. 
Using a state cancer registry to increase screening behaviors of sisters and daughters of breast cancer patients. The Pennsylvania Cancer Registry was used to contact breast cancer patients and, through them, their adult sisters and daughters. The sisters and daughters were counseled concerning their higher than average risks for breast cancer and their need for mammography and breast self-examination. Results showed a 9 percent increase in mammography and a 10 percent increase in breast self-examination rates for the counseled over control group. Costs were $49 per counseled sister or daughter indicating a need to increase cost effectiveness before implementation is practical. 
Complications associated with needle localization biopsy of the breast. A review of 144 consecutive needle localization biopsies of the breast (NLBB) was performed to assess complications associated with this procedure. Thirty-four complications occurred in 27 patients. There were 11 wound infections associated with NLBB. During this time period, there were 1,583 clean general surgical operations performed, other than biopsy of the breast, yielding an over-all wound infection rate of 1.2 per cent (p less than 0.001). A trend was noted, suggesting that use of drains may have contributed to wound infection versus no drainage (25 versus 5 per cent, respectively). Electrocautery burns requiring local wound care occurred during seven biopsies and four of these patients subsequently had a wound infection develop. Four lesions required more than one excision to remove the abnormal mammary tissue, and in four, there was a failure to remove the lesion at the first operation. Fifty-three localization procedures were performed using methylene blue. In this group, only one patient required more than one biopsy to remove the abnormal mammary tissue, and there were no failures with this technique. Also, a smaller mean volume of tissue was removed in this group versus the standard NLBB (30.2 +/- 3.0 versus 53.3 +/- 4.6 cubic millimeters, respectively) (p less than 0.01). Four cardiovascular complications occurred, requiring overnight admission. All of these patients were more than 65 years old and had the procedure performed while under general anesthesia. Patient age, type of anesthesia, resident versus attending surgeon and length of procedure had no independent effect on local complication rate. 
Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin for patients with high-risk superficial bladder cancer. Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) was employed in the treatment of 55 patients with aggressive superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (cTa, cT1, cTis). All of the patients had a previous history of recurrent superficial disease, and 41 (75%) were treatment failures following other intravesical therapy. Thirty-six (66%) patients responded to treatment, and 19 (34%) were treatment failures. Twenty-seven (66%) of 41 patients with cTa-cT1 tumors and 9 (64%) of 14 patients with cTis responded, with a mean follow-up period of 30.5 months. Disease progression was noted in 8 (15%) of the patients and muscle invasive disease in 6. Patients with a history of three or more previous events of tumor recurrence, positive urinary cytology, and multicentric disease, all fared worse than patients without these characteristics (p less than 0.05). BCG is an effective agent in controlling superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, even in a high-risk group of patients who failed previous intravesical therapy. BCG should be employed in this group of patients prior to radical surgery. 
Aggressive surgical intervention in N2 non-small cell cancer of the lung. An aggressive attitude toward surgical treatment was taken in patients with N2 non-small cell lung cancer in the past 10 years. Computed tomographic scanning was employed in the diagnosis of N2 disease, and had a true-positive rate of 57%. Among patients with N2 disease detected by computed tomographic scanning, surgical intervention was attempted except for those with unresectable disease. Of 190 patients with clinical N2 disease, 115 underwent surgical exploration: 9 patients had only an exploratory thoracotomy, 53 patients underwent a curative operation, and 53 had a noncurative operation. The overall 5-year survival rate of these patients was 16% and that of curatively resected patients was 20%. There were 47 patients whose N2 disease was not recognized before operation. The 5-year survival rate of this group was 20% overall and 33% in curatively resected cases. The overall 5-year survival rate of patients with N2 disease who underwent resection (106 with clinical N2 disease and 47 with clinically unrecognized N2 disease) was 17%, and that of the 84 patients undergoing curative operations was 24%. An aggressive attitude toward surgical intervention can be advocated for patients with N2 disease on the basis of our present results. 
Local recurrence following abdominoperineal excision and anterior resection for rectal carcinoma. The aim of this retrospective study is to compare the outcome of abdominoperineal excision (APE) and anterior resection (AR) for rectal cancer in terms of local tumor recurrence. A further comparison has been carried out between hand-sewn and stapled anastomosis; 147 patients have been followed for at least 2 years: 69 after APE and 78 after AR, 40 being stapled. The following variables potentially related to the risk of recurrence were evaluated: age, grading, staging, and site of the tumor. An overall 2-year local recurrence rate of 11 percent after APE and 12 percent after AR was observed, whereas it was 13 and 11 percent following stapled and hand-sewn sutures, respectively. Both differences were not statistically significant. A similar local recurrence rate was noted after APE and AR when the patients were matched for Dukes' stage and grading of the lesion. A trend toward an increased risk of recurrence following AR (P = 0.07) was shown when comparing the two procedures if mid and upper rectal cancers were grouped together. In the patients with anastomotic leaks after AR, no increase of local recurrence was observed. In conclusion, AR is unlikely to be followed by an increased risk of local recurrence and, therefore, when oncologically indicated, may be considered the operation of choice in the treatment of rectal cancer, although the possible risk of its overuse should be taken into account. 
Local recurrence after curative resection of colorectal adenocarcinoma. A total of 853 patients with 861 colorectal adenocarcinomas were operated on at our institution between 1965 and 1981. Complete follow-up information was obtained in all but six patients (99.4%), and all available histologic slides were reviewed to determine pathologic stage and characteristics. Six hundred fifty-one patients (76.3%) underwent a potentially curative procedure, and their operative mortality rate was 2.8%. Of the 627 patients available for analysis, 50 (8%) had a local recurrence. The median time to local recurrence was 18 months, and only 16% of local recurrences were diagnosed 5 years after the original resection. Median survival of patients with a local recurrence was 3 1/2 years from the original resection, and 16 patients (32%) survived 5 years or longer. A multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the influence of several clinical and pathologic characteristics on local recurrence among Dukes' stages B and C adenocarcinomas (n = 539) after exclusion of patients with synchronous tumors (n = 8), postoperative deaths (n = 18), loss to follow-up (n = 6), or incomplete data (n = 11). This analysis revealed that the local recurrence rate was significantly related to depth of invasion (B1 + C1 = 0%; B2 + C1 = 10%; p less than 0.01), site of origin (right plus transverse colon = 6%; left plus rectosigmoid colon = 10%; rectum = 12%; p less than 0.05), and lymphatic or capillary microinvasion (absent, 6%; present, 14%; p less than 0.05). This analysis attempts to identify patients at high risk for development of local recurrent disease to select candidates for postoperative adjuvant therapy. 
Induction of different morphologic features of malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions after transformation of murine melanocytes with bFGF-cDNA and H-ras, myc, neu, and E1a oncogenes. Malignant melanomas show a remarkable degree of heterogeneity because of different morphologic features, biologic behavior, and prognosis. In this communication, the authors attempted to correlate morphologic heterogeneity of melanomas with transformation by different activated oncogenes; they studied the histologic features of melanocytic lesions induced by murine melanocytes transformed by basic fibroblast growth factor (b-FGF-cDNA) or H-ras, neu, myc, and E1a oncogenes, and the lesions were compared with those observed in human pathology. Tumors formed after grafting onto syngenic mice or subcutaneous injections in nude mice were studied. In syngenic mice, benign melanocytic lesions reminiscent of intradermal nevus were observed with melanocytes transformed with b-FGF-cDNA, and myc and E1a oncogenes. Benign lesions were also formed by neu-transformed melanocytes when they were grafted concomitantly with keratinocytes, whereas malignant tumors were formed by the same cells when grafted alone or together with fibroblasts. In contrast, H-ras melanocytes always formed malignant tumors. In nude mice, b-FGF-transformed melanocytes induced benign lesions, whereas transformed melanocytes by the other oncogenes formed malignant tumors with distinctive and homogeneous morphologic features that depended on the transforming oncogene. Melanomas with either epithelioid cell, spindle cell, small round cell, and anaplastic cell growth patterns could be distinguished after transformation with H-ras, neu, E1a, and myc oncogenes, respectively. These various histologic types are analogous to those that may be observed in human melanomas, even within the same tumor. These studies suggest a possible molecular mechanism for tumor heterogeneity in which distinct oncogenes or oncogenelike activities can be activated in different tumors or discrete parts of the same tumor. 
An adult with common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (C-ALL) presenting with skin infiltration. A 22-year-old man presented with multiple raised erythematous skin lesions, pyrexia and epistaxis. A diagnosis of common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (C-ALL) was made by morphological, cytochemical, immunological and cytogenetic examination of peripheral blood and bone marrow. Biopsy of the skin revealed leukaemic infiltration by similar cells. 
Usefulness of pulsed Doppler ultrasound in detection of angiographically evident recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma after arterial embolization treatment. Because hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization often regains its size, routine follow-up is necessary. The usefulness of pulsed Doppler ultrasound for detection of this type of recurrence was compared with ultrasonography and computed tomography in 21 such hepatocellular carcinomas. Of 15 hepatocellular carcinomas diagnosed by angiography as showing recurrence, four were detected with ultrasonography and five were detected with computed tomography. Doppler signals were obtained in the peripheral portions corresponding to tumor vessels or stains on angiograms in 14 of these 15 hepatocellular carcinomas, but they were undetectable in six hepatocellular carcinomas with no recurrence. All signals disappeared after transcatheter arterial embolization. One false-negative hepatocellular carcinoma with pulsed Doppler ultrasound showed faint tumor stains on angiograms; these were also negative on ultrasonography and computed tomography. Pulsed Doppler ultrasound may be superior to ultrasonography and computed tomography as a routine procedure to detect the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization. 
Successful Fontan-type operation for a nonresectable right ventricular tumor. A large intracavitary right ventricular tumor in a 24-year-old patient was considered nonresectable because it involved the interventricular septum, the free ventricular walls, and the tricuspid valve. Surgical palliation consisted of closure of the tricuspid and pulmonary valves, and the right atrium was anastomosed to the pulmonary artery bifurcation. The patient is asymptomatic 7 years after operation, and the neoplasm (a rhabdomyoma) has not increased in size. 
Human papillomaviruses: pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens As summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions, ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas. They have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture. Fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of HPV genomes and identification of some HPV gene functions. In addition to their clinical importance HPVs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions, gene expression, cellular differentiation and cancer. HPV infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent. Depending on the HPV type and location, the modes of HPV transmission may involve casual physical contact, sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission. HPV DNA genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and, as most clinicians know, are difficult to eradicate. There is often a long latent period and subclinical infections, and HPV DNA can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions. HPVs can cause widely disseminated lesions, especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis. Aside from the rare carcinomas, the most serious life-threatening HPV-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. Somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions HPV DNA is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome. Unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle, HPV integration is a terminal event for viral replication. Such integration may be critical, however, for viral-induced abnormal cell growth. Perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable. The data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to HPV via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer. A more realistic goal, however is prevention of HPV transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives, which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma. The America Association of Pediatrics Committee on Adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases. Certainly a fundamental knowledge of HPV epidemiology, the risks of HPV-related sequelae and prevention of HPV infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality. Although helpful, such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors. A significant reduction in HPV infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues. 
Immunohistochemical study of erythropoietin in cerebellar hemangioblastomas associated with secondary polycythemia. Although cerebellar hemangioblastomas are known to be associated with secondary polycythemia, the cellular derivation of erythropoietin (EPO) in hemangioblastomas still remains obscure. Specimens from 18 patients with cerebellar hemangioblastomas were immunohistochemically studied using anti-EPO monoclonal antibody. Eight cases of brain tumors, including 2 meningiomas, 2 medulloblastomas, 2 glioblastomas, and 2 metastatic brain tumors were studied as controls. In 9 of 18 cases, EPO-positive cells were scattered around the capillaries and were ultrastructurally shown to be mast cells. These cases were not, however, associated with secondary polycythemia. In contrast, the stromal cells were positive for EPO in 3 cases. Among them, one was associated with secondary polycythemia. Furthermore, one-half of the control cases of brain tumor contained EPO-positive mast cells. Accordingly, it was suggested that mast cells (or small granulocytes) have little relationship to the release of EPO; however, some stromal cells might release EPO with a resultant polycythemia. 
Stage IV neuroblastoma in infants. Long-term survival. Before the advent of multiagent chemotherapy, the prognosis for patients with Stage IV neuroblastoma of all ages was dismal. More recently, marked improvement in infants with Stage IV neuroblastoma has been reported. Twenty-four infants with Stage IV neuroblastoma have been treated at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/The Children's Hospital, and the Joint Center For Radiation Therapy, Boston, Massachusetts, between 1970 and 1988. Twenty-three of these patients were treated with multiagent chemotherapy and one with a single drug. In the initial report, ten of 11 patients were alive without evidence of disease after intensive therapy. In this report the authors update their initial series of patients and include 13 additional patients who subsequently presented to our institutions with Stage IV neuroblastoma younger than 1 year of age. The 5-year actuarial event-free survival for the 24 patients is 75%. No patient without bone metastases died from neuroblastoma, and 12 of 16 patients with bone metastases remained disease free. These results confirm that infants with Stage IV neuroblastoma have a very good prognosis when treated with intensive multiagent chemotherapy. 
Abnormal processing of pro-IGF-II in patients with hepatoma and in some hepatitis B virus antibody-positive asymptomatic individuals. Hepatomas are a common malignancy in countries with a high prevalence of hepatitis B virus infections. These tumors may present with severe persistent hypoglycemia. We have studied the possible relationship of production of insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) by these tumors and the development of hypoglycemia. Mean IGF-II concentration was not significantly higher in 23 patients with hypoglycemia than in nine patients with euglycemia (542 +/- 61 [SE] micrograms/L vs 382 +/- 52 micrograms/L). Serum IGF-I was more suppressed in patients with hypoglycemia (16 +/- 3 micrograms/L) than in patients with euglycemia (57 +/- 18 micrograms/L). Because an increased percentage of IGF-II in serum of patients with hypoglycemia who have other tumors is present as partially processed pro-IGF-II ("big" IGF-II), we passed sera of patients with hypoglycemia and patients with euglycemia with hepatomas through acidic Bio-Gel P-60 columns. We found that 57% +/- 4.6% of the IGF-II in sera from patients with hypoglycemia was present as big IGF-II compared with 22% +/- 3% in patients with euglycemia with hepatomas (not significantly different from that in normal controls). Four of 11 apparently healthy control subjects who were hepatitis B virus positive also had increased percentages of big IGF-II, suggesting that abnormal processing of pro-IGF-II may result from subtle changes in liver function with this infection. It remains to be determined whether these subjects with increased big IGF-II are at increased risk for the development of hepatomas. In conclusion, we have confirmed marked suppression of IGF-I in the sera of patients with hepatoma and hypoglycemia. 
Nucleolar organizer regions in precancerous and cancerous lesions of the bronchus. Using a silver staining technique, nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins (Ag-NOR) were studied in paraffin sections of five specimens of normal bronchial epithelium, eight of atypical squamous metaplasia, five of carcinoma in situ, and seven of microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma. The mean number of Ag-NOR in the nucleus were normal epithelium 1.2 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- SD), atypical squamous metaplasia (borderline lesion) 2.2 +/- 0.5, carcinoma in situ 3.8 +/- 0.6, and microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma 4.8 +/- 1.1. There was a highly significant difference between the Ag-NOR numbers in the atypical squamous metaplasia and those in the carcinoma in situ (P less than 0.01). The Ag-NOR staining is a useful technique for the differential diagnosis of difficult borderline lesions in the bronchial epithelium. 
Adenovirus 12S E1A gene represses differentiation of F9 teratocarcinoma cells. The F9 teratocarcinoma cell line differentiates in vitro after treatment with retinoic acid and cAMP and has been a widely used model system for the study of the molecular events that are responsible for cellular commitment and differentiation during early development. Previous experiments have suggested intriguing parallels between the control of gene expression during F9 cell differentiation and the regulation of gene expression by adenovirus E1A. Transfection of a 12S E1A-expressing plasmid into terminally differentiated, nonproliferating F9 cells generates, at high frequency, colonies of dividing cells, each of which expresses E1A. Cell lines established from these colonies proliferate in the presence of retinoic acid and have lost the fully differentiated phenotype as characterized by the absence of expression of a series of differentiation-specific genes. We conclude that expression of the viral 12S E1A gene product interferes with retinoic acid-induced F9 cell differentiation. Moreover, the results suggest that the differentiation process, as defined by markers of terminal differentiation, may not be a permanent event but can be reversed by E1A expression. 
Recombinant IFN-alpha in lymphomas. The effectiveness of interferon (IFN) therapy in malignant lymphoma is analyzed in this review. Although various treatment regimens including IFN at various dose levels have so far not proved to have curative potential, a substantial palliative effect has been noted in hairy-cell leukemia and in some non-Hodgkin lymphomas of low-grade malignancy. Early stages of lymphoma disease are more responsive to IFN therapy, and this holds true also for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, in which IFN treatment is usually not effective in progressed disease after chemotherapy. Concepts of early-phase treatment and of remission maintenance by using IFN therapy are discussed on the basis of the data from several studies. 
Endoscopic management of early supraglottic cancer. An initial endoscopic surgical approach to early supraglottic cancer provides the surgeon with the ability to accurately stage these lesions, avoiding possible undertreatment while allowing for a valuable treatment option for those supraglottic cancers with histologically incontrovertibly superficial disease. Early invasion of the preepiglottic and paraglottic spaces can be determined accurately without altering or delaying any treatment option (open surgical excision, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy). The tendency of supraglottic cancers to transgress the natural foramina of the epiglottis is well established, and the concern about this depth of invasion is reflected by the 1977 revised staging criteria, which required assessment of the preepiglottic space (PES). Along with the microscope and the carbon dioxide laser, the adjustable supraglottiscope facilitates the determination of PES invasion and facilitates en bloc excision of superficial supraglottic cancers. The resulting morbidity typically is no different from that with routine direct endoscopy and biopsy. 
Loss of expression of blood group antigen H is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas. Membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells. Forty-two squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody (BE2) that reacts with blood group H (type 2 chain) structure and an immunoperoxidase (avidin-biotin peroxidase complex) staining technique. H-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor, i.e., tumor spread. However, loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy. These findings support the view that features regarding the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors and that loss of H-antigen expression is related to the stage of the tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells. 
Pulmonary metastases from ameloblastoma of the mandible treated with cisplatin, adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide. A case of delayed pulmonary metastases from an ameloblastoma of the mandible, which occurred 20 years after surgical resection of the primary tumor but with no recurrence at the primary site, is reported. Combination chemotherapy using cisplatin, adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide has produced a very good clinical and radiologically documented response in this case. 
Outpatient flexible cystoscopy and fulguration of recurrent superficial bladder tumors. Flexible cystoendoscopy and fulguration were used in the outpatient management of 185 patients with superficial bladder tumors followed for 24 months. This method provided optimal surveillance for recurrence and successful tumor control in selected cases. 
Histopathologic spectrum of clinically atypical melanocytic nevi. II. Studies of nonfamilial melanoma [published erratum appears in Arch Dermatol 1990 Dec;126(12):1616] We studied the clinically most atypical pigmented lesion removed from each of 142 patients with newly diagnosed sporadic melanoma. The specimens were categorized as to the type of nevus, ie, junctional or compound, presence of congenital features, and degree of nuclear atypicality--presence of nuclear enlargement, nuclear pleomorphism, hyperchromatism, and prominent nucleoli--of intraepidermal nevomelanocytes. The frequency of nuclear abnormality was graded as 1 (rare cells), 2 (10% to 50% of cells), or 3 (greater than 50% of cells) for each nuclear parameter. Among all lesions, 42 (29.6%) were junctional nevi, 74 (52.1%) were compound nevi, and 14 (9.9%) were dermal nevi. Eighteen percent of the total were either dysplastic nevi (23 cases) or malignant melanoma in situ (three cases). Fourteen nevi (9.9%) had congenital features. There were 12 junctional and 39 compound nevi and one dermal nevus that exhibited nuclear abnormality, but only four junctional nevi compared with 19 compound nevi had sufficient atypia for a designation of dysplastic nevus. Only two nevi with congenital features demonstrated any nuclear abnormality, and these were clearly nondysplastic. Thus, among nevi surgically removed as the clinically most atypical lesion in this study, compound nevi were much more likely to demonstrate nuclear atypia (and dysplasia) than were other nevi, ie, junctional or dermal nevi, or nevi with congenital features. 
Correlation of free phenytoin to serum albumin in cancer patients. The objectives of this study were to compare the total and free phenytoin serum concentrations of cancer patients with hypoalbuminemia with those of cancer patients with normal serum albumin and to correlate the percentage of free phenytoin with the albumin concentration. A total of 22 patients were studied, 13 with normal albumin concentration and 9 with low albumin. The mean free phenytoin in the normal albumin group was 9.9 (+/- 1.3) percent and 17.6 (+/- 4.6) percent in the low albumin group. With the groups combined, the mean free phenytoin was 13.1 percent (range 8.3-22.2) with the albumin range of 20-45 g/L. There was a significant negative correlation (r = -0.9, p less than 0.001) between the percentage of free phenytoin and the measured serum albumin. In cancer patients, the serum albumin concentration appears to be the key factor that determines the percentage of free phenytoin. In cancer patients with low serum albumin concentration, the total and free phenytoin concentration should be measured for adequate assessment of phenytoin therapy. 
Endorectal ultrasonographic staging of rectal carcinoma. Endorectal ultrasonography is a valuable imaging method for examination of the rectum and perirectal tissues. We assessed 50 patients with known rectal carcinoma prospectively by using a 7.0-MHz endorectal transducer to determine the depth of invasion of the rectal wall by tumor and the presence of lymphadenopathy. Tumors were staged by using the Astler-Coller modification of the Dukes staging system, and the results were compared with histologic staging of the surgical specimen. Ultrasonography had an accuracy of 80%, a sensitivity of 92%, and a specificity of 76% for detection of invasion of the perirectal fat. Ultrasonography was sensitive in the detection of perirectal lymphadenopathy but was not specific in distinguishing benign from malignant nodes. 
Significance of surgical adjuvant chemotherapy for gastric cancer. One hundred and twenty-four specimens (72 primaries and 52 metastases) in 107 patients with gastric cancer were tested using the human tumor clonogenic assay (HTCA). Assays for 64 specimens (52%, 33 primaries and 31 metastases) were considered evaluable. The clonogenicity of the primaries was less than that of the metastases (P less than 0.01). In the primary specimens, well-differentiated tumors were more highly clonogenic than poorly differentiated or signet ring cell tumors (P less than 0.05). Viable malignant cells and clonogenic cells were abundant in the primary tumors with mucosal (m) and submucosal (sm) invasion, i.e., in early gastric cancers by Japanese criteria, and were reduced in numbers as the primary tumors advanced (P less than 0.05). In vitro chemosensitivity corresponded well to the clonogenicity of the primary tumors stratified by the degree of tumor invasion. At the early phase of primary tumor progression and metastasis, clonogenicity and chemosensitivity were high. Aggressive chemotherapy with sensitive drugs after surgery may improve the clinical results for the gastric cancer patients with early phase of metastases. 
Ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region. This report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue. A growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised, and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter. Because this entity cannot be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor, ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area. 
Epidermodysplasia verruciformis-associated papillomavirus infection complicating human immunodeficiency virus disease. Three males infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were noted to have extensive flat warts of the face and/or body. In two there were also pityriasis versicolor-like lesions. Biopsies showed foamy, basophilic, distended cytoplasm in granular layer keratinocytes, characteristic of the human papillomavirus types seen in epidermodysplasia verruciformis. DNA hybridization techniques demonstrated the presence of HPV-type 8 in one patient and HPV 5 and 8 in another. Patients with immune suppression due to HIV infection may demonstrate the clinical features of epidermodysplasia verruciformis with the same potentially oncogenic HPV types. 
Evaluation of the fine needle aspiration biopsy in the preoperative selection of cold thyroid nodules. From 1980 to 1988 the authors examined by fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) 4609 patients with solitary thyroid nodules or multinodular goiters. A total of 5605 "cold" thyroid nodules were evaluated and classified, on the basis of the cytologic findings, as malignant, follicular lesions (probably malignant and probably benign) and benign. Then the authors compared the preoperative cytologic findings with the postoperative histologic results in 827 nodules from patients who underwent surgery. In the 805 thyroid nodules in which an adequate cytologic specimen was obtained, false-negative results were 2.3% and false-positive findings were 1.1% By comparing cytologic and histologic diagnoses, preoperative FNAB resulted in the ability to accurately assess the risk of cancer in a thyroid nodule; since 250 nodules were identified as malignant, the risk of a "cold" thyroid nodule being cancer was 4.46% in this series. 
Buschke-Loewenstein tumor: verrucous carcinoma of the penis. The Buschke-Loewenstein tumor is an anogenital tumor of characteristic clinical and histologic pattern best considered as a low-grade, well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. This remarkable neoplasm and its features are reviewed in detail, stressing salient advances in our understanding of it. 
Down's syndrome and acute leukemia in children: an analysis of phenotype by use of monoclonal antibodies and electron microscopic platelet peroxidase reaction The clinical, hematologic, and immunophenotypic features in 20 patients with Down's syndrome (DS) and acute leukemia were analyzed. Of the 20 patients, all 14 patients who were 3 years old and less were diagnosed as having acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) by use of platelet-specific monoclonal antibodies and platelet peroxidase (PPO) reaction in electron microscopy. They were characterized by the presence of bone marrow fibrosis, having a history of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and a poor response to chemotherapy. Only one patient has remained in continuous complete remission for more than 1 year. Acute leukemia in six patients who were older than 4 years was classified as common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (CALLA)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In one of six patients classified as ALL, the leukemic blasts simultaneously expressed myeloid-associated surface antigens. All six patients achieved a complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission from 10 to 52 months from the initial diagnosis. Although it has been suggested that the distribution of types of acute leukemia in patients with DS is similar to that in normal children, the present study shows that the distribution of acute leukemia types is quite different from that in patients without Down's syndrome. 
Use of gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the paranasal sinuses. The purpose of this study was to determine whether additional clinically useful information could be obtained from gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging compared with the information obtained from nonenhanced MR imaging and computed tomography (CT). Therefore, the authors selected 41 patients, whose results at CT examinations demonstrated a variety of pathologic conditions of the paranasal sinuses, to undergo MR imaging both with and without the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement. In 22 of 35 cases of neoplasms and mucoceles occurring separately, the lesions were correctly differentiated by established MR signal criteria alone. However, 32 of these 35 cases were accurately differentiated when gadolinium-enhanced MR images were obtained. Six cases demonstrated co-existing neoplasm and mucocele: Gadolinium-enhanced MR enabled correct differentiation of five of these lesions, while unenhanced MR enabled correct differentiation of three. On the basis of these results, the authors conclude that the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement at MR imaging is useful for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the sinonasal tract. 
Multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions: an unusual association. Many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association--with multiple myeloma. This case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis. 
Unresectable calcified bladder tumor: hemiacidrin irrigation as an adjunct to resection. Radiographic calcification of urothelial malignancies is an uncommon finding. To our knowledge, calcification of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder preventing transurethral resection has not been reported previously. We report a case of an initially unresectable radiopaque bladder tumor and discuss the successful, conservative management with continuous bladder irrigation with hemiacidrin followed by complete transurethral resection. 
Forty years of neuroglycopenia: neuropsychiatry for the internist. The case of a 65-year-old patient with an insulin-secreting pancreatic tumour and a 40-year history of neuropsychiatric disease is reported. The physiopathology and clinical features of acute, subacute, and chronic neuroglycopenia in patients with endogenous insulin hypersecretion are discussed. 
Intrahepatic lymphatics opacified during hepatic arteriography in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma. Extrahepatic lymph node metastases are not uncommon in advanced cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This is the account of a HCC case in which intrahepatic lymphatics running toward the hepatic hilus were clearly opacified during hepatic arteriography. The patient was treated by hepatic artery embolization followed by selective embolization of the portal branches, but lymph node metastases at the hepatic hilus were later found during follow-up. The clinical course of this case suggests that the communication between the tumor and the lymphatics was responsible for the lymph node metastasis. 
Epstein-Barr virus small nuclear RNAs are not expressed in permissively infected cells in AIDS-associated leukoplakia. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA structure and gene expression were analyzed in tissue specimens from oral hairy leukoplakia (HLP), a mucocutaneous lesion that develops in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The structure of the terminal restriction enzyme fragments of EBV revealed that HLP is a permissive infection without a predominant, detectable population of EBV episomal DNA. In RNA preparations from this uniquely permissive infection, EBV replicative mRNAs could be identified by Northern analysis; however, the virally encoded small nuclear RNAs, the EBERs, were not detected in most HLP RNA preparations. In situ hybridization detected EBER expression in very rare cells. These data indicate that unlike other viral small nuclear RNAs, the EBERs are not expressed during viral replication and must participate in the complex maintenance of latent EBV infection. 
Insulin-like growth factor II-mediated proliferation of human neuroblastoma. Neuroblastoma is an embryonal tumor that typically arises in cells of the developing adrenal medulla. IGF-II mRNA is expressed at high levels in the adrenal cortex before birth but it is not detectable until after birth in the adrenal medulla. Neuroblastoma cell lines corresponding to early adrenal medullary precursors did not express IGF-II, although all three cell lines we tested were growth stimulated by IGF-II. Cell lines corresponding to more mature adrenal medullary cells expressed IGF-II, and one, SK-N-AS, grows by an IGF-II autocrine mechanism (J. Clin. Invest. 84:829-839) El-Badry, Romanus, Helman, Cooper, Rechler, and Israel. 1989. An examination of human neuroblastoma tumor tissues for IGF-II gene expression using in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that IGF-II is expressed by tumor cells in only 5 of 21 neuroblastomas, but is detectable in cells of nonmalignant tissues including adrenal cortical cells, stromal fibroblasts, and eosinophils in all 21 tumors. These findings indicate that IGF-II may function as an autocrine growth factor for some neuroblastomas and as a paracrine growth factor for others. They suggest that the growth regulatory pathways utilized by neuroblastoma mimic those used in the precursor cell type from which individual tumors arise. 
Transrectal ultrasonography of rectal carcinoma. Preoperative transrectal ultrasonographic staging of 38 patients with known adenocarcinoma of the rectum was performed. Six of these patients had preoperative radiation therapy. Of the 32 without radiation therapy, transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS) correctly staged disease limited to the rectum in 90% (18 of 20) and transmural extension in 50% (6 of 12), for a sensitivity for evaluating transmural extension of 50%, specificity of 90%, positive predictive value of 75%, and a negative predictive value of 25%. Nineteen patients had positive nodes. The sensitivity and specificity of detecting nodal metastases by TRUS were 63% and 85%. The positive and negative predictive values were 86% and 61%, respectively. TRUS was slightly superior to digital rectal examination in staging patients because of its superior ability to detect adenopathy. Adjacent organ involvement was correctly evaluated in five of six patients; peritumoral fibrosis was misinterpreted as tumor extension into uterus and ovary in one woman. Tumor shrinkage in all patients undergoing radiation therapy was identified, but fibrosis and edema made staging by TRUS unreliable in those patients. 
The importance of prognostic factors in the individual treatment of patients with disseminated germ cell tumours. Following chemotherapy for disseminated testicular cancer, 55 patients underwent surgery because of residual tumour. The histological findings were viable tumour in 12 patients, mature teratoma in 12 and fibrosis and/or necrosis in 31. Retroperitoneal abdominal masses were evaluated radiographically before and after chemotherapy. The reduction in size of these masses after chemotherapy appeared to have prognostic significance. A decrease of more than 70% was always associated with fibrosis. A residual mass over 50 mm indicated viable tumour or mature teratoma. Seminoma or embryonal carcinoma was more likely to result in fibrosis/necrosis in the resected tissue. Both the Indiana and the EORTC classification models can be used for prognosis. Radiographic measurements before and after chemotherapy are of considerable prognostic significance. These objective indicators help in planning treatment and so diminish the side effects of therapy and maintain or even increase the high cure rate in disseminated testicular cancer. 
Expression of Ki-1 antigen (CD30) in mesenchymal tumors. Expression of CD30(Ki-1) antigen has long been considered to be restricted to activated lymphocytes and related tumors. However, expression of this antigen has also been detected in embryonal carcinomas, in nonembryonal carcinomas, in malignant melanomas, and even in some myeloid cell lines and macrophages at late stages of differentiation. In this study, using monoclonal antibody Ki-1, expression of CD30 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in frozen sections of 28 benign and 63 malignant mesenchymal tumors. The authors found CD30 expressed in two of four leiomyomas, seven of 11 leiomysarcomas, one of six rhabdomyosarcomas, two of two aggressive fibromatoses, one of three fibrosarcomas, two of four synovial sarcomas, one giant cell tumors of tendon sheaths, all five malignant fibrous histiocytomas, all three osteosarcomas, one of three Ewing's sarcomas, in a tumor cell subpopulation of two of ten malignant schwannomas, and in the Schwann cell compartment of one of two ganglioneuromas tested. Furthermore, CD30 was consistently expressed in the myoepithelial compartment of 13 fibroadenomas. However, all five lipomas, all seven liposarcomas, all three neuroblastomas, both ganglioneuroblastomas, both chondrosarcomas, and tumors of disputed origin tested were consistently CD30 negative. These findings indicate that, outside the lymphatic system, CD30 antigen is not restricted to epithelial neoplasms but may also be present in tumors of mesenchymal origin. The authors conclude that CD30 antigen, although having limited utility in the differential diagnosis of tumors of questionable histogenesis, may eventually define relevant subgroups within the main tumor categories. 
Why patients delay seeking care for cancer symptoms. What you can do about it. Patient delay in seeking care for cancer symptoms is common and well documented by research studies. Fear and denial, lack of information about cancer, and financial considerations all contribute to this delay. Patient education may be an important factor in decreasing the length of delay and thereby improving treatment outcome. By making good use of opportunities for patient education, primary care physicians may positively influence the prognosis of several types of cancer, particularly breast cancer and malignant melanoma of the skin. 
Immunocytochemical profile of benign and carcinomatous effusions. A practical approach to difficult diagnosis. One of the great challenges in the cytodiagnosis of effusions is the distinction between reactive mesothelium/histiocytes and cancer cells. This is notably true in patients having undergone radiation and/or chemotherapy. To establish whether monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) could be used as reliable diagnostic adjuvants, the authors retrospectively and blindly studied 60 cases diagnosed by standard cytologic criteria (malignant, benign, and equivocal), with a panel of seven readily available MoAbs (cytokeratins, vimentin, EMA, B72.3, alpha-CEA, HMFG-2, and Leu-M1) and the lectin Ulex europaeus I. All 18 (100%) malignant cases showed reactivity with EMA and HMFG, whereas 17 (95%) and 11 (61%) reacted with B72.3 and alpha-CEA, respectively. Combinations of (1) EMA + B72.3, (2) EMA + alpha-CEA, and (3) EMA + alpha-CEA + B72.3 displayed positivity in 17 (95%), 11 (61%), and 10 (56%) malignant cases, respectively. Of the 18 benign cases, 7 reacted with HMFG and 2 each with EMA and B72.3. Only one case (5.5%) reacted with both EMA and B72.3. Based on these results, the 24 equivocal cases were regrouped into 14 malignant and 10 benign cases. Follow-up effusions obtained within the ensuing three months in all these patients allowed the authors to unequivocally confirm the diagnosis in all but five. The combination of EMA and B72.3 MoAbs detected malignant cells in 95% of the cases, with a 3.5% incidence of false positive cases in this study. A panel of EMA, B72.3, and alpha-CEA MoAbs should prove the most useful and simple approach to the correct diagnosis in most questionable effusions. Some of the potential pitfalls are discussed. 
Polycystic ovary syndrome. Polycystic ovary syndrome is a disorder of unknown cause characterized by anovulation, hyperandrogenism, and gonadotropin secretory abnormalities producing oligo-ovulation or anovulation. Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are important features of this syndrome. Because other causes of androgen excess may produce similar clinical and biochemical findings, PCO remains a diagnosis of exclusion. Treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms of hyperandrogenemia in order to stimulate ovulation, correcting obesity, and inducing regular menses to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. 
Adjuvant therapy for node-negative breast cancer. The use of prognostic factors in selecting patients. Patients with invasive breast cancer and pathologically negative lymph nodes (NO) have a favorable 10-year survival rate, particularly with small (less than 1 cm) primary tumors. Overall, however, 20% to 35% will experience recurrence with local therapy only. Adjuvant chemotherapy or tamoxifen have prolonged disease-free survival (DFS), but not overall survival (OS). Unanswered questions of optimal end point (DFS or OS) and the risk of treating many to benefit few have prompted clinicians to use prognostic indicators to facilitate treatment recommendations. Currently, the most readily available and accurate information comes from TNM staging, pathologic features, and hormone receptors. Ploidy, S-phase fraction, HER-2-neu amplification or over-expression, and cathepsin-D may be useful prognostic indices. Until a more precise system of weighing several prognostic variables is developed, the decision to recommend adjuvant systemic therapy in this generally good prognosis group will have to be thoughtfully considered by patient and physician. Whenever possible, patients should be encouraged to enter clinical trials. 
Oral magnetic particles in MR imaging of the abdomen and pelvis. Two phase 2 clinical trials of an oral superparamagnetic contrast agent for enhancement on magnetic resonance images of the intestine were performed. In trial 1, 31 male patients with cancer of the testis underwent follow-up examinations of the abdomen at 0.5 and 1.5 T after oral administration of magnetic particles. In trial 2, 31 female patients with pelvic and lower abdominal disease were examined at 1.5 T after administration of the contrast material. The patients each ingested 800 mL of contrast material over approximately 2 hours. Concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5 g/L did not induce blurring or metallic artifacts. Distribution was homogeneous through the gastrointestinal tract. In all patients, a loss of signal intensity was observed on proton density-, T1-, and T2-weighted images. The diagnostic information from postcontrast images in trial 2 was greater in 16 patients (52%). Contrast enhancement was independent of field strength; no major side effects were observed. Artifacts from moving bowels were less troublesome, and delineation of intraabdominal and pelvic organs was better with the use of oral magnetic particles. 
Systemic mast cell disease associated with primary mediastinal germ cell tumor. The first known case of systemic mast cell disease associated with a germ cell tumor is reported. Six months after the complete remission of a primary mediastinal germ cell tumor treated by chemotherapy and resection, a young man had a series of episodes of hypotension and syncope and, a few months later, a gastric hemorrhage and coagulation disorder. The diagnosis of systemic mast cell disease was made in view of bone marrow and liver biopsies. A transient circulating heparin-like anticoagulant was noted. The occurrence in a short period of these two unusual conditions, given previous knowledge of hematologic disorders associated with germ cell tumors, suggests that the present association is not a coincidence. Systemic mast cell disease should be considered among the hematologic disorders associated with a germ cell tumor. 
Surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine. Despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers, severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma. We combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection. This report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma. Each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites. Nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone. There were no significant differences in maximum, minimum, or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not. However careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria. Study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated. In addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients. There were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements. Although the study is not a prospective randomized trial, a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone. The combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control, less blood loss, and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade. 
Inflammatory pseudosarcoma (pseudotumor) of the bladder. Inflammatory pseudosarcoma of the bladder is a rare benign entity that cannot be differentiated from malignant tumor at radiologic examination alone. Only pathologic examination can enable a definitive diagnosis. The authors report two cases of these benign tumors in patients with no history of bladder disease or trauma; the tumors were large, demonstrated invasion into local tissues, and recurred in one case after incomplete transurethral resection. 
The gonadotropin-releasing hormone associated peptide reduces calcium entry in prolactin-secreting cells. The precursor molecule to the GnRH contains a peptide named GnRH-associated peptide (GAP) with PRL-inhibiting properties. In this work, we have studied the electrophysiological properties and responses to GAP of three different types of PRL-secreting cells: 1) the rat tumor cell line GH3, 2) normal rat pituitary cells in primary culture, and 3) human PRL-secreting adenoma cells. Using different but complementary techniques we show that GAP reduces intracellular Ca++ levels, [Ca++]i, and inhibits Ca++ transients in these cells. This reduction of [Ca++]i results from coordinate actions of GAP on K+ and Ca++ conductances and may explain the inhibitory effect of GAP on hormonal secretion by PRL-secreting cells. 
Nuclear morphometry as a prognostic indicator for genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma: a preliminary investigation. Rhabdomyosarcoma of the urogenital tract is a malignant mesenchymal tumor seen primarily in childhood. Multimodal therapy, encompassing surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, has dramatically improved the survival of patients with this disease. However, the quest for markers of tumor aggression is important to decrease the morbidity of treatment given to patients with good prognosis tumors, while at the same time intensifying treatment of tumors with poor prognosis. Using archival tumor specimens from 13 patients with genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma, a multivariate analysis of multiple nuclear shape descriptors was done with the Hopkins Morphometry System. Three nuclear shape descriptors clearly separated patients with no evidence of disease recurrence or progression from those with recurrent disease, progressive disease or death of disease. These nuclear shape descriptors were standard error of the chain code standard deviation analysis (p = 0.010), range of the feret ellipticity distribution (p = 0.016) and standard error of the chain code range analysis (p = 0.037). With multivariate analysis these shape descriptors taken together separated patients with good and poor prognoses to a level of significance of p = 0.007. Thus, nuclear morphometric analysis may prove to be useful as an individual prognostic indicator in childhood genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma and warrants further analysis in a much larger, blinded, controlled study. 
Selective nonoperative management of patients referred with abnormal mammograms. Screening mammography provides a means of detecting clinically occult breast carcinoma, but the question of whether all abnormal mammograms require biopsy remains unanswered. We retrospectively reviewed records of 214 women referred over an 8-year period for abnormal mammograms. They were selectively assigned to biopsy or mammographic follow-up based on specific mammographic criteria. Of 114 women initially observed mammographically, 2 were later found by biopsy to have carcinoma. Initial assignment to mammographic observation delayed the recommendation for biopsy 3 and 12 months, respectively, in these patients, but no effect on outcome was documented. Because they have benign lesions by clinical and mammographic criteria, 102 women (53%) have been spared biopsy; they continue to be monitored closely. We believe these data support the use of a selective approach to biopsy based on specific mammographic criteria. 
Postoperative radiation therapy for rectal cancer. An interim analysis of a prospective, randomized multicenter trial in The Netherlands. The authors assessed the potential benefit of postoperative radiation therapy for rectal cancer in a two-arm, prospective multicenter trial. One hundred seventy-two patients who had undergone surgical resection for rectal adenocarcinoma were randomly assigned to either treatment consisting of external irradiation to a dose of 5000 cGy in 5 weeks or a control group (no adjuvant therapy). It was assumed that the number of cells remaining after radical surgery would be low and that the dose of 5000 cGy would be adequate in eradicating the majority of those cells. The number of local recurrences was lower in the treated group of patients, but the difference was not statistically significant. It was assumed that if a significant reduction in the number of local recurrences could be obtained, improved (disease-free) survival would result. No influence on disease-free or overall survival could be detected. These results were in agreement with those reported in Europe and the US, and it was concluded that postoperative radiation therapy alone cannot be justified as a routine procedure in the primary management of resectable rectal cancer. 
Results of conservative surgery and radiation therapy for breast cancer. For stage I or II breast cancer, conservative surgery and radiation therapy are as effective as modified radical or radical mastectomy. In most cases, cosmetic considerations and the availability of therapy are the primary concerns. The extent of a surgical resection less than a mastectomy has not been a subject of a randomized trial and is controversial. It appears that removal of a quadrant of the breast for small lesions is safe but excessive. Using histologic findings in the biopsy as a guide, it may be possible to limit the breast resection to gross tumor removal for most patients while using wider resections for patients with an extensive intraductal component or for invasive lobular carcinoma. It also appears that excluding patients from breast conservation on the basis of positive margins on the first attempt at tumor excision may be unnecessarily restrictive. Although patients with an extensive intraductal component or invasive lobular carcinoma should have negative margins, it appears that a patient with predominantly invasive ductal carcinoma can be treated without re-excision if all gross tumor has been resected and there is no reason to suspect extensive microscopic disease. Patients with indeterminate margins should have a re-excision. Axillary dissection provides prognostic information and prevents progression of the disease within the axilla. Axillary dissections limited to level I will accurately identify a substantial number of patients who have pathologically positive but clinically negative nodes. When combined with radiation therapy to the axilla, a level I dissection results in a limited number of patients with progressive axillary disease. Patients with pathologically positive axillas and patients at particularly high risk for systemic disease because of the extent of axillary node involvement can be identified by dissections of levels I and II. Radiation therapy can be avoided safely in patients who have pathologically negative axillas by level I and II dissection. There appears to be no advantage to routine dissection of level III lymph nodes. Lymphedema of the arm and breast increases with more extensive dissections and with radiation therapy. 
Hormone replacement therapy and survival after surgery for ovarian cancer OBJECTIVE--To evaluate whether hormone replacement therapy affects survival in women who have undergone bilateral salphingo-oophorectomy because of epithelial ovarian cancer. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis by review of patients' notes and questionnaires completed by general practitioners to compare the overall survival and disease free survival in patients with ovarian cancer who did or did not receive hormone replacement therapy after diagnosis. Data were analysed by Cox regression, with hormone replacement therapy as a time dependent covariate because patients who received hormone replacement did so at different times after diagnosis. SETTING--Gynaecological oncology unit of Royal Marsden Hospital. PATIENTS--373 patients aged 50 years or younger who attended the hospital from 1972 to 1988. All of the women had undergone bilateral salpingoophorectomy for epithelial ovarian cancer. In all, 78 had received hormone replacement therapy, starting at a median of four months after diagnosis. INTERVENTION--A questionnaire was sent to the general practitioners of all patients who were not recorded as having received hormone replacement therapy. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Overall survival and disease free survival. RESULTS--There was no significant difference in survival between women receiving hormone replacement therapy and those not receiving it after accounting for the effects of other known prognostic factors (stage of cancer, differentiation of tumour, histological results, and time to relapse). The relative risk of dying in those who received hormone replacement therapy was 0.73 (95% confidence interval 0.44 to 1.20). In addition, there was no significant difference in disease free survival (relative risk in those receiving hormone replacement therapy was 0.90; 95% confidence interval 0.52 to 1.54). CONCLUSIONS--This study shows that hormone replacement therapy is unlikely to have a detrimental effect on the prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer, but this would be shown conclusively only by a randomised controlled trial. 
Can internal mammary chain treatment decrease the risk of death for patients with medial breast cancers and positive axillary lymph nodes? The effect of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant death-related event was analyzed in 1195 patients with operable breast cancer and histologically involved axillary lymph nodes. A group of 135 patients who had no internal mammary chain treatment was compared with a control group of 1060 patients who were treated by surgery and/or postoperative radiation therapy. In a multivariate analysis taking into account age, clinical size of the tumor, histoprognostic grading, and the number of positive axillary lymph nodes, quantitative interaction tests were used to determine whether the effects of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant event were significantly different for patients with a lateral tumor compared with those with a medial tumor. The authors found that the effects of this treatment on the risks of distant metastases and of secondary breast cancer were not the same for the patients with a medial tumor as for those with a lateral tumor. For the untreated patients with a medial tumor, the risks of distant metastases and second breast cancer were, respectively, 1.6 (P = 0.02) and 2.9 (P = 0.02), compared with the treated patients. Conversely, for women with lateral tumor, no difference between the two treatment groups was observed. Thus, internal mammary chain treatment may improve long-term survival rate in patients with a medial tumor and positive axillary lymph nodes essentially by decreasing the risk of development of distant metastases (mainly brain, distant lymph nodes, multiple simultaneous metastases) and/or a secondary breast cancer. 
Transforming function of proto-ras genes depends on heterologous promoters and is enhanced by specific point mutations [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 May 1;88(9):4059] Based on transfection into cells in culture or natural transduction into retroviruses, proto-ras genes seem to derive transforming function either from heterologous promoters or from point mutations. Here we ask how such different events could achieve the same results. To identify homologous regulatory elements, about 3 kilobases of rat DNA upstream of the first untranslated proto-Ha-ras exon was sequenced. Surprisingly, the sequence shares at -1858 a homology of 148 nucleotides with Harvey (Ha) sarcoma virus, 5' of viral ras, signaling possibly a second untranslated proto-Ha-ras exon. In addition the sequence contains a perfect repeat of 25 CA dinucleotides at -2655. A retroviral promoter, even from upstream of the poly(CA), conferred transforming function on proto-Ha-ras and increased transcription greater than 100-fold compared with that of unrearranged proto-ras. Point mutations were not necessary for transforming function of rat and human proto-Ha-ras genes with retroviral promoters but did enhance it greater than 10-fold. A unifying hypothesis proposes that proto-ras genes depend on high expression from heterologous promoters or enhancers for transforming function, which is modulated by ras point mutations. The hypothesis makes two testable predictions. (i) Unrearranged proto-ras genes with point mutations, which occur in some cancers, have no transforming function. Indeed, tumors with mutated proto-ras genes, even those that also lack hypothetical tumor-suppressor genes, are indistinguishable from counterparts with normal proto-ras genes. (ii) Proto-ras genes in transfected cells derive transforming function from heterologous promoters or enhancers acquired via illegitimate recombination from vector DNAs and particularly from viral helper genes that must be cotransfected for transformation of primary cells. Indeed, expression of exogenous proto-ras genes in cells transformed by transfection is as high as for viral ras genes and is much higher than in the cells of origin. 
Acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study. A case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents, all of whom were living. Exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject. An association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity. In addition, extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents. 
Immunohistochemical characterization of microvascular endothelial cells in primary B cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract. Microvascular endothelial cells (EnC) in primary B cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract were immunohistochemically studied. Based on the morphological structure, the microvasculatures were divided into high endothelial cell vessels (HEV) and flat endothelial cell vessels (FEV). There were distinct phenotypic differences between HEV and FEV in lymphoma tissues. HEV were characterized as OKM1- OKM5-, accompanied by the cluster of non-neoplastic T lymphocytes, and FEV were OKM1- OKM5+ not accompanied by T lymphocyte infiltration. Factor VIII-related antigen was clearly identified in both EnC, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens and interleukin 1 were absent or only faintly visible on EnC in lymphoma tissues, whereas they were expressed on EnC in non-lymphoma tissues. These findings suggest that microvascular EnC in primary B cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract lack a property as antigen-presenting cells, and that HEV are involved in the migration of non-neoplastic T lymphocytes. 
Calcifications in breast biopsy specimens: discrepancies in radiologic-pathologic identification. To analyze the effectiveness and accuracy of the diagnostic process from screening mammography to final diagnosis at pathologic examination, the authors conducted a prospective study of 277 consecutive patients who underwent 291 mammographically directed biopsies of nonpalpable lesions. Of the 170 lesions that demonstrated findings consistent with calcification on preoperative mammograms and radiographs of specimens, 12 (7.1%) were not described by the pathologist as being calcified. These discrepancies were due to inadequate sampling in three cases (25%), lack of explicit description by the pathologist in four (33%), presence of oxalate crystals that required examination with polarizing lenses in two (17%), and unexplained loss of tissue probably related to processing in three (25%). Of the 121 lesions that did not demonstrate findings consistent with calcification at radiography, eight (6.6%) were described as calcified by the pathologist. The authors recommend a protocol for avoiding these discrepancies that involves performance of a more comprehensive examination of histologic sections by the pathologist, including the use of polarizing lenses, if necessary, and radiographic reexamination of paraffin-embedded tissue blocks with subsequent step sectioning by the pathologist when results are positive. 
Potentiation of the erythropoietin response by dimethyl sulfoxide priming of erythroleukemia cells: evidence for interaction of two signaling pathways. Erythropoietin (Epo) and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) are believed to induce the differentiation of transformed erythroid cells by different signal transduction pathways. We have now obtained evidence for the interaction of these pathways. We used a Rauscher murine erythroleukemia cell line with a relatively low (8% to 10%) hemoglobinization response to Epo alone. Pretreatment of these cells for 1 day with DMSO followed by its removal and the addition of Epo resulted in a marked enhancement of the Epo specific hemoglobinization. We have designated this effect "DMSO priming." This priming effect of DMSO on the Epo response was both time-dependent and DMSO concentration-dependent. DMSO priming potentiated the Epo response in three ways. Firstly, DMSO priming increased the total number of Epo responsive cells from 8% to 10% to 40% to 60%. Secondly, DMSO priming reduced the time required to reach the optimal Epo-induced response from 4 days to 2 days. Thirdly, the Epo dose-response curve was left-shifted approximately 20-fold. DMSO priming was also associated with a marked increase in Epo receptor density characterized by an apparently new receptor population and by the appearance of positive cooperativity between receptors. Our results suggest that the DMSO priming effect is due to potentiation of the Epo signaling pathway, thus resulting in a much more rapid and dramatic Epo-induced hemoglobinization response. 
Lipiodol computerized tomography: how sensitive and specific is the technique in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma? Computerized tomography (CT) following the intra-arterial injection of Lipiodol (Lipiodol-CT) was performed on 60 patients suspected of having a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Four main patterns of uptake of the Lipiodol within the liver were seen on CT. Of the 14 well circumscribed lesions with dense homogeneous uptake of Lipiodol, 13 were confirmed to be HCCs. Of the 25 lesions with dense patchy uptake of Lipiodol at the periphery and/or in the centre, 19 were confirmed to be HCCs. In 18 patients, in whom only ill defined faint patchy uptake of Lipiodol was present in the liver, or in whom no hepatic uptake was present at all, only one patient was found later to have an HCC. Of the three hypodense lesions in the liver with no Lipiodol uptake, one was found to be necrotic HCC, one a cholangiocarcinoma and one a regenerative nodule. In the diagnosis of HCC, Lipiodol-CT had an overall sensitivity of 97.1%, an accuracy of 88.3% and a specificity of 76.9%. Of the 34 patients with HCC, only 23 were solitary at diagnosis. The size of the HCCs ranged from 0.8 cm to 11 cm in diameter with the median size at 2.2 cm. Eleven of 34 HCCs (32.3%) were resectable. We conclude that, as part of a screening programme for high risk patients. Lipiodol-CT is useful in the early detection of HCCs. The technique also plays an important role in determining whether the tumour should be resected or managed with chemotherapy. By detecting HCCs while still small, the resectability rate can also be improved. 
Administered dose and tumor dose of bleomycin labeled with cobalt-57 in mice and men. Tumor concentrations of the chemotherapeutic drug, bleomycin, labeled with cobalt-57 (Co-bleo) were compared in mouse tumor models and in human lung tumors using quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography. Drug concentrations in histologically similar human tumors showed marked variability for the same injected dose (ID). Small cell carcinomas showed concentrations between 1.09 and 8.85 %ID/cc x 10(-3) while non-small cell lung tumors showed a concentration variation between 0.36 and 6.75 %ID/cc x 10(-3). In contrast to the situation in human tumors, uptake in mouse tumors showed only slight variability in animals with the same tumor model. EMT-6 tumors in mice showed at 6 hr significantly higher uptake of Co-bleo (p less than 0.001) and significantly higher tumor-to-lung ratio (p less than 0.001) when compared to murine fibrosarcomas. The EMT-6 tumors in contrast to the fibrosarcomas responded to bleomycin treatment in a dose dependent manner. The results indicate that while in mice the tumor dose closely follows the administered dose, in humans, the tumor dose and the tumor-to-lung ratio in the individual patient cannot be predicted from the administered dose. 
Clinical observation on the association of gallstones and colorectal cancer. A possible association between gallstones, colorectal cancer, and gastric cancer was investigated. The age distribution and mean age of the two cancer groups were identical. The incidence of gallstones in 378 colorectal cancer cases and 869 gastric cancer cases was 7.1% and 5.5%, respectively. Of colorectal cancer cases, 33 cases with multiple carcinomas had a significantly higher gallstone incidence than cases with a solitary carcinoma--24.2% and 5.5%, respectively. The mean age was 5 years older in gallstone cases than in those without gallstones in both cancer groups, and it was 4 years older in multiple-carcinoma cases than in solitary-carcinoma cases in the colorectal cancer group. These results suggest that the higher levels of same causative factors (i.e., dietary fat) are associated with a longer duration of gallstone formation and colorectal cancer development as demonstrated by multiple colorectal-carcinoma cases. 
Analysis of bladder carcinoma by subsite. Cystoscopic location may have prognostic value. Nine hundred fourteen cases of carcinoma of the urinary bladder registered from 1977 to 1988 with the Kansas state tumor registry were evaluated by subsite for differences in grade, histology, sex, age at diagnosis, and survival. Only initial occurrences of carcinoma were included. Carcinoma of the lateral walls accounted for 37.1%; the posterior wall, 17.9%; the trigone, 12.6%; the neck, 11.1%; the ureteric orifices, 9.8%; the dome, 7.7%; and the anterior wall, 3.8%. Malignant neoplasms occurring in the neck of the bladder had a significantly poorer prognosis by survival analysis (P less than 0.05). Malignancies of the dome were found to present as higher grade lesions (P = 0.00003), and carcinoma of the ureteric orifices and lateral walls tended to be of lower grade (P = 0.02 and P = 0.05, respectively). Carcinomas of the anterior wall and dome occurred in a more elderly population (mean ages, 75.6 and 73.9 years, respectively), and carcinomas of the trigone and ureteric orifices occurred in a younger group (mean ages, 68.3 and 67.5 years, respectively). On histologic evaluation the trigone gave rise to more squamous cell carcinoma than expected (P = 0.001, 325% of expected). No distribution difference was noted among subsites with respect to sex. These data show significant differences among subsites of the urinary bladder with regard to survival, grade, histology, and age at diagnosis. 
Long-term sequelae of conservative treatment by surgery, brachytherapy, and chemotherapy for vulval and vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma in children. Between 1970 and 1978, 17 girls with rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) of the vulva or vagina were treated at the Institut Gustave-Roussy (IGR) by conservative treatment including surgery, brachytherapy, and chemotherapy. Twelve pubescent or postpubescent girls were studied for long-term sequelae. Eleven of 12 patients have had a normal puberty, two have a total of three healthy children, 11 have normal menses, and 10 normal menarche (one after hormonal replacement). Only one patient underwent hysterectomy following low-dose brachytherapy. Five girls have no vaginal complications, and three are sexually active. Three have had minimal vaginal sequelae, which required surgical correction to permit sexual intercourse. Four girls sustained serious sequelae (colorectal, vaginal, urethral, and ureteral stenosis). These sequelae, secondary to irradiation, are potentially avoidable in the future given the current advances in brachytherapy and improvements in dosimetry. This conservative treatment is useful and appropriate for girls with RMS of vulvar or vaginal origin when complete remission cannot be obtained with chemotherapy and partial colpectomy. 
Imaging of patients with stage D prostatic carcinoma. In conclusion, it would appear from present evidence that several statements can be made. First, MRI is the most accurate method of staging the periprostatic spread of carcinoma. Both the prostate and the regional nodes can be evaluated. The role of ultrasound is, at present, unclear. Second, the utility of CT has diminished with the emergence of high-quality MRI, but in situations in which MRI scans are inconclusive (e.g., in the assessment of paraaortic node disease, in which images are degraded by peristaltic movement), CT may be useful. Third, the choice of method for the assessment of nodal disease is a more difficult question. Although MRI and CT have replaced lymphography in most centers, the latter study, especially when combined with fine-needle aspiration biopsy, still is useful. Fourth, bone metastases are best assessed with scintigraphy, which can point to areas requiring supplemental plain radiography. An MRI study of the spine, although highly sensitive, is not practical. Fifth, MRI is superior to CT myelography in assessing spinal disease. Finally, the chest radiograph is the mainstay of assessing chest involvement. 
Mandibular involvement in oral cancer. It is difficult to predict the tumour invasion into the mandible by oral cancer pre-operatively, and consequently the decision to preserve or sacrifice the mandible is largely individualistic. The present study of 44 cases analyses the reliability of pre-operative parameters to assess mandibular involvement. Clinical, radiological and scintigraphic features have been compared with the detailed histology of the bone. This study confirms the usefulness of superior marginal resections in lesions which are close to but not involving the mandible, as well as for superficial lesions which are actually seen to involve the mandible but their CT and bone scans are negative for tumour invasion. 
Clinical stage 1 testicular cancer: the role of modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy. A total of 85 patients underwent modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for clinical stage I nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis from 1982 to 1989. The technique was a modified bilateral dissection via a thoracoabdominal approach. A full bilateral dissection was done above the level of the inferior mesenteric artery but unilateral dissection was performed below the inferior mesenteric artery using a template method. Of the 85 patients 64 had pathological stage A and 21 had stage B1 disease. Relapses have occurred in 4 of 64 stage A cancer patients (6%) and 3 of 21 stage B1 cancer patients (15%). Antegrade ejaculation was preserved without pharmacological therapy in 75 of 85 patients (88%) and 5 others were converted to antegrade ejaculation with imipramine. Therefore, 80 of 85 patients (94%) have recovered antegrade ejaculation. With a median followup of 38 months 7 relapses have been noted. We conclude that modified retroperitoneal lymph node dissection allows for preservation of ejaculation, decreases concern about retroperitoneal understaging and represents the preferred alternative to surveillance protocols for patients with low stage testicular cancer. 
Actin architecture of cultured human thyroid cancer cells: predictor of differentiation? The actin cytoskeleton is important for cell structure and motility. A disordered actin architecture has been correlated with a high metastatic potential in melanoma, fibrosarcoma, and colon cancer models. Thyrotropin is known to induce growth and differentiation in cultured thyroid cells, whereas the carcinogenic phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) causes dedifferentiation and malignant transformation in many cell lines. We therefore assessed the effect of thyrotropin and TPA on the actin architecture of FTC-133 human follicular thyroid cancer cells in continuous culture. Staining of filamentous actin with rhodamine phalloidin showed that 1 mU/ml or 30 mU/ml thyrotropin-induced actin polymerization was detectable at 1 hour but more notable at 24 hours. Similarly TPA (0.008 to 10 mumol/L) caused rapid actin fiber disruption and redistribution to the cell periphery. Secondary antibody staining for alpha-actinin, a protein that binds and crosslinks actin, was more prominent after treatment with thyrotropin but decreased after TPA. These findings indicate that the actin cytoskeleton has a dynamic response to trophic factors. Thyrotropin promoted actin polymerization, but TPA caused depolymerization. These effects may correlate with cellular alpha-actinin levels. Actin architecture may therefore reflect the state of differentiation of thyroid tumor cells. 
Results of surgical treatment of kidney cancer with solitary metastasis to contralateral adrenal. A large series of patients were reviewed in two major teaching institutions, and patients with a carcinoma of the kidney with a solitary metastatic deposit in the contralateral adrenal were identified. Their survival was analyzed and compared with the survival of those patients having a solitary metastatic deposit in other organs. 
Queuine, a tRNA anticodon wobble base, maintains the proliferative and pluripotent potential of HL-60 cells in the presence of the differentiating agent 6-thioguanine. 6-Thioguanine (6-TG)-induced differentiation of hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (IMP: pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase, EC 2.4.2.8)-deficient HL-60 cells is characterized by 2 days of growth, after which morphological differentiation proceeds. Addition of the tRNA wobble base queuine, in the presence of 6-TG, maintains the proliferative capability of the cells. The ability of 6-TG to induce differentiation correlates with c-myc mRNA down-regulation, but queuine has no effect on this parameter. Treatment with 6-TG for 2-3 days commits HL-60 cells to granulocytic differentiation, and, once committed, these cells do not respond to the monocytic inducer phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Nonetheless, when cells are treated with queuine and 6-TG, they maintain the promyelocytic morphology and are capable of being induced down the monocytic pathway by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate as indicated by stabilization of c-fms mRNA and cell adherence. In the absence of queuine, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate is incapable of inducing monocytic markers in the 6-TG-treated cells. The data presented indicate that 6-TG-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells is a tRNA-facilitated event and that the tRNA wobble base queuine is capable of maintaining both the proliferative and pluripotent potential of the cells. 
Thermography as a predictor of prognosis in cancer of the breast. Although thermography is generally considered to lack sufficient sensitivity to be a useful in diagnosis of cancer of the breast, the association of a thermal abnormality with some breast cancers cannot be discounted. Breast cancers demonstrating such a thermographic abnormality have been reported to be associated with decreased survival when compared with patients with no such change. In a study of 214 patients confirmed to have breast cancer without distant metastases, 121 were found to have a thermographic abnormality. Patients whose tumors were thermographically abnormal had significantly larger primary lesions and a higher proportion of metastatic axillary lymph nodes. However, both the 5-year survival and the 5-year disease-free survival were not significantly different from patients who had no thermographic abnormality. 
Diagnosis of oral hairy leukoplakia by ultrastructural examination of exfoliative cytologic specimens. Lingual exfoliative cytologic specimens (scrapings) were obtained from 18 patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus with clinical oral hairy leukoplakia. Buccal mucosal scrapings were obtained from 12 of these patients. The specimens were processed for examination by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Sixteen (89%) of the lingual specimens revealed infection of keratinocytes by herpes-type virus. There was no evidence of virus infection in the 12 buccal mucosal scrapings. Fungal hyphae were seen by TEM in 14 (78%) of the lingual scrapings and two (17%) of the buccal scrapings. One exfoliative specimen and two biopsy specimens were stained for Epstein-Barr virus DNA with a DNA probe. The demonstration of herpes-type virions by TEM in keratinocytes from a lesion clinically suspected to be hairy leukoplakia provides direct, objective diagnosis. Furthermore, use of exfoliative cytologic specimens provides a clinically simple, noninvasive technique. 
Effect of dietary calcium on colon carcinogenesis induced by a single injection of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in rats. The purpose of this study was to determine if high levels of dietary calcium could inhibit the induction of colon tumors in rats injected with a single dose of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH). Rats were given a single subcutaneous injection of DMH (200 mg/kg body weight) 2 wk before they were fed purified diets containing 5% fat and four different levels of calcium (as calcium gluconate). After 8 mo, the following incidences of colon tumors (total) were seen: 0.2% Ca, 56%; 0.5% Ca [National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council (NAS/NRC) recommended level], 75%; 1.0% Ca, 61%; 2.0% Ca, 41%. Thus, rats fed calcium at levels above or below the NAS/NRC recommendation had lower tumor incidences. The total tumor incidence and the incidence of adenocarcinomas (with or without invasion) were not significantly affected by calcium, but the incidences of benign adenomatous polyps and of distal colon tumors were significantly affected. Autoradiographic examination of [3H]thymidine-treated rats revealed that the level of calcium did not significantly alter the cell kinetic indices in the distal colon. In the proximal colon, however, the 0.2% Ca group had a significantly larger proliferative zone, with significantly more labeled cells present at the bottom of the colon crypt. Mineral analysis of tibias and serum samples revealed that rats fed higher levels of calcium had lower bone Fe and serum Mg contents, but no significant trends were seen for Ca, P, Zn or Cu. Therefore, increasing or decreasing the calcium content above or below the NAS/NRC recommendation (supplemented to low fat diets) during the promotional phase of colon carcinogenesis altered the tumor incidence, but the effect was confined to the distal colon and to benign adenomatous polyps. 
Fertility-sparing treatment of patients with ovarian cancer. The variety of malignant neoplasms produced by the ovary are legion. Each must be considered individually in the young woman with early disease who wishes to preserve her childbearing capability. The risks of conservative surgery are often low, and the patient can be so advised. Careful monitoring of this group of patients is essential regardless of the approach. 
Liver transplant for metastatic neuroendocrine tumor. Generally, the results of liver transplantation for metastatic liver disease have not been favorable. One exception has been the unique group of neuroendocrine tumors, the slow growth of which allows liver transplantation to effectively palliate and control symptoms. We report two cases: (a) A 51-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and resection of the pancreatic primary tumor for a nonfunctioning malignant neuroendocrine tumor with features of both carcinoid and islet-cell glucagonoma remains symptom-free and without evidence of tumor recurrence at 13 months follow-up. (b) A 47-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and Whipple resection for a metastatic islet-cell tumor in the head of the pancreas is fully recovered at 5 months follow-up. 
Response of oral leukoplakia to beta-carotene. Leukoplakia is associated with increased risk of oral cancer and is considered a premalignant lesion. Retinoids, particularly 13-cis retinoic acid, can frequently reverse leukoplakia. However, these drugs have considerable toxicity and are not suitable for large-scale use in the prevention of oral cancer. Beta-carotene is a naturally occurring, nontoxic carotenoid with biologic properties that suggest that it might be efficacious against oral leukoplakia. In 1986, we began a randomized study of 13-cis retinoic acid (1 mg/kg/d) versus beta-carotene (30 mg/d) in leukoplakia. However, owing to the marked differences in toxicity between the two compounds outlined in the consent form, 11 of the initial 16 eligible patients refused to participate unless they were "guaranteed" beta-carotene. Therefore, the study design was changed to a phase II trial of beta-carotene in which the compound was given daily for 3 months. Responding patients were continued for another 3 months of treatment. All lesions were examined histologically at entry. Responses were monitored by bidimensional measurements and photography done at entry, then monthly while on treatment and at study completion. Twenty-four evaluable patients were treated, and 17 had major responses (two complete, 15 partial), a response rate of 71% (95% confidence limits, 53% to 89%). There was no significant toxicity requiring drug discontinuation or dose reduction. These results indicate that beta-carotene has substantial activity in oral premalignancy. Because of its lack of toxicity, it is an excellent candidate for a preventive agent for oral cancer. 
Nutritional approach to cancer prevention with emphasis on vitamins, antioxidants, and carotenoids. The main human cancers are associated with complex life-style related causative, enhancing, and inhibiting factors. Tobacco smoking or chewing exposes humans to genotoxic carcinogens and to promoting substances. Likewise, Western dietary traditions involve certain carcinogens and promoters, whereas Oriental traditions implicate other carcinogens and promoters. Importantly, in virtually all situations regular intake of fruits and vegetables appreciably lowers the risk of cancer. This paper reviews the causes of the main human cancers and analyzes the mechanisms of the protective effects of fruits and vegetables. Prevention of human cancer requires the definition of optimal levels of recommended daily allowances of micronutrients. 
Interstitial chemotherapy with drug polymer implants for the treatment of recurrent gliomas. Malignant gliomas have been difficult to treat with chemotherapy. The most effective agent, BCNU (carmustine), has considerable systemic toxicity and a short half-life in serum. To obviate these problems, a method has been developed for the local sustained release of chemotherapeutic agents by their incorporation into biodegradable polymers. Implantation of the drug-impregnated polymer at the tumor site allows prolonged local exposure with minimal systemic exposure. In this Phase I-II study, 21 patients with recurrent malignant glioma were treated with BCNU released interstitially by means of a polyanhydride biodegradable polymer implant. Up to eight polymer wafers were placed in the resection cavity intraoperatively, upon completion of tumor debulking. The polymer releases the therapeutic drug for approximately 3 weeks. Three increasing concentrations of BCNU were studied; the treatment was well tolerated at all three levels. There were no adverse reactions to the BCNU wafer treatment itself. The average survival period after reoperation was 65 weeks for the first dose group, 64 weeks for the second dose group, and 32 weeks for the highest dose group. The overall mean survival time was 48 weeks from reoperation and 94 weeks from the original operation. The overall median survival times were 46 weeks postimplant and 87 weeks from initial surgery. Eighteen (86%) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year from the time of their initial diagnosis and eight (38%) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year after intracranial implantation of the polymer. Frequent hematology, blood chemistry, and urinalysis tests did not reveal any systemic effect from this interstitial chemotherapy. Since the therapy is well tolerated and safe, a placebo-controlled clinical trial has been started. The trial will measure the effect of the second treatment dose on survival of patients with recurrent malignant glioma. 
Angiosarcoma of the uterus: a case report. We are reporting a case of angiosarcoma of the uterus in which the diagnosis was confirmed ultrastructurally by demonstration of Weibel-Palade bodies in the tumor cells. Only 10 cases of this entity have been previously documented in the literature. 
Dose dependency of time of onset of radiation-induced growth hormone deficiency. Growth hormone (GH) secretion during insulin-induced hypoglycemia was assessed on 133 occasions in 82 survivors of childhood malignant disease. All had received cranial irradiation with a dose range to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis of 27 to 47.5 Gy (estimated by a schedule of 16 fractions over 3 weeks) and had been tested on one or more occasions between 0.2 and 18.9 years after treatment. Results of one third of the GH tests were defined as normal (GH peak response, greater than 15 mU/L) within the first 5 years, in comparison with 16% after 5 years. Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis showed that dose (p = 0.007) and time from irradiation (p = 0.03), but not age at therapy, had a significant influence on peak GH responses. The late incidence of GH deficiency was similar over the whole dose range (4 of 26 GH test results normal for less than 30 Gy and 4 of 25 normal for greater than or equal to 30 Gy after 5 years), but the speed of onset over the first years was dependent on dose. We conclude that the requirement for GH replacement therapy and the timing of its introduction will be influenced by the dose of irradiation received by the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. 
Rectal carcinoma: CT staging with water as contrast medium. Computed tomography (CT) was used to study 42 patients with rectal carcinoma. Water was used as a contrast medium for studying the local extent of tumor in all patients. Scans were read prospectively without knowledge of the histologic staging and then compared with pathologic specimens. CT depicted the tumor in all patients. Comparison of CT and histologic results (following the Dukes classification) showed that disease was correctly staged as A in three of four patients, as B in eight of 12, as C in 15 of 17, and as D in nine of nine. Overall, carcinoma was correctly staged with CT in 35 of 42 patients (diagnostic accuracy, 83.3%). The accuracy in the assessment of local invasion was 97.6% (41 of 42). In the detection of lymph node involvement, the accuracy was 78.6% (sensitivity, 88%; specificity, 64.7%). CT is recommended in the preoperative staging of rectal carcinoma and as an aid in choosing the appropriate therapy. The use of water enema and complete distention of the rectum are reliable techniques for improving the accuracy of CT in the assessment of local invasion by cancer. 
Erythrocyte stearic acid desaturation in patients with colorectal carcinoma. The erythrocyte stearic:oleic acid ratio (saturation index) was investigated as a means of differentiating between control subjects (n = 146) and patients with benign (n = 48) and malignant (n = 117) colorectal disease and patients undergoing postoperative follow-up after curative resection (n = 49). Erythrocyte fatty acid profiles were determined by gas liquid chromatography. Neither age, sex, Dukes' stage, nor degree of differentiation of the tumors had a significant effect on the erythrocyte saturation index. The erythrocyte saturation index was lower in patients with primary and recurrent colorectal cancer compared with control subjects and patients with inflammatory bowel disease or benign colonic polyps (P less than 0.0001). The erythrocyte saturation index was not found to be useful in the postoperative follow-up of these patients. Using both saturation index and age as a means of differentiating between patients with primary colorectal cancer and control subjects gave a sensitivity of 67 percent and a specificity of 81 percent. 
Cryosurgery and acrylic cementation as surgical adjuncts in the treatment of aggressive (benign) bone tumors. Analysis of 25 patients below the age of 21. This article reviews the clinical experience with cryosurgery (use of liquid nitrogen) and acrylic cementation (polymethylmethacrylate; PMMA) in the treatment of aggressive, benign bone sarcomas and the biologic basis of this technique. The results of 25 patients below the age of 21 treated by cryosurgery, with an average follow-up period of 60.8 months, are reported. Three approaches to surgical reconstruction were used: Group 1 (four patients) had cryosurgery with no reconstruction, Group 2 (13 patients) had bone graft reconstruction alone, and Group 3 (eight patients) had composite osteosynthesis with internal fixation, bone graft, and/or PMMA. The overall control rate was 96% (one recurrence). The tumor types were giant-cell tumor, chondroblastoma, aneurysmal bone cyst, and malignant giant-cell tumor. Nineteen lesions involved the lower extremity, and six lesions were located in the upper extremity. There were two secondary fractures (8%), one local flap necrosis, and one synovial fistula. There were no infections. Two epiphyseodeses were performed. The functional results were excellent (83%), good (13%), and fair (4%). The technique of composite osteosynthesis is recommended for all large tumors of the lower extremity. Cryosurgical results compare favorably with those obtained by en bloc resection and demonstrate the ability of cryosurgery to eradicate tumors while avoiding the need for extensive resections and reconstructive procedures. 
The fallacy of the screening interval for cervical smears. One hundred seventy-four women with invasive cervical carcinoma were interviewed about their cervical smear histories to assess the accuracy of self-reporting and to relate the smear history with patient and tumor characteristics. Patients reported significantly more frequent, more recent, and more normal smears than were documented in medical records. The interval between onset of cancer symptoms and previous smear correlated directly with advanced stage. Sixteen women with normal smears within 36 months had significantly more advanced cancers than did 25 women with recent abnormal smears. Women with recent normal and abnormal smears had similar sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics. Because of inaccuracies in patients' self-reported smear histories and cancers developing in women with recent normal smears, we conclude that a specific screening interval should not be relied upon. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma in patients with and without the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A retrospective analysis and review of the literature. Twenty-two cases of PCL were reviewed, in which 9 patients had AIDS and 13 did not. A review of the literature identified 247 cases of AIDS-related PCL. Differences between patients with AIDS and immunocompetent PCL were noted in our series. AIDS-related PCL when compared to non-AIDS PCL in our series has the following notable clinical features: 1) significantly younger age at presentation, median age 34 versus 59 years; 2) significantly higher incidence of B symptoms, 44% versus 8%; 3) worse median performance status at presentation, 3 versus 1; and, 4) shorter median survival, 3 versus 10 months. Differences in performance status and survival, however, were not significant. AIDS-related PCL is further characterized by frequent (44%) ring-enhancing mass lesions on head CT scan, a finding that makes it clinically difficult to distinguish from toxoplasmosis. Median survival appears to be improved in the absence of opportunistic infection at time of diagnosis of PCL, 6 versus 2 months. The therapeutic approach to patients with PCL, with and without AIDS, is variable. Combined modality therapy may improve the survival in patients with non-AIDS PCL. Therapy for patients with AIDS-related PCL is tailored to the status of the individual and it is, therefore, difficult to make comparisons to non-AIDS PCL patients. AIDS patients are often too ill to tolerate aggressive surgery or systemic treatment and in this instance, radiotherapy alone may be an acceptable alternative. Nonetheless, overall survival for patients with AIDS-related and non-AIDS PCL remains poor. 
Management of selected cystic adnexal masses in postmenopausal women by operative laparoscopy: a pilot study. Twenty-five postmenopausal patients were predicted to have benign masses by screening criteria that included ultrasonographic findings of a cystic adnexal mass less than 10 cm with distinct borders and no evidence of irregular solid parts, thick septa, ascites, or matted bowel, and a normal serum CA 125 value (less than 35 U/ml). All 25 masses were accurately predicted to be benign. The size of the cysts on ultrasonography ranged from 3 to 9 cm with a mean of 5 cm. Twenty-two patients (88%) were successfully managed by operative laparoscopy and adnexectomy. Mean operative time was 70 minutes and mean postoperative hospital stay was 12 hours. Mean time of return to normal activity was 5 days. Three patients required laparotomy. We conclude that removal of these cystic adnexal masses by operative laparoscopy is an acceptable alternative in carefully selected postmenopausal women. 
Solid and cystic ultimobranchial body remnants in the thyroid. In this study we determined the incidence rate (89%) and characterized the morphology of ultimobranchial body (UBB) remnants found in 18 serially sectioned neonatal thyroid glands. Although UBB remnants are often referred to as solid cell nests, we found cystic features in 55%. Ciliated columnar cells were seen in 23%. One contained a large pseudo-papilla. The UBB cells had nuclei with features reminiscent of papillary carcinoma nuclei in that they were enlarged, oval, and contained finely dispersed chromatin when compared with follicular cell nuclei. Both papillary carcinomas and UBB remnants are common, occur as tiny, solid, or cystic thyroid entities in patients of all ages, may contain papillary structures, and share some common nuclear features. Therefore, it is important to include UBB remnants in the differential diagnosis of minute thyroid entities and to recognize their morphologic features. 
The risk of developing subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers. Data from the Southeast Arizona Skin Cancer Registry collected during 1985 through June 1988 were used in this study. Patients who had a nonmelanoma skin cancer (basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma) removed in 1985 were observed until subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers developed or until June 30, 1988. Twelve categories of nonmelanoma skin cancers were developed on the basis of the type of first nonmelanoma skin cancer and type of second, third, and fourth nonmelanoma skin cancers. Analyses showed the highest risk of a subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancer developing was within 1 year (36.39%), the rate of developing another nonmelanoma skin cancer depended on type (squamous cell carcinoma, 100%; basal cell carcinoma, 44.23% to 83.65%), and total risk decreased during the 1277 days of the study. 
Acquired cisplatin resistance in human ovarian cancer cells is associated with enhanced repair of cisplatin-DNA lesions and reduced drug accumulation. Studies were undertaken to investigate acquired resistance to cisplatin in human ovarian cancer cells. The cell lines A2780 and A2780/CP70 were studied to assess their respective characteristics of drug accumulation and efflux, cytosolic inactivation of drug, and DNA repair. All experiments were performed using 1-h drug exposures. The A2780/CP70 cell line was 13-fold more resistant to cisplatin than A2780 cells. When studied at their respective IC50 doses, drug accumulation rates were similar for the two cell lines. However, the resistant cell line was twofold more efficient at effluxing drug, which was associated with reduced total drug accumulation for equivalent micromolar drug exposures. At equivalent levels of total cellular drug accumulation, the two cell lines formed the same levels of cisplatin-DNA damage, suggesting that cytosolic inactivation of drug does not contribute to the differential in resistance between these cell lines. Resistant cells were also twofold more efficient at repairing cisplatin-DNA lesions in cellular DNA and in transfected plasmid DNA. We conclude that in these paired cell lines, alterations in drug uptake/efflux and in DNA repair are the major contributing factors to acquired resistance to cisplatin. 
Is preoperative ultrasound cancer survey necessary in patients with normal liver function tests? Abdominal ultrasound examination is so easy that it may be overused. To reduce medical costs, we investigated whether preoperative ultrasonic abdominal survey was necessary for oncologic patients with normal liver function tests. We used the ultrasound diagnosis as the final standard to test the value of liver function tests for the prediction of liver metastases. Five hundred forty-four patients with various primary malignancies were referred for preoperative ultrasonic survey of the abdomen. The results showed that for a single test, serum albumin was most sensitive (87.2%) but least specific (29.4%), and serum bilirubin was least sensitive (13.0%) but most specific (97.2%), for the prediction of liver metastases. For a combination of five tests or more, the sensitivity was 95.9% and the specificity 29.5%. In patients with normal liver function tests, liver metastases were detected by ultrasound in two of 106 (1.9%) patients. One hundred of 544 (18.4%) patients having major abnormalities that may influence clinical management were also detected during the ultrasound examination. We conclude that ultrasound is convenient, cheap, and without side effects. It can provide additional information affecting patient management, even in the presence of normal liver function tests. 
Primary chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and/or surgery for children with localized sarcoma of the bladder, prostate, vagina, uterus, and cervix. A comparison of the results in Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Studies I and II. A major objective of the second Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS-II) (1978 to 1984) was to preserve the bladder without compromising the survival of children with localized genitourinary sarcomas arising in or near the bladder. After incisional biopsy, 109 patients with localized, gross residual sarcoma of the prostate (43 patients), bladder (43 patients), vagina (20 patients), or cervix/uterine corpus (3 patients) were treated with vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC). After two to four drug courses, radiation therapy and/or surgery were used to treat patients with residual or recurrent tumor. The 3-year survival rate of patients treated on this primary chemotherapy regimen (70%) was similar to that of the primary surgery regimens of IRS-I (78%; P = 0.46), but the 3-year disease-free survival rate was significantly inferior (52% versus 70%; P = 0.02). Since the IRS-II encouraged bladder preservation at the onset of therapy, the percentage of patients with bladder and prostate tumors who retained the bladder was initially substantially higher in IRS-II (97%) than in IRS-I (58%). However, the percentages of 95 patients with bladder-prostate (BP) tumors in IRS-II who retained the bladder and were alive at 2 and 3 years after starting treatment were only 33% and 22%, respectively, compared with 26% and 23%, respectively, in the 66 patients with BP tumors in IRS-I. Thus, sequential treatment with primary chemotherapy, followed by radiation therapy and/or surgery as given in IRS-II, failed to improve the eventual bladder salvage rate. 
Urological manifestations of HIV-related disease. A case of AIDS-associated testicular seminoma, Kaposi's sarcoma and possible intracranial lymphoma. A wide variety of pathologies afflicting the genitourinary tract can be displayed by patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), including both infective and neoplastic conditions. Treatment can often be offered for such conditions using a combination of therapeutic approaches. These conditions should be looked for specifically in patients with HIV infection as treatment may improve their quality of life. A case is presented of a testicular seminoma (appearing in association with an intracranial mass and Kaposi's sarcoma) in a male patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); he made a good response to orchiectomy and radiotherapy for his seminoma. A short review is also given of the range of HIV-associated genitourinary pathologies which have been described to date. 
Management of Cushing's syndrome secondary to adrenal adenoma during pregnancy. This report discusses our experience with two patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy as treatment for Cushing's syndrome secondary to an adrenal adenoma. Previously only five patients with this clinical problem who underwent unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy had been reported. We have reviewed the world literature on Cushing's syndrome in pregnancy secondary to an adrenal adenoma. A total of 19 patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy for this problem after the completion of pregnancy were identified. The review of world literature and the two patients who are the subject of this report were the basis of our analysis of fetal death, neonatal complications, and maternal complications in seven pregnancies during which unilateral adrenalectomy was performed (group 1) compared to the 19 pregnancies that were associated with unilateral adrenalectomy at the completion of pregnancy (group 2). Of the seven pregnancies in group 1, one fetal death and no neonatal complications occurred, but fetal death and neonatal complications occurred in 12 of the 19 pregnancies in group 2. Four of the seven mothers in group 1 had complications; 16 of the 19 mothers in group 2 had complications. This study suggests that adrenalectomy during pregnancy should be considered as a therapeutic option in the management of Cushing's syndrome secondary to an adrenal cortical adenoma. 
Comparison of FRTL-5 cell growth in vitro with that of xenotransplanted cells and the thyroid of the recipient mouse. The present work was designed to compare in vitro cell growth kinetics with in vivo growth under conditions as similar as possible using labeling with [3H]thymidine. To this purpose, FRTL-5 cells were cultured as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids embedded in collagen gels and transplanted simultaneously into nude mice treated with perchlorate and a low iodine diet. The growth of the transplants was compared to that of the thyroids in host mice. In the intact thyroid, the fraction of [3H]thymidine-labeled follicular cells (FLC; 24-h labeling) increased sluggishly to a maximum of 10% after 3 weeks of goitrogen exposure, with a subsequent autoregulatory decrease to 3% at 7 weeks. A 4-fold higher FLC was found in six adenomas, indicating focal failure of growth-restraining mechanisms. In nonconfluent monolayer cultures the FLC was as high as 90%, even within large individual clusters where cells are in tight mutual contact. Solid, highly cellular grafts growing from transplanted monodispersed cells showed an average FLC of 20%, which is 5 times higher than the FLC in the identically stimulated mouse thyroid. In collagen-embedded cells, forming three-dimensional spheroids, the mean FLC decreased from 70% at 1 week in vitro (40% in vivo) to 20% at 3 weeks both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting effective auto-regulation of excessive growth in both conditions. However, these FLC were again much higher than the 3% FLC in simultaneously assessed host thyroids. The difference remained throughout the 45-day period studied. We conclude that FRTL-5 cells growing as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids in vitro or after xenotransplantation in vivo invariably show much higher proliferation rates under comparable environmental conditions than the normal follicular epithelium in the thyroids of host mice. The one exception is the confluent monolayer with near-zero growth, while densely packed three-dimensional transplants still grow intensively. Although growth-retarding cell to cell interactions are also clearly operative in growing FRTL-5 cells, they are less effective than those dampening the replication rate of the thyrocytes within the monolayer hull of normal follicles. A local failure of these mechanisms, allowing growth rates comparable to those of grafted FRTL-5 cells results in adenoma formation in normal thyroids. These observations call for caution in the transfer of in vitro growth studies with FRTL-5 cells to in vivo conditions prevailing in the normal thyroid. 
Perinatal infection of human T-lymphotropic virus type I, the etiologic virus of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. DNA amplification of specific human T-lymphotropic virus type I sequences. A gene amplification technique, polymerase chain reaction, was used to detect human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I), the etiologic agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma, in mononuclear cells in peripheral blood and breast milk of ten HTLV-I carrier gravida. The DNA in umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells of the neonates born to the HTLV-I carrier gravida were also amplified and examined for the possibility of HTLV-I infection via placenta during pregnancy. The HTLV-I sequences were detected both in the peripheral blood and milk of all ten carrier gravida by Southern blot analysis of amplified DNA. However, HTLV-I proviral DNA could not be detected in the cord blood of the carriers' neonates, indicating that transplacental infection of HTLV-I should be rare and that postpartum infection via breast milk is a likely major perinatal transmission route. 
Use of Mohs micrographic surgery to establish quantitative proof of heightened tumor spread in basal cell carcinoma recurrent following radiotherapy. We compared 27 basal-cell carcinomas (BCCs) recurrent following radiotherapy and subsequently excised by Mohs micrographic surgery to a control group of BCCs recurrent following other treatment modalities and similarly excised. Mohs technique permitted precise, quantitative tumor assessment, obtained via a novel method utilizing three parameters: the number of surgical stages required for complete excision, the percentage increase between clinical preoperative tumor area and final postoperative defect area, and the presence of deep subcutaneous tissue invasion. Figures for the postradiation group were larger in all three categories, with the latter two revealing statistically significant differences versus the nonradiation group. This study gives strong, direct quantitative support to the clinical impression that BCC recurrent following radiotherapy is a uniquely aggressive, invasive subset of recurrent BCC. 
Mechanisms associated with the generation of biologically active human immunodeficiency virus type 1 particles from defective proviruses. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the etiological agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). HIV exhibits extensive genetic diversity and it is apparent that an infected individual contains different populations of distinct viral strains, a large proportion of which has been found surprisingly to be defective for replication. A similar phenomenon has also been observed with some cell lines that are known to produce infectious viral particles but harbor defective proviral genomes. Here, we investigated the molecular basis of this phenomenon by cloning proviral genomes of HIV from a cell line that was capable of producing high titers of biologically active HIV particles that readily induced syncytia with CD4+ cell lines and peripheral blood lymphocytes. This cell line was found to contain five proviral genomes, all of which, when tested individually, failed to produce replication-competent viruses upon transfection into human cells. However, when a specific combination of two proviral genomes was used in such transfection studies, it was possible to obtain biologically active, replication-competent viral particles that infected and replicated in CD4+ cell lines and induced syncytia characteristic of HIV. Such a result may be due to homologous recombination between proviral DNAs occurring in cells after transfection and/or complementation of replication-defective proviral DNAs. The diploid nature of the viral RNA genome present in the viral particle may enable the persistence of defective HIV genomes. 
Intraepithelial anchoring fibril components. Cultured human keratinocytes and cultured human cervical carcinoma cells (ME-180) contained intracellular pools of antigens that reacted with the anchoring fibril antibodies AF1 and AF2. In keratinocytes, these antigens formed a basement membrane-like structure near the apical portions of the cells. Using flow cytometric techniques, pretreatment of the ME-180 cells with acetone revealed large intracellular pools of antigen. The intracellular epitope was calcium sensitive. Some forms of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa have retention of intracellular portions of the anchoring fibril suggesting a relation of the intracellular anchoring fibril antigens to that disease. 
Expression of P-glycoprotein in adult T-cell leukemia cells. We have examined the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) samples from 25 patients. Based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against P-gp, C219, 8 of 20 ATL patients were P-gp positive at the initial presentation. All 6 patients at the relapsed stage were P-gp positive, and refractory to chemotherapy. The expression of MDR1 mRNA in P-gp-positive ATL cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient. P-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [3H]azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine, vinblastine and progesterone. These results suggest that P-gp expressed in ATL cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site(s) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells, and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy. 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome: prospective assessment of abdominal US in the localization of gastrinomas. The ability of abdominal ultrasound (US) to help localize gastrinomas was prospectively studied in 79 patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The results were assessed by means of laparotomy, autopsy, or percutaneous liver biopsy. For hepatic gastrinoma, US had a sensitivity of 63% and a specificity of 100%, with a positive predictive value of 100% and a negative predictive value of 89%. US was slightly less sensitive for detecting gastrinoma in the liver than were computed tomography (CT) (66%) and selective angiography (78%). For detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma, US had a sensitivity of 30%, a specificity of 94%, a positive predictive value of 100%, and a negative predictive value of 25%. US enabled detection of tumor in eight cases not detected with CT and in four not detected with angiography. Specificity for extrahepatic gastrinoma was similar for all three modalities (89%-95%). CT and US were equally effective for the detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma, and angiography was significantly more effective than both US and CT (P less than .01). The authors conclude that US, although of low sensitivity, remains useful as the initial imaging modality in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. 
Reconstructive and rehabilitative aspects of head and neck cancer in the elderly. Age should not be considered a contraindication to adequate head and neck oncologic surgery. Reconstructive efforts should be by the most direct means to attain restoration of form and function in one stage. The next significant breakthroughs in the battle against cancer may well come on the cellular or molecular level. We endorse the plea of Endicott for increased education and research directed at the problem of head and neck cancer and rehabilitation as they relate to the geriatric patient. 
Head and neck cancer and ageing: a retrospective study in 438 patients. To evaluate whether age over 70 years represents a prognostic factor in head and neck cancer, we reviewed all cases observed between 1981 and 1984. Four hundred and thirty-eight (438) patients were considered in relation to three age groups (less than or equal to 59, 60-69, and greater than or equal to 70 years, defined as non-elderly, mid-elderly and elderly respectively). The main parameters analyzed included histological diagnosis (no difference emerged among the three age groups); anatomical site (hypopharyngeal carcinoma was most frequent in non-elderly patients); TNM stage (an higher incidence of early stages was seen in the elderly); performance status (better in the non-elderly); previous illnesses (life-style related diseases were more frequent in the non-elderly); contraindications to surgery (more frequent in the elderly); surgical treatment ('en bloc' resections were more often employed in the non-elderly); post-operative complications and local control (no difference between the three groups); multiple primary malignancies (head and neck, oesophagus and lung were more frequent in non-elderly patients) and survival (no difference). Although age affects several features of head and neck cancer patients, it does not appear from the present study to be an independent prognostic factor for local control and survival. With regard to survival, stage appeared to be the most important prognostic factor. 
Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: prognostic value of DNA ploidy and post-recurrent survival. Eighty-six patients with non-small cell lung cancer who underwent curative operations were postoperatively randomized to control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups. In the adjuvant chemotherapy group, patients received cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy 3 or 4 weeks after operation and the average cycle of chemotherapy was 2.3 (from 1 to 6 cycles). In this trial, no evidence of improved survival or delayed recurrence was seen in the treated patients. In multivariate analysis of prognostic variables, the most important factor was the pathological stage of the disease and, second, DNA ploidy of the primary tumor. Although histology (squamous vs. non-squamous cell carcinoma) had a trend to influence the survival, it was not a significant factor. A total of 33 patients had recurrences: 17 and 16 patients were in control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups, respectively. Postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy group was significantly shorter than that in the control group, as determined by the generalized Wilcoxon and log rank tests. Median survival time after recurrence in the control and adjuvant therapy groups was 18.5 and 7.5 months, respectively. These results suggest that DNA ploidy of primary tumors should be considered as a prognostic factor in future trials of adjuvant therapy. Furthermore, analysis of postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy trial, as well as that of overall and disease-free survivals should be done. 
Bilateral renal cell carcinoma with metastasis to thyroid. A case of bilateral synchronous renal cell carcinomas with metastases to the regional lymph nodes and later to the thyroid gland was treated with aggressive surgical extirpation and adjuvant gamma interferon. The patient continues to have an excellent performance status sixteen months after initial diagnosis despite a large tumor burden at presentation. 
Influence of chromosomal integration on glucocorticoid-regulated transcription of growth-stimulating papillomavirus genes E6 and E7 in cervical carcinoma cells. In most cervical carcinoma cells the E6 and E7 genes of specific human papillomaviruses are transcribed from viral sequences integrated into host cell chromosomes. Glucocorticoids activate the promoter elements of various human papillomaviruses in transient-expression assays. We have analyzed the effect of dexamethasone on the transcription rate of human papillomavirus 18 E6 and E7 genes integrated at different chromosomal sites in four cervical cancer cell lines. Dexamethasone led to an increase in the transcription rate of the integrated E6-E7 sequences in C4-1 and C4-2 cells but led to a decrease in SW 756 cells and did not affect the transcription rate in HeLa cells. However, when the viral promoter elements derived from HeLa or SW 756 cells, in which dexamethasone does not activate transcription of the integrated E6-E7 sequences, were tested in transient-expression assays within the same cell lines, dexamethasone consistently activated the viral promoter. It thus appears that dominant regulatory mechanisms presumably depending on the chromosomal integration site are able to override the response of the viral promoter to steroid hormones. The growth rate of all dexamethasone-treated cell lines correlated consistently with the expression of the papillomavirus E6 and E7 genes, supporting their role in the maintenance of the proliferative phenotype of cervical carcinoma cells. Since human papillomaviruses are integrated into the host cell genome at variable, presumably randomly selected chromosomal loci, regulatory mechanisms that influence viral gene expression, and hence cell growth, may differ among cancers of independent clonal origin. 
Long-term effects of radiotherapy in childhood and adolescence. The records of 50 selected pediatric patients who were treated and followed at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center were reviewed to study the late effects of nonsurgical treatment of cancer in children. There were 26 girls and 24 boys ranging in age between 2 months and 16 years. Patients with head and neck cancer received chemotherapy and radiotherapy for rhabdomyosarcoma (n = 27), retinoblastoma (n = 8), or nasopharynx cancer (n = 2). Median follow-up was 13 years. The most severe side effects were noted in the fields of radiation and included hypoplasia of the jaw, orbit, or hemi-face with varying degrees of atrophy of the overlying soft tissues. A wide range of endocrine, dental, and psychologic abnormalities was also documented. Since 1 in every 1,000 adults older than 20 years today is likely to be a survivor of childhood cancer, recommendations are made for this "new" class of patients whom the head and neck surgeon will be seeing in the future. 
T-cell lymphoma and mature nephroblastoma after synchronous bilateral Wilms' tumor. A 15-year-old boy had lymphoblastic lymphoma of the left tonsil after being treated for bilateral Wilms' tumor (BWT) at 7 months of age. In addition, a fully differentiated Wilms' tumor was diagnosed in the remaining, partially nephrectomized left kidney. Development of second malignancies in patients with a history of BWT, as compared with those with unilateral Wilms' tumor, is discussed. A possible explanation for the concurrently diagnosed, fully differentiated Wilms' tumor in the remaining left kidney is suggested. 
Endobronchial carcinoid and mucoepidermoid carcinoma in children. Endobronchial neoplastic disease is rarely encountered in patients under 20 years of age. The great majority of these lesions are carcinoids or mucoepidermoid carcinoma. Symptoms are secondary to bronchial irritation and manifest as recurrent pneumonitis, hemoptysis, persistent cough, reactive airway disease, and chest pain. Early bronchoscopy reliably enables identification and may prevent harmful sequelae resulting from delay in diagnosis. Retrospective data from four cases collected from the Tumor Registry in the Southern California Kaiser Permanente Medical Group is presented and a review of the literature is discussed. 
The role of elective lymph node dissection in the management of patients with thick cutaneous melanoma. A retrospective search of patients seen at the Duke Melanoma Clinic from 1970 to 1986 identified 308 clinically Stage I patients, with 4.0 to 10.0 mm cutaneous melanomas. Five-year and ten-year survival was 56% and 43%, respectively. Elective lymph node dissection (ELND) was done in 116 patients (37.7%); there was no difference in disease-free interval (DFI) or survival between these patients versus patients treated with wide excision only (P = 0.9). Thirty-two patients (27.6%) had pathologically positive nodes on ELND. These patients had a shorter DFI (P = 0.05) and survival (P = 0.03) compared with patients with negative node dissections. When further divided by Breslow's thickness, this difference persisted in patients with 4.0 to 6.0 mm lesions (P = 0.01). However, for thicker lesions (greater than 6.0 mm), there was no difference in survival between the node-negative and node-positive groups (P = 0.9). The mean follow-up was 7.1 years. Elective lymph node dissection was not done in 192 patients; 78 of these recurred first in the regional nodes. These 78 patients were compared with the 32 patients who had pathologically positive nodes by ELND to see if patient survival was improved by early removal of nodal disease. There was no difference in DFI (P = 0.5) or survival (P = 0.3) between these two groups. It is concluded that ELND may provide prognostic information for patients with thick cutaneous melanomas. However, there was no change in DFI or ultimate survival when patients were followed, and nodes removed when clinically positive. The authors do not recommend ELND for patients with thick melanomas because the risk of distant metastases outweighs any benefit of regional node dissection. 
Clinical application of ras gene mutation for diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Most pancreatic adenocarcinomas are known to have ras gene (oncogene) mutations. The site of the mutations is localized in codon 12 of K-ras gene. Such high incidence and localization of the ras gene mutations have not been observed in any other human malignancies. Polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing method enabled us to analyze DNA sequence around codon 12 of K-ras gene in small quantities of specimens obtained from needle biopsies and aspirate samples for pathological diagnosis. All the materials obtained from 12 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma showed the mutations, whereas those obtained from 6 patients with chronic pancreatitis showed no mutations. In several cases using the mutations of K-ras gene as a marker, this analysis supplemented conventional pathology and cytology in making the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The analysis of ras-gene mutations was useful for the clinical diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. 
Acoustic schwannoma and epidermoid cyst occurring as a single cerebellopontine angle mass. The case of a 66-year-old man with a 3-year progressive hearing loss and a homogeneous left cerebellopontine angle mass on magnetic resonance imaging scan is described. At surgery, the major portion of the mass was a typical encapsulated, solid, acoustic schwannoma, but the most rostral portion was a distinct, flaky, cystic mass without a well-defined capsule, typical of an epidermoid cyst. The radiographic and operative findings of this unique coexistence of two different benign cerebellopontine angle masses are presented. 
Characterization of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the rat pancreas. Nodules of acinar cells with increased proliferative potential develop in the pancreas of carcinogen-treated rats and in untreated aged rats. Large nodules are classed as adenomas. Phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of nodule cells were compared with normal pancreas and transplantable acinar cell carcinomas by several methods. Nuclei of acinar cells from normal pancreas, adenomas, and three carcinomas in situ had normal diploid DNA content as determined by flow cytometry. One of two primary carcinomas had a hypodiploid DNA content. Two of three transplantable carcinomas were aneuploid with a DNA content in the tetraploid range. Explants from nodules and adenomas failed to grow in soft agar, whereas several carcinomas were positive in this assay. A primary carcinoma was serially transplanted, but transplantation of nodules or adenomas failed. Transfection of DNA from carcinomas in situ yielded a higher frequency of NIH 3T3 transformants than DNA from adenomas. DNAs from the transformants did not contain ras sequences. These studies indicate that cells from nodules and adenomas have low growth potential and lack critical phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of transformed malignant cells that were present in some primary and transplanted carcinomas. 
Cloning and expression of cDNAs for two distinct murine tumor necrosis factor receptors demonstrate one receptor is species specific. Complementary DNA clones encoding two distinct tumor necrosis factor receptors were isolated from a mouse macrophage cDNA library. The cDNA for murine tumor necrosis factor receptor type 1 (mTNF-R1) predicts a mature polypeptide of 425 amino acids that is 64% identical to its human counterpart, whereas the cDNA of murine tumor necrosis factor receptor type 2 (mTNF-R2) predicts a mature protein of 452 amino acids that is 62% identical to human tumor necrosis factor receptor type 2. The two murine tumor necrosis factor receptors have limited sequence homology (approximately 20% identity) in their extracellular regions but no apparent similarity in their cytoplasmic portions. Northern (RNA) analysis indicates a single 2.6-kilobase (kb) transcript for mTNF-R1; a 3.6-kb and a more predominant 4.5-kb transcript are observed for mTNF-R2. A human cell line transfected with either mTNF-R1 or mTNF-R2 expression vectors specifically bound 125I-labeled recombinant murine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Although mTNF-R1 had a similar affinity for both recombinant murine TNF-alpha and human TNF-alpha, mTNF-R2 showed strong specificity for recombinant murine TNF-alpha. This result suggests that the various activities of human tumor necrosis factor alpha reported in mice or in murine cell lines are probably mediated by mTNF-R1. 
Changing cancer care in the 1990s and the cost. Progress in cancer research in the 1980s has led to predictions of a technologic explosion in the 1990s. Yet, with this progress there has been a groundswell of protest at the rapidly escalating costs of health care. More than $600 billion was spent on health care in 1989 and estimates of $1.5 trillion are made for the year 2000. Repeated attempts at cost containment have failed. It has been suggested that only by retarding technologic advances will we be able to control costs. Many observers believe that rationing of health care is the only solution, but new technology not only improves cancer care, it often decreases cost. It is not rational to retard advances that may later reduce costs, nor is it humane to retard advances that improve care, even if they cost more. In identifying priorities we should begin with the principle that treatments be restricted to clinical trials unless they have been demonstrated to prolong survival or improve the quality of life. If the payers reimburse procedures in an investigative setting, they will be on firm ground when they deny support for those same procedures outside an investigative setting. This is both an ethical and a fiscally responsible position for the third parties to take. It will not be easy for the profession or for the payers to deal with these problems. Public education and patient education will be key elements of any solution. Shifting the blame from politician to payer to professional will only make the problems worse. 
Prognostic variables in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma treated with MACOP-B. One hundred twenty-six patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma were treated with methotrexate with leucovorin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (MACOP-B) between April 1981 and June 1986. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using overall survival as of September 1989 as the end point. Four independent negative predictors of survival were identified: presence of B symptoms; more than two involved lymph node sites; more than one extranodal site (variables related to tumor burden), and age older than 60, a variable related to the patient's ability to tolerate treatment. Each variable contributed the same relative risk of dying and, accordingly, this simple predictive formula was developed empirically: (4-N) x 30 = the approximate percentage of chance of survival at 5 years. "N" is the number of predictive variables present. The same four predictors were also found to be significant by multivariate analysis when only those patients achieving a complete response were analyzed. 
Mixed form, diffusely scattered calcifications in breast cancer with apocrine features Diffusely scattered calcifications visible with mammography are almost always benign. Certain patterns, however, should arouse concern. For example, extensive comedocarcinoma is associated with large areas of mammographically visible calcium deposition. The authors identified 10 women in whom calcifications were visible throughout large volumes of breast tissue at mammography. The calcifications did not resemble those typical of extensive comedocarcinoma, yet they were associated with extensive breast cancer. Their mammographic pattern was characterized by a strikingly wild, chaotic appearance with profuse deposition of calcium. As in many cancers, the particles were heterogeneous, but unlike in most carcinomas, many deposits had a typically benign morphology. Histologic examination showed that even these typically benign calcifications were associated with malignant cells. The authors believe that the apocrine features displayed by many of the cancer cells in these 10 patients may explain the unusual profusion of calcium deposits. 
Prognostic significance of type IV collagen and laminin immunoreactivity in urothelial carcinomas of the bladder. Invasion of a carcinoma involves the degradation and penetration of the subepithelial basement membrane (BM). This phenomenon might be used for histopathologic evaluation of neoplasms of the bladder. The authors studied the clinicopathologic data and tissue specimens of 125 cases of urothelial carcinomas collected prospectively. Penetration of the BM was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining of the BM components laminin and type IV collagen. The use of this parameter as a prognostic indicator in bladder cancer was assessed. The 5-year survival rate of patients having tumors with an interrupted or absent BM was significantly lower than that of patients having tumors with an intact BM. The rate of progression was greater in tumors with an interrupted or absent BM than in tumors with an intact BM. No association was found between BM status and recurrence. However, a significant correlation between tumor stage and BM staining was found. A correlation was also found between ploidy and BM staining as well as between histologic grade and BM staining pattern. When evaluating histologic grade, stage, ploidy, age, and BM score as prognostic parameters, the stage of bladder carcinomas turned out to be the most important factor in predicting the survival rate and the progression-free survival. However, BM staining was found to be of value for early identification of microinvasion and is helpful for correct staging of urothelial carcinomas. 
The beta globin 3' enhancer element confers regulated expression on the human gamma globin gene in the human embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia cell line K562. We have constructed fusion genes comprised of gamma and beta globin elements and globin sequences linked to neomycin resistance (neoR) genes to define the cis acting sequences responsible for developmental stage-specific expression and induction of fetal globin genes in embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia K562 cells. The results indicate that the gamma promoter is required for proper initiation of transcription. However, the accumulation of gamma globin transcripts in response to hemin induction requires the additional presence of either gamma intervening sequence 2 or the 3' enhancer element of the beta globin gene. Thus, the gamma promoter may provide the elements for developmental stage-specific gene expression during fetal life. By contrast, the beta 3' enhancer is erythroid-specific but not developmental stage- or gene-specific. 
Isolated primary aldosteronism in a patient with adrenal carcinoma and XY/XXY mosaic Klinefelter's syndrome. Although breast cancer, germ cell tumors and other neoplasms are known to occur in patients with Klinefelter's syndrome, adrenal carcinoma has not yet been reported in such patients. We describe a rare case of severe primary aldosteronism as the unique manifestation of a large adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient with Klinefelter's syndrome. Complete biological and hormonal evaluation was performed. Surgical treatment was successful and the patient remained asymptomatic with normal biological and hormonal values after 1 year of followup. 
Indium-labeled anti-colorectal carcinoma monoclonal antibody accumulation in non-tumored tissue in patients with colorectal carcinoma. Indium-111- (111In) labeled murine monoclonal antibodies ZCE 025 (against carcinoembryonic antigen) and CYT-103 MAb B72.3 (against tumor-associated glycoprotein - 72) have been used to image patients with colorectal cancers with encouraging results. The objectives of this study were to assess the frequency and causes of 111In MAb localization in tumor-free, benign tissues. Thus, scans of 75 patients who have undergone exploratory surgery following radioimmunoscintigraphy with 111In-ZCE 025 (n = 37) or 111In-CYT-103 (n = 38) were reviewed in conjunction with operative and histopathology reports. Localization in non-tumored tissues was seen in 10.8% and 13.1%, respectively, of patients receiving ZCE 025 and CYT-103. The most common sites involved were: degenerative joint disease, abdominal aneurysms, postoperative bowel adhesions, and local inflammatory changes secondary to surgery or external irradiation. Review of patients' medical history and results of concurrent diagnostic modalities is likely to lessen the false-positive rate of 111In-labeled MAb scan interpretation. 
Effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy. Six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a Malthus Microbiological Growth Analyser. The mean (SD) volumes inoculated into sets in which one, two, or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 (10.1) ml, 37.4 (12.9) ml, and 37.7 (10.5) ml, respectively. Overall, clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures, from two bottles only with 19 cultures, and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures. If the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100%, the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7% and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6%. The increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients, which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia. The isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is, however, particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested. 
Management of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. The management of soft tissue sarcomas has undergone and continues to undergo important changes. The purpose of this report is to review the presentation, diagnosis, and natural history of soft tissue sarcomas. In so doing, the importance of a careful and rigorous method of evaluation will be emphasized. Furthermore, the results of multidisciplinary treatment, with a goal towards limb salvage, will be reviewed. With appropriate and timely intervention, selected patients with pulmonary metastases may still experience long-term survival. Throughout this review, the importance of early and continuing multidisciplinary treatment and evaluation will be emphasized. 
A prospective randomized comparison of protracted infusional 5-fluorouracil with or without weekly bolus cisplatin in metastatic colorectal carcinoma. A Mid-Atlantic Oncology Program study. One hundred eighty-four patients with advanced measurable colorectal cancer not previously treated with chemotherapy were entered into a prospective randomized clinical trial by the Mid-Atlantic Oncology Program (MAOP) to assess the value of weekly cisplatin (20 mg/m2) when added to a protracted schedule of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) infusion (PIF) at 300 mg/m2/d for 10 weeks of every 12 weeks. The liver was the primary indicator lesion in approximately 75% of the study group. All tumor measurements required radiographic confirmation. The response rate in the PIF alone arm was 35% (29 of 83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 25% to 46%) compared with 33% (28 of 85; 95% CI, 23% to 44%) for the arm in which weekly cisplatin was added to PIF. The median survival times were 11.8 and 11.2 months in the two groups. Weekly cisplatin does not appear to add to the effectiveness of PIF in colorectal carcinoma. 
Deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata. Preliminary report on 42 invasive vulvar carcinomas. Forty-two patients with primary invasive vulvar carcinoma were treated with radical vulvectomy and deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata and cribriform fascia. The rationale for using this technique was based on anatomic knowledge of the topographic distribution of groin lymph nodes, which was confirmed by the study of 50 cadavers. The preliminary data show that the number of superficial and deep femoral lymph nodes removed from the 42 patients (mean number of nodes, 20; range, 8-32) was similar to the number reported in anatomy books. In addition, the five-year actuarial survival rate, 70%, was comparable to that in the literature. These preliminary results suggest that the surgical technique used in this study is as radical an oncologic procedure as Way's classic groin lymphadenectomy, which consists of removing the fascia lata and cribriform fascia. 
Psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer. There is a plethora of studies investigating psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer, its correlates, clinical course, and prognosis. These studies have been conducted with varying degrees of methodologic rigor. An assessment has been made of the quality of this existing evidence to identify from the best evidence the factors which predict the adjustment status of women with breast cancer. Studies have been reviewed, using methodologic standards for the critical appraisal of studies on prognosis, developed by Sackett and colleagues in the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics at McMaster University (Hamilton, Ontario, Canada). Few of the studies investigating psychosocial adjustment of women with breast cancer meet all of the criteria for reviewing studies of clinical course and prognosis. This review focuses the direction and methodologic rigor required in future investigations. In particular, studies are needed that employ prospective designs and that deliberately measure or control for the extraneous prognostic variables that may affect adjustment. Future investigations need to incorporate adequate precision in measurement so that measures of the psychosocial variables are objective, reliable, and valid. 
Impact of anatomical radical prostatectomy on urinary continence. Urinary continence following an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy was evaluated in 593 consecutive patients, 547 (92%) of whom achieved complete urinary control. Stress incontinence was present in 46 patients (8%), of whom 34 (6%) wore 1 or fewer pads per day and 2 (0.3%) required placement of an artificial sphincter. No patient was totally incontinent. Age, weight of the prostate, prior transurethral resection of the prostate, pathological stage and preservation or wide excision of the neurovascular bundles had no significant influence on preservation of urinary control. These data suggest that anatomical factors rather than preservation of autonomic innervation may be responsible for the improved urinary control associated with an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy. 
Multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas: treatment and follow-up. A second primary bronchogenic carcinoma subsequently developed 8 to 156 months later in 19 patients who underwent curative resection of primary bronchogenic carcinomas. The second primary tumor was treated by surgical resection in 9 patients, 3 patients' tumors were considered unresectable, and the remaining 7 patients, despite having potentially resectable tumors, did not undergo resection because of insufficient pulmonary reserve or unwillingness to undergo resection. Actuarial life-table analysis of survival for the 9 patients who underwent resection showed a median survival time of 110.3 months compared with 19 months for the group with unresected but resectable tumors and 10.5 months for the group with unresectable tumors. There was no operative mortality in the group with resected tumors. We conclude that in patients in whom a second primary carcinoma of the lung develops, surgical resection prolongs survival and can be performed with a low operative mortality. 
Effect of suramin on human prostate cancer cells in vitro. Suramin, a polyanionic compound with known antiparasitic activity, has been shown to be adrenocorticolytic in primates and to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of patients with metastatic prostate cancer refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation. To better characterize the activity of suramin on prostate cancer biology, we studied the effect of the drug on plasma adrenal androgens of patients and on the human prostate adenocarcinoma cell lines PC-3, DU 145 and LNCaP-FGC. Five cancer patients treated with suramin had an approximate 40% decline in circulating androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels. The drug inhibited the colony formation in two of the three cell lines at concentrations clinically achievable in humans without excessive drug-related toxicity. The presence of suramin 300 micrograms./ml. partially inhibited the growth stimulatory effect of testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor, but not that of epidermal growth factor. The cellular concentration of suramin following exposure to a single dose increases linearly over time in each of the cell lines with LNCaP-FGC accumulating the highest levels of the drug; cellular levels of suramin, not androgen or growth factor sensitivity, correlated with the sensitivity to the drug. The concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase and prostatic specific antigen released by LNCaP-FGC cells in cell culture medium declined in the presence of increasing levels of suramin in a manner which exceeded the decrease in cell number. We conclude that suramin, aside from decreasing circulating androgens through its adrenocorticolytic effect, is also capable exerting a direct inhibitory effect on cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells, and interfere at a cellular level with the growth stimulatory effects of exogenous testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor. 
Juvenile (embryonal and alveolar) rhabdomyosarcoma of the head and neck in adults. A clinical, pathologic, and immunohistochemical study of 12 cases. Sites in the head and neck region (orbit, nasopharynx, nasal cavity, etc.) are among the most frequent locations for juvenile (embryonal and alveolar) rhabdomyosarcomas in patients younger than 15 years; however, comparable neoplasms in adults are very uncommon. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 12 juvenile rhabdomyosarcomas in patients between the ages of 18 and 36 years is presented. There was a female:male ratio of 2:1. The orbit with or without contiguous paranasal sinus involvement, nasal cavity, sphenoid sinus, middle ear, and soft tissues of the neck and preauricular region were the primary sites. Seven tumors involved a parameningeal site and eight cases were alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas which together contributed to the adverse outcome. Only two patients were long-term, disease-free survivors. Six patients have died of tumor and two others are alive with persistent disease. Immunohistochemical study in 11 cases demonstrated reactivity for vimentin and muscle-specific actin (HHF-35) and desmin in ten cases. Juvenile rhabdomyosarcoma rarely presents in the head and neck of adults but should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a small cell neoplasm in patients during the third and fourth decades of life. 
The value of radioimmunoguided surgery in first and second look laparotomy for colorectal cancer. Radioimmunoguided surgery (RIGS) using an anti-CEA (A5B7) monoclonal antibody has been assessed in 52 patients (43 primary excisions and nine second look procedures) undergoing surgery for colorectal carcinoma. The antibody localized in 97.8 percent of primary tumours and in 88.8 percent of the principal tumor in second look procedures. Additional information concerning the extent of primary tumor was obtained in 11 of 43 patients (25.5 percent) undergoing excision of primary carcinoma and five of nine patients (55 percent) in the second look series. Incorrect information was obtained about the extent of the primary tumour in six patients (11.3 percent), whereas no incorrect information was obtained during second look procedures. RIGS correctly predicted the subsequent Dukes' staging in 77 percent of first look cases (sensitivity 65 percent, specificity 90 percent), although accurate identification of individual nodes was impossible. The technique influenced the surgical procedure performed in 2 of 43 cases (4.6 percent) in primary surgery and in three of nine patients undergoing second look laparotomy (33 percent). RIGS in primary colorectal carcinoma may provide additional information concerning extent of locally advanced tumors in particular and the principle that the subsequent surgery may be influenced has been established. The technique appears to have a greater role in second look procedures where it may help determine the extent of recurrent tumour. Larger follow-up series are required to define how the additional information provided by this technique may best be exploited. 
A standard dose of radiation for "microscopic disease" is not appropriate. Elective irradiation of sites of potential occult tumor spread is often part of a patient's radiation therapy program. The required radiation dose (D) depends on the probability that occult disease exists (P(occ)), the number of sites at risk (A), the number of tumor clonogens present (Ni), their radiation sensitivity, and the desired control rate. An exponential model of cell survival is used to quantify the importance of these factors. Control Probability = [1 - Pocc x (1 - e-Ni x (SF2)D/2)]A; SF2 = surviving fraction after 2 Gy. Implications for clinical radiation therapy include: 1. Since the number of clonogens in an occult site may vary from 10 degrees to 10(8), Ni is the major determinant of the required dose. The intrinsic radiation sensitivity of the clonogens (SF2) is also extremely important in determining the dose. Other factors are less influential since they vary less. 2. The variability of Ni (8 logs) is larger than the variation in cell number seen with gross disease (1 cm3 versus 1000 cm3, 3 logs). When Ni approximately 10(8), the required dose approaches that needed for small volume gross disease (10(9) cells, 1 cm3). 3. The dose prescribed to elective sites should reflect the risk of occult disease based on the primary tumor site, stage, and grade. 4. Regions where clinicoradiologic evaluation is difficult (e.g., pelvis and obese neck) require higher doses because macroscopic tumor deposits may exist. 5. Relatively low doses (10 to 30 Gy) are often thought to be inadequate for microscopic tumor. However, similar doses have been reported to sterilize microscopic tumor in ovarian, rectal, bladder, breast, and head and neck carcinomas. Relatively low doses should not be discounted since they may be useful in select cases when normal tissue tolerances and/or previous irradiation treatment limit the radiation dose. 
Cutaneous melanoma and bilateral retinoblastoma. We report the case of an otherwise healthy 37-year-old man who had had bilateral enucleation during early childhood for bilateral retinoblastomas, in addition to two cutaneous melanomas (the first appearing at age 27 years). He also had dysplastic melanocytic nevi and a history of cutaneous melanoma in his mother. Retinoblastoma may aggregate in families and is associated with DNA abnormalities of chromosome 13. Recent reports have emphasized the appearance of second malignancies in retinoblastoma survivors. The second malignancies include osteosarcoma, soft tissue sarcoma, and cutaneous melanoma. Cutaneous melanoma also may aggregate in families, usually in the setting of dysplastic melanocytic nevi. The features of this case and of similar reported cases suggest that there may be a greater than expected association between retinoblastoma and cutaneous melanoma. 
Proliferation and DNA ploidy in malignant breast tumors in relation to early oral contraceptive use and early abortions. In 175 premenopausal breast cancer patients, a history of oral contraceptive (OC) use before 20 years of age was significantly associated with higher tumor cell proliferative activity, as indicated by a higher S-phase fraction (SPF), and a higher fraction of DNA aneuploid tumors, compared with later or never users (P = 0.05 and p = 0.01, respectively). The higher SPF among early OC users was apparent in patients with aneuploid tumors but not in patients with euploid tumors. Abortions (spontaneous or induced) before the first full-term pregnancy also were associated with a higher SPF compared with other young patients with breast cancer (P = 0.03). Adjusting for parity and abortions or OC use, respectively, an early OC use was associated with a 43% higher SPF and early abortions were associated with 49% higher SPF. Younger patients had a higher SPF and a higher frequency of aneuploid tumors, but this was found to be because the users of OC had a lower median age at diagnosis. Among never users, no significant age relationship was seen for SPF or the frequency of aneuploidy. For the DNA analyses there is a selection of patients with breast cancer with larger tumors, and therefore the conclusions drawn in this article may not be generalizable to patients with smaller primary tumors, e.g., cases diagnosed at breast cancer screening. The higher tumor proliferative activity and frequency of aneuploidy in early OC users are in line with previously reported findings of worse prognostic indicators and a worse survival in early users of OC compared with other young women with breast cancer. 
Surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly: a case control study. Surgical wound infection occurs in fewer than 5% of operations. Nevertheless, it represents the second most common type of hospital-acquired infection and results in increased morbidity and mortality. As with all nosocomial infections, the rate of surgical wound infection increases with age. Patients over 65 years of age run an approximately 15% risk of surgical wound infection. Two-thirds of patients with invasive cancer other than non-melanotic skin cancer are aged 65 years and over. Over half of them are treated surgically for their cancer. Cancer and other chronic diseases have been cited as possible causes of the increased risk of nosocomial infection among the elderly. Using the Foothills Hospital Wound Study Data Base as the sampling frame, we conducted a case-control study of surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly. Cancer was found not to be a risk factor for surgical wound infection. The results are discussed in relation to the role of immunity in both disorders. 
Prostate specific antigen for assessing response to ketoconazole and prednisone in patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. Serial prostate specific antigen levels were assessed in 15 patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer treated with ketoconazole and prednisone. Of the men 12 (80%) with continually increasing prostate specific antigen levels before treatment had a decrease in prostate specific antigen with a median duration of response of 3 months. Three patients (20%) had a prolonged response (greater than or equal to 8 months) as seen by a persistently decreasing prostate specific antigen and improvement in bone pain. There appears to be a small subgroup of patients with progressive prostate cancer despite androgen ablation who will benefit from ketoconazole and glucocorticoid treatment. The use of serial prostate specific antigen levels appears to help define this subgroup and avoid the need for multiple radiological procedures to assess response. 
Tumors of the shoulder girdle. Technique of resection and description of a surgical classification. Limb-sparing surgery is safe and reliable for most bone and soft-tissue tumors of the shoulder girdle. Eighty to ninety percent of patients with high-grade sarcomas of the shoulder can be safely treated by the various surgical techniques described. Attention must be paid to appropriate patient selection, preoperative staging, and planning. In addition, careful skeletal and muscular reconstruction of the surgical defect is necessary for a successful outcome. A new, universal, classification schemata (types I-VI) of shoulder girdle resections has been developed. This classification system is based on the bones resected, the status of the abductor mechanism, and the relationship to the glenohumeral joint. This system permits easy description and comparison of the various limb-sparing procedures performed. 
Comparison of methods for checking surgical margins. Surgical margins of a cutaneous neoplasm can be evaluated by various combinations of three major types of sections: vertical (perpendicular), horizontal (parallel), and oblique (Mohs method). Vertical sections may run transversely through tumor (breadloaf method), longitudinally through tumor (breadloaf-cross method), or peripheral to the tumor. The peripheral (perimeter) sectioning methods are the only methods that can evaluate almost 100% of the margin, but they have the disadvantage of not showing the relationship of the tumor to its margin, which can be seen clearly with the vertical transverse sections. Seven methods of checking surgical margins are compared and contrasted. None of these is judged to be perfect or best. 
Adenomatous polyp of the fallopian tube. A case report. Benign epithelial lesions of the fallopian tube are rare. An adenomatous polyp of the fallopian tube was discovered incidentally at laparotomy. 
Autograft versus allograft for benign lesions in children. Benign bone lesions in children are often so large in size that there is not an adequate amount of bone available for an autograft to fill the resultant cavity after surgical curettage. This study compared autografts and allografts with respect to the time required and the success of graft incorporation. Fifty-four patients with 61 lesions were studied. Lesions were classified as small volume (less than 60 cc) or large volume (more than 60 cc) and were separated into four groups: small-volume autograft, large-volume autograft, small-volume allograft, and large-volume allograft. Allografts appeared comparable to autografts when small-volume lesions were treated. The healing time was slightly longer for allografts with an average period of 21 months versus 27 months for autografts. Autografts were superior to allografts in rate and completeness of healing for solitary large lesions. This increased efficacy presumes a somewhat older child in which an adequate amount of bone is available for an autograft. A young child with multicentric or polyostotic lesions can still achieve successful incorporation with allografts. In this study, 38% healed completely and 29% healed partially. Allografts have a distinct place in the treatment of benign bone lesions in children. 
Treatment of manifest and impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck by cemented hemiarthroplasty. Thirty-four patients with manifest or impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck were treated between 1971 and 1987. Breast carcinoma was the primary tumor in the majority of patients. All patients were treated with cemented hemiarthroplasty. Twenty-seven patients (79%) could walk at an average of nine days postoperatively. All patients experienced relief of pain. Two superficial wound dehiscences, one loosening of the prosthesis, and two prosthetic dislocations were encountered. Mean survival was 17.6 months overall (12 months for manifest fractures and 40 months for impending fractures). These results indicate that cemented hemiarthroplasty for pathologic fractures is a safe procedure resulting in long-lasting palliation without necessitating postoperative irradiation. The importance of tumor excochleation and the advantages of bone cement are emphasized. 
Initial results with slightly modified Kock pouch. My initial experience with 20 patients undergoing Kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed. The procedure has been slightly modified from that described by Kock and Skinner. All patients have been followed for at least four months (median, 33 months). There have been no early complications related to the pouch. The most significant problem, incontinence, has occurred in 2 patients (10%) at three and four months, respectively, after surgery. Only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance. Leakage was due, in both cases, to a patulous efferent nipple valve. Both were repaired by plication of the nipple, and no new efferent limbs were constructed. In 1 patient (5%) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery. Stones have developed in 3 patients (15%). All patients are currently continent and stone-free, and all are pleased with the result. 
A chance to cut is a chance to cure? Fifty-seven patients underwent local excision of an invasive distal rectal cancer as an initial operative procedure with curative intent. Five-year survival was 82.5%, and the rectal cancer specific mortality rate was only 10.5%. The level of wall invasion, vascular permeation, tumor ulceration, mobility, and differentiation were the criteria studied for prognosis. Poor prognostic factors included mucinous cell differentiation and full thickness invasion, and in these cases, abdominoperineal resection was recommended. None of the 27 patients without these adverse prognostic factors died from rectal cancer. The other factors did not appear to influence the outcome, and local excision of distal rectal cancer would be the treatment of choice in such selected patients. 
Incidence and survival rates of children and young adults with osteogenic sarcoma. Gender-specific and race-specific incidence and survival rates of osteogenic sarcoma over a 14-year period are presented for persons aged 0 to 24 years from eight Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) registries. They were no significant gender or racial differences in age at diagnosis. There was no significant gender difference in overall incidence. Although incidence rates were slightly higher in blacks compared with whites, the difference was not significant after controlling for multiple comparisons. Females (median, 74 months) survived longer than males (median, 29 months), although this difference weakened after controlling for stage. No racial differences in survival were observed. White females survived the longest (median, 94 months), followed by black females (median, 41 months), black males (median, 34 months), and white males (median, 29 months). This striking difference in survival should be explored more fully. 
Detection of duodenal gastrinomas by operative endoscopic transillumination. A prospective study. The ability of operative endoscopic transillumination of the bowel wall to detect duodenal gastrinoma was evaluated prospectively in 26 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The results were assessed by exploratory laparotomy and compared with the results of other localization techniques. Twelve duodenal gastrinomas were resected from 10 patients. Operative endoscopic transillumination detected 10 of the 12 gastrinomas, a sensitivity of 83%, which was significantly greater (P less than 0.05) than that for either preoperative imaging (25%) or intraoperative ultrasonography and palpation (42%). The sensitivity of operative endoscopic transillumination was a result of the ability to detect focal areas that did not transilluminate on the serosal side of the duodenum, and not the mucosal appearances seen through the endoscope, which were not helpful. Operative endoscopic transillumination detected gastrinomas less than 1 cm in diameter throughout the duodenum. Of the patients in this study, 39% had duodenal gastrinomas, a greater frequency than previously reported. These results indicate that operative endoscopic transillumination is the most sensitive technique yet described for detecting duodenal gastrinomas and should be performed routinely in all patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome who undergo exploratory laparotomy for cure. 
Unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid. An unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported. No such case has been reported in the literature. A possible explanation is offered. 
Small nodular lesions in the lung periphery: new approach to diagnosis with CT. To evaluate relationships between lesions in the lung periphery and surrounding structures, particularly vessels and bronchi, axial multiplanar reconstruction (AMPR) computed tomography (CT) was used to study 26 patients who underwent surgical resection of pulmonary nodules less than 3 cm in diameter. Findings at AMPR CT, conventional CT, and digital radiographic tomography were compared with findings obtained at evaluation of the resected specimen with regard to the ability to display the relationships between vessels, bronchi, and lesions. AMPR CT was significantly superior to conventional CT and digital radiographic tomography in detecting involvement of pulmonary vessels (P less than .001). Involvement of pulmonary veins was seen in all lung cancers, whereas such involvement was seen in only one of eight nonneoplastic lesions. Thus, involvement of pulmonary veins is strongly suggestive of malignancy. AMPR CT permits three-dimensional visualization and morphologic assessment of pulmonary nodules. 
Endoscopic biopsy has limited accuracy in diagnosis of ampullary tumors. Endoscopic biopsy specimens and surgically resected specimens in a collective series of 78 Japanese patients with ampullary tumor were retrospectively reviewed to investigate the clinical implications of endoscopic biopsy. Endoscopic biopsy specimens were classified into five groups based on the degree of epithelial atypia: group 1 (no atypia), group 2 (mild atypia), group 3 (moderate atypia or adenoma), group 4 (severe atypia or carcinoma in situ), and group 5 (invasive carcinoma). Final diagnosis of the 78 resected ampullary tumors was adenoma in five cases, carcinoma in 27 cases, and both adenoma and carcinoma in 46 cases. Biopsy accuracy of carcinoma (group 4 or 5) was 70% (51 of 73) overall in 73 carcinoma cases. Biopsy accuracy was 50% (7 of 14) in the intramural protruding type, 64% (21 of 33) in the exposed protruding type, and 88% (23 of 26) in the ulcerating type. The diagnostic accuracy of adenoma (group 3) was 80% (4 of 5) in five cases of ampullary adenoma. In 18 (25%) of the 73 carcinoma cases, biopsy diagnosis was adenoma (group 3), whereas carcinoma was found in the deeper layers of surgically resected specimens. Biopsy diagnosis of adenoma does not rule out the possibility of deeper carcinoma in ampullary tumors. 
Ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass. Patients presenting with a right iliac fossa (RIF) mass are a diagnostic problem. The objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound (US) in their investigation. A prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected RIF mass was examined by US and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis. There was a positive finding in 34 patients (68%). Ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 (97%) and was able to guide the patients' further management. In 12 cases no abnormality was found in the RIF, of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy. In four cases the findings were due to normal variants. Ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a RIF mass. 
Fine-needle aspiration in hepatocellular carcinoma. Combined cytologic and histologic approach. Cytologic features of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not been well documented. Most previous reports described only the the morphologic features of the tumor cells without considering the sinusoidal stroma. Cytohistologic correlation on tissue from the same aspirate has rarely been done. This report describes the cytologic patterns of 50 cases of HCC in terms of histologic pattern observed in cell blocks prepared from the same aspiration specimen and classified according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification. Tumors were classified according to the predominant pattern. Thirty-two cases gave the trabecular pattern. Smears could be subdivided into a central-sinusoidal pattern (23 cases) and a peripheral-sinusoidal pattern (nine cases). One case gave the pseudoglandular pattern. Seventeen cases gave the compact pattern with inconspicuous sinusoids. In all cases sinusoids were easily recognized in cell block sections. Other cytologic features such as intranuclear cytoplasmic inclusions, eosinophilic globules, and bile secretion could be seen in both smears and cell blocks. Mallory's hyalin and ground glass inclusions were only recognized in cell blocks. More attention should be paid to the sinusoidal stroma for diagnosis of HCC in FNA; cell blocks should be more widely utilized to this effect; cytologic patterns could be classified according to the WHO histologic classification. 
Etoposide in acute leukemia. Past experience and future perspectives. Etoposide as a single agent is active in relapsed and refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), with complete responses (CR) rates of 10% to 25%. The drug has been safely combined with cytarabine, azacytidine, vinca alkaloids, and anthracyclines, inducing remission rates of 20% to 60% in patients with previously treated AML. The experience with etoposide in acute lymphoblastic leukemia is less extensive, but the drug seems to be active in combination with cytarabine or aclacinomycin. In addition, etoposide is combined with cytarabine and anthracyclines for the primary treatment of AML. The response rates thus achieved are comparable with those obtained with standard regimens. A Phase I/II trial was initiated to study the efficacy of the NOVE combination (mitoxantrone [10 mg/m2/d, days 1 to 5] plus etoposide [100 mg/m2/d for 3, 4, or 5 days] in patients with refractory AML. The results showed that extended duration of etoposide administration is associated with higher CR rates. Overall, a CR rate of 43% was achieved in 61 patients. A sequential regimen with IDAC (idarubicin/cytarabine) and NOVE was designed for primary treatment of adult patients with AML. Cycles of IDAC or NOVE are applied depending on response. The results of the pilot study with this strategy were encouraging with 18 of 20 patients achieving CR. Further studies are under way to verify the efficacy of this strategy. 
Conservative surgery and radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the wrist, hand, ankle, and foot. Seventy-eight patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS) arising in the distal extremities--wrist, hand, finger, ankle, foot, and toe--who were treated with conservation surgery and radiation therapy were studied retrospectively with respect to survival, local recurrence, functional limb preservation, complications, and distant metastasis. After a median follow-up of 7.9 years, actuarial 5-year and 10-year survival rates were 80% and 69%, respectively, and disease-free rates were 61% and 51% at the same times. Actuarial local control rates were 80% and 74% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. Fifteen patients (19%) had local recurrence, but 12 of these were salvaged. Ultimately, 53 patients (68%) retained a normal or fairly normal extremity, six (8%) needed amputation for complications, and 13 (17%) needed amputation to control recurrent disease. The functional outcome was significantly better for patients with upper extremity lesions than for those with lower extremity tumors; even for the latter, this treatment strategy was preferable to amputation. The incidence of hematogenous metastases from distal extremity sarcomas depends on the size of the primary tumor. It was concluded that conservation surgery and radiation therapy (XRT) is an acceptable treatment strategy for STS arising in distal extremities; it yielded a high rate of disease control and functional limb preservation. 
MHC-restricted recognition of autologous melanoma by tumor-specific cytotoxic T cells. Evidence for restriction by a dominant HLA-A allele. Autologous melanoma-specific CTL recognize a common tumor-associated Ag (TAA) in the context of HLA class I antigens. We have demonstrated that HLA-A2 can be a restricting Ag and, in T cell lines homozygous for HLA-A2, that CTL can be generated by stimulation with HLA-A2 allogeneic melanomas. In the current study, we have investigated T cell lines from patients who are heterozygous at HLA-A region locus, to determine the relative importance of each A-region allele in this MHC-restricted recognition of tumor. We have shown that HLA-A1 can be a restricting Ag, and that allogeneic melanomas expressing HLA-A1 can substitute for the autologous tumor in the generation of HLA-A1-restricted CTL. However, when T cell lines express both HLA-A1 and HLA-A2, the HLA-A2 allele governed restriction of the melanoma TAA. Three autologous-stimulated HLA-A1, A2 CTL lines all demonstrated restriction by the HLA-A2 allele, when examined in cytotoxicity assays, cold-competition assays, and proliferation assays. There was no evidence of restriction by the second HLA-allele, HLA-A1. Although the autologous-stimulated CTL use a single A-region allele for tumor recognition, the autologous HLA-A1, A2 tumors are lysed by both HLA-A1-restricted and HLA-A2-restricted CTL. The dominance of restricting alleles was further demonstrated when HLA-matched allogeneic melanomas were used as the stimulating tumor to generate tumor-specific CTL. Stimulation of the heterozygous (HLA-A1, A2) lymphocytes with HLA-A2-matched allogeneic melanomas resulted in CTL specific for the autologous tumor, and restricted by the HLA-A2 Ag. However, stimulation with an HLA-A1-matched allogeneic melanoma failed to induce tumor-specific CTL restricted by the HLA-A1 Ag. The data suggest there is a dominance of HLA-A region Ag at the level of the T cell, such that only one is restricting in the recognition of the autologous melanoma. At the level of the tumor, however, the TAA is expressed in the context of both HLA-A region alleles. We can generate specific CTL from lymph node cells or PBL and HLA-A region matched allogeneic melanomas; however, because most patients are heterozygous at the HLA-A region locus, an understanding of the dominant restricting alleles must be obtained so that an appropriately matched allogeneic melanoma can be selected. 
Interphase cytogenetics using biotin and digoxigenin labelled probes: III. Increased sensitivity and flexibility for detecting HPV in cervical biopsy specimens and cell lines. A monoclonal antibody to digoxin enabled sandwich techniques to be used for the detection of hybridised digoxigenin labelled probes in cultured cells and paraffin wax sections. This system has greater flexibility than alkaline phosphatase conjugated polyclonal antidigoxigenin antibody and permits the use of alternative detector enzymes, such as horseradish peroxidase and fluorescence labels. The APAAP detection system that does not require the use of biotin can also be used in situations where endogenous biotin is a problem. The low level of background staining combined with precise substrate deposition of the amplified peroxidase system gives higher sensitivity and resolution. This permits localisation of closely adjacent chromosomal loci in interphase nuclei. The most sensitive peroxidase based digoxigenin detection system visualises two and a half to 12 copies of human papillomavirus (HPV) per nucleus. This system is also suitable for the analysis of low copy number HPV infection of cervical tissues. 
Pregnancy after in vitro fertilization in a patient with stage I endometrial carcinoma treated with progestins. A 35-year-old woman with chronic anovulation and bilateral tubal disease was found during infertility evaluation to have grade I endometrial carcinoma confined to an endometrial polyp. She was treated with polypectomy and endometrial curettage followed by high-dose progestagens for 6 months. Endometrial curettage at 3 and 6 months of therapy indicated regression of the lesion and the patient subsequently achieved successful pregnancy with IVF. 
Establishment and characterization of unique cell lines (KCC-1a and KCC-1b) from endometrial adenocarcinoma with clear cell carcinoma presenting unusual karyotypes and estrogen secretion. Human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines (KCC-1a and KCC-1b) were established from a resected endometrial carcinoma of a 67-year-old woman. The original tumor showed the bimorphic patterns of tubular adenocarcinoma and clear cell carcinoma. The cell lines have been maintained for 50 months through 100 passages. The doubling time of KCC-1a was 87 hours, whereas that of KCC-1b was 144 hours. The number of chromosomes of KCC-1a distributed in a range from 33 to 79, whereas that of KCC-1b distributed in a range from 64 to 82 (mode, 76). Functionally, both KCC-1a and KCC-1b cells showed the productions of estrone (E1) and estradiol (E2) but not estriol (E3) or progesterone (P). These cells grown in a serum-free medium secreted E1 (KCC-1a, 13.6 pg/ml; KCC-1b, 9.5 pg/ml) and E2 (10.5 pg/ml, 9.5 pg/ml) at passage 40. Neither KCC-1a nor KCC-1b cells contained estrogen or progesterone receptors. Tumor markers--alpha-fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, CA 125, and CA 19-9--were not detected. Both KCC-1a and KCC-1b cells produced tumors in nude mice xenografts. Histologically, the tumors of KCC-1a cells were clear cell carcinoma, whereas those of KCC-1b cells were tubular adenocarcinoma. These findings suggest that KCC-1a and KCC-1b cells will provide useful information to clarify the histogenesis of endometrial carcinoma combined with clear cell carcinoma. 
Lymphokine-activated killer cell suppressor factor in malignant effusions. We examined the possibility that tumor-released products inhibit lymphokine-activated killer cell activation. Lymphokine-activated killer cells from human peripheral blood lymphocytes were activated with recombinant interleukin 2 for 4 days in the presence of malignant effusions or conditioned media from cultured cell lines (10% vol/vol). Eight of 10 malignant effusions/media suppressed the induction of lymphokine-activated killer cell cytotoxicity, as measured in a 4-hour sodium chromate release assay. Seven of 10 effusions/media inhibited lymphokine-activated killer cell proliferation. Suppression was both dose and time dependent. A representative suppressive effusion was fractionated by agarose gel chromatography, treated with detergents disruptive of ionic bonds and lipids, and refractionated using polyacrylamide gel chromatography. Seven suppressive fractions ranging in molecular weight from 1 x 10(5) to 3 x 10(5) d were isolated. It is speculated that this suppressor factor may represent a large multimeric structure with ionic-bonded individual suppressive components. 
Fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of intranodal squamous-cell carcinoma metastatic from the skin. Fine-needle aspiration is a useful way to determine the presence of squamous-cell carcinoma in enlarged lymph nodes of patients at high risk for metastases. Advantages include a high degree of accuracy, outpatient as well as inpatient availability, and negligible potential for seeding of malignant cells. Cutaneous oncologists should consider using this technique in patients with lymphadenopathy and a previous history of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. 
Computed tomographic density of metastatic lymph nodes as a treatment-related prognostic factor in advanced head and neck cancer. Pretherapeutic identification of patients likely to benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy for head and neck epidermoid cancer is of interest. We retrospectively analyzed the pretherapeutic computed tomographic (CT) scans of lymph nodes of 70 patients with head and neck cancer. All 70 patients were clinically classified as having stage IV disease. The purpose of our analysis was to compare the prognostic value of CT node density with that of the following factors: age, T and N categories, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, tumor site, histopathologic type of disease [squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type (UNCT)], and type of local-regional treatment. A simple two-grade nodal density grading system was devised. The density of normal adjacent muscle was chosen as the density standard. A node was classified grade 1 if less than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. A node was classified grade 2 if more than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. Patients with grade 1 nodes had a complete response rate of 68% (21/31) compared with 8% (3/39) for those with grade 2 nodes (P less than .0001). The only other factor associated with complete node response was UCNT (P less than .03). However, node density remained the significant prognostic factor after adjustment for histopathologic type. Follow-up ranged from 16 to 44 months, with a median of 29 months. Patients with grade 1 nodes had a median survival time of 32 months versus 13 months for those with grade 2 nodes (P less than .01). A prospective study should validate the prognostic value of CT node density and its possible use in determining optimal multimodal therapy for advanced head and neck cancers. 
Pediatric spinal epidural metastases. A total of 2259 children with solid malignant tumors were treated at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital between the years 1962 and 1987. Of these, 112 (5%) developed spinal epidural metastasis with spinal cord compression during the course of their disease process. Metastatic epidural spinal cord compression was caused most commonly by Ewing's sarcoma and neuroblastoma, followed by osteogenic sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Hodgkin's disease, soft-tissue sarcoma, germ-cell tumor, Wilm's tumor, and (rarely) hepatoma. There was no significant difference in outcome between patients with small-cell tumors (neuroblastoma, Hodgkin's disease, and germ-cell tumors) who received only chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy and the patients with similar lesions who received a decompressive laminectomy alone or prior to chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. Patients with spinal cord compression from metastatic sarcoma (Ewing's sarcoma, soft-tissue sarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma) showed a significant improvement with decompressive laminectomy alone or before medical therapy, compared to those who received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy without posterior decompression. Pediatric tumors invade the spinal canal via the neural foramen, compressing the spinal cord in a circumferential manner, allowing decompressive laminectomy (posterior approach) to be an effective surgical approach. Sixty-six percent of children who had no evidence of motor or sensory function below the level of the compression became ambulatory after surgical decompression and medical treatment, regardless of tumor type. 
Primary leiomyoma of the liver. A 30-yr-old woman with right upper quadrant abdominal pain was found to have a hepatic leiomyoma. This is the youngest patient in whom this rare tumor has been found. The diagnostic approach toward gastrointestinal leiomyomata is emphasized, including the role of immunohistochemistry. 
Primary lymphoma of the liver: clinical and pathological features of 10 patients. Nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour. The initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and "granulomatous cholangitis", inflammatory pseudotumour, and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each. Moreover, extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the Budd-Chiari syndrome. All the tumours were diffuse non-Hodgkin's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously, but they differed from most of these in that nine were of T cell phenotype. Five were pleomorphic small T cell, two T zone, and two T lymphoblastic lymphomas: only one was centrocytic and of B cell lineage. This report extends the range of clinical manifestations (diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour), histological appearances (resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases) and phenotype (of T cell lineage) of primary lymphoma of the liver: these features seemed to be related in this series. Recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases. Although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret, the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis. 
Immunodetection of the metastasis-associated laminin receptor in human breast cancer cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the breast is a very useful technique for the evaluation of a suspect lesion before surgical removal. Increased expression of the 67-kd laminin receptor has been associated with the metastatic phenotype of cancer cells, particularly in colon and breast cancers. In this study, the expression of laminin receptor was evaluated using the immunoperoxidase technique in 81 breast aspirates (26 benign and 55 neoplastic lesions). Cells obtained from benign samples exhibited a low level of laminin receptor antigen detected by affinity-purified antibody raised against a cDNA-derived laminin receptor peptide. In contrast, 71% of smears obtained from malignant breast lesions contained cells that were strongly stained by the antibody. Heterogeneous expression of the laminin receptor was noted in both breast aspirates and fixed tissue specimens. These data suggest that the immunodetection of laminin receptor in cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration of breast lesions could be a valuable adjunct in the prognostic evaluation of breast lesions. 
The axilla: not a no-go zone Many surgeons, particularly in the UK, give inadequate primary treatment to patients with operable breast cancer. For spurious reasons they regard axillary clearance as unnecessarily extensive surgery and rely instead upon total mastectomy or tumour excision and node sampling, with or without postoperative radiotherapy. But it is now clear that relapse-free and overall survival can be improved by appropriate adjuvant therapy. Thus inadequate exploration of the axilla is doubly unjustified. Not only is there the obvious risk of failure to remove nodes that contain metastases--so that some patients are deprived of cure by primary treatment--but the extent of tumour spread will be inadequately assessed in many more patients, with the risk that they may not receive appropriate adjuvant treatment. 
Tumor suppressor genes: new prospects for cancer research. Cancer is thought to arise from the accumulation of several genetic mutations in a single cell. Until recently, the only tumorigenic mutations that have been studied in detail are those that activate oncogenes. The discovery of tumor suppressor genes, for which inactivating mutations elicit tumorigenesis, has added a new dimension to our understanding of neoplasia. The retinoblastoma susceptibility gene RB is the prototype tumor suppressor gene and has been shown to suppress the transformed phenotype for several different cancers. Additional studies have revealed other tumor suppressor genes that may operate in a variety of tissues through a variety of mechanisms. These mechanisms may regulate the choice between cellular proliferation and differentiation and appear to involve such processes as the initiation of DNA replication, regulation of expression of certain genes, intercellular communication and adhesion, and the transduction of external signals to intracellular effectors. The elucidation of these mechanisms will enhance our understanding of both oncogenesis and the fundamental operations of the cell. 
A phase II clinical trial of carboplatin infusion in high-risk acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. Carboplatin (CBDCA) is a second-generation platinum drug that has been shown to be useful when used as a continuous infusion in treatment of refractory adult leukemia. We report on the effectiveness of continuous infusion CBDCA, 300 mg/m2/d x 5 days, as evaluated in nine patients with secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) (seven previous myelodysplastic syndrome and two treatment-associated ANLL), three ANLL patients in first relapse, six refractory ANLL, and nine patients with blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia (BP-CML). All patients were considered assessable. The response rate was 44% (eight complete remissions [CRs], four partial remissions [PRs]). Median duration of postchemotherapy neutropenia was 36 days (range, 18 to 45). Therapy was well tolerated, and toxicity was mainly hematologic and nondose-limiting. Despite prolonged neutropenia, severe infections were rarely seen, and most patients were managed as outpatients. Twelve patients had nausea and vomiting, two had symptomatic hypomagnesemia, and one patient showed reversible ototoxicity. Because of substantial antileukemic activity and unusual extrahematologic toxicity, CBDCA appears to be an effective second-line agent in the treatment of ANLL and should be considered for upgrading to first-line treatment regimens. 
Interaction between trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and methotrexate in children with leukemia. Because trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) causes neutropenia in children with leukemia, we investigated the possibility that pharmacokinetic interaction between methotrexate (MTX) and TMP-SMX causes accumulation of the antileukemia agent. We studied the pharmacokinetics of MTX given intravenously or orally to nine children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, once with and once without TMP-SMX. There was an increase in free MTX fraction during TMP-SMX therapy in all patients, from (mean +/- SD) 37.4 +/- 11% without TMP-SMX to 52.2 +/- 6.4% with TMP-SMX (p less than 0.01). Plasma clearance of total MTX did not change significantly, whereas clearance of free MTX decreased significantly (from 12.5 +/- 4 to 7.6 +/- 1.5 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05). There was a consistent decrease in the renal clearance of free MTX (from 12.1 +/- 6.8 to 5.6 +/- 2.4 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05). Elimination half-life of MTX was not affected significantly by TMP-SMX. There was a significant correlation between serum concentrations of TMP-SMX and the percentage of decrease in the renal clearance of free MTX (r = 0.91; p less than 0.05). These changes in protein binding and tubular clearance of MTX, caused by competition with TMP-SMX, result in a mean 66% increase in systemic exposure to MTX and may explain the myelotoxicity often observed with the coadministration of the two drugs. 
Mutational activation of the c-Ha-ras gene in liver tumors of different rodent strains: correlation with susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. The frequency and pattern of mutations at codon 61 of the c-Ha-ras gene have been analyzed in 195 liver tumors and 132 precancerous liver lesions from various rodent strains with differing susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis. By using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, C----A transversions at the first base and A----T transversions or A----G transitions at the second base of c-Ha-ras codon 61 were detected in 20-60% of spontaneous or carcinogen-induced liver tumors of the C3H/He, CBA, CF1, and B6C3F1 mouse strains, which are highly susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis. No such mutations, however, could be found in any of the 31 liver tumors of the insensitive C57BL/6J and BALB/c mouse strains or in any of the 35 liver tumors of the comparatively resistant Wistar rat. Further analyses of c-Ha-ras codon 12 mutations in liver tumors from the three insensitive rodent strains also failed to give any positive results. In early precancerous liver lesions, c-Ha-ras codon 61 mutations were found in 13-14% of lesions of the sensitive C3H/He and B6C3F1 mouse strains but not in any of the 34 lesions of the insensitive C57BL/6J mouse. Taken together, our results indicate a close correlation between the mutational activation of the c-Ha-ras gene in liver tumors of the different rodent strains and their susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis, whereby the mutations appear to provide a selective growth advantage, leading to a clonal expansion of the mutated liver cell population, only in livers of sensitive but not of insensitive strains. 
The association of selected cancers with service in the US military in Vietnam. II. Soft-tissue and other sarcomas. The Selected Cancers Cooperative Study Group As part of a series of investigations into the health of Vietnam veterans, we conducted a population-based, case-control study of soft-tissue and other sarcomas between 1984 and 1988. All men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible. Controls were selected by random-digit dialing. Analyses of 342 men with pathologically confirmed sarcoma and 1776 controls showed that Vietnam veterans had a relative risk of 1.0 for sarcoma in comparison with men who did not serve in Vietnam (95% confidence interval, 0.6 to 1.6). Restriction of the analysis to the 254 men with soft-tissue sarcoma yielded a relative risk of 0.9 (95% confidence interval, 0.5 to 1.6). Several attributes of military service in Vietnam (eg, branch, duration of service, military region, and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of Agent Orange) were examined, and none was associated with an increased risk for the development of sarcoma. Furthermore, no morphologic type of sarcoma was overrepresented among Vietnam veterans. Results were unchanged if Vietnam veterans were compared with (1) other veterans or (2) men who never served in the military. This study, which had 97% power to detect a relative risk of 2.0 for all sarcomas, provides no evidence that the risk for the development of soft-tissue or other sarcomas is increased among veterans 15 to 25 years following service in Vietnam. 
Immunotherapy. Neuroblastoma as a model. Combinations of aggressive therapy and radiotherapy directed at the primary tumor site as well as dose intensive chemotherapy against metastases can effectively induce complete remissions in patients with stage IV neuroblastomas. By virtue of its tumor specificity, the use of immunotherapy at the time when microscopic residual disease is present holds great promise in eradicating the tumors permanently. Monoclonal antibodies can accumulate selectively and at high concentrations in neuroblastomas. They have the potential of initiating complement activation and inflammation at the tumor site. Hematopoietic factors and cytokines can reinforce the body with tumoricidal leukocytes. Ex vivo activation of autologous white cells as well as arming by genetic manipulation can also produce tumor-seeking vehicles that may be therapeutically useful. As the knowledge of tumor and host immunobiology accumulates, the optimal combination of these approaches will become apparent. 
TGF-alpha is widely expressed in differentiated as well as hyperproliferative skin epithelium. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) is a potent mitogen for epithelial cells that is expressed at low levels in normal epidermis and overexpressed in psoriasis. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been shown to inhibit hair growth but stimulate the growth of sebaceous and sweat glands, suggesting a potential role for a member of the EGF/TGF-alpha family in the normal development and function of skin appendages as well as epidermis. The present work demonstrates TGF-alpha protein in eccrine ducts, and eccrine, sebaceous, and apocrine glands. The proliferative dermal hair bulb does not express TGF-alpha in contrast to the differentiated outer root sheath hair follicle epithelia. In addition, hyperproliferative skin diseases including bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma, squamous cell carcinoma, and psoriasis show increased TGF-alpha expression. Thus, TGF-alpha may play a role in the morphogenesis and function of normal skin appendages and its overexpression is common in benign and malignant hyperproliferative skin diseases. 
Normal pituitary gland: coronal MR imaging of infundibular tilt. To determine the prevalence of pituitary infundibular deviation or tilt as a normal variant, coronal magnetic resonance (MR) images of 50 patients who had been examined for reasons other than pituitary disease were evaluated retrospectively. Forty-six percent of the patients had a more or less pronounced tilt of the pituitary stalk. This tilt was due to developmental lateral eccentricity of the pituitary gland in relationship to the midline of the brain in 34% and to ontogenic eccentric insertion of the pituitary infundibulum off the midline of the gland in the other 12%. This high frequency of stalk deviation in patients without pituitary disease suggests that such displacement by itself should not be used to support the presence of pituitary microadenoma on MR images or computed tomograms. 
Radioimmunoguided surgery using iodine 125 B72.3 in patients with colorectal cancer. Preliminary data using B72.3 murine monoclonal antibody labeled with iodine 125 suggested that both clinically apparent as well as occult sites of colorectal cancer could be identified intraoperatively using a hand-held gamma detecting probe. We report the preliminary data of a multicenter trial of this approach in patients with primary or recurrent colorectal cancer. One hundred four patients with primary, suspected, or known recurrent colorectal cancer received an intravenous infusion of 1 mg of B72.3 monoclonal antibody radiolabeled with 7.4 x 10 Bq of iodine 125. Twenty-six patients with primary colorectal cancer and 72 patients with recurrent colorectal cancer were examined. Using the gamma detecting probe, 78% of the patients had localization of the antibody in their tumor; this included 75% of primary tumor sites and 63% of all recurrent tumor sites; 9.2% of all tumor sites identified represented occult sites detected only with the gamma detecting probe. The overall sensitivity was 77% and a predictive value of a positive detection was 78%. A total of 30 occult sites in 26 patients were identified. In patients with recurrent cancer, the antibody study provided unique data that precluded resection in 10 patients, and in another eight patients it extended the potentially curative procedure. 
Multiple primary malignancies in patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. The incidence of multiple primary malignancies (MPM) was analysed in 1297 patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. The patients were followed for a minimum of six years or until death. The incidence of MPM was 3.4 per cent (44/1297) which is lower in patients with malignant tumours of other regions in the upper aerodigestive tract. Five of the 44 patients had second malignancies within previously irradiated areas. There was a difference between the proportion of histologies occurring in irradiated tissues compared with the overall 1297 patients. This finding suggests that radiotherapy may induce a second cancer. 
Small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus. A case report and review of the literature. A 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus. Small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids (as in this patient), adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas, or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass. Large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction. 
Coexistence of testicular carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia. The coexistence of two relatively rare disorders in 1 patient often induces speculation about possible cause and effect of these disorders. The suitable therapeutic regimen for both diseases and roentgenologic manifestations are described. 
Is the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor with interferon not as successful as suggested? Eight patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor, seven of whom had symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome, were treated with either human leukocyte interferon (seven patients) or recombinant alpha-interferon (IFN alpha-2b) (one patient) at doses of 4.5 to 21 x 10(6) IU weekly for 1 to 21 (mean, 8.5) months. Tumor regression on computed tomography (CT) scan was found in one patient, the CT findings remained unchanged in three, and the tumor progressed in four patients. A clearcut and continuing decrease in urinary levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was observed in one patient and a transient one in four patients. The symptoms improved in only two of seven patients. Four patients had leukopenia develop, which was circumvented by reducing the dose. The authors conclude that interferon therapy of the carcinoid tumor is not as successful as has been suggested in previous reports. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery of meningiomas. Stereotactic radiosurgery has an expanding role in the management of selected intracranial tumors. In an initial 30-month experience using the 201-source cobalt-60 gamma knife at the University of Pittsburgh, 50 patients with meningiomas were treated. The most frequent site of origin was the skull base. Previously, 36 patients (72%) had undergone at least one craniotomy and four patients (8%) had received fractionated external beam radiation therapy. Stereotactic radiosurgery was the primary treatment modality in 16 patients (32%) with symptomatic tumors demonstrated by neuroimaging. Computer imaging-generated isodose plans (with one to five irradiation isocenters) for single-treatment irradiation gave optimal (greater than or equal to 50% isodose line) coverage in 44 patients (88%). The proximity of cranial nerves or vascular, pituitary, and brain-stem structures to the often convoluted tumor mass was crucial to dose selection. Serial imaging studies were evaluated in all 50 patients. Twenty-four patients were examined between 12 and 36 months after treatment; 13 (54%) showed a reduction in tumor volume while nine (38%) showed no change. Of 26 patients evaluated between 6 and 12 months after treatment, four showed a decrease in tumor size while 22 showed no change. Two patients (both with large tumors that received suboptimal irradiation) had delayed tumor growth outside the radiosurgical treatment volume. The actuarial 2-year tumor growth control rate was 96%. Between 3 and 12 months after radiosurgery, three patients developed delayed neurological deficits that gradually improved, compatible with delayed radiation injury. Although extended follow-up monitoring over many years will be necessary to fully evaluate treatment, to date stereotactic radiosurgery has proved to be a relatively safe and effective therapy for selected patients with symptomatic meningiomas, including those who failed surgical resection. Radiosurgery was an effective primary treatment alternative for those patients whose advanced age, medical condition, or high-risk tumor location mitigated against surgical resection. 
Activation and inducer subset phenotype of the lymphocytic infiltrate around epidermally derived tumors. An in situ analysis of the mononuclear cell infiltrate found in association with a range of benign, premalignant, and malignant epidermal tumors is described. The predominant cell phenotype was that of the recently described immunoregulatory helper/inducer T lymphocyte. A large number of lymphocytes expressed antigens associated with cellular activation, suggesting an ongoing immunologic response by the host against the tumor, although evidence of in situ proliferation of these cells was lacking. These findings suggest that the infiltrate found in association with cutaneous tumors does not represent passive accumulation of lymphocytes from the circulation but rather an active antitumor response. 
Prognostic value of histopathology in Ewing's sarcoma. Long-term follow-up of distal extremity primary tumors. The pathologic material from 56 patients diagnosed initially as Ewing's sarcoma of the distal extremity and treated on National Cancer Institute protocols between 1968 and 1984 was reviewed and correlated with clinical outcome. Histologically, the tumors were categorized, based on recent pathologic criteria, into three diagnostic groups: (1) typical Ewing's sarcoma, (2) atypical Ewing's sarcoma, and (3) other (predominantly peripheral neuroepithelioma [PN]). Thirty-two patients (57%) had typical Ewing's, 13 (23%) were atypical, and 11 (20%) were in the "other" diagnostic category (seven [13%] PN, two primitive rhabdomyosarcoma, one primitive sarcoma of bone, and one synovial cell sarcoma). No cases of metastatic neuroblastoma, osteosarcoma, or lymphoma were found. Forty-five patients had localized disease at diagnosis; 11 had metastases. Patients with typical Ewing's sarcoma were less likely to have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis. Only two of 32 patients with typical Ewing's sarcoma had metastases compared with nine of 24 patients in the two other groups. The pattern of relapse was also different in these other groups compared with typical Ewing's patients; five patients developed lymph node metastases and two patients developed brain metastases. Although the presence of metastatic disease at diagnosis was a strong negative prognostic factor, our histologic grouping was independently prognostic of clinical outcome in patients with localized disease. Patients with typical osseous Ewing's sarcoma had an improved overall survival (P2 = 0.03) and patients with other tumors (neither typical nor atypical Ewing's sarcoma) had a poorer disease-free survival (P2 = 0.02). Since no generally accepted histopathologic prognostic criteria exist for Ewing's sarcoma, the potential value of our proposed classification should be evaluated in a larger retrospective and a prospective study. 
Recognition by ELAM-1 of the sialyl-Lex determinant on myeloid and tumor cells. Endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1) is an endothelial cell adhesion molecule that allows myeloid cells to attach to the walls of blood vessels adjacent to sites of inflammation. ELAM-1 recognizes the sialyl-Lewis X (sialyl-Lex) determinant, NeuAc alpha 2-3Gal beta 1-4(Fuc alpha 1-3)GlcNAc-, a granulocyte carbohydrate also found on the surface of some tumor cell lines. Binding of myeloid cells to soluble ELAM-1 is inhibited by a monoclonal antibody recognizing sialyl-Lex or by proteins bearing sialyl-Lex, some of which may participate in humoral regulation of myeloid cell adhesion. Stimulated granulocytes also release an inhibitor of ELAM-1 binding that can be selectively adsorbed by monoclonal antibody to sialyl-Lex. 
Decollateralization with silicone rubber sheeting for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: a preliminary report. A new treatment method, interception of collaterals with a silicone rubber sheet, was applied to three patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in whom arterial chemoembolization was assessed as ineffective because of the developed collateral feeding arteries. This procedure was followed by arterial chemoembolization or intraportal infusion chemotherapy or both. Follow-up celiac angiography confirmed that the long-term decollateralization was achieved by shielding the liver with silicone rubber sheeting. This technique resulted in partial responses without serious complications in all the patients including two who had no responses to chemoembolization before the procedure. The response durations were 5, 21, and 27, months, respectively. One patient died of gastrointestinal bleeding 7 months after the decollateralization. The other two patients are still alive, and the survivals after the procedure are 28 and 30 months, respectively. This therapy is considered promising and may be worth choosing as an adjuvant treatment for advanced hepatic malignancies uncontrolled by arterial chemotherapy or chemoembolization. 
Calcium transport by plasma membranes from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma. Inside-out plasma membrane vesicles from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma showed an ATP- and Mg2(+)-dependent uptake of Ca2+. The Km (concentration giving half-maximal activity) for Ca2+ was 60 nM. In the presence of 0.4 microM free Ca2+, the Km for ATP was 15 microM, and the Km for Mg2+ was 4 microM. Glucose (30 mM) decreased Ca2+ uptake by 50%, while other insulin secretagogues had no effect, except for glyceraldehyde, which stimulated Ca2+ uptake. Calmodulin increased the uptake of Ca2+, while trifluoperazine and vanadate inhibited the uptake. The Ca2(+)- and Mg2(+)-dependent ATPase from this tumor has a 10- to 20-fold higher requirement for Ca2+, which suggests that this enzyme is not responsible for Ca2+ transport, rather, Ca2+ transport activity represents only a small fraction of the total Ca2(+)-ATPase activity. The physiological importance of Ca2+ transport in insulin secretion is evident from the inhibition of Ca2+ uptake by glucose, which leads to a decrease in Ca2+ efflux from the cell. This inhibition would lead to an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ and insulin release. 
Primary adenocarcinoma of the temporal bone. A case with 40-year follow-up. Adenomatous tumors of the temporal bone are rare neoplasms. This article records the 40-year course of a patient with adenocarcinoma of the temporal bone and reviews the literature pertinent to the biologic behavior, histologic appearance, prognosis, and treatment of this group of tumors. 
Liver transplantation for hepatoblastoma. The American experience. The current role of liver transplantation in treating malignant tumors of the liver is uncertain, except for select histologic types. Pooled data on the results of liver transplantation in 12 children with hepatoblastoma is presented here. One half of the children are alive 24 to 70 (44 +/- 19) months after transplantation with no evidence of recurrence. Three patients (25%) died of tumor recurrence and three (25%) died of other causes. Unifocal and intrahepatic tumors were associated with better prognosis compared to the multifocal tumors and tumors with extrahepatic spread (p = 0.04 and 0.13). Microscopically vascular invasion and the predominance of embryonal and/or anaplastic epithelium were associated with a poor prognosis compared to the tumors with no vascular invasion and with predominantly fetal epithelium (p = 0.08 and 0.1). It is concluded that continued efforts to treat unresectable hepatoblastomas by liver transplantation is justified and the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in improving the results needs to be better defined. 
Thermally induced 'nicotine' stomatitis. A case report. A palatal lesion resembling "nicotine" stomatitis was found in a woman who did not smoke. However, the patient frequently drank extremely hot beverages. After she was instructed to reduce the temperature of the beverages, the lesion almost completely resolved. This suggests that heat was the primary cause of this lesion and also implicates heat as the major cause of nicotine stomatitis. 
Congenital midline nasal masses: diagnosis and management. Congenital midline nasal masses (CMNMs) are rare lesions most commonly caused by dermoids, hemangiomas, nasal gliomas or encephaloceles. We report a case of nasal glioma and discuss the embryologic development, evaluation, and management of such CMNMs. 
Le Fort I osteotomy approach to the skull base. Horizontal osteotomy allows the surgeon to safely down-fracture the maxilla for wide exposure of the central skull base. This surgical approach is easily extended posteriorly in the midline to include the clivus and the arch of C1, providing 8 cm of horizontal anterior exposure and 5 cm of posterior. Wide operative exposure and a low rate of complications afford superior functional and cosmetic preservation in removing tumors of the central cranial base. 
Identification of a melanoma progression antigen as integrin VLA-2. The expression of the integrin receptors VLA-1, -2, -3, and -6 was studied in normal cultured melanocytes and in five melanoma cell lines. Normal melanocytes synthesized VLA-3, but did not reveal detectable levels of VLA-1, -2, and -6. All melanoma cell lines, however, expressed VLA-2, -3, and -6. VLA-1 was synthesized by two of five melanoma lines. In parallel, we had analyzed the expression of four previously characterized melanoma cell surface antigens. One of them (antigen A.1.43), which is associated with tumor progression of human melanoma, revealed a striking similarity to VLA-2. In sequential immunoprecipitation experiments, we show that A.1.43 is identical with the integrin VLA-2, a cell surface receptor for collagen, laminin, and fibronectin. 
Purification and characterization of an inhibitor (soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor) for tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin obtained from the serum ultrafiltrates of human cancer patients. Serum ultrafiltrates (SUF) from human patients with different types of cancer contain a blocking factor (BF) that inhibits the cytolytic activity of human tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in vitro. BF is a protein with a molecular mass of 28 kDa on reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE). The active material was purified to homogeneity by a combination of affinity chromatography, PAGE, and high-pressure liquid chromatography. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that BF is derived from the membrane TNF receptor. Purified BF blocks the lytic activity of recombinant human and mouse TNF-alpha and recombinant human lymphotoxin on murine L929 cells in vitro. However, BF inhibits the lytic activity of TNF-alpha more effectively than it does that of lymphotoxin. The BF also inhibits the necrotizing activity of recombinant human TNF-alpha when coinjected into established cutaneous Meth A tumors in BALB/c mice. The BF may have an important role in (i) the regulation and control of TNF-alpha and lymphotoxin activity in cancer patients, (ii) interaction between the tumor and the host antitumor mechanisms, and (iii) use of systemically administered TNF-alpha in clinical trials with human cancer patients. 
The increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression. Cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression. Cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital. Cervical dysplasia-neoplasia (including five cases of invasive carcinoma) was seen in 41% of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. In human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9%, and in the sample from outpatients in 4%, including two cases of invasive carcinoma (p less than 0.01). Cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population (p less than 0.01). Frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of CD4+ helper/inducer T lymphocytes and correlated significantly (p less than 0.01) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin, pokeweed mitogen, and tetanus toxoid. These results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection, which is related to the degree of immunosuppression. 
Extracranial metastatic glioblastoma: appearance on thallium-201-chloride/technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT images. Sequential thallium-201-chloride and technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images were obtained in a patient with extracranial metastatic glioblastoma multiforme. Thallium-201 uptake was high (three times the scalp background) in all pathologically confirmed extracranial metastases and moderate (1.6 times scalp background) intracranially, where most biopsy specimens showed gliosis with scattered atypical astrocytes. Technetium-99m-HMPAO uptake was decreased intracranially in the right frontal and parietal lobes which had been irradiated. It was also decreased in one well-encapsulated scalp lesion and high in another scalp mass with less defined borders. Possible mechanisms of tumor uptake of these agents are reviewed. 
Successful conservative management of primary nonmetastatic cervical choriocarcinoma. Primary cervical choriocarcinoma is a rare disease; since 1915 only about 60 cases have been published. The case presented here can be defined as primary cervical choriocarcinoma since it fulfills all the criteria delineated previously. 
Radiation therapy in metastatic spinal cord compression. A prospective analysis of 105 consecutive patients. One hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy (RT) played the main role. When MSCC is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), steroids are given and RT treatment started within 24 hours. When diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary, surgery precedes RT. Chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. Twelve patients (9.2%) underwent surgery plus RT, and 118 (90.8%) received RT alone. Thirteen (11%) early death patients were not evaluable. The 105 evaluable cases that received RT alone were analyzed. Median follow-up was 15 months (range, 4 to 38 months). Response among patients with back pain was 80%. In cases with motor dysfunction, 48.6% improved, and in 33 of 105 patients (31.4%) without motor disability there was no deterioration. Forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to RT. Median survival time was 7 months with a 36% probability of survival for 1 year. The median duration of improvement was 8 months. The most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis. Radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to RT. Complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to RT. Vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival. 
Implications of peritoneal cytology for staging of early pancreatic cancer. Cytologic examination of peritoneal washings was performed in 40 patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (35 head, 5 body) whose tumors had been selected as potentially resectable by computed tomographic (CT) findings. Saline (100 mL) was instilled and aspirated at laparoscopy in 27 patients and at laparotomy in 13. Malignant cells were found in the peritoneal washings in 12 of 40 patients (30%): 29% in cancers of the pancreatic head versus 40% in the body; 33% at laparoscopy versus 23% at laparotomy; and in 4 of 8 patients with ascites versus 8 of 32 without ascites. The cytology was positive in 6 of 8 patients (75%) who had a prior percutaneous needle biopsy versus 6 of 32 (19%) of those who did not (p less than 0.01). Liver metastases were found in six patients, all with negative cytology. One of 10 pancreatic head cancers with positive cytology was resectable versus 13 of 25 with negative cytology (p less than 0.05). Survival was significantly longer in patients with negative cytology. We conclude that (1) pancreatic cancer sheds malignant cells into the peritoneum early and commonly; (2) laparoscopic lavage is an effective means of cytologic study; (3) ascites is not a precondition for cytologic study, nor does its presence necessarily imply carcinomatosis; (4) intraperitoneal spread of cancer cells may be promoted by tumor biopsy; (5) cytologic findings provide an additional index of resectability; and (6) cytologic findings appear to correlate with duration of survival. This study shows that even "localized" pancreatic cancer is often not contained and suggests caution with biopsy of potentially curable lesions. 
Malignant adenolymphoma of the parotid gland: report of carcinomatous transformation. Malignant transformation of an adenolymphoma (Warthin's tumour) is a rare event. This paper presents a case of carcinoma arising in an adenolymphoma of the parotid gland. 
Current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of AIDS: an introduction. Significant progress has been made in the diagnosis and treatment of AIDS. Laboratory tests available for assessment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection include the detection of antibodies to HIV type 1, the direct detection of the virus, the identification of surrogate markers, and the phenotypic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Clinicians have made great strides in the treatment of tumors, opportunistic infections, and complications associated with AIDS as well as in the treatment of the infection itself. In selected patients, treatment with interferon-alpha has been successful against AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma. Attempts to treat the leukopenia and anemia of patients with AIDS by the administration of hematopoietic growth factors have resulted in increased white blood cell counts and a decrease in erythrocyte transfusion requirements. In addition to zidovudine, several antiretroviral agents are undergoing testing, including the nucleoside analogues dideoxycytidine and dideoxyinosine, soluble CD4, and the glycosidase inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin. 
Orbit, skull base, and pharynx: contrast-enhanced fat suppression MR imaging. The high signal intensity of fat on T1-weighted magnetic resonance images has limited the utility of gadopentetate dimeglumine in imaging of the extracranial head and neck. Enhancing lesions may be obscured either by proximity to fat or by chemical misregistration artifact. The authors evaluated the role of a gadolinium-enhanced fat suppression imaging technique in the detection of extracranial head and neck abnormalities in 29 patients. These studies were directly compared with conventional pre- and postcontrast T1- and T2-weighted SE sequences. In detecting and defining the extent of abnormalities, fat-suppressed images were superior to non-fat-suppressed gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted images in the majority of cases (22 of 27 [81%]). Fat-suppressed images were particularly beneficial in the detection of perineural spread of tumor as well as in defining lesions situated within or adjacent to fat-containing areas such as the base of the skull. These findings demonstrate that fat suppression techniques in combination with gadolinium enhancement are of value in extracranial head and neck imaging and should replace conventional postcontrast T1-weighted SE imaging. 
Update: prostate cancer. Prostate cancer represents a major health-care issue for older men. Recent technical advances in imaging, serum markers, and treatment hold great promise. Further insight into the natural history and biologic potential of this ubiquitous neoplasm is necessary before we can make rational decisions about early detection and newer treatment approaches. 
Testicular carcinoma in patients positive and at risk for human immunodeficiency virus. Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are at increased risk for certain malignancies. Because acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and testicular cancer affect primarily young men, the potential complications that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome might impose raise significant concern. To address this question we performed a retrospective review of all cases of testicular cancer during an 11-year period. Of 140 patients 6 had human immunodeficiency virus infection and 7 were from human immunodeficiency virus risk groups. All cases were either stage I or II disease with seminoma in 8, teratocarcinoma in 3, embryonal cell carcinoma in 1 and teratoma in 1. The clinical presentations of these patients were comparable to those of patients without human immunodeficiency virus risk factors. The majority of the patients received standard therapy, including orchiectomy followed by lymphadenectomy, radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on stage and pathological subtype. Patients tolerated therapy well with only 1 course of radiation therapy complicated by Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. All patients achieved complete remission and none died of testicular cancer. Since treatment of these patients may worsen the immunosuppression, surveillance is recommended after orchiectomy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with stage I disease. However, the majority of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection should receive standard therapy. 
Colposcopic survey of Papanicolaou test-negative cases with hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis. A colposcopic survey was performed in 269 consecutive women with negative cytology showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis. A colposcopy-guided biopsy specimen of cervical abnormalities was taken in 88 cases, and human papillomavirus infection (HPV) was detected histologically in 25 cases. No cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) was detected. The detection rate of HPV was not significantly different from that observed in a consecutive series of 1073 Papanicolaou test-negative subjects self-referred for colposcopy. Colposcopic screening of subjects showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis with otherwise negative smears is not recommended because it does not allow detection of cytologically false-negative CIN. 
Antigen related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas recognized by a human monoclonal antibody. A human monoclonal antibody (CLN-IgG) was produced from a human-human hybridoma derived from lymphocytes of a patient with cervical carcinoma. The reactivities of this antibody with various human glioma tissues and cultured glioma cells and the characterization of the antigen recognized by CLN-IgG on malignant glioma cells were analyzed and reported. CLN-IgG reacted with various human glioma cells and glioma tissues, especially glioblastoma, but did not react with normal brain tissues or fetal brain tissues. A large amount of antigen recognized by CLN-IgG was expressed on cell membranes of undifferentiated glioma cells and of glioma cells at the G2/M tumor growth phase in cycling cells. Antigen recognized by CLN-IgG was detected in only one of seven samples of cyst fluid, and was not detected in 27 serum samples or 18 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from glioma patients. CLN-IgG exhibited antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity against U-25 1 MG glioma cells and primary cultured cells of glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas. These data suggest that the antigen recognized by CLN-IgG might be related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas. Thus, CLN-IgG might be useful for immunotherapy or immunoimaging of malignant gliomas. 
Prothymosin alpha antisense oligomers inhibit myeloma cell division. The function of prothymosin alpha has been investigated by using four different antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides directed at selected regions of its mRNA. In every case, when synchronized human myeloma cells were released from stationary phase by incubation in fresh medium containing antisense oligomers, cell division was prevented or inhibited; sense oligomers and random antisense oligomers had no effect. A detailed analysis of synchronized cell populations indicated that sense-treated and untreated cells divided approximately 17 hr after growth initiation, whereas cells incubated with antisense oligomer 183, a 16-mer targeted 5 bases downstream of the initiation codon, entered mitosis approximately one cell division late. The failure to divide correlated directly with a deficit in prothymosin alpha and with the continued presence of intact intracellular antisense oligomers over a period of at least 24 hr. Because antisense oligomers had no effect either on the timing of the induction of prothymosin alpha mRNA upon growth stimulation or on mRNA levels seen throughout the cell cycle, we concluded that antisense DNA caused specific hybrid arrest of translation. Our data suggest that prothymosin alpha is required for cell division. However, there is no evidence that prothymosin alpha directly regulates mitosis. 
A prospective study of magnetic resonance imaging in lymphoma staging. In this prospective study, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was compared with computed tomography (CT) in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHDL), and with CT and laparotomy in patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD). Among 31 patients with NHDL, there was agreement between MRI and CT findings in 21 patients; MRI findings were positive and CT findings were negative in 8 patients; and MRI findings were negative and CT findings were positive in 2 patients. The false-negative findings of MRI included a laparotomy-proven mesenteric mass and a 6.6-cm lesion in the spleen, both shown by CT. In 13 evaluable patients with HD, there was agreement between MRI and laparotomy findings in 8 patients; MRI findings were positive and laparotomy findings were negative in 4 patients; and MRI findings were negative and laparotomy findings were positive in 1 patient. CT findings agreed with laparotomy findings in nine patients; CT findings were positive and laparotomy findings were negative in one patient: and CT findings were negative and laparotomy findings were positive in three patients. This suggested that MRI, although more sensitive than CT, was less specific with more false-positive findings. The spin-lattice relaxation time (T1) for the spleen was generally higher in patients with HD who had pathologically confirmed splenic involvement, and tended to increase with increasing spleen weight. This study was performed on a prototype 0.15 Tesla (Technicare Inc., Solon, OH) resistive unit at a time when methods and reporting for MRI were still being developed. Although MRI appears to have fewer false-negative findings than CT in evaluating the abdomen of lymphoma patients, the lack of a gastrointestinal contrast agent and specificity of T1 elevations in the spleen would not suggest that MRI could replace CT or laparotomy as a staging technique. 
Medroxyprogesterone acetate lowers plasma corticotropin and cortisol but does not suppress anterior pituitary responsiveness to human corticotropin releasing factor. The endocrine action of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) has been claimed to be of a glucocorticoid-like nature. Upon clinical observation, MPA has been shown to improve life quality and overall well-being in patients with advanced breast cancer, renal carcinoma, prostatic carcinoma, and uterine adenocarcinoma. The authors have evaluated MPA endocrine action by the administration of human corticotropin releasing factor (hCRF) in a 90-minute assay in 15 patients with advanced breast cancer or renal cell carcinoma both, before the initiation of oral high-dose MPA treatment (1000 mg MPA) as well as after at least 10 days of therapy. The curves for corticotropin, beta-endorphin, and cortisol responses to hCRF of tumor patients who were tested before the initiation of MPA treatment were parallel to the curves of a healthy control group of probands tested under equal conditions, although at significantly higher respective hormone levels. In patients with malignant disorders assayed after MPA administration, both basal and peak hormone levels were found to be comparable with values obtained in healthy controls. In conclusion, MPA appeared to act at a suprapituitary level since pituitary responsiveness to hCRF was preserved under MPA treatment. Moreover, it appeared that MPA brought the hormonal stress state found in patients with malignant tumors back to normal. 
Complete follow-up and evaluation of a skin cancer screening in Connecticut. On May 21, 1988, 251 persons were screened for skin cancer in New Haven, Connecticut. A total body skin examination was performed on 98% of the participants. On the basis of follow-up of 93% of persons with positive screens for basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or Bowen's disease, positive predictive values were 43% for basal cell carcinoma, 14% for squamous cell carcinoma, and 50% for Bowen's disease. In the group with atypical nevi, a person with two or more clinically atypical nevi was 16 times more likely to have histologic confirmation than a person with a single clinically atypical nevus (p = 0.003). Eighty persons were screened by both a dermatologist and a dermatology nurse; the crude agreement rate for actinic keratoses was 0.62; for atypical nevi, 0.53; and for BCC, 0.88. Both nurses and physicians overdiagnosed in the screening setting, the nurses more so than the physicians. Of the 128 persons screened who were advised to seek medical follow-up, 16 did not do so despite several reminders; their reasons are discussed. 
Clinical prognostic factors in patients with posterior uveal malignant melanoma. The authors evaluated the prognostic value of clinically assessed variables for predicting length of survival until death from metastatic disease in 237 patient with a primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma. Using multivariate Cox proportional hazards modeling, the authors identified the largest linear basal tumor diameter (mm), estimated by indirect ophthalmoscopy and fundus drawing, the location of the anterior margin of the tumor relative to the ocular equator and ora serrata, and the age of the patient at the time of treatment as the best combination of the clinically assessed variables for predicting survival. For each patient in this group, the authors computed a prognostic index based on the best multivariate Cox model. They showed that patients with low, intermediate, and high values of prognostic index had low, intermediate, and high melanoma-related mortality rates, respectively, during the first 5 to 8 posttreatment years. These results suggest that: (1) clinically assessed variables evaluated according to a standardized protocol are useful for predicting the survival of treated patients with posterior uveal melanoma and (2) ophthalmologists who assess potential clinical prognostic variables consistently may identify subgroups of patients with comparable mortality risk on the basis of noninvasive testing. 
Effect of tamoxifen on serum insulinlike growth factor I levels in stage I breast cancer patients. Insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) has been shown to be a potent mitogen for breast cancer cells in vitro, and IGF-I receptors have been demonstrated on human primary breast neoplasms. In a randomized, placebo-controlled study, we document that administration of the antiestrogen tamoxifen to patients with breast cancer was associated with a statistically significant (P = .002) reduction in the serum level of IGF-I. The mean IGF-I level was 1.4 U/mL in the placebo-treated group and 0.9 U/mL in the tamoxifen-treated group. Because serum IGF-I level is growth hormone (GH) dependent and because data suggest that the pubertal surge in GH and IGF-I levels is sex steroid dependent, we speculate that the mechanism underlying our observation may involve blockade by tamoxifen of estrogen action in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. We conclude that tamoxifen treatment reduces IGF-I levels and that this reduction may contribute to the therapeutic effect of the drug. 
Oncogene amplification in breast cancer. To refine the analysis of gene amplification in breast cancer, the authors have developed sensitive methods that can be used to screen nucleic acid prepared from a variety of sources. In their analysis, Southern hybridization and DNA dot-blot analysis were used to screen 49 breast cancer DNAs for Myc, Neu, and Int-2 gene amplification. The analysis detected minimal one extra gene copy) as well as expanded (two or more extra gene copies) gene amplifications, and in addition, distinguished between gene amplification and aneuploidy as the cause of extra gene copies. These quantitative methods were adapted to patient specimens routinely available in the anatomic pathology laboratory, including fresh tumor tissue, tumor nuclei discarded during estrogen receptor analysis, and paraffin blocks. One minimal gene amplification was found in three cases of intraductal cancer. Of 25 cases of nonmetastatic invasive cancer, 28% had at least one extra Myc gene, whereas 24% had Neu, and 21% had Int-2 gene amplification. Of 21 cases of metastatic invasive cancer, 43% had Myc, 43% had Neu, and 40% had Int-2 gene amplification. Among the nonmetastatic cancers, 47% had one, 12% had two, and 4% had three amplified genes. Within the metastatic cancers, 48% had one, 28% had two, and 5% had three amplified genes. Our data suggest relationships between tumor progression and both incidence and size of Myc, Neu, and Int-2 gene amplification. 
Treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with I-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine. From February 1986 to December 1988, 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-I meta-Iodobenzylguanidine (131-MIBG). Thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy, three had suffered a local relapse, and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration. One child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy, and subsequently for a local relapse. A total of 72 courses of 131-MIBG was administered, with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 GBq (median, 3.7 GBq). One child received five courses, two four courses, 13 three courses, four two courses, and 12 one course of 131-MIBG. The most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia, with a platelet level of less than 50,000/cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses. A leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once. There were six major responses (two complete) lasting 4 to 9 months, and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months. Responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse. Further studies of the role of 131-I meta-Iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed. 
Cryptic osteoid osteoma of the cranium: case report. Osteoid osteoma is an uncommon benign tumor of bone that rarely involves the cranium. If often causes local pain that is worse at night, characteristically relieved by aspirin, and does not correlate with the size of the lesion. The diagnosis depends on skull radiographs and computed tomography. This report describes a case in which radiographs showed nothing abnormal. The diagnosis and operative localization were accomplished with radionuclide bone scanning. Thus, the possibility of radiographically cryptic lesions must be considered in the evaluation of atypical head pain syndromes. 
Inhibition of invasion of invasive human bladder carcinoma cells by protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine. To study the effect of the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor staurosporine on invasion, we selected the invasive human bladder carcinoma cell line EJ. Total PKC activity was more than twofold higher in the EJ cells than in RT4 cells (superficial human bladder carcinoma cells), which do not pass through an artificial basement membrane. There was more PKC activity in the cytosol than in the membrane of EJ cells. Staurosporine, at nontoxic concentrations, inhibited the invasion of EJ cells through an artificial basement membrane in a dose-dependent manner. Staurosporine caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell motility but did not inhibit cell attachment. Staurosporine represents a new agent for the inhibition of tumor cell invasion and may prove useful in studying the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon. 
Comparative study of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical analyses. An important disease entity distinct from cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) in Japan is adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL), which usually shows the same phenotype as CTCL, i.e., a helper/inducer T-cell phenotype (CD4+CD8-), and usually involves the skin. Clinically, both CTCL and ATL are heterogeneous in nature. In this study, we demonstrated differences between CTCL and ATL in terms of clinical and immunopathologic cell surface features. In patients with ATL, the predominant clinical findings were peripheral lymph node involvement, skin lesions, hepatosplenomegaly, leukemic manifestations, and an aggressive course. In patients with CTCL, by contrast, only skin lesions predominated at the onset of the disease and a relatively good prognosis was demonstrated. Phenotypic heterogeneity of ATL in the skin, i.e., CD4-CD8-, CD4+CD8-, and CD4-CD8+, was demonstrated. Expression of Leu8, CD7 (Leu9), and CD45RA (2H4) was high in both the skin-infiltrating ATL cells and peripheral blood and lymph node ATL cells compared with that in the skin-infiltrating CTCL cells. Expression of CD25 (IL-2R), CD71 (OKT9), HLA-DR, and HLA-DQ was higher in the skin-infiltrating ATL cells than in CTCL cells. Expression of CD29 (4B4) was high, and that of CD45RA (2H4) was low in both the skin-infiltrating ATL and CTCL cells compared with the peripheral blood and lymph node ATL cells. Expression of CD45RO (UCHL-1) was not significantly high in the skin-infiltrating CTCL cells compared with that in ATL cells. The most significant phenotypic difference between ATL cells and CTCL cells was the expression of Leu8 (lymph node homing receptor), CD7 and CD25 antigens on the cell surface, and the main phenotypic difference between skin-infiltrating ATL and CTCL cells and peripheral blood and lymph node ATL cells was the expression of CD29 and CD45RA. These findings confirm that the difference in antigen expression on the cell surface might reflect the clinical features of ATL and CTCL, and suggest that the predominant phenotype of peripheral blood and lymph node ATL cells is that of naive, relatively immature or activated T-cells, and that CTCL cells are previously activated (memory) T-cells. In other words, CTCL cells do not share the same origin as ATL cells. These observations support the concept that ATL is a disease distinct from CTCL. 
Mid-line presentation of cervical lymphomata. Three cases of lymphoma are reported, all of which presented as a mid-line cervical swelling and appeared to be localised disease. The importance of early removal of such lesions is emphasized. 
Establishment of an erythroid cell line (JK-1) that spontaneously differentiates to red cells. The authors established a new hemopoietic cell line (JK-1) from a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in erythroid crisis. This JK-1 line predominantly consists of immature cells, but a small number of mature erythroblasts and red cells can be consistently seen without any specific differentiation inducer. The JK-1 cells grow in suspension culture supplemented with human plasma and carry double Philadelphia chromosomes. Hemoglobin staining with benzidine was positive for about 20% of cells and the type of the hemoglobin was for the most part HbF. Surface-marker analysis revealed JK-1 cells positive for glycophorin A, EP-1, and HAE9. The proportion of mature cells was elevated by the addition of delta-aminolevulinic acid. Erythropoietin (EPO) enhanced the growth of JK-1 cells either in the suspension or in methylcellulose semisolid culture. The total number of EPO receptors was 940 per cell, of which 220 sites had an affinity higher than the other 720 sites. This is the first report of an established human erythroid cell line which spontaneously undergoes terminal differentiation. 
The prognostic value of image analysis in ovarian cancer. Histologic grading is very important for treatment decisions in ovarian cancer. All grading systems contain a significant subjective component, which could be reduced by including objective measurements into the diagnostic decision. Image analysis was used to determine nuclear area and ploidy distributions in 42 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, and the results were related to tumor grade and clinical outcome. The mean nuclear area, mean optical density, number of hyperploid cells, and the standard deviation between measurements were significantly higher in Grade 2 and 3 tumors compared with Grade 1 tumors, in rapidly progressive tumors compared with less aggressive malignancies, and in recurrent tumors compared with primary lesions. The number of nuclei with very high DNA content was found to be of prognostic importance. Image analysis thus provides additional prognostic information in epithelial ovarian cancer. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma as a secondary malignancy. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare neoplasm, but it is occurring with increased frequency even among apparently immunocompetent patients. Although secondary malignancies frequently involve the lymphoreticular system, PCNSL has been reported as a second neoplasm only once previously. Seven patients are discussed who developed PCNSL after successful treatment for a prior neoplasm. The original cancer was colon (one), breast (one), thyroid (one), Hodgkin's disease (two), and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (two). Patients with systemic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were thought to have a separate cerebral lymphoma on the basis of a prolonged disease-free interval from their systemic lymphoma, and the absence of systemic disease, when PCNSL was diagnosed and through subsequent follow-up. The PCNSL developed a median of 10 years after the diagnosis of the first tumor and 6 years after the last evidence of systemic disease. The diagnosis of PCNSL was often delayed because of confusion with brain metastases, and initial shrinkage or disappearance of the lesion after corticosteroids. Formation of PCNSL may be a consequence of treatment for the first malignancy, reflect an unidentified inherent predisposition to neoplastic transformation, or result from the changing epidemiology of PCNSL in the general population. These mechanisms are not mutually exclusive, and a single hypothesis cannot account for all these cases. 
Gastric lymphoma. From 1976 to 1988, 35 patients were treated for Stage IE and Stage IIE primary gastric lymphoma (non-Hodgkin's). Pain and weight loss were the predominant symptoms, physical findings were usually absent and 20 per cent of the patients were anemic. The results of gastrointestinal contrast studies suggested a malignant condition in 75 per cent, but findings were not specific for lymphoma. Endoscopic findings suggested a malignant process in 85 per cent, but the yield for biopsy was only 60 per cent. Of 28 patients undergoing operative exploration, 75 per cent were resectable. Nine patients received postresectional adjuvant therapy. Five had chemotherapy; three, radiotherapy, and one patient, a combination of the two. Primary nonsurgical treatment consisted of chemotherapy in 11, radiotherapy in two and combined therapy in one instance. Three of five recurrences were successfully treated. The five year survival rate was 65 per cent without significant differences between surgical and nonsurgical regimens. Those with tumors smaller than 7 centimeters had a five year survival rate of 100 per cent versus 50 per cent for larger neoplasms. Patients more than 60 years of age appeared to have a more favorable course after surgical therapy compared with those who had nonsurgical treatment. We concluded that endoscopy is a most useful, although limited diagnostic study and since no treatment program is obviously superior, the choice of therapy can be individualized accordingly. 
Polypoid melanoma: a virulent variant of nodular melanoma. Report of three cases and literature review. We report the cases of three patients with polypoid melanoma. In no case was there microscopic evidence of melanoma cell invasion below the papillary dermis. In the polypoid variant of nodular melanoma, melanoma cells accumulate in large volume above the skin's surface. This increase in tumor volume encourages dislodgment of melanoma cells that are carried to superficial lymphatic vessels without invading the reticular dermis; this feature differentiates polypoid melanoma from the nonpolypoid nodular variant. Although polypoid melanoma is considered the most malignant form of melanoma, our findings, albeit limited to three cases, suggest that early diagnosis and prompt surgical excision may provide a favorable 5-year survival rate. 
Persistence of mucosal gastric carcinomas for 8 and 6 years in two patients. A small gastric carcinoma was detected in a man, but he refused surgery. Eight years later, he was readmitted for a check-up, and a partial gastrectomy was performed. Pathologic examination revealed a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma restricted within the mucosa. In another man, an irregularly shaped, grossly depressed lesion indicating a malignancy was present at the gastric angle, and 6 years later he agreed to a partial gastrectomy. The lesion proved to be a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa. Retrospective examination of the original biopsy specimen revealed a small area of adenocarcinoma, presumably overlooked at the initial examination. Thus, some gastric carcinomas of the well-differentiated type can grow at an extremely slow rate, without extensive spread or invasion. Findings in these cases contribute to knowledge of the biological behavior of gastric carcinomas. 
Diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma. A clinicopathologic study and comparison with small lymphocytic lymphoma and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma. Controversy has recently arisen as to whether diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma (ILL) should be considered a low-grade or an intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for clinical purposes. Therefore, the authors performed a clinicopathologic study to determine the biologic course of diffuse ILL (40 cases) and compared it with small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL; 51 cases) and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma (DSCCL; 14 cases). They found that patients with diffuse ILL having pseudofollicular proliferation centers (PC) had a significantly longer median survival (84 months) than those without PC (46.5 months; P = 0.03). The median survival of patients with SLL was 72 months, whereas those with DSCCL had a median survival of only 18 months. Based on these findings, the authors conclude that diffuse ILL with PC should be included in the low-grade category of SLL for clinical purposes, whereas diffuse ILL without PC (true diffuse ILL) should be considered an intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. True diffuse ILL is similar to centrocytic lymphoma in the Kiel classification and should be accorded a similar status in a modified Working Formulation. 
A Southwest Oncology Group study on the use of a human tumor cloning assay for predicting response in patients with ovarian cancer. A total of 211 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (168 with tumors refractory to prior chemotherapy and 43 with no prior chemotherapy) from 33 different Southwest Oncology Group institutions had their tumors sampled and specimens shipped to two central laboratories for drug-sensitivity testing in a human tumor cloning assay. The 168 patients with a prior history of chemotherapy failure (median of four prior chemotherapeutic agents) were treated with the most effective agent(s) found in the cloning assay (23 patients), and those patients whose tumors did not form colonies in vitro or did not manifest any sensitivity to agent(s) were treated with a clinician's choice of agent(s) (101 patients). The remaining 44 of the 168 patients were not treated with chemotherapy because of deteriorating performance status or early death. The complete and partial response rate in patients treated according to assay results was 28% versus 11% for the patients treated according to clinician's choice (P = 0.03). There was no statistically significant difference in survival between the two options (6.25 versus 7 months, respectively). The 43 patients with no history of prior chemotherapy were all treated with standard combination chemotherapy, and their clinical response was compared with their in vitro sensitivity to the same agents. Overall there was a 100% true-positive rate and 100% true-negative rate for the seven evaluable patients. From these data the authors conclude that use of the human tumor cloning assay may increase the response rate but not the survival for selected patients with advanced chemotherapy-refractory ovarian cancer. The study is weakened, however, by the many steps of patient selection necessitated by inadequate tumor colony formation in vitro and the inability to treat all patients (because of early death or a rapid decline in performance status). The assay does appear to be worthy of additional study for predicting response to combination chemotherapy in patients without a prior history of chemotherapy. Finally the use of central chemosensitivity testing laboratories is feasible for testing in vitro predictive assays in a cooperative group setting. 
Carcinoma of the breast: measurement and the management of treatment. II. The regression of tumours. Regression slopes fitted in 238 new cases of primary breast cancer submitted to a variety of managements are analysed. Contrary to the original hypothesis that slopes would primarily reflect the composition of the tumours, the steepness of resorption slopes is found also to be treatment dependent. Investigation of other factors influencing slopes is confined to radiotherapy where the expectation that the prescribed dose will be delivered is high. A large cumulative radiation effect before the start of shrinkage is associated with steeper slopes. A small correlation between slope and both menopausal status and starting diameter has been found, with premenopausal patients and small tumours producing the steepest slopes. The full range of slopes has been seen in postmenopausal patients. The data has been fitted to a linear model to evaluate the relative importance of these associations. Illustrative cases support the hypothesis that resorption slopes are a product of tumour architecture and histology but we conclude that the maximum possible steepness of slope is not always achieved in the clinic, even when radiation is used. A combination of histological and regression data is therefore required to characterize a tumour for predictive purposes. 
Does the treatment of genital condylomata in men decrease the treatment failure rate of cervical dysplasia in the female sexual partner? Three hundred ninety women treated for cervical dysplasia by local tissue ablation were studied retrospectively to test the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate is lower if the male sexual partner is also treated. In 190 cases, the male sexual partner was examined and treated successfully for genital condylomata. Controls were 200 women treated during the same time period and closely matched to the study group regarding age, race, socioeconomic status, histologic grade of dysplasia, distribution of the lesions, and methods of therapy, but the male partner was neither examined nor treated. The treatment failure rate for women whose partners were also treated was not significantly different from that for women whose partners were not treated (6.8 versus 7.5%; P greater than .05), suggesting that treating genital condylomata in men does not affect the failure rate of cervical dysplasia in female sexual partners. 
Surgical voice restoration with the Blom-Singer prosthesis following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and pharyngogastric anastomosis. Surgical voice restoration using the Blom-Singer technique is a well-established procedure in patients who have undergone simple laryngectomy. Operations for hypopharyngeal carcinoma are more extensive and require reconstruction using regional skin or myocutaneous flaps, or reanastomosis with colon, jejunum, or stomach. We report the use of the Blom-Singer prosthesis in four patients who had undergone pharyngogastric repair following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and who had failed to achieve a satisfactory voice. All patients initially developed good speech using the prosthesis. Two patients subsequently had their prostheses removed: one because of recurrent malignant disease and one because the procedure had not significantly altered the quality of the voice. The remaining two patients have continued to use the device at 2 and 5 years after insertion with good voice production. 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with primary brain tumors. All histologically documented episodes of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in adult patients with primary brain tumors treated at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, since 1981, were retrospectively reviewed. Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was histologically documented 11 times in 10 patients. During the same 8-year interval, approximately 587 adults were seen at the center for a brain tumor, 90% of whom received ongoing therapy. Therefore, in at least 1.7% (10/587) of our patients with brain tumors, P carinii pneumonia developed. The median duration of dexamethasone therapy at the onset of P carinii pneumonia symptoms was 2.75 months. Symptoms began during tapering of steroid therapy in eight episodes. Bronchoscopy was diagnostic in the eight cases in which it was performed. Four episodes (40%) were fatal. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis may be indicated in some patients with brain tumors, especially during tapering of steroid therapy. 
Survival discriminants for differentiated thyroid cancer. Since 1975, the American Cancer Society, Illinois Division, has published end results of major cancer sites drawn from patient data contributed voluntarily by hospital cancer registries throughout the state. The current study was undertaken, in part, to apprehend information regarding contested areas in the management of patients having differentiated (papillary/follicular) thyroid cancer. A total of 2,282 patients with either papillary or follicular carcinoma of the thyroid from 76 different Illinois hospitals and providing 10 years of follow-up information (life-table analysis) were retrospectively analyzed for demographic, disease, and treatment-related predictors of survival. Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazards method was made for stage, age, race, sex, morphology, history of radiation exposure, presence of positive lymph nodes, initial surgical treatment, postoperative iodine 131 therapy, and replacement/suppressive thyroid hormone treatment. Statistically significant (p less than or equal to 0.05) predictors of favorable survival after thyroid cancer were low stage (I and II), young age (less than 50 years), white race, female sex, and the administration, postoperatively, of either thyroid hormone or radioactive iodine. Factors that had no influence on survival were lymph node status, choice of initial surgical treatment, and a history of prior irradiation. We suggest that where a prospective clinical trial is impracticable, a retrospective analysis of a large and detailed database, such as that available from cooperating hospital-based tumor registries, may yet provide useful insights to solutions of cancer management problems. 
Cingulin, a specific protein component of tight junctions, is expressed in normal and neoplastic human epithelial tissues. Cingulin is a 140-kd protein localized on the cytoplasmic face of avian tight junctions. The expression of cingulin in human normal and neoplastic colonic tissue has been investigated with an antiserum against chicken cingulin. Human cingulin shares its apparent molecular mass and localization with avian cingulin. In normal colonic epithelium, villous adenomas, and differentiated adenocarcinomas, cingulin staining is observed in the junctional region of the polarized cells lining the surface, the crypts, and the glandular lumina. In poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas, labeling also is observed at the interface between cancer tissue and stroma, or in clumps of malignant cells, forming a pattern that highlights the presence of small, compressed lumina. The cingulin content of four adenocarcinomas, estimated by immunoblotting and densitometry, was higher than that of the normal tissue (150% to 230%). Cingulin was detected in a metastasis from a colon adenocarcinoma but not in nonepithelial tissues and neoplasias, suggesting that cingulin may be a useful marker in the characterization of colonic and probably other epithelial neoplasias. 
Autologous bone marrow transplantation in high-risk remission T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia using immunotoxins plus 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide for marrow purging. Fourteen patients with high-risk T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in complete remission underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in an attempt to eradicate their residual disease burden. A combined immunochemotherapy protocol using a cocktail of two immunotoxins directed against CD5/Tp67 and CD7/Tp41 T-lineage differentiation antigens in combination with the in vitro active cyclophosphamide congener 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide (4-HC) was used to purge autografts. Despite high dose pretransplant radiochemotherapy and effective purging of autografts, 9 of 14 patients relapsed at a median of 2.5 months (range, 1.2 to 16.8 months) post BMT. Two patients remain alive and disease free at 26 and 28 months post BMT. We used a novel quantitative minimal residual disease (MRD) detection assay, which combines fluorescence activated multiparameter flow cytometry and cell sorting with leukemic progenitor cell (LPC) assays, to analyze remission bone marrow (BM) samples from T-lineage ALL patients for the presence of residual LPCs. Notably, high numbers of residual LPC detected in remission BM before BMT constituted a poor prognostic indicator, providing the first evidence for the biologic significance and clinical value of in vitro T-lineage ALL LPC assays. The median value for the residual leukemia burden before BMT, was approximately 8.6 x 10(3) LPC/10(8) mononuclear cells (MNC) (approximately 0.0086% LPC). Patients with a residual leukemia burden less than this median value appeared to have a better outlook for remaining free of relapse after autologous BMT than patients with a greater leukemia burden (53 +/- 25% v 14 +/- 13%, P = .006, Mantel-Cox). By comparison, the log kill efficacy of purging, the remaining numbers of LPC in purged autografts, or the estimated numbers of reinfused LPC, did not correlate with the probability of disease-free survival (DFS). These results indicate that the primary reason for the recurrence of leukemia was inefficient pretransplant radiochemotherapy rather than inefficient purging of autografts. 
Renal angiomyolipoma: report of 24 cases. A series of 24 patients with renal angiomyolipoma was reviewed. Their ages ranged from 10 to 70 years (average 41). Four cases were associated with tuberous sclerosis, 1 with spinal neurilemmoma, 1 with transitional cell carcinoma and another with renal tuberculosis. The presenting symptoms in decreasing frequencies were flank pain, mass, haematuria, fever, syncope and respiratory distress. Although it has often been said that angiomyolipomas associated with tuberous sclerosis are small and asymptomatic, all 4 such patients in this study had large symptomatic tumours. Before the advent of CT scan and ultrasonography, the pre-operative diagnostic rate for cases unassociated with tuberous sclerosis was 10% (1/10). With the combined use of these 2 modalities, the diagnostic rate increased to 60% (6/10). Most patients in this series were treated with nephrectomy. However, equally good outcomes occurred in 2 patients who received partial nephrectomies. Pre-operative diagnosis now makes it possible to consider more conservative management. 
Sex hormone receptors in human thyroid tissues. The behavior of sex hormone receptors was studied in the cytosol of thyroid tissue samples in order to clarify the effects of sex hormones on diseases of the thyroid. Androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor (ER), and progesterone receptor (PgR) were assayed using the dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) method and analyzed by the method of Scatchard. Androgen receptor, ER, and PgR were negative in all of the cytosol prepared from normal thyroid tissues. However, the positive rates for the receptors in the neoplastic and nonneoplastic tissues were 22% for AR, 29% for ER, and 18% for PgR. Especially, the incidence of ER was significantly higher in neoplastic lesions than normal tissues. These data suggest that sex hormones, especially estrogen, may play a role in diseases of the thyroid. 
Neonatal intracranial teratomas. Two neonates with intracranial teratomas presented with cranial enlargements a few weeks after birth. Both cases underwent surgery: one died intraoperatively; the other is the longest known survivor, alive 7 years and 9 months after subtotal excision of a mature teratoma of the left sylvian fissure. Previous operations have been relatively few and nearly all have been unsuccessful. Size and favorable location may be the most important prognostic features regardless of the histologic classification as mature or immature. One of our cases demonstrates that even subtotal excision of a mature teratoma can result in long-term survival. 
Renal oncocytoma: long-term follow-up and flow cytometric DNA analysis. We report a retrospective study on the clinicopathologic features and flow cytometric DNA analysis of ten renal oncocytomas compared with a control group of ten randomly selected renal cell carcinomas. Among the oncocytoma patients, no recurrences or metastases were noted over an average follow-up of 6.7 years (range = 6 months to 16 years). Reproducible, high-quality DNA histograms were obtained on the paraffin-embedded specimens by using our modified flow cytometric procedure. One aneuploid (10%) and two hyperdiploid tumors (20%) were found in the oncocytoma group. There was no correlation between these abnormal DNA histographic patterns and survival or tumor stages. On the contrary, a good correlation was found between tumor grades and DNA ploidy in the controls. We conclude that renal oncocytoma is a clinically benign tumor, yet it may exhibit varying degrees of flow cytometric DNA abnormalities, which have no predictive value on survival and probably reflect the characteristics of oncocytes rather than its malignant potential. 
Bone marrow transplantation for myelodysplasia and secondary acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia. Twenty-three patients with primary myelodysplasia (MDS) or secondary myelodysplasia/acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (MDS/ANLL) were treated with allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Only one patient was in a chemotherapy-induced hematologic remission. Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis included methotrexate, methotrexate plus cyclosporine, cyclosporine, or T-cell depletion using one of two anti-CD5 monoclonal antibodies. For patients with primary MDS, the median age was 19 years (range, 11 to 41 years) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 56% +/- 21% (median follow-up, 2 years; range, 0.8 to 5 years). There were three graft failures (two with autologous recovery) and two early deaths. Outcome appeared to be related to French-American-British (FAB) classification. For patients with secondary MDS/ANLL, the median age was 28 years (range, 3 to 16 years) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 27% +/- 13% (median follow-up, 5 years; range, 2.5 to 8.5 years). There were no graft failures, two relapses, and four early deaths. The presence of marrow fibrosis per se did not predict for graft failure (P = .21); however, the use of T-cell depleted marrow in patients with marrow fibrosis resulted in graft failure in three of five individuals. Our results suggest that in patients with primary MDS or secondary MDS/ANLL, BMT should be considered early in the course of the disease, and that attempts at inducing a remission prior to BMT appeared to be unnecessary. In MDS patients with marrow fibrosis, T-cell depletion should be avoided. 
The single-breath nitrogen test, mortality, and cancer. The relationship between indices of the single-breath nitrogen test and mortality, overall cancer incidence, and respiratory cancer incidence was examined in a cohort of 876 men, 46 to 69 yr of age, examined in 1974 and followed until June 1985. Closing volume, closing capacity, and slope of phase III were not related to mortality or cancer. In contrast, FEV1 was related to mortality, with an estimated relative mortality risk of 1.37 (95% confidence interval, 1.11 to 1.70) per liter under the expected FEV1, given height, age, and smoking, but FEV1 was not related to cancer. Inability to perform acceptable single-breath nitrogen test tracings was related to mortality with a relative mortality risk of 2.03 (1.45 to 2.85), but not to cancer. We conclude that indices of the single-breath nitrogen test have no predictive value concerning overall mortality and cancer incidence. 
Study of neu-protein expression in mammary Paget's disease with and without underlying breast carcinoma and in extramammary Paget's disease. Correlation between neu/c-erbB-2/Her-2 gene amplification and overexpression of the neu gene product has been reported in tumors of glandular origin, especially ductal breast carcinomas. Formalin-fixed and dewaxed sections from 23 cases of mammary (MPD) and 9 cases of extramammary (EPD) Paget's disease were immunohistochemically stained by means of the monoclonal antibody 3B5 directed against an intracellular domain of the neu gene protein. All MPDs exhibited a distinct membrane staining of tumor cells independent of the presence of ductal breast carcinomas found in 18 cases. All these breast carcinomas also were positive for neu staining. In contrast to MPD, all EPDs were negative. Normal epidermis was always negative. Northern blot analysis sustained the immunohistologic findings in that the presence of neu mRNA could be demonstrated in two of three cases with MPD. Negativity in one case was due to dilution effects by nontumor cells. Our results suggest that Paget cells of mammary and extramammary localization, although very similar phenotypically, derive from different genetic accidents. Furthermore neu positivity in all MPDs and all underlying ductal carcinomas suggests common genetic alterations for both tumors. However the finding of five neu protein-positive MPDs without associated ductal breast carcinomas may suggest a somewhat different transformation process. 
Alternating cisplatinum and VAC ineffective in end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Sixteen patients with end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were admitted to a phase II study of alternating courses of cisplatinum (100 mg/m2) and VAC (vincristine 1.4 mg/m2, adriamycin 50 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2) given at three weekly intervals. Only two patients achieved a response (12 per cent). The median survival time was 62 days which is much the same as that of a similar group of patients who received no chemotherapy in a previous trial (70 days). 
The value of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Serum levels of squamous cell carcinoma antigen were measured in 688 samples from 119 patients with cervical cancer. Ninety-seven patients had primary tumors and 22 had recurrent disease. Serum samples were obtained before each cycle of chemotherapy, before surgery, at least 4 weeks after surgery, and at 2- to 3-month intervals during follow-up from 78 of the patients with locally advanced cervical cancer who were receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels were elevated (greater than 2.5 ng/ml) in 71% of the patients with primary tumors and in 77% of the patients with recurrent carcinomas. The percentage of positivity increased significantly with stage (p = 0.03) and was higher in squamous cell tumors than in adenocarcinomas (p less than 0.001). Pretreatment squamous cell carcinoma antigen levels were not predictive of neoadjuvant chemotherapy response; however, the serial measurement during chemotherapy showed a good correlation with clinical response. In the patients who had surgery, squamous cell carcinoma antigen positivity did not correlate to pathologic findings (lymph node status, cervical and parametrial infiltration). Disease-free survival was significantly longer in patients with squamous cell carcinoma antigen pretreatment values that were lower than 5 ng/ml, compared with patients with marker higher than 5 ng/ml (p less than 0.01). Abnormal squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels preceded the clinical detection of recurrence in eight of 11 patients with a median lead time of 5 months. 
Limb salvage in pediatric surgery. The use of the expandable prosthesis. Limb sparing in growing children has proved to be very effective from an oncologic perspective, with good, long-term acceptance by the patients. As in the adult, when performed by experienced surgeons, limb sparing neither compromises the survival rate nor significantly increases the local recurrence rate, compared with cross-bone amputation. Discussions include patient evaluation, surgical options, materials and methods, and results. 
Computed tomography and the TNM classification of lung cancer. Computed tomography (CT) of the thorax and upper abdomen was prospectively evaluated in 84 patients with potentially operable lung cancer. Invasion into the thoracic wall and the mediastinal structures was not accurately demonstrated by CT. For metastatic mediastinal lymph nodes, the sensitivity and specificity of CT were, respectively, 86% and 61% and the positive and negative predictive indices 49% and 91%. For T1, T2 and T3 tumours the negative indices were 100%, 96% and 71%. Positive predictive index did not differ between squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. Adrenal metastases were CT-suspected in 17 cases and liver metastases in eight, but were verified by ultrasonography in only one and four cases. CT should be used in preoperative investigation of lung cancer, irrespective of stage. Demonstration of thoracic-wall or mediastinal invasion need not exclude tumour resection. Preoperative mediastinoscopy is indicated if CT shows nodal metastases or if there are signs of tumour invasion, but not in CT-negative T1 or T2 tumour. Abdominal metastases indicated by CT should be investigated with CT-guided needle biopsy. 
Chromatin structural analysis of the 5' end and contiguous flanking region of the myeloperoxidase gene. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) synthesis is known to be associated with the promyelocyte stage of myeloid differentiation. In particular the downregulation of MPO gene transcription is associated with myeloid cell maturation. We examined the changes in the deoxyribonuclease I hypersensitive sites within the 5' end of the MPO gene and its 5' flanking region during dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells to determine the changes in chromatin structure that accompany this process. The locations of hypersensitive sites surrounding the 5' end of the gene in proliferating, uninduced cells were determined: three were observed in the 5' flanking region and one within the gene. Progressive changes in all sites accompanied the downregulation of MPO transcription after treatment with DMSO. No evidence of hypersensitivity was observed in the chromatin region examined after 8 days of DMSO exposure. The results provide an example of the changes that occur in the chromatin structure of a gene as it is inactivated during differentiation. 
Ten-year prospective study on the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients. A prospective study was undertaken to investigate the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients. Three renal cell carcinomas were detected among 96 hemodialysis patients in 1979, and screening by computed tomographic (CT) scan was continued yearly until 1989. During this 10-year period, one renal cell carcinoma was found in the second year and another in the ninth year. Autopsy performed on seven of 19 patients who died showed one case of small clear cell carcinoma accompanying acquired cystic disease. In 33 males, kidneys were found to have enlarged 2.7 +/- 1.7 times over the 10-year follow-up due to acquired cysts, while no change in kidney volume was noted in 24 females. Native kidneys in nine of 12 patients who maintained functioning grafts were reduced in size. The patient with the largest kidney enlargement (11.5 times) died from retroperitoneal bleeding in 1989. These prospective study results suggest that both the incidence and prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients is high. Furthermore, major complications of acquired renal cystic disease seem to occur predominantly in males. 
Neonatal intracranial choriocarcinoma. A 1-month-old infant died from extensive intracerebral hemorrhage due to a metastatic choriocarcinoma to the brain that presumably originated in the placenta. The clinical course was characterized by hyperbilirubinemia, repeated episodes of seizures, and intracranial hemorrhage. A computed tomographic scan revealed a large vascular mass in the left parieto-occipital region and a small lesion in the left frontal lobe. The placenta was expelled during the delivery and was not examined. In view of the high level of maternal human chorionic gonadotropic hormone and the autopsy finding of metastasis, we presumed that the mass was a metastatic choriocarcinoma that had originated in the maternal placenta. To our knowledge, only one previous instance of this phenomenon has been reported. 
Oncolytic effects of fatty acids in mice and rats. Intrahepatic implants of M114 carcinoma in B6D2F1/J mice were treated by intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg sodium caprylate (octanoate), and implants of Nb2 lymphoma in Nb rats were treated with 300 mg tricaprylin orally. After 4-11 h extensive damage to tumor cells was evident microscopically whereas liver cells were unaffected. Tumors in mice treated once daily from the fourth to eighth day after implantation were obliterated. Subcutaneous implants of hepatoma Nb10L in Nb rats treated transdermally with a caprylic acid preparation underwent similar damage. Fatty acids can cause lysis of tumor cells with little damage to normal tissue in certain situations. This action is not related to mitotic activity and represents a novel mode of antitumor action. 
Extended retrolabyrinthine transtentorial approach to petroclival lesions. In this communication, an extension of the retrolabyrinthine approach that has permitted safe, effective access to the petrous tip and clivus is presented. The basic technique involved complete mastoidectomy, preservation of the middle and inner ear structures, removal of the sigmoid and middle fossa plates, middle and posterior fossa craniotomies, ligation of the superior petrosal sinus, and division of the tentorium. Nine cases that exemplified the versatility of this approach constituted the basis of this paper: 2 cholesteatomas, 2 basilar artery aneurysms, 2 chordomas, and 3 meningiomas. The indications for, and complications of, this method have been discussed. 
Bronchopulmonary and neurenteric forms of foregut anomalies. Imaging for diagnosis and management. Bronchopulmonary foregut malformations encompass a great variety of anomalies that may arise from abnormal differentiation of the respiratory and alimentary tracts, abnormal separation of the two systems, or abnormal development of blood supply, perhaps singly or in combination, during early embryogenesis. The pulmonary and neurenteric forms share the common features of a pulmonary parenchymal opacification and/or intrathoracic mass, with the addition of vertebral anomalies in the instance of the neurenteric malformations. Plain radiographs serve as the starting point for diagnostic evaluation and sometimes are all that is needed; more often, though, the plain film findings suggest which road to follow in further imaging. No single imaging approach can be advocated for all patients. The lesion may be found initially, for example, on prenatal sonography. Ultrasonography also can establish the cystic nature of a mass and may help define vascular supply, although it cannot yet be said to have supplanted angiography's role in evaluating suspected sequestrations. For most intramediastinal or intrapulmonary masses without associated vertebral anomalies, CT will satisfactorily establish the cystic nature and should afford a reasonably confident preoperative diagnosis of bronchogenic cysts or type 1 or 2 cystic adenomatoid malformations. Type 3 cystic adenomatoid malformation, because of its relatively "solid" imaging characteristics, may not be diagnosed confidently by preoperative imaging. The finding of vertebral anomalies associated with a mediastinal mass especially warrants MR imaging to define intraspinal involvement. However, the association of vertebral or rib anomalies with apparent unilateral pulmonary agenesis or hypoplasia arouses suspicion of a bronchopulmonary foregut malformation that communicates with the gastrointestinal tract, and this uncommon situation calls for a barium examination. Radionuclide scintigraphy has an ancillary role in assessing foregut anomalies, but many findings from scintigraphy are relatively nonspecific and anatomic definition is poor. Scintigraphy may yield supportive information in cases of sequestration that have inconclusive findings as determined by plain radiographs and CT. 
Efficacy of fludarabine, a new adenine nucleoside analogue, in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PURPOSE: To describe the results of fludarabine therapy in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL-Pro). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventeen patients with a diagnosis of PLL or CLL-Pro received fludarabine 30 mg/m2 over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every 4 weeks alone (12 patients), or with prednisone (five patients). Previously defined criteria for response were used. Differences in response rates according to various characteristics were evaluated by chi-square test. RESULTS: Three patients (18%) achieved complete remission, and three (18%) had a partial remission, for an overall response rate of 35%. Responses were durable and occurred in all involved organ sites. Lower response rates were observed in patients with anemia, thrombocytopenia, advanced Rai stages, and primary resistance to prior therapy. Toxicities were minimal except for febrile episodes associated with therapy. CONCLUSION: Fludarabine has shown encouraging results in these patients and deserves further investigation in combination with other active agents, and in the setting of front-line therapy. 
Clinical importance of myeloid-antigen expression in acute lymphoblastic leukemia of childhood. BACKGROUND. Leukemic cells in 15 to 25 percent of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) express myeloid antigens as well as lymphoid antigens (the latter reflecting B-cell or T-cell lineage). The relations of myeloid-antigen expression to other features of ALL and to prognosis have been controversial. METHODS. We analyzed clinical and laboratory features present at diagnosis in 236 consecutive cases of ALL in children. Immunophenotyping, including single- and dual-fluorescence analyses, was used to classify leukemic cells as B or T lymphoblasts and also to identify myeloid-antigen expression--the simultaneous expression of lymphoid-associated antigens and at least one of three myeloid-associated antigens (CD33, CD13, and CD14) on cells classified as L1 or L2 according to the French-American-British system. RESULTS. Forty-five of 185 patients with B-lineage ALL had myeloid-antigen expression, as did 8 of 41 patients with T-lineage ALL. In 10 patients, the lineage could not be determined. Myeloid-antigen expression was associated with L2 morphology (P less than 0.05), but it did not correlate with other prognostic features recognized previously. Multivariate analysis showed that myeloid-antigen expression was an important predictor of relapse in childhood ALL and the most significant prognostic factor statistically (P less than 0.0001). A white-cell count greater than or equal to 50 x 10(9) per liter at diagnosis was also an important and highly significant prognostic feature (P less than 0.001). After 40 months, the estimated disease-free survival for patients with ALL was 84 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a low white-cell count, 57 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a high white-cell count, 47 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a low white-cell count, and 26 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a high white-cell count (P less than 0.00001). CONCLUSIONS. Myeloid-antigen expression is an important independent predictor of a poor response to chemotherapy in childhood ALL. 
Photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine. To study the vascular effects of a new photosensitizing agent independent of the influence of tumor growth, a cutaneous wound model was used. Six-week-old Harlan-Sprague-Dawley "Fuzzy" rats were surgically wounded in a standard fashion. The animals were then divided into three groups: the first group received chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine only, the second group was treated with light only, and a third group was treated with both chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine and light. Photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine had a direct effect on the neovasculature of a healing wound. The vasodilatation that was seen in the wound neovasculature that occurred 12 hours after the completion of chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine-photodynamic therapy may have indicated a therapeutic "window" at which other therapies can be employed to improve clinical efficacy. 
Auro-nasopharyngeal polyp and cholesteatoma. We report the association of an auronasopharyngeal polyp arising in a congenitally abnormal middle ear and Eustachian tube. Subsequently, ten years after removal of the polyp and insertion of a ventilation tube, there was recurrence of the polyp in association with cholesteatoma of the middle ear. 
Herpes zoster ophthalmicus and iris cysts. Herpes zoster ophthalmicus has been associated with numerous complications such as neuropathy, keratitis, anterior uveitis, and neuralgia. To my knowledge, there have been no reports of secondary iris cyst formation. I hereby report the case of a patient who developed an iris cyst during a Herpes zoster ophthalmicus infection. 
Tissue preparation for simultaneous flow cytometric quantitation of tumour associated antigens and DNA in solid tumours. A multiparameter flow cytometric assay for the simultaneous study of tumour associated antigens (TAA) and DNA in fresh solid tumours was devised. Cell suspensions were prepared by disaggregating unfixed solid tumour samples mechanically over a stainless steel mesh. Indirect immunofluorescence was used to identify the TAA, and DNA was stained with propidium iodide. Cell morphology was well preserved, cell clumping was negligible, and high quality indirect immunofluorescence quality indirect immunofluorescence and DNA staining were obtained. The technique is simple, rapid, and reproducible. Multiparameter assays can be developed to study prognostic indicators such as membrane oncoproteins, receptors, and multidrug resistance in solid tumours. With a suitable panel of antibodies the technique might become an aid in the differential diagnosis and biochemical diagnosis of some solid tumours. 
Hepatocyte growth factor in human placenta and trophoblastic disease. The hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is an acidic protein with a strong mitogenic effect on hepatocytes. Hepatocyte growth factor mRNA recently was cloned from a placental cDNA library. Here we demonstrate the purification of HGF from human placenta with heparin-agarose chromatography and TSK-heparin high-pressure liquid chromatography and describe the distribution of placental HGF by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antibody to HGF. The yield of HGF from the placenta was approximately 100 to 200 times greater than that previously obtained from human plasma. Placental HGF was expressed strongly in the villous syncytium, extravillous trophoblast, and amnionic epithelium, and, to a lesser degree in endothelial cells and villous mesenchyme. Hepatocyte growth factor also was identified in the trophoblast of complete hydatidiform moles, choriocarcinomas, and a case of blighted ovum. The presence of HGF in an organ characterized by rapid cell proliferation during gestation and in trophoblastic tumors strongly suggests that the growth-regulating effect of HGF is not limited to hepatocytes. 
Reduction of the membrane fluidity of human breast cancer cells by tamoxifen and 17 beta-estradiol. The intracellular steady-state levels of methotrexate were previously shown to be reduced in estrogen receptor (ER)-negative human breast cancer MDA-MB-436 cells and ER-positive human breast cancer MCF7 cells following treatment with pharmacologically relevant concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol (E2). We now report that both E2 and tamoxifen (TMX) significantly decreased the fluidity of MCF7 and MDA-MB-436 cellular membranes. With E2 or TMX at concentrations greater than 1 microM, perturbations in membrane fluidity were accompanied by apparently non-ER-mediated cytotoxicity. Alterations in membrane structure may have contributed to the cytotoxicity of high-dose endocrine therapy and to the ability of E2 to inhibit methotrexate transport and cytotoxicity in some human breast cancer cells. 
Clonogenic growth in vitro: an independent biologic prognostic factor in ovarian carcinoma A retrospective analysis was performed to investigate the prognostic value of growth in a human tumor clonogenic assay system for 84 ovarian cancer patients. A significant difference in survival probability (determined by the method of Kaplan-Meier) was found by univariate analysis between patients with ovarian carcinoma whose tumors manifested clonogenic growth (defined as growth of greater than or equal to five colonies per plate) and patients whose tumors did not grow. Clonogenic growth in vitro was associated with worse prognosis (P = .007, log-rank test). A number of generally accepted prognostic factors, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage (P = .003), residual tumor mass (P less than .001), and grade (P = .011), were also of prognostic importance in our patient population. Multivariate analysis, based on the Cox regression model, identified clonogenic growth as a significant independent prognostic parameter in ovarian carcinoma (P = .031), in addition to the conventional risk factors. Estimation of survival of individual patients was best accomplished by combining the factors of residual tumor mass (P less than .05), age (P less than .01), and clonogenic growth (P less than .05) (in sequence of decreasing potential of risk). 
585 nm for the treatment of port-wine stains. Although the flashlamp-pulsed-dye laser has been successfully used for the treatment of port-wine stains (PWS) at 577 nm, a number of adult patients had incomplete clearance of their birthmarks with this treatment modality because of residual vessels lying beyond the 0.75-mm penetration depth of 577-nm irradiation. Fifteen adult patients, of whom nine were previously treated with limited success at 577 nm (group A), and six untreated patients (group B) were included in the study. For the group A patients, treatment with 585 nm produced successful clearance of the birthmark. For the six patients in group B, parallel treatment of different sites of the same lesion coupled with skin biopsies and histologic examination revealed that a change in the wavelength from 577 to 585 nm allowed the laser light to penetrate from the midreticular dermis into the subcutaneous fat. This explained the clearance achieved at 585 nm and not at 577 nm. 
Insulin-like growth factors are mitogenic for human keratinocytes and a squamous cell carcinoma. Normal adult human keratinocytes in monolayer culture and SCL-1, a skin-derived squamous-cell carcinoma cell line, were investigated for the expression of receptors for insulin-like growth factors (IGF) and insulin. As demonstrated by affinity crosslinking, radiolabeled IGF-1, IGF-2, and insulin bound specifically to both cell types. Each cell expressed type I IGF receptors, with affinity for IGF-1 greater than IGF-2 much greater than insulin. Insulin receptors, with highest affinity for insulin, were also present on both cells. However, keratinocytes and SCL-1 cells differed in 125I-IGF-2 binding. 125I-IGF-2-bound to both type I and type II IGF receptors in normal keratinocytes, but bound predominantly to membrane-associated IGF binding proteins in SCL-1. IGF-1 was slightly more potent than IGF-2 in stimulating growth of both keratinocytes and SCL-1 cells. In keratinocytes, concentrations of IGF-1 ranging from 5-100 ng/ml, and of IGF-2 from 50-100 ng/ml, resulted in a significant increase in cell number. At the maximum dose of 100 ng/ml, either IGF-1 or IGF-2 caused a 2.3-times increase in cell number. In SCL-1 cells, IGF-1 was more potent than IGF-2 or insulin at lower concentrations, but either IGF-1 or IGF-2 at the maximal concentration of 333 ng/ml stimulated a 4.7-times increase in thymidine incorporation. The stimulatory effect of insulin in SCL-1 was 10-50 times less potent than that of the IGF. The effect of either IGF on SCL-1 was completely inhibited by the type I IGF receptor antibody alpha IR-3, suggesting that both IGFs are mitogenic through the type I IGF receptor. Insulin action was partially blocked by alpha IR-3, suggesting that insulin can act through both the insulin and type I IGF receptors. It thus appears that IGF-1 and IGF-2 are mitogens for normal and transformed human keratinocytes and that their actions are primarily mediated through the type I IGF receptor, whereas insulin is a mitogen through both the IGF-1 receptor and the insulin receptor. 
The role of adjuvant chemotherapy following cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer: a prospective comparative trial. We assigned 91 patients with deeply invasive, pathological stage P3, P4 or N+ and Mo transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (with or without squamous or glandular differentiation) to adjuvant chemotherapy or to observation after radical cystectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection. For most patients chemotherapy was planned as 4 courses at 28-day intervals of 100 mg./M.2 cisplatin, 60 mg./M.2 doxorubicin and 600 mg./M.2 cyclophosphamide. A significant delay was shown in the time to progression (p = 0.0010) with 70% of the patients assigned to chemotherapy free of disease at 3 years compared to 46% in the observation group. Median survival time for patients in the chemotherapy group was 4.3 years compared to 2.4 years in the observation group (p = 0.0062). In addition to treatment groups, important prognostic factors included age, gender and lymph node status. The number of involved lymph nodes was the single most important variable. We recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with invasive transitional cell carcinoma after definitive surgical resection. 
Bronchogenic carcinoma in situ on the carina eradicated by endobronchial biopsy. Squamous cell carcinoma in situ of the bronchus is a rare disorder in an isolated clinical setting. We present a case of carcinoma in situ located on the carina with excisional biopsy via a fiberoptic bronchoscope and no recurrence after five years. To our knowledge, this represents the only case of carcinoma in situ treated solely with excisional biopsy. This case further emphasizes the importance of securing biopsy specimens for all mucosal abnormalities and raises the possibility of limited excision as sole therapy for carcinoma in situ. 
Extracranial metastases of medulloblastoma in adults: literature review. A consecutive series of 30 cases of extracranial medulloblastoma metastases in adults is analysed. The majority of the patients were males with a 3:1 male/female ratio. Bone was the most frequent site of metastases in adults (77%) and children (78%), followed by lymph nodes (33%) in both children and adults. Lung metastases were more common in adults (17%), but liver metastases occurred more frequently in children (15%). Possible routes of spread and development of metastases are discussed, with special emphasis on the role of shunts in tumour seeding. Distant extracranial metastatic spread of medulloblastoma occurs at the rate of 7.1%. Mean interval between operation of the primary tumour and the discovery of metastases was shorter in children (20 months) than in adults (36 months). Survival after the discovery of metastases was also shorter in children (5 months) than in adults (9.5 months). Shunts were associated with an earlier appearance of metastases and with a poorer prognosis. A detailed review of the literature of 119 cases of medulloblastoma with extracranial metastases is provided. 
Capillary hemangioma of the right main bronchus treated by sleeve resection in infancy. Respiratory distress developed in a 5-month-old female infant with roentgenographic evidence of hyperinflation of the right lung. Bronchoscopy revealed a vascular tumor extending from the medial wall of the right main bronchus leading to a check-valve mechanism. Radionuclide lung scans showed ventilation and perfusion of the right side reduced to 36 and 11% of the total lung ventilation and perfusion, respectively. At the age of 7 months a sleeve of the right main bronchus was resected and a reanastomosis performed. The operation specimen contained a capillary hemangioma measuring 1.2 X 0.6 cm. The postoperative course was uneventful. Perfusion of the right lung had markedly improved 6 months after the operation, and at the age of 2 yr and 9 months it was completely normal. Capillary hemangiomas must be considered a cause of bronchial obstruction in infancy, and surgery can be performed successfully. 
Localization of trophoblastic disease with vaginal ultrasonography. A report of two cases. Two patients had elevated beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels and normal abdominal ultrasound examinations. In both instances transvaginal ultrasonography demonstrated a persistent nodule of trophoblastic disease confirmed at the time of hysterectomy. This new imaging modality can assist in the diagnosis of persistent trophoblastic disease in the uterus. 
Neodymium:YAG laser treatment of bladder hemangiomas. We present 3 cases of bladder hemangiomas, one single and two multiple, with a long-term history of recurrent hematuria, treated with endoscopic neodymium:YAG (yttrium, aluminum, garnet) laser photocoagulation, and obtaining good results. 
A case of multiple pilar tumors and pilar cysts involving the scalp and back. The case of a patient with multiple proliferating trichilemmal tumors and trichilemmal cysts of the scalp and back is discussed. The multicentric presentation of this tumor is unusual and, to our knowledge, has not been described previously. The appearance of trichilemmal cysts in association with multiple proliferating trichilemmal tumors suggests a common histogenesis of these two neoplasms. The typical presenting features, histologic description, and recommended treatment for these tumors are reviewed. 
Introduction of nerve growth factor (NGF) receptors into a medulloblastoma cell line results in expression of high- and low-affinity NGF receptors but not NGF-mediated differentiation. Expression of the cloned human nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) cDNA in cell lines can generate both high- and low-affinity binding sites. Since the inability to respond appropriately to differentiation factors such as NGF may contribute to determining the malignant phenotype of neuroblastomas, we sought to determine whether the same is true of medulloblastomas. To generate a human central nervous system neuronal cell line that would respond to NGF, we infected the medulloblastoma cell line D283 MED with a defective retrovirus carrying the cDNA coding for the human NGFR. The resultant cells (MED-NGFR) expressed abundant low- and high-affinity NGFRs, and NGF treatment induced a rapid transient increase of c-fos mRNA in the NGFR-expressing cells but not in the parent line or in cells infected with virus lacking the cDNA insert. However, the MED-NGFR cells did not internalize the NGFR at high efficiency, nor did they differentiate in response to NGF. Three important conclusions emerge from this study: (i) internalization of NGFRs is not necessary for some early rapid transcriptional effects of NGF; (ii) an unknown factor(s) that cooperates with the cloned NGFR in allowing high-affinity NGF binding is found in a primitive central nervous system cell line; and (iii) NGFRs introduced into and expressed by D283 MED (i.e., MED-NGFR) cells are partially functional but are unable to induce differentiation in these primitive neuron-like tumor cells, implying that high-efficiency receptor-mediated endocytosis of NGF and its receptor may be a necessary step in the cascade of events leading to NGF-mediated differentiation. 
Association of germ cell tumors and Hodgkin's disease. Two patients presented with synchronous Hodgkin's disease and testicular germ cell neoplasms. Both patients are in complete remission following treatment with multidrug chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Despite epidemiologic similarities between Hodgkin's disease and testicular cancer, only 13 cases of their association in the same patient have been reported in the literature, and in all those instances the tumors occurred metachronously. However, the very rare occurrence of synchronous presentation suggests a possible common pathogenetic factor in our 2 patients. 
The cytobrush for evaluating routine cervicovaginal-endocervical smears. While the conventional wooden spatula/cotton-tipped applicator has remained the method of obtaining Papanicolaou smears for most clinicians at the University of California at Los Angeles, the Student Health Service (SHS) adopted the Zelsmyr cytobrush as its sole method of obtaining cervical samples in late 1986. A study was done to define changes in both the adequacy of sampling and the detection rate for both squamous and glandular epithelial abnormalities with the cytobrush. To accomplish this goal, 1,000 cytobrush and 244 conventionally obtained smears were analyzed prospectively, and 3,864 SHS samples obtained in 1986 prior to the change in method were reviewed retrospectively. As compared to cervical samples obtained by conventional methods, the cytobrush smears contained significantly more endocervical cells and had fewer drying artifacts. Both methods obtained equivalent squamous samples and had similar final class distributions. No case of endocervical adenocarcinoma carcinoma in situ or invasive adenocarcinoma was detected. SHS patients who had initial "no endocervical cells" samples but whose repeat sample did contain endocervical cells retained the same class in more than 75% of cases. This study confirmed that the cytobrush technique produces Papanicolaou smears with improved sampling of the squamocolumnar junction but questioned whether that results in an increased detection rate for cervical pathology. 
Effect of microwave and ionizing radiation in patients with recurrent laryngeal carcinoma. This study describes the treatment and survival of 54 patients with gross recurrent laryngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy. Twenty-six patients were treated with local ultra-high frequency hyperthermia in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy (HRCH). Twenty-eight control patients were treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy (RCh). Eight patients (33 per cent) in HRCh showed a three year survival but no patient in the RCh group. At two years 18 patients (75 per cent) in HRCh and two (7 per cent) in RCh survived. 
Primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum. A retrospective analysis was performed on 230 patients with primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum seen at our institution from January 1944 to April 1989. We divided these patients into two groups. Group 1 was seen before 1970 and group 2 was seen from January 1970 to April 1989. There was a significant increase in the prevalence of malignancy in group 2 (47.2% versus 17.1%; p less than 0.0001) due to an increase in the number of lymphomas (22.6% versus 3.5%; p less than 0.001) and malignant neurogenic tumors (6.8% versus 1.1%; p = 0.0528). There was a significant increase in the number of malignant tumors in the anterior (59.5% versus 30.9%; p = 0.0022) and paravertebral (28.5% versus 2.8%; p = 0.0027) compartments in group 2. More patients with these tumors were symptomatic in group 2 (63.6% versus 5%; p = 0.0422). There was an increase of ancillary diagnostic studies performed to evaluate these tumors (76.0% versus 34.5%; p = 0.0422). Logistic regression analysis identified date of presentation (p less than 0.005), symptoms (p less than 0.01), size (p less than 0.005), and the anterior mediastinal compartment (p less than 0.005) as preoperative predictors of malignancy. The surgical approach to these tumors included more median sternotomy (30.1% versus 10.7%; p = 0.0008), anterior mediastinotomy, and cervical mediastinoscopy in group 2 (1.1% versus 17.5%; p = 0.0002). Long-term results support surgical resection in benign lesions and an aggressive multimodality approach to malignant lesions. 
Prediagnostic serum levels of carotenoids and vitamin E as related to subsequent cancer in Washington County, Maryland. In 1974 and 1975, serum specimens were collected from 25,802 volunteers in Washington County, Maryland. The serum was kept frozen at -73 degrees C until the time of assay. Prediagnostic samples from 436 cancer cases and 765 matched control subjects have been assayed. Nine sites have been studied: colon, rectum, pancreas, lung, melanoma, basal cell of skin, breast, prostate, and bladder. Serum beta-carotene levels showed a strong protective association with lung cancer, suggestive protective associations with melanoma and bladder cancer, and a suggestive but nonprotective association with rectal cancer. Serum vitamin E levels had a protective association with lung cancer; none of the other sites showed impressive associations. Low levels of serum lycopene were strongly associated with pancreatic cancer and less strongly associated with cancer of the bladder and rectum. 
When is a prognostic factor useful? A guide for the perplexed. Traditionally, a number of variables have been used to predict outcome in patients with early-stage breast cancer. These tests are simple to perform and relatively inexpensive. Recently, a number of new factors, eg, tumor proliferative index, nuclear DNA content, and amplification or overexpression of growth-promoting genes or oncogenes have been identified as potential predictors of outcome in patients with breast cancer. There is now increasing pressure to introduce such tests into routine clinical practice. How does a clinical practitioner identify which test, or group of tests, best predicts adverse outcome and whether any more clinically useful information is provided than with the use of more traditional factors alone? The aim of a prognostic test in breast cancer is to predict which patients are destined to develop a recurrence of cancer and those who are not. The prognostic usefulness of a test can be expressed in terms of relative risk (RR), which is the ratio of the risk of breast cancer recurrence in patients who test positive to the risk in those who test negative. Methodologic guidelines that should be satisfied by a study evaluating the predictive ability of a test include the following: (1) Was an inception cohort assembled? (2) Was the referral pattern described? (3) Were laboratory and clinical outcomes assessed in a blinded fashion? (4) Was complete follow-up achieved? (5) Was adjustment for extraneous prognostic factors carried out? (6) Were appropriate statistical methods used? An approach is suggested to help the clinician choose the test, or combination of tests, likely to discriminate between "high-" and "low-risk" patients in his/her own practice. The decision regarding what particular threshold value (risk) defined by a prognostic test (or series of tests) warrants adjuvant therapy for an individual patient is a complex one but should be based on a clear presentation of the risks and benefits to the patient. 
Interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis: clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions. Reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects. However, the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers. Treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity, although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts. This finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place. In addition, altered target lysis kinetics was observed, with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done. Because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors, its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers. 
Subscapular elastofibroma in a young pitcher. A case report. Subscapular elastofibromas and scapulothoracic bursitis can cause symptomatic masses in baseball pitchers. Both processes appear to represent reactive soft tissue responses to repetitive stress at the inferior border of the scapula. It is assumed that most masses in the subscapular area represent scapulothoracic bursitis rather than an elastofibroma. However, it is possible that some of the masses treated conservatively as scapulothoracic bursitis may be elastofibromas. A study is currently under way to evaluate the incidence of subscapular masses in college and professional pitchers in the United States. A follow-up report is anticipated when the study has been completed. The author requests information concerning any confirmed cases of elastofibroma in baseball pitchers. 
Improved flow cytometric determination of proliferative activity (S-phase fraction) from paraffin-embedded tissue. Recent studies suggest that proliferative activity (S-phase fraction [SPF]) may have greater prognostic significance than total nuclear DNA content; however, relatively few studies have examined SPF from paraffin-embedded tissue because of significant contamination of histograms with debris. In this study, cell cycle analysis was performed on 124 matched tissue specimens. Fresh tissue was divided into two equal portions; one portion was frozen, whereas the other portion was processed and embedded in paraffin. S-phase could be determined for both frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue in 81 cases. Correlation between SPF from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue was demonstrated (r = 0.80) when debris was subtracted from histograms with the use of two new subtraction algorithms referred to as multicut and singlecut. Unlike other debris-subtraction algorithms, the quantity and distribution of debris calculated by these algorithms are dependent on the magnitude and position of histogram peaks. A lesser degree of correlation was demonstrated with the use of a standard exponential debris subtraction algorithm (r = 0.67). Correlation of SPF for aneuploid cases was greater when SPF was calculated as a percentage of the aneuploid cell population rather than as a percentage of the entire cell population. This was attributed to the observation that the proportion of aneuploid cells from paraffin-embedded tissue was less than that from frozen tissue. The results of this study indicate that SPF can be calculated from paraffin-embedded tissue with values comparable to those obtained from frozen tissue. The ability to calculate SPF reliably from paraffin-embedded tissue should allow additional evaluation of this parameter as a prognostic indicator. 
Growth factor-dependent differentiation along the myeloid and lymphoid lineages in an immature acute T lymphocytic leukemia. Bone marrow cells from a child with an immature (CD2+, CD5+, CD7+) acute T lymphocytic leukemia (T-ALL) were cultured in the presence and absence of human rIL-2, IL-3, or granulocyte-macrophage (GM)-CSF. Cells cultured without growth factors failed to divide and those initiated in the presence of IL-2 or GM-CSF underwent maturation and terminal T lymphoid or myelomonocytic differentiation, respectively. In contrast, a permanent growth factor-dependent cell line, designated TALL-103/3, was established upon culture in IL-3. The TALL-103/3 cells gradually lost the T cell-specific markers and acquired a myeloid phenotype (CD15+, CD33+). Switching of the IL-3-dependent cells at an early passage to medium containing only human rIL-2 resulted in the establishment of a subline, named TALL-103/2, with a T lymphoid phenotype (CD3+, CD8+, TCR-gamma delta +, CD7+). The TALL-103/2 cells strictly require IL-2 for growth, are irreversibly committed to the lymphoid lineage, and cannot survive in the presence of any other hemopoietic growth factor tested so far. In contrast, the IL-3-dependent TALL-103/3 cells could be adapted to grow in synthetic (serum-free) medium also in the presence of either GM-CSF or IL-5, in which they retain a myeloid phenotype. Interestingly, after 18 mo in culture in IL-3, the TALL-103/3 cells can still be phenotypically converted to the lymphoid lineage upon addition of IL-2, thus maintaining its bipotentiality. Despite the marked phenotypic differences, the TALL-103/2 and TALL-103/3 cell lines show the same karyotypes with multiple abnormalities present in the primary malignant clone and have identical rearrangements of the TCR-gamma and -delta loci, thus confirming their derivation from a common precursor cell. Together, these findings indicate that the phenotype of immature T-ALL cells can be drastically modified by the presence of specific hemopoietic growth factors in the environment, leading to either lymphoid or myeloid lineage commitment while leaving their karyotype and genotype intact. 
The importance of cytogenetic studies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia. PURPOSE: The prognostic importance of pretreatment bone marrow cytogenetic studies in adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia treated at a single institution, with an identical treatment program, is described. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 105 patients with a documented morphologic diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia were reviewed for the purpose of this analysis. All patients had an extensive workup at presentation, and cytogenetic analysis was performed in 103 patients, using the Giemsa banding technique with trypsin pretreatment on 24-hour cultured cells. RESULTS: The specific cytogenetic classification in the 103 patients who had the karyotypic analysis was as follows: diploid 27%; Philadelphia chromosome-positive 13%; hyperdiploid 12%; B-cell karyotype 6%; 6q- and 14q+ abnormalities 4%; pseudodiploid 8%; hypodiploid 2%; and insufficient metaphases 28%. B-cell, 6q- or 14q+, and Philadelphia chromosome-positive karyotypes tended to correlate with other known negative prognostic factors. Patients with diploid, hyperdiploid, pseudodiploid, and hypodiploid karyotypes or with insufficient metaphases could be combined into one group with a favorable prognosis. In this group, the remission rate with induction chemotherapy was 89%, the median complete remission duration was 26 months, and the median survival was 25 months, with a 3-year survival rate of 45%. Patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive, B-cell, and 6q- or 14q+ abnormalities collectively had an unfavorable prognosis. Their response rate to induction chemotherapy was 65%, the median response duration was 7 months, and the median survival was 8 months, with a 3-year survival rate of less than 10%. CONCLUSION: We conclude that the pretreatment bone marrow karyotype is an important part of the evaluation of adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia and provides significant prognostic information. 
Cerebral tumor staging in patients with bronchial carcinoma by computed tomography. Computerized tomographic (CT) scans of 271 patients with histologically proven bronchial carcinoma accomplished for initial tumor staging were retrospectively evaluated for signs of cerebral metastasis. The results for the histologic subtypes were quite different. In 13.8% of patients with small cell carcinoma and limited disease the authors found signs of brain metastasis. However, routine cerebral staging in these patients did not seem to be useful because of lack of therapeutic consequences. On the other hand, no patient with non-small cell carcinoma (N-SCC) and tumor Stage I or II had brain metastases. All patients with brain metastasis from N-SCC had been classified as tumor Stage III before cerebral imaging. Among these patients, however, the authors found brain metastasis in 17.5% of those without known distant metastatic disease (III/M0), especially in large cell carcinoma and in adenocarcinoma. Stage III/M0 patients should undergo routine cerebral imaging if their tumor is surgically resectable and thoracotomy is planned. 
Inverted papilloma of renal pelvis: flexible ureteroscopic diagnosis and treatment. A case is reported of inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis in a patient with previous transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. The renal pelvic lesion was diagnosed and treated with a flexible ureteropyeloscope. Although nephroureterectomy was avoided, the patient must be carefully followed endoscopically and radiographically for recurrence of lesions throughout the urinary tract. This case represents the first report of the endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of an inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis. It demonstrates the vast potential for endoscopic diagnosis, treatment, and surveillance throughout the urinary tract. 
Multimodality therapy for advanced and recurrent vulvar squamous cell carcinoma. A pilot project. From 1985 to 1989 eight women with advanced or recurrent vulvar carcinoma were treated at the Women's Cancer Center of the University of Minnesota Hospital and Clinic. Each received a combination of 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C and cisplatin during radiotherapy. Five of the eight women who underwent posttreatment radical vulvectomy had acceptable operative morbidity. Six patients experienced a complete clinical response. Of them, one had microscopic residual disease in the surgical specimen. One patient with recurrent vulvar carcinoma experienced progression of disease on therapy. One death was attributable to chemotherapy toxicity, and two patients died of intercurrent disease. The overall survival rate at 27 months was 33%. This multimodality approach to the treatment of advanced vulvar carcinoma should be considered when designing a therapeutic approach to treating extensive or resistant vulvar carcinoma. 
Retrovirus from human T-cell leukemia virus type I-associated myelopathy is the same strain as a prototype human T-cell leukemia virus type I. A retrovirus was isolated from a T-cell line that was established from lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with human T-cell leukemia virus type I-associated myelopathy (HAM), and its genome was sequenced. The nucleotide sequence of the 3' half of the total genome was identical in 99.5% of the nucleotides to that of the prototype human T-cell leukemia virus type I that was derived from a patient with adult T-cell leukemia. These results indicate that the same retrovirus human T-cell leukemia virus type I is associated with both a neurological disease, HAM, and a lymphoproliferative disease, adult T-cell leukemia. 
Prospective follow-up for malignant melanoma in patients with atypical-mole (dysplastic-nevus) syndrome. A total of 357 white patients who had melanocytic nevi that fulfilled the clinical criteria for the "classic" atypical-mole (dysplastic-nevus) syndrome (100 or more melanocytic nevi; one or more melanocytic nevi 8 mm or larger in diameter; and, one or more melanocytic nevi with atypical features) were followed for the development of cutaneous malignant melanomas. Seventeen patients (4.8%) developed malignant melanomas during an average follow-up period of 49 months. One patient developed two malignant melanomas. Eight of the malignant melanomas detected were in situ and ten were invasive melanomas (less than 0.86 mm in Breslow thickness), implying an excellent prognosis. The number of malignant melanomas detected in these patients exceeded significantly the number expected to occur in age- and sex-matched white controls. All groups were shown to have an increased risk for the development of malignant melanomas. Total-body photographs were helpful in detecting changes in size, shape, and color that led to the diagnosis of malignant melanoma. These data support the concept that patients with this readily regionalized clinical presentation of classic atypical-mole syndrome are at an increased risk for malignant melanomas and, therefore, should be examined regularly. 
The pharmacokinetics of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in the rabbit. The pharmacokinetics of the activated and latent forms of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) isolated from HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells (HT1080 PAI-1) and a nonglycosylated form of human PAI-1 isolated from a yeast expression system (rPAI-1) were followed in the rabbit. As assessed by an immunologic assay specific for human PAI-1, guanidine HCI activated HT1080 PAI-1 and rPAI-1 entered the total plasma volume following intravenous bolus administration and exhibited a biphasic clearance pattern. The t1/2s of HT1080 PAI-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 6.0 and 24.8 minutes, respectively. The t1/2s of rPAI-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 8.8 and 34.0 minutes, respectively. Similar results were obtained by measuring PAI-1 activity in plasma and with trace amounts of 125I-rPAI-1, suggesting that the above pharmacokinetic behavior could also apply to endogenous PAI-1. The liver was the main site of rPAI-1 clearance. Unactivated, latent PAI-1 exhibited a very different pharmacokinetic profile. Over 80% of latent rPAI-1 cleared from the circulation within 10 minutes (t1/2 = 1.7 minutes). The difference in clearance behavior between activated and latent PAI-1 may be related to the ability of activated PAI-1, but not latent PAI-1, to rapidly form high-molecular-weight complexes with plasma binding factors which were observed in vitro and in vivo. Because PAI-1 could potentially tilt the fibrinolytic balance toward a prothrombotic state, its rapid clearance may represent an important control mechanism governing the circulating levels of this key component of the fibrinolytic pathway. 
The interplay of local and distant control in the cure of cervical cancer. From 1978 to 1986, 183 women with cervical cancer received definitive radiation therapy after extraperitoneal surgical staging. Relapse-free rates were strong functions of pelvic lymph node metastases and cervical size. The recurrence distribution consisted of 4% isolated local, 13% isolated distant, and 17% combined local and distant failures. With the assumption of independent local and distant failure probabilities, Suit et al.'s method was extended to assess potential improvement in cure attainable with perfect local and distant control, yielding local (LSA) and distant (DSA) survival advantages of 17% and 28%. Various subsets of clinical stage, cervical size, pelvic node metastases, periaortic metastases, and peritoneal metastases had LSA from 12% to 27% and DSA from 12% to 71%. For any prognostic group, LSA never exceeded DSA, showing that effective systemic therapy would have a greater impact on improving survival than would advances in local and regional tumor control. Therapeutic implications and limitations of the extended LSA-DSA model are discussed. This form of analysis can be used to guide the intensity of local and distant treatment to maximize the cure of the patient with cancer. 
Dietary fats and cancer. Evidence relating dietary fat to cancer at sites such as the breast and colon is provided by experiments showing that animals fed high-fat diets develop cancer at these sites more readily than do animals fed low-fat diets and by epidemiological data from different countries showing strong positive correlations between cancer incidence and mortality, and level of dietary fat. Experiments on animals have indicated that polyunsaturated vegetable oils promote cancer more effectively than do saturated fats or polyunsaturated fish oils, whereas in the epidemiological data, total dietary fat correlates with cancer incidence and mortality at least as well as does any particular type of fat. Case-control and cohort studies have not shown strong indications of a relationship between dietary fat and cancer, perhaps because of methodological difficulties inherent in such studies. The weight of evidence continues to indicate that long-term adherence to a low-fat diet can reduce the risk of some common types of cancer. 
Mucin production by human colonic carcinoma cells correlates with their metastatic potential in animal models of colon cancer metastasis. Patients with mucinous colorectal cancers characteristically present with advanced disease, however, the relationship between mucin production by colon cancer cells and their metastatic potential remains unclear. We therefore sought to define the relationship between mucin production by human colon cancer cells and metastatic ability by employing animal models of colon cancer metastasis. LS LiM 6, a colon carcinoma cell line with high liver metastasizing ability during cecal growth in nude mice produced twofold more metabolically labeled intracellular mucin and secreted four- to fivefold more mucin into the culture medium compared to poorly metastatic parental line LS174T. This was accompanied by a similar elevation in poly(A)+ RNA detected by blot hybridization with a human intestinal mucin cDNA probe, and increases in mucin core carbohydrate antigens determined immunohistochemically. Variants of LS174T selected for high (HM 7) or low (LM 12) mucin synthesizing capacity also yielded metastases after cecal growth and colonized the liver after splenic-portal injection in proportion to their ability to produce mucin. Inhibition of mucin glycosylation by the arylglycoside benzyl-alpha-N-acetyl-galactosamine greatly reduced liver colonization after splenic-portal injection of the tumor cells. These data suggest that mucin production by human colon cancer cells correlates with their metastatic potential and affects their ability to colonize the liver in experimental model systems. 
Incidence of prominent corneal nerves in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A. We studied the increased visibility of corneal nerves inside an 8-mm diameter central corneal area in 14 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A, one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B, five patients with nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma, ten patients with anterior keratoconus, and ten normal subjects. We used a grading system (grade 0 through grade 4) for nerve visibility based on slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination and photographic documentation. All 20 normal eyes showed either grade 0 or grade 1, which indicated no pathologic thickening of corneal nerves. Sixteen of the 28 eyes (57%) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A, however, were evaluated as grade 2 or higher, which indicated thickened corneal nerves. The incidence of high nerve visibility in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A was significantly greater compared to normal eyes (P less than .0001), anterior keratoconus (P less than .0001), and nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma (P = .0012). Furthermore, eight of the 28 eyes (29%) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A showed markedly prominent corneal nerves (grade 3 and 4), a prominence similar to those seen in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B. There was no definite relationship among prominent nerve, age of the patient, and occurrence of pheochromocytoma. These findings suggest that over half of all patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A show corneal nerves pathologically thickened to different degrees. 
Modulation of N-nitrosomethylurea-induced mammary tumor promotion by dietary fiber and fat. A test of the anticancer effects of dietary fiber was conducted using the N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU)-induced rat mammary tumor model. Starting 3 days after NMU treatment, four different groups of F344 rats (30 rats in each group) were fed as follows: Group 1 received a high-fat diet; group 2, a high-fat plus fiber diet (soft white wheat bran, 10% wt/wt); group 3, a low-fat diet; and group 4, a low-fat plus fiber diet. The rats remained on these diets for 15 weeks. Tumor incidence in group 1 was 90% compared with 66% in group 2 (P less than .001). Tumor incidence in group 3 was 63% compared with 47% in group 4 (P greater than .4). These results show that supplemental dietary fiber exerts an inhibitory effect on the promotional phase of NMU-induced mammary carcinogenesis in rats when fed a high-fat but not a low-fat diet. To test whether fiber may exert its antipromoting effect by reducing circulating estrogens, serum 17 beta-estradiol was assayed. No changes were observed in serum 17 beta-estradiol levels among the four groups, suggesting that the protective effect of fiber in this animal model is not mediated by a fiber-induced reduction of circulating 17 beta-estradiol. 
Trabecular or Merkel's cell carcinoma. Two cases of trabecular cell carcinoma of the skin are presented. The clinical presentation and behavior, and the histologic findings, of the tumor are described. Surgical excision of the primary lesion with regional lymph node dissection, if indicated, is the treatment of choice. Distant metastasis is treated by local irradiation. 
A clonal CD4-positive T-cell line established from the blood of a patient with Sezary syndrome. The reported inability to establish long-term T-cell lines from the blood of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients with circulating neoplastic T cells has hindered the development of an in vitro system to investigate Sezary syndrome. We have established a rapidly proliferating T-cell line from the peripheral blood of a patient with Sezary syndrome, which expresses a mature helper T-cell phenotype and contains cytogenetic abnormalities and T-cell receptor gene rearrangements identical to those in the patient's blood. The method of establishment and characteristics of this line are described. 
Imaging of tumor in patients with indium-111-labeled biotin and streptavidin-conjugated antibodies: preliminary communication Tumor localization in patients has been achieved through the in vivo use of streptavidin and biotin. In these preliminary studies, the monoclonal antibody HMFG1 was conjugated with streptavidin and 1 mg was administered intravenously to each of 10 patients with documented squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. Two to 3 days later, 111In-labeled biotin was also administered intravenously. No evidence of toxicity was observed. Background radioactivity levels were reduced in liver (1% ID at 24 hr) and kidneys (2%) and in all other normal tissues and blood. Images of lung tumor were obtained in as little as 2 hr following administration of labeled biotin. In eight patients, tumor was detected with labeled biotin alone without the previous administration of streptavidin-conjugated antibody but in three of these patients, the images were improved with the prior administration of conjugated antibody. These results suggest that this approach may improve the tumor-to-normal tissue radioactivity ratios in radioimmunotargeting. 
Exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate. A 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma. Medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles. There was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells. We could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma. 
Alternating hepatic intra-arterial floxuridine and fluorouracil: a less toxic regimen for treatment of liver metastases from colorectal cancer. Hepatic intra-arterial (HIA) infusion of floxuridine (FUDR) via an implanted pump has shown promise in the treatment of colorectal cancer metastasized to the liver. However, the potential benefit of this therapy may be offset by the high incidence of treatment-limiting biliary toxicity. Although weekly HIA bolus of fluorouracil (5-FU) is effective against metastatic colorectal cancer to the liver with no biliary toxicity, it is limited by systemic side effects. In December 1986, we began a phase II trial of alternating HIA FUDR and 5-FU via the implanted pump in an attempt to extend the duration of treatment by obviating the limiting biliary (FUDR) and systemic (5-FU) drug toxic effects. Patients received continuous HIA FUDR at 0.1 mg/kg of body weight per day on days 1 through 8 followed by an HIA bolus of 5-FU at 15 mg/kg given via the pump sideport on days 15, 22, and 29, with the cycle repeated every 35 days. Sixty-eight patients were enrolled in this trial, and 64 were fully evaluable. Of the 64 patients, 30 (47%) previously had received chemotherapy. Major response (complete response plus partial response) was observed in 32 (50%) of 64 patients, and the median survival from pump implantation in all patients was 22.4 months. In contrast to the experience with the single-agent HIA FUDR regimen, no patient had treatment terminated because of drug toxicity. Alternating HIA FUDR and 5-FU has efficacy similar to that of HIA FUDR given alone, but when closely monitored and adjusted appropriately, is not associated with toxic effects requiring treatment termination. 
The effect of chemotherapy on growth in the skeletally immature individual. One hundred twenty-two children with nonmetastatic osteogenic or Ewing's sarcoma were studied to assess the effect of multiagent adjuvant chemotherapy on skeletal growth and final stature. No deviations from the height distributions of a normal population were noted at diagnosis. There was a marked retardation of linear growth during the year of intensive chemotherapy. Only 15% of the patients grew at the expected rate during that year. The distribution of nutritional status scores was significantly different at the end of the first year than at baseline. The distribution of ultimate height scores was significantly different than the baseline distribution. The overall final distribution was also significantly different from the normal population expectation. Any absolute difference in height, however, is likely to be small. The subgroups that were observed to full adult stature showed mean heights of 162 cm for girls and 176 cm for boys. 
Decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine (heroin): a preliminary report. We report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride. All patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness, swelling, or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone. All patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride (heroin) was started. No change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine. These findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone. 
Congenital cystic disease of the seminal vesicle. Thirteen cases of congenital seminal vesicle cysts with pathologic correlation were diagnosed between 1970 and 1988. Twelve of the 13 patients had ipsilateral renal anomalies. Intravenous urography, performed in 11 of the 13 patients, demonstrated associated renal anomalies. Computed tomography, performed in nine of the 13 patients, demonstrated associated renal anomalies and displayed the cystic seminal vesicles. Transabdominal or endorectal ultrasonography, performed in eight patients, allowed characterization of the seminal vesicle masses as cystic. Magnetic resonance imaging, performed in three of the 13 patients, accurately demonstrated dilated ejaculatory ducts into which ectopic ureters inserted. The fluid in the seminal vesicle cysts had an increased signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted sequences. Seminal vesiculographic study demonstrated anomalous communications with the seminal tract. Cystic disease of the seminal vesicles can be either congenital or acquired; congenital cysts are associated with anomalies of the ipsilateral mesonephric duct. 
Cytotoxic T cell clones isolated from ovarian tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes recognize multiple antigenic epitopes on autologous tumor cells. CTL clones were developed from tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) from the ascites of a patient with ovarian carcinoma by coculture of TIL with autologous tumor cells and subsequent cloning in the presence of autologous tumor cells. These CTL clones expressed preferential cytolytic activity against autologous tumor cells but not against allogeneic ovarian tumor cells and the NK-sensitive cell line K562. The cytolytic activity of these CTL against autologous tumors was inhibited by anti-TCR (WT31 mAb), anti-HLA class I, and anti-CD3 mAb but not by the NK function antibody Leu 11b. Cloning of the autologous tumor cells in vitro revealed that the CTL clones of the ovarian TIL expressed differential abilities to lyse autologous tumor cell clones. The specificity analysis of these autologous tumor specific CTL suggested that they recognize several antigenic determinants present on the ovarian tumor cells. Our results indicate the presence of at least three antigenic epitopes on the tumor cells (designated OVA-1A, OVA-1B, and OVA-1C), one of which (OVA-1C) is unstable. These determinants are present either simultaneously or separately, and six types of ovarian clones can be distinguished on the basis of their expression. These results indicate that CTL of the TIL detect intratumor antigenic heterogeneity. The novel heterogeneity identified within the ovarian tumor cells in this report may be of significance for understanding cellular immunity in ovarian cancer and developing adoptive specific immunotherapeutic approaches in ovarian cancer. 
Chest CT combined with artificial pneumothorax: value in determining origin and extent of tumor. To determine the presence of chest wall and mediastinal invasion by lung cancer and to establish the origin of chest tumors, we studied 12 patients with intrathoracic tumors by using chest CT combined with artificial pneumothorax. Six patients had primary lung cancer, two had metastases, and one each had neurofibroma, pericardial cyst, chondroma of the rib, and malignant mesothelioma. All 12 tumors abutted the chest wall or mediastinum and could not be separated by conventional CT. Between 400 and 800 ml of air was injected into the pleural space before a second CT scan was obtained. No invasion was found at surgery in cancers that were separated from chest wall or mediastinum on CT scans. Surgery revealed chest wall invasion in three patients in whom the CT scans showed that the tumor was not separated from the chest wall. Only one patient with a tumor that was not separated from the mediastinum on CT did not have mediastinal invasion: in this case, only adhesions were found at surgery. Thus, in the eight patients with primary lung cancer and metastasis, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 100%, 80%, and 88%, respectively. In four patients with mediastinal or pleural tumor, CT combined with pneumothorax was useful for establishing the origin of tumors. In all, 11 of the 12 patients were correctly evaluated by using this method. No complications occurred, except for mild chest discomfort in one patient. This study suggests that chest CT combined with artificial pneumothorax is useful for the evaluation of the extension of lung cancer into the chest wall and mediastinum and for the diagnosis of the site of origin of intrathoracic tumors. 
Gleason's histologic grading as clinical prognostic marker in patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma. We have found that the Gleason's histologic grading system is a good clinical marker to predict long-term response and prognosis in symptomatic Stage D-2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate. In this retrospective study, 56 cases were reviewed and correlated with bone scan, acid phosphatase, and symptomatology following bilateral orchiectomy. 
Axillary lymphadenectomy for intraductal carcinoma of the breast. During a ten year period, 175 axillary lymph node dissections were done as part of the treatment for intraductal carcinoma of the breast; 98 patients were treated with modified radical mastectomy and 77 were treated by mammary preservation, consisting of excision of the lesion, axillary dissection and radiation therapy. One of 175 axillary node dissections yielded positive nodes. Axillary dissection for intraductal carcinoma of the breast is unlikely to yield involved nodes and is not indicated for use in most instances. It should be reserved for lesions demonstrating microinvasion. 
Necrolytic migratory erythema: association with neuroendocrine tumour with predominant insulin secretion. We report a case of necrolytic migratory erythema in association with a neuroendocrine tumour producing predominantly insulin. As far as we know this has not been observed before. 
Tumor-targeted chemotherapy with lipid contrast medium and macromolecular anticancer drug (SMANCS) for renal cell carcinoma. Twenty-five patients with renal cell carcinoma were treated with a lipophilic macromolecular drug, poly(stylene-co-maleic acid)-conjugated neocarzinostatin (SMANCS) dissolved in lipid contrast medium (Lipiodol). The drug was injected by catheterizing the renal artery and another feeding artery in 24 patients, and in the common hepatic artery in 1 patient with metastases to the liver after a radical nephrectomy. The procedure of selective arterial administration of 3-20 mg/mL of SMANCS/Lipiodol was simple to perform and was required once every two to three weeks. Total dose of SMANCS for each patient varied from 3 to 57 mg. Both SMANCS and Lipiodol accumulated more selectively in tumor than in any other tissue and remained in the neovasculature and extracapillary space for a long time. CT pattern of the remaining oil contrast medium in the tumor was characterized by the high-density area localized mainly in the periphery of the tumor around the central necrosis. When hyperviscosity Lipiodol (Lipiodol HV) was used as lipid contrast medium, it remained more persistently in the tumor and disappeared more slowly than Lipiodol. Moreover, the pronounced anticancer effect was recognized when SMANCS/Lipiodol HV was administered compared with only SMANCS/Lipiodol. Severe side effects, such as myelosuppression, unendurable pain, paralytic ileus, etc., were not observed. This targeting chemotherapy may be of great significance for advanced renal cell carcinoma. 
Lymphomas of the breast. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of primary and secondary cases. Primary mammary lymphoma is rare, and little is known about the immunophenotype of such cases. The authors studied both primary and secondary breast lymphomas with a broad panel of T- and B-cell markers using paraffin-embedded tissue and the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase method. Cases of primary B-cell lymphoma were further tested to determine light and heavy chain type. Thirty-five cases were analyzed, including 16 primary lymphomas. Diffuse large cell lymphoma was present in ten of 16 primary and 14 of 18 secondary cases. Lymphoepithelial lesions in ducts and lobules and frequent vascular involvement were found in both primary and secondary cases. Immunohistochemistry studies on 13 tumors revealed all of the primary tumors to be B-cell in origin, except for one case of primary T-cell lymphoma; to the authors' knowledge, this represents the first description of this entity. Fifteen of 17 secondary tumors exhibited B-cell markers and one of 17 exhibited T-cell markers; in only one case could lineage not be determined. Among primary B-cell cases, IgM was found to be the most frequent heavy chain type; IgA reactivity was found in only one case. Survival was related to stage and histologic characteristics; patients with Stage II disease and higher grade histologic lesions had a worse prognosis. Half of the patients with primary lymphoma have had recurrent disease. Although local recurrences were observed, the authors also saw a tendency for recurrence in other extranodal sites. The authors conclude that, although primary lymphoma of the breast is compatible with long-term survival, a significant number of patients eventually die of their disease. As with other extranodal lymphomas, survival rate appears most related to stage of disease. Also, the vast majority of primary tumors are B-cell in origin, express IgM heavy chain, and can be considered tumors of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue. 
Etoposide in the management of metastatic breast cancer. Etoposide, despite extensive use in other malignancies, has played a minor role in the treatment of patients with breast cancer. Single-agent trials in which etoposide is administered to heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer have demonstrated a low overall response rate (6.6% of 383 patients), with no convincing evidence for either schedule dependence or a relationship between dose intensity and response. The sole single-agent trial in previously untreated patients suggested that the drug has an approximately 15% response rate in untreated patients. Combination therapy trials in which etoposide has been combined with either cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, or cisplatin have not yet convincingly demonstrated superiority over any of these drugs as single agents, although cisplatin plus etoposide appears to be superior to either agent alone. In vitro studies suggest that pretreating hormone-sensitive breast cancer cells with estradiol may increase their sensitivity to etoposide-induced DNA cleavage. This may represent a future direction in the use of etoposide in breast cancer. Currently, however, the use of etoposide in breast cancer should be considered investigational. 
Predicting recurrence time of esophageal carcinoma through assessment of histologic factors and DNA ploidy. Cytophotometric analysis of nuclear DNA content was done in 128 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. The relationship among histopathologic features, DNA distribution pattern, and survival time was investigated from the standpoint of recurrence. Of 128 patients, 77 (60.1%) died of recurrence within 2 years after surgery: 16 (12.5%) from 2 to 5 years and two (1.6%) over 5 years. The rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was higher in patients with T4 or N1 than T1, T2, and T3 or N0 (P less than 0.01). Survivors over 5 years more frequently possessed type II DNA pattern than types III and IV (P less than 0.05). The rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was 34.4% in type II, which was lower than the 59.6% rate in type III (P less than 0.05) and the 76.6% rate in type IV (P less than 0.01). Survivors from 2 to 5 years were higher in type III than in type IV (P less than 0.05), and recurrence over 5 years was found only in type II. This inclination was more apparent in those with curative resection. In the patients with type II, careful follow-up may be needed over 5 years for late recurrence. However, in those with type IV, no recurrence over 2 years could be regarded as healed because most of their recurrences occur within 2 years. These findings suggest that the growth rate of esophageal carcinoma should reflect DNA aneuploidy, and the DNA analysis of esophageal carcinoma should be a valuable parameter for postoperative follow-up planning. 
Future directions for etoposide therapy. Etoposide is an important chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of selected patients with germ cell tumors, lymphomas, and small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Its optimal use is continuing to evolve. It is clear that schedule dependency is of critical importance. Recently, preliminary studies have suggested that a prolonged schedule of etoposide administration (21 days) may be more effective than the standard 3- to 5-day schedule. Results of several Phase II studies show chronic oral etoposide administration induces occasional responses in resistant tumors and higher-than-expected response rates in patients with germ cell tumors and SCLC. Preliminary data show nearly 90% etoposide absorption when given in a low-dose schedule (50 mg/m2/d) for 21 days. These observations indicate that etoposide may be a "new drug" when given in the chronic schedule. Further exploration of the schedule dependency of etoposide is indicated. Etoposide has recently been proven useful in selected patients with gastric, ovarian, and poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site. Several other drugs are either synergistic or additive and will be explored in combination chemotherapy. The possibility of adding topoisomerase I inhibitors and modulating etoposide's activity by inhibiting drug resistance is now within the realm of human testing. 
Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma: a unique type of low-grade lymphoma. Clinicopathologic and immunologic study of 83 cases. The clinical presentation and course, and the morphoimmunologic features of primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma (CBCL) were investigated in a series of 83 patients. Fifty-one patients were male and 32 were female (male-to-female ratio of 1.6:1); CBCL primarily involved the elderly (median age, 58 years). A locoregional extension of the disease was quite frequent (86.7%). The neoplastic cells showed a range of appearances reminiscent of the whole spectrum of follicular/parafollicular cells. The antigenic phenotype of tumor cells (CD19+, CD20+, CD22+, CD28+, CD10-, CD5-, MB2+, CD74+/-, CDw75+/-, MT2+/-, surface immunoglobulin + monoclonal/-) plus the presence of admixed CD14- dendritic reticulum cells suggest a mantle-zone nature for CBCL. The nonaggressive clinical behavior with a substantial tendency to remain localized to a limited area of the skin, the quite good response to nonaggressive treatment, and the dichotomy existing between the enhancement of morphoimmunologic atypism--which parallels the increasing age and growth rate of lesions--and the constant benign overall prognosis on long-term follow-up make CBCL a unique type of lymphoma of low-grade malignancy. Proper recognition of CBCL is mandatory to avoid possible undertreatment or overtreatment of the patients affected. 
Invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis: report of a case. A case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed. Discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed. The difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy. Accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination. 
Four and a half year follow up of women with dyskaryotic cervical smears. OBJECTIVE--To determine the proportion of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears who (a) progress to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III or worse or (b) regress. DESIGN--Four and a half year cytological follow up study of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears. SETTING--666 Women (mean age 28 (SD 8) years; range 14-74) found to have borderline, mild, or moderate dyskaryosis on routine screening. RESULTS--45 Women (6.8%) had a cone biopsy recommended on the basis of an abnormal follow up smear (severe dyskaryosis suggestive of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III or invasive cancer), and in one patient cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III was reported in a biopsy specimen after dilatation and curettage. Life table analysis gave a 14% probability of a patient being recommended for a biopsy after four and a half years of follow up (95% confidence interval 12% to 15%). There was a significant excess incidence of invasive cancer of the cervix in the series compared with the general population (five cases observed compared with less than 0.1 expected). 157 Patients (24%) showed reversion to a normal cell pattern sustained in several smears over more than 18 months but a single negative smear was an unreliable indicator of apparent regression. Having two successive smears showing mild dyskaryosis or a smear at any time showing moderate dyskaryosis was a significant predictor of a subsequent severely dyskaryotic smear. CONCLUSIONS--Women found to have mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears should be kept under regular surveillance. The optimum management of these patients--by cytology or colposcopy--needs to be determined by randomised controlled trials. 
Activation and in vitro expansion of tumor-reactive T lymphocytes from lymph nodes draining human primary breast cancers. The feasibility of in vitro activation of lymphocytes from the draining lymph nodes (DLN) of breast cancer patients was examined. Lymphocytes isolated from 48 DLN from 12 patients were examined for their proliferative responses to rIL-2, autologous tumor cells, or rIL-2 plus tumor cells. Three general patterns of cellular responses were observed. Cells from some DLN (17%) were unresponsive to any stimuli. Lymphocytes from 52% of the DLN responded moderately to rIL-2 alone. The combination of rIL-2 and tumor antigen had a synergistic effect on the proliferation of cells from 31% of the DLN assayed. Phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin plus rIL-2 stimulated expansion of DLN lymphocytes by up to 850-fold after 35 days. These expanded cell populations, as well as those stimulated with antigen plus rIL-2, were predominantly CD3+ and CD16- cells, varying in proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. Both populations were cytotoxic against autologous tumor, MCF-7, and K562 target cells. 
Laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant. One hundred fifty-six members and candidate members of the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists responded to a survey concerning the "laparoscopic management of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant." Twenty-nine responders (19%) reported a total of 42 cases of ovarian malignancy. The laparoscopic procedure was aborted or the cyst was aspirated in 38% of the cases, and partial or complete excisions were attempted in 33 and 29%, respectively. The characteristics of the masses were as follows: less than 8 cm 67%, cystic 62%, unilocular 48%, and unilateral 81%. All four "benign" characteristics were present in 31% of the cases found to be malignant, and three of four characteristics were present in 24%. Laparotomy was performed at the time of laparoscopy in 17% of cases, after laparoscopy in 71% with an average interval of 4.8 weeks, and not at all in 12%. Fifty-seven percent of the cases were invasive epithelial malignancies, whereas 29% were tumors of low malignant potential. At least 50% of the patients had stages II-IV. We conclude that attempted laparoscopic excisions of adnexal masses that are subsequently found to be malignant are not uncommon, and that the presence of so-called "benign" characteristics does not preclude malignancy. Attempts at partial or complete excision are common, as are delays in subsequent definitive surgery. The stage of disease is often advanced, and all histologic types of malignancy are encountered. We advocate careful evaluation of this practice, with development of strict guidelines to ensure optimal patient care. 
Oncogene rearrangements in chronic B-cell leukemia. Forty-four B-chronic lymphocytic leukemias (CLL) were studied by Southern blot analysis using probes for the Ig genes and bcl-1, bcl-2 (major, minor and 5' breakpoint region), bcl-3, c-myc, and retinoblastoma (Rb) loci. Eight cases had three or more rearranged JH bands, indicating oligoclonality, clonal evolution, or chromosomal translocation. One case had a rearrangement of the bcl-1 locus and three of the bcl-2 locus. In the first case, comigration of the rearranged bcl-1 and JH sequences indicated a t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation, which, in contrast to previously described cases, seems to be completely reciprocal. One case with a bcl-2 rearrangement showed comigration of the bcl-2 major breakpoint region and a rearranged JH band. This indicates a t(14;18) (q32;q21). The two other cases showed rearrangements of the bcl-2 5' breakpoint region without apparent comigration. No rearrangements were detected of c-myc and bcl-3, located at chromosome 19, nor was a deletion of Rb found. All but three cases had CD5 expression. The exceptions included the t(11;14) and the t(14;18) cases. Our results confirm recent data on rearrangements at the 5' site of bcl-2 in CLL. Additionally, they corroborate the presumption that CD5-negative chronic B-cell leukemias should be considered apart from classical CLL. 
Variability in DNA measurements in multiple tumor samples of human colonic carcinoma. The DNA ploidy and cell-cycle distribution of three separate fresh tissue samples of 60 colorectal adenocarcinomas were analyzed by flow cytometry. DNA ploidy was concordant among the three samples in 38 cases (63.3%). In the remaining 22 cases (36.6%), the DNA histograms of two of the three multiple samples were similar; however, the ploidy of the third sample was discordant. No relationship was observed between Dukes' stage and histologic grade with concordance or discordance among samples. Thus, in about one third of the colonic carcinomas, a single sample showing either a diploid or diploid-cycling DNA histogram would not detect aneuploid DNA patterns. Comparison of scrapes and fine-needle aspirates of tumors as alternative sampling methods of tumors for DNA ploidy analysis indicated a strong association with the tumor ploidy (84% and 96%, respectively) only when the ploidy of the multiple samples was concordant. In about 25% of the cases, tumor scrapes and fine-needle aspirates did not correlate with the "most abnormal" ploidy observed in one of the three tissue samples. The data suggest that single or even double tissue samples may not show aneuploid DNA patterns in a substantial proportion of colorectal cancers. 
Improved outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with reinforced early treatment and rotational combination chemotherapy. To improve outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a stratified, randomised study of extended intensified chemotherapy was done. 358 evaluable patients received remission reinforcement therapy (teniposide, cytarabine, high-dose methotrexate) added to a four-drug induction regimen. Those achieving complete remission were randomised on the basis of risk group assignment to conventional continuation treatment or to four pairs of drugs rotated weekly or every 6 weeks. All patients received intrathecal chemotherapy; higher-risk patients also received 1800 cGy cranial irradiation after 1 year of remission. Complete remission was induced in 96% of the patients. At median follow-up of 40 (range 19-73) months, 4-year event-free survival (SE) was 73 (4)% overall, 81 (6)% in the lower-risk group (n = 110), and 69 (5)% in the higher-risk group (n = 248). Outcome within risk groups was not significantly affected by the speed of rotation of drug pairs during continuation treatment. Various high-risk subgroups had apparently improved responses to this treatment. This intensified chemotherapy may cure 69-77% of children with ALL. 
Antitumor activity of liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin in advanced breast cancer: phase II study. Previous studies in animals have demonstrated liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin (LED) has substantially less cardiac toxicity than free doxorubicin but retains antitumor activity. In a phase I clinical study of LED, the maximum tolerated dose was 90 mg/m2 and dose-limiting toxicity was considered to have been reached when granulocytopenia was produced. We used LED to treat 20 patients with advanced, measurable breast cancer. LED was given at doses of 60-75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion. Regression of disease was objectively measured in nine patients; in five of these patients, complete regression of the index lesion occurred. The mean duration of the responses was 7 months. Hematologic toxicity consisted of grade 1-2 leukopenia in some patients. Gastrointestinal toxicity and mucositis were generally mild and tolerable. Alopecia occurred in all patients and usually was complete. Twelve patients received cumulative doses of LED of greater than 400 mg/m2 and were evaluated with radionuclide ventriculograms. In eight patients, the cumulative dose was greater than 500 mg/m2, and five had endomyocardial biopsies. Four of these biopsy results were Billingham grade 0, while one (cumulative LED dose, 750 mg/m2) showed grade 1 changes with mild myofibrillar loss and dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum involving less than 5% of cardiac myocytes. Two patients had decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction. One of these patients had received a total dose of LED of 630 mg/m2 and had a decline of 13% in left ventricular ejection fraction, but had no clinical evidence of congestive heart failure and had a Billingham grade 0 endomyocardial biopsy. 
Technetium-99m (v) dimercaptosuccinic acid: a clinical and scintigraphic study in an animal tumour model. Technetium-99m (99mTc) (v) dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) is a new tumour-imaging agent which has been used to image head and neck squamous carcinoma. This study used an established rabbit tumour model to compare palpation versus planar scintigraphy in the detection of superficially transplanted cancers. Palpation detected 83% of tumours measuring less than 2 cm compared with 58% for scintigraphy. Overall, the sensitivity for palpation was 88% (77% specificity) compared with 50% (63% specificity) for scintigraphy. 
Utility of surgical margins in the radiotherapeutic management of soft tissue sarcomas. Seventy-four adult patients with localized soft tissue sarcomas were treated with radiation therapy following surgery between 1965 and 1988. Fifty-three were treated after the first excision of their tumor with 6 (11.3%) local recurrences. Twenty-one received radiation after excision of recurrent disease with 11 (52.4%) local failures (P less than .0005). Metastatic disease occurred in 14 (26.4%) of the primary tumors and 8 (38.1%) with multiple previous excisions (P less than .48). Of those patients treated for primary sarcoma, there were no local failures with pathologically wide margins or if a single margin was microscopically positive. Local failure occurred in 4 of 26 (15.4%) if the tumor was merely enucleated and in 2 of 11 (18.2%) who had grossly positive surgical margins (P not significant). Local failure was also more common in truncal locations (33.3%) as compared with extremity locations (8.7%, P = .1359). Additional factors analyzed which adversely affected prognosis included tumor grade, stage, and inadequate radiation dose. 
Surgical resection of a solitary liver metastasis in a 46-year-old patient with a malignant thymoma. Clinical history, surgical treatment, and pathologic findings of a solitary liver metastasis of a malignant thymoma in a 46-year-old female are reported. An extensive literature review has revealed no record of surgical resection of liver metastasis in a patient with invasive thymoma. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer. Many women will not be cured of breast cancer by even the best early detection and surgical techniques because of micrometastases present at diagnosis. Adjuvant therapy has extended the disease-free interval for most patients and lengthens overall survival for many. Combination chemotherapy has become the standard form of adjuvant treatment for premenopausal women with breast cancer and positive lymph nodes after primary therapy. With minimal toxicity, disease-free and overall survival are improved. Results are less impressive or less clear-cut for postmenopausal women or any woman with negative lymph nodes. Long-term toxicities of adjuvant chemotherapy may include second malignancies and cardiac dysfunction. Although these complications probably are rare, they must be considered seriously when weighing chemotherapy for patients in whom its benefits may be slight. Innovations likely to become standard in adjuvant therapy decision making include risk assessment with new prognostic indicators (growth fraction, oncogene expression) and investigation of dose intensification using bone marrow growth factors and autologous stem-cell support. 
Carcinoma of the breast: measurement and the management of treatment. I. The value of the data. This is the first of a series of papers in which we shall explore some insights into the biological changes which accompany the treatment of human tumours which may be obtained through estimation of volume changes in relation to treatment. We have adopted a working hypothesis that regression slopes reflect the composition of individual tumours and, indirectly, their intrinsic growth rate rather than the effectiveness of treatment. The breast has proved to be a suitable site for measurement and our interpretation of the results has led to the development of a new style of management for carcinoma of the breast: measurement based sequential therapy (MBST). In this paper the method of measurement and detailed statistical evaluation of the quality of the data from 262 patients (263 tumours) is presented. Exponential regression lines have been fitted to describe volume changes in relation to treatment by radiation, chemotherapy and hormones. A simple classification of steepness of slopes is introduced. 
The effect of large uterine fibroids on urinary bladder function and symptoms. Fourteen patients with large uterine fibroids and urinary symptoms were treated with monthly injections of [D-Trp6]-luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone microcapsules. The average uterine size before treatment was 728 ml; it dropped to 323 ml (a drop of 55%) after treatment. Urinary symptoms of diurnal frequency disappeared in 11 of 12 patients (p less than 0.005) after the reduction of uterine size. Urgency decreased in 11 of 13 (p less than 0.005) and nocturia in eight of 10 (p less than 0.02). No differences were found before and after treatment in the symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence in the cystometric and urethral pressure profile measurements. Urinary symptoms of frequency, urgency, and nocturia may be caused by the direct pressure exerted on the bladder by the enlarged uterus. Symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence deserve a more specific treatment as they are not related to uterine size. 
Lambert Eaton syndrome: autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung. A patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung developed asymptomatic autonomic neuropathy, inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion and Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome. The autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate ADH secretion were present at the time of diagnosis of the tumour. Following chemotherapy these resolved, but 5 months later the patient developed Lambert Eaton syndrome which responded to 3,4-diaminopyridine. This sequence of changes appears to be unique. 
Suppression of mouse mammary tumorigenesis by long-term tamoxifen therapy. A sustained release of tamoxifen, which produced decreasing serum levels of this drug (24 to 4 ng/mL) over 6 months, suppressed mammary tumorigenesis in virgin or once pregnant C3H/OUJ female mice. Tamoxifen was consistently more effective than early ovariectomy, which only delayed tumorigenesis. Tamoxifen prevented the stimulatory action of cyclical (alternate-month) progesterone administration on mouse mammary tumorigenesis. However, when tamoxifen treatment (12 months) was stopped, progesterone treatment initiated tumorigenesis. In contrast, when long-term tamoxifen treatment was stopped in mice that had not undergone ovariectomy, and estrous cycle returned, the majority of these mice remained tumor free. A comparison of different durations (3, 6, and 12 months) of tamoxifen treatment of virgin mice, starting at approximately 4 months of age, showed an equivalent effect on mammary tumorigenesis. All virgin mice developed tumors by 18 months of age, whereas 80% of the tamoxifen-treated mice were tumor free. Nevertheless, cyclical progesterone administration caused rapid development of tumors after 3 months of tamoxifen treatment; only 15% of these mice were tumor free at 18 months. Cyclical progesterone administration caused an increase in tumorigenesis after 6 months of tamoxifen treatment; 50% of these mice were tumor free at 18 months of age. These data demonstrate the efficacy of tamoxifen to suppress mouse mammary tumorigenesis and demonstrate that continuous tamoxifen therapy is necessary to prevent the development of tumors by progesterone, a stimulatory hormone. 
Growth factor requirements of childhood acute T-lymphoblastic leukemia: correlation between presence of chromosomal abnormalities and ability to grow permanently in vitro. Cells from 10 cases of childhood acute T-lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) were cultured in the presence of recombinant human interleukins (rhIL) or colony-stimulating factors (CSF) to analyze their growth factor requirements and differentiative potential. Although cells from most leukemic samples displayed a short-term proliferative response to several hematopoietic growth factors, only the ones featuring chromosomal translocations could be established as permanent cell lines. Two cell lines could be initiated only in the presence of IL-3 (TALL-103 and TALL-106), one in granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) (TALL-101), and one in IL-2 (TALL-104); only one cell line (TALL-105) was originated in the absence of growth factors. The TALL-101 and TALL-103 cell lines, derived from very immature T-ALL cases, underwent growth factor-dependent phenotypic conversion (lymphoid to myeloid). However, the T-cell receptor rearrangement and karyotype of the original leukemic clones were retained. In contrast, the TALL-104, -105, and -106 cell lines which originated from more mature T-ALL cases, maintained a T-lymphoblastic phenotype regardless of the growth factors in which they were expanded. These data demonstrate in vitro the aggressive nature of T-ALL cases bearing chromosomal abnormalities, and indicate that the lineage commitment of the malignant clone depends on its stage of maturation in T-cell ontogeny. 
Clinical classification and staging for primary malignancies of the maxillary antrum. A study of 51 patients with primary malignant maxillary sinus neoplasms was conducted. None of the patients had neck nodes and/or metastases, and each had 5-year follow-up. The tumors were staged according to the 1983 and 1988 American Joint Committee on Cancer staging systems for maxillary sinus cancers. There were 13 early stage (T1, T2) and 38 advanced (T3, T4) tumors in both systems. Cox regression analyses of survival curves showed increasingly worse prognoses for advanced tumors in both T-staging systems. Further analyses showed a significant difference in survival between T3 and T4 in the 1988, but not in the 1983 system. There were no significant differences in survival according to treatment modality or histological type of malignancy. We conclude that the 1988 system prognosticates successfully for T-stage (1 to 4) and demonstrates significant improvement in detecting T3 versus T4 differences compared to the 1983 system. The 1988 system applies equally for epidermoid cancer and other malignancies of the antrum. 
Needle aspiration and pressure sutures for auricular pseudocyst. Auricular pseudocyst is an asymptomatic cystic swelling of the upper portion of the auricle. Various therapeutic approaches have been employed with variable success. We report our results with nine patients treated by needle aspiration and bolstered pressure sutures applied over both aspects of the cyst for 1 week. Treatment resulted in complete resolution with no recurrence of the lesion in any of the patients. This procedure is simple, does not require an operating room setting, and is more comfortable and more acceptable aesthetically by the patient. 
Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with mucoepidermoid features. The significance and differential diagnoses of signet-ring cells found in the fine-needle aspirate of metastatic mucoepidermoid carcinoma from the thyroid are reported and discussed. The primary tumor occurred in a 35-year-old man, who had a history of neck irradiation during his childhood. Despite postoperative treatment with 60 Gy external radiation and 1,200 mCi 131I, the patient has at present--12 years after the initial operation--progressive disease with local recurrence in the neck as well as lung metastases. 
Treatment of fallopian tube carcinoma with cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is uncommon and is often treated using regimens active in ovarian carcinoma. Evidence is scant that such therapies benefit patients with fallopian tube carcinoma. Between December 1979 and July 1988, we treated 18 patients who had adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube with the combination of cisplatin (50 mg/m2), doxorubicin (50 mg/m2), and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2) administered intravenously on 1 day every 28 days. Histologic confirmation of fallopian tube carcinoma was obtained before entry in the study. Three patients had stage I disease, five had stage II, nine had stage III, and one had stage IV. Sixteen patients received the combination therapy as first-line treatment after cytoreductive surgery, and two patients received it for recurrent carcinoma. Seven patients had clinically measurable disease at the start of therapy. Two of these patients had a complete clinical response, two had stable disease, and three had progressive disease. Eight of the 15 patients with stages II-IV disease underwent second-look laparotomy; four had a complete response to therapy and four had a partial response, making the overall response rate 53%. The toxicity of the regimen was moderate. The median survival was 81 months. Patients with stages II-IV disease had a median survival of 43.9 months and a progression-free survival of 22.5 months. This regimen appears to be active in fallopian tube carcinoma and can result in response rates comparable to those reported for epithelial ovarian cancer. 
Adenocarcinoma of the urachus associated with elevated levels of CA 125. Adenocarcinoma of the urachus is a rare genitourinary tumor with a poor prognosis. The treatment of choice is en bloc surgical resection, although combination therapy with surgery and chemotherapy has been used with mixed results. We describe a 69-year-old woman with adenocarcinoma of the urachus and elevated serum levels of CA 125 tumor marker. She was treated with resection plus 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin and mitomycin, alternating with platinum-based chemotherapy. The serum CA 125 level decreased precipitously after the operation and became normal after 2 months of chemotherapy. The patient remained free of disease 1 year postoperatively. Serum CA 125 may be a useful tumor marker for urachal carcinoma and adjuvant chemotherapy may be effective in treating the disease. 
Carcinoma of the ductus choledochus. A retrospective review of patients treated for carcinoma of the common bile duct has demonstrated improvement in diagnostic capabilities, leading to earlier management by resectional therapy. The ability to resect these tumors is directly translatable to improved long-term survival. Efforts to obtain proof of malignancy prior to resection are often frustrated by the inability to obtain adequate representative tissue for frozen section. Choledochoscopic biopsies and incisional biopsies have given the highest yield of positive diagnoses. In experienced hands, a program of fewer preoperative tests with emphasis on early operation, diagnosis, and definitive treatment may be more cost-effective in the management of patients with common bile duct cancer. 
Ultrasonic morphology of the uterus and ovaries after treatment of invasive mole and gestational choriocarcinoma. Ultrasound imaging of the uterus and ovaries was performed on 41 patients after completion of apparently successful cytotoxic chemotherapy for invasive mole and choriocarcinoma. Uterine volume was calculated and the echopattern of the uterus and ovaries assessed. Forty-nine per cent of subjects had an abnormal uterine appearance and 20% had ovarian theca-lutein cysts. Two patients relapsed on follow-up but no predictive ultrasonic features could be established on uterine or ovarian morphology after chemotherapy. 
Distribution of bony metastases in prostatic carcinoma. Fifty-five prostate cancer and 55 breast cancer patients with positive bone scintigrams were studied. The pattern of spread in the axial skeleton and pelvis showed differences between the 2 groups. This difference was not related primarily to bone volume at the site of metastasis. The difference in distribution of bony metastases between breast and prostate is explained by our knowledge of Batson's vertebral venous plexus. 
Proliferating trichilemmal tumor: report of a case and review of the literature. The authors report a case of proliferating trichilemmal tumor and review the related literature. Although considered biologically benign, malignant proliferating trichilemmal tumor have been reported. The authors emphasize the importance of recognizing that the tumors can occur in individuals in their 20s and 30s, and that the tumors should be excised with a margin of normal tissue. Routine follow-up is recommended. 
Isolation and characterization of normal and neoplastic colonic epithelial cell populations. The aim of the present study was to characterize rat mucosal colonic cells harvested from the crypt continuum during differentiation and dimethylhydrazine-induced neoplasia. The collection of colonocytes was performed using a modified nonenzymatic isolation procedure based on Ca2+ chelation and gentle mechanical dissociation. Light and electron microscopy histomorphological examinations, [3H]thymidine incorporation studies, and activity gradients of alkaline phosphatase, thymidine kinase, and cytoskeleton-associated protein tyrosine kinase indicated that distinct cell populations were harvested from the various crypt regions in a temporal sequence mirroring their zonal and functional distribution in situ. After dimethylhydrazine administration, marked protein tyrosine kinase activity was noted in colonic cells harvested from upper crypt zones. The misplaced and sustained kinase activity preceded the actual polyp or tumor formation. This observation is consistent with the expansion of colonic proliferative compartments beyond allowable boundaries during the preneoplastic period. Companion studies in human colonic epithelial specimens corroborate the findings observed in normal and transformed murine colonocytes. It is believed that the characterization and manipulation of colonocytes using our in vitro model will provide important clues to the molecular events underlying the differentiation program and carcinogenic process in the colonic cell. 
Imaging techniques in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the colon. The variability in the published results for colonoscopy and barium enema examinations is confusing. With both, optimum results are dependent on meticulous preparation, technical excellence, and operator proficiency. It is a mistake to place colonoscopy and the barium enema in competitive positions; the two methods ideally complement one another in the evaluation of high risk individuals, including those with positive Hemoccult tests. The exclusion of significant pathology by the double-contrast enema can be relied on and is less costly to the patient. Detection of abnormalities by a barium enema should, when necessary, be followed by colonoscopic verification and/or biopsy. When used in this sequence, the procedures provide a cost-effective approach to the early detection and control of cancer; it is estimated that observance of the ACS guidelines can reduce mortality rates by 30%. 
Endothelial leucocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1) expression in cutaneous inflammation. Endothelial leucocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1) is a recently described endothelial surface glycoprotein which is inducible by interleukin 1 (IL-1), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) or bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Using an immunohistochemical technique and a monoclonal antibody (1.2B6) specific for ELAM-1 we have found marked vascular endothelial expression of ELAM-1 in many cutaneous inflammatory disorders, including allergic contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis and psoriasis, and in dermal infiltrates associated with benign, premalignant and malignant keratinocyte proliferation. In normal skin, minimal levels of ELAM-1 expression were detected. In psoriasis, double-immunoenzyme staining studies revealed a close spatial relationship between ELAM-1 expression and neutrophil margination, suggesting a functional link. Recombinant human interferon-gamma (30 micrograms) injected intradermally in normal adult human volunteers did not substantially upregulate ELAM-1 in contrast to its marked effect on intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression, indicating that this cytokine is probably not involved in ELAM-1 induction in vivo. These results indicate that ELAM-1 is widely induced in cutaneous inflammation with a time course of expression that is longer than that observed in vitro. As ELAM-1 acts as an adhesion ligand for neutrophils, and perhaps monocytes, the expression of this molecule in cutaneous lesions is likely to be an indication of the ability of vascular endothelium to recruit these cells from the circulation. Furthermore, the cytokine inducibility of ELAM-1 is indirect evidence for functional interactions between perivascular mononuclear cells, other resident cells and the blood vessel wall. 
Williams' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration. Seven patients had delayed Williams' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration. Of the three patients who died of carcinoma of the cervix (at 2, 5, and 15 months after vulvovaginoplasty), the first died before having a chance to attempt intercourse, but the other two had reported intercourse on at least two occasions after the reconstruction. One of the patients described the experiences as neither pleasant nor unpleasant but stated that her husband seemed satisfied. The other patient described the experience as satisfactory to both herself and her husband. The remaining four patients are alive with no evidence of recurrent disease at 28, 42, 56, and 106 months after operation. Two of these patients have reported entirely satisfactory sexual relations approximating pre-exenteration frequency, but the remaining two have not had sexual relations since surgery. Both give the main reason for this as lack of opportunity. The Williams' vulvovaginoplasty appears to be a reasonable alternative for vaginal reconstruction in patients who will have and especially who have had exenteration. To improve results, other methods of vaginal reconstruction should continue to be evaluated. 
Skin ultrasound in dermatologic surgical planning. High-resolution ultrasonography was performed on 55 patients with palpable skin lesions, all submitted to surgical excision and to histologic diagnosis. In all the cases, the ultrasound picture was confirmed by the surgical appearance of the lesions. The sonographic structure was characteristic in the case of cysts and angiomas, lymphangiomas in particular. Ultrasonography is considered a simple and reliable technique for the pre-operative evaluation of skin nodules, as it gives a clear picture of their size, depth, and outline. However, sonography cannot substitute for the clinical dermatologic approach and the need for an histologic diagnosis. 
Acute renal failure associated with the use of intraperitoneal carboplatin: a report of two cases and review of the literature. Carboplatin, a new analogue of cisplatin used in the treatment of ovarian carcinoma, has been demonstrated to be less nephrotoxic than its predecessor. To date, hundreds of cycles of therapy have been given without a significant incidence of renal failure. We report herein two cases of acute, nonoliguric renal failure in patients receiving intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin as chemotherapy for advanced ovarian carcinoma. Each patient had received extensive previous treatment with cisplatin. The baseline serum creatinine levels in the patients were 0.9 and 1.1 mg/dL, respectively. After four cycles of IP carboplatin in Patient 1 and five cycles of IP carboplatin in Patient 2, the serum creatinine levels abruptly rose to 9.0 and 9.5 mg/dL, respectively, within a week after administration of therapy. No other primary etiologies for acute renal failure could be identified in either patient. One patient required hemodialysis briefly. Renal biopsy specimens were obtained from both patients. Patient 1 had focal and moderate interstitial nephritis with mild periglomerular fibrosis. Patient 2 had an edematous interstitium with a diffuse mononuclear cell infiltrate, focal interstitial hemorrhage, and toxic changes in proximal and distal tubules on electron microscopy. Treatment with oral prednisone at 1 mg/kg/day with a rapid taper over 4 weeks was done in both cases with the serum creatinine levels eventually dropping to 4.6 and 2.0 mg/dL, respectively. Acute interstitial nephritis and renal failure to this extent have not been previously reported with carboplatin therapy. The literature regarding carboplatin is reviewed with respect to the pathophysiology of its nephrotoxicity. 
Characteristics of duodenal wall gastrinomas. Fifteen patients with duodenal wall gastrinomas (DWGs) and the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated since 1960. In 6 of 11 patients, DWGs were recognized at operation and totally excised. In four patients, the tumor was subsequently found in the proximal duodenum of the surgical specimens. In 12 patients, DWGs were single and lymph node metastases were present in 8. In three patients, DWGs were multiple and lymph node metastases were present in two. All DWGs were submucosal and all were located in the first or second portions of the duodenum except one found in the fourth portion. Tumor size ranged from 1 to 15 mm, and nine were less than 5 mm. Of 12 patients with single DWGs, 9 have remained eugastrinemic after resection (mean follow-up: 5.5 years). None of the patients with multiple DWGs became eugastrinemic after surgery. DWGs are characteristically single, small or microscopic, submucosal, located in the proximal duodenum, rarely metastasize to the liver, and are usually curable by surgical resection. 
Effects of energy restriction on mouse mammary tumor virus mRNA levels in mammary glands and uterus and on uterine endometrial hyperplasia and pituitary histology in C3H/SHN F1 mice. We investigated the effects of energy restriction on the pituitary-ovarian axis and on a hormone responsive gene, the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV). Female C3H/SHN F1-hybrid mice, known to display a high incidence of mammary tumors, ate an energy-restricted diet (48 kcal/wk) or a control diet (95 kcal/wk) beginning at the time of weaning. By 67 wk of age, 12 of 32 mice in the control group, but none of the 33 mice in the energy-restricted group, had developed mammary tumors. Six tumor-free mice from each group were studied in detail at 67 wk of age. All six tumor-free control mice, but none of the six energy-restricted mice, showed uterine endometrial hyperplasia at autopsy. Mice subjected to energy restriction did not display an estrous cycle. The average levels of MMTV mRNA in mammary glands and uteri were strongly reduced by energy restriction. MMTV mRNA levels in mammary glands from control mice were two orders of magnitude lower than those in mammary tumors. Energy restriction lowered the percentage of pituitary mammatropes and suppressed proliferation of mammatropes with advancing age. Energy restriction thus appeared to inhibit endometrial hyperplasia and to decrease MMTV production at the mRNA level in the mammary glands and in the uterus. These effects may be a consequence of hormonal changes originating at the pituitary-ovarian axis. 
Secretory carcinoma of the breast. Most studies of secretory carcinoma of the breast have been single case reports or separate analyses of the problem in either children or adults. We studied 10 female patients, aged 5 to 87 years. Most patients presented with a palpable mass, often near the areola. Five of six tumors were estrogen receptor negative; three analyzed for progesterone receptor were positive. Histologic patterns present in varying proportions were "classic" secretory carcinoma with microacini, abundant secretion with papillary features, and with prominent solid and papillary apocrine features. The tumors had strong reactivity for alpha-lactalbumin, S100, and carcinoembryonic antigen (polyclonal) and were negative for gross cystic disease fluid protein and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (monoclonal). Six patients had mastectomy; four had local excision; none had axillary nodal metastases initially. With follow-up of 3 to 72 months (mean, 47 months; median, 48 months), two patients treated by local excision had local recurrences, one patient had axillary nodal metastases. All patients are alive. Comparison of patients under and over 30 years of age revealed one important difference: younger patients had a longer interval between detection and biopsy-30 vs 2 months. Treatment recommendations are initial wide excision or quadrantectomy with low axillary dissection in most cases and, in premenarchal patients, strong effort to preserve the breast bud without jeopardizing local control. 
Epidermal growth factor regulates the in vitro sensitivity of human ovarian carcinoma cells to cisplatin. Cisplatin (DDP) is the most effective drug for the treatment of human ovarian cancer, but the mechanisms that determine sensitivity to the cytotoxic action of DDP are not well understood. Treatment of two human ovarian carcinoma cell lines with epidermal growth factor (EGF) simultaneously increased sensitivity to DDP and caused a persistent change in morphology in the absence of any mitogenic effect. Sensitization to DDP was shown to be dependent on both EGF concentration and EGF receptor number in C127 mouse fibroblasts expressing the human EGF receptor after transfection with a pBPV plasmid construct containing the human EGF receptor gene under control of the transferrin receptor 3'-inducible regulator. Sensitization of human ovarian carcinoma cells to DDP was not blocked by inhibition of protein synthesis. EGF did not enhance sensitivity to DDP or alter morphology in DDP-resistant human ovarian carcinoma cells despite the presence of functional EGF receptors on these cells. These results showed that elements of the signal transduction pathway activated by EGF determined cellular sensitivity to DDP, and that a DDP-resistant phenotype is associated with a defect in this signal transduction pathway. 
The history of nitrite in human nutrition: a contribution from German cookery books. In order to settle the question of when saltpetre (nitrate) came in use as an additive to human food, a number of historic cookery books from Germany and Austria were reviewed. Obviously, the change from vegetable dyes to saltpetre for the coloring or color preservation, respectively, of meat occurred between 1600 and 1750, probably near 1700. The addition of sugar which favours the reduction of nitrate to the active agent nitrite became common practice during the 19th century. Thus some historic parallels to the appearance of colorectal cancer, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis in the medical literature became apparent. 
Stimulation of cAMP and phosphomonoester production by melanotropin in melanoma cells: 31P NMR studies. A major part of the present understanding of the molecular basis of signal transduction has been gained from in vitro studies using classical biochemical methods. In this study, we used 31P NMR spectroscopy to investigate the response of live M2R mouse melanoma cells to stimulation by melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH; melanotropin). In the presence of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and a synergistic dose of forskolin (1.67 microM), MSH induced a transient (approximately 60-min) rise in the cellular concentration of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), which coincided in time with an equivalent decrease (approximately 40%) in ATP. However, no detectable change in phosphocreatine concentration was observed. Concomitantly, MSH induced a striking and unexpected increase in the concentration of three phosphomonoester (PME) metabolites (approximately 2-fold increase in total PME signal area); one signal has been assigned to phosphoethanolamine. The levels of the PMEs remained high for 2-4 hr and declined slowly (approximately 10 hr) to basal level, following perfusion with fresh culture medium. The increase in PME was also observed after stimulation with MSH alone. In contrast, stimulation with a high dose of forskolin (50 microM) and isobutylmethylxanthine (0.2 mM), although effective in stimulating the production of cAMP, did not induce the PME response. Evaluation of the cells' energetics indicated that the enhanced production of phosphoethanolamine is probably not due to ethanolamine phosphorylation. Therefore, it is likely to result from hydrolysis of phosphatidylethanolamine by a specific phospholipase C. The response of the PMEs appears to be regulated by a cAMP-independent process, suggesting the existence of an alternative transduction pathway controlled by MSH. 
Inhibition of pyroglutamyl peptidase II synthesis by phorbol ester in the Y-79 retinoblastoma cell. Pyroglutamyl peptidase II (EC 3.4.19.-), a highly specific membrane-bound TRH-degrading enzyme, is inactivated in Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells by exposure to 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in a biphasic manner. We have previously demonstrated a rapid decrease in pyroglutamyl peptidase II activity to 10% of the control level within 15 min, which returns to 70% of the control level by 1 h. This decrease results from enzyme phosphorylation by TPA-activated protein kinase-C. We now report a second phase of inactivation after longer exposure of cells to TPA. After 1 h, enzymatic activity slowly and progressively declined. By 7 h, only 15% of control activity remained. Cotreatment of cells with H-7, a protein kinase-C inhibitor, prevented this second phase of inactivation. Immunoblot experiments demonstrated a reduction in the amount of pyroglutamyl peptidase II in Y-79 membranes after long term exposure to TPA. Y-79 cells were labeled with [35S]methionine, and pyroglutamyl peptidase II was immunoprecipitated. A decreased incorporation of [35S]methionine paralleled the decrease in enzyme activity. These studies demonstrate that the second phase of inactivation after exposure to TPA is due to an inhibition of enzyme synthesis. 
Experience with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest in the management of retroperitoneal tumors with large vena caval thrombi. From June 1984 to September 1989, 43 patients with large vena caval tumor thrombi from retroperitoneal malignancies underwent surgical treatment with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA). The primary malignancies were renal cell carcinoma (RCC) (n = 39), renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma (n = 1), adrenal pheochromocytoma (n = 1), and renal (n = 1) or retroperitoneal (n = 1) sarcoma. The level of the caval thrombus was either suprahepatic (n = 27), intrahepatic (n = 14), or subhepatic (n = 2). In all cases the primary tumor and caval thrombus were completely removed. Concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 5), pulmonary resection (n = 2), and hepatic lobectomy (n = 1). The time of circulatory arrest ranged from 10 to 44 minutes (mean, 23.5 minutes). There were two operative deaths (4.7%), neither of them due to to the use of DHCA. Major postoperative complications occurred in 13 patients (30.2%). There were no ischemic or neurologic complications and no cases of perioperative tumor embolization. The median postoperative hospital stay was 9 days. Twenty-two patients (51%) are alive and enjoying a good quality of life. The 3-year patient survival rates in patients with localized (n = 24) versus metastatic (n = 15) RCC are 63.9% and 10.9%, respectively (p = 0.02). We conclude that CPB with DHCA facilities excision of retroperitoneal malignancies with large caval thrombi and provides the potential for cure with low morbidity and mortality rates. 
Disposable attachments in cryosurgery: a useful adjunct in the treatment of HIV-associated neoplasms. During cryosurgery of different types of lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection, it is crucial that the possibility of secondary bacterial infection be reduced. The use of disposable attachments during cryosurgery can reduce this risk of transmission of infectious agents. These attachments are discussed. 
A phase I study including pharmacokinetics of polyethylene glycol conjugated interleukin-2. A more soluble formulation of recombinant interleukin-2 with a prolonged half-life would allow alternate routes or schedules of administration and enhance patient comfort. The covalent attachment of polyethylene glycol to recombinant interleukin-2 provides an analog with preclinical data suggesting those desired characteristics while maintaining biologic activity. This is the report of a phase I study in which we sought to determine the maximum tolerated dose of polyethylene glycol interleukin-2, observe biologic activity, and confirm the prolonged half-life in vivo. Sixty-six patients were entered into the study during 19 months. Polyethylene glycol interleukin-2 was administered intravenously once a week over 15 minutes. The maximum tolerated dose was 20 x 10(6) U/M2. The pattern of toxicity was quite similar to that of the parent compound. Four patients had evidence of tumor regression (three partial remission; one minor response). The pharmacokinetic data confirmed a 10- to 20-fold prolongation in half-life compared with recombinant interleukin-2. No neutralizing antibodies were detected. This study provides sufficient impetus for the ongoing phase II studies of polyethylene glycol interleukin-2. 
Failure to limit quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotic drugs for outpatients: placing the elderly at risk. PURPOSE: The long-term use of benzodiazepine hypnotics by the elderly is associated with serious side effects, and prescriptions of large quantities of these agents allow such use. Therefore, we determined the quantities of these agents prescribed to outpatients in our Veterans Administration teaching hospital, and the relationship of patient age to total number of doses prescribed per prescription. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Pharmacy and patient records related to 655 consecutive prescriptions for triazolam (Halcion) and flurazepam (Dalmane) were reviewed. Only 266 (41%) of the prescriptions were for 30 or fewer doses, while 178 (27%) were written for 180 or more doses. RESULTS: Thirty-six percent of prescriptions for patients aged 65 years or older were for 180 or more doses, compared with 24% for those aged 45 to 64 years old, and 16% of the prescriptions for patients less than 45 years old (p less than 0.0001). In a multivariate analysis controlling for six other factors related to the total number of doses prescribed, patients aged 65 years or older were still more likely to receive a prescription for 180 or more doses (relative risk 1.9, 95% confidence interval 1.3, 2.8). CONCLUSION: We conclude that inappropriately large quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotics were commonly prescribed, and that patients aged 65 years or older were at greatest risk for receiving such prescriptions. 
Intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli: a case report of tumor regression by prednisolone therapy. A case of intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli (FPC), which regressed and disappeared by prednisolone treatment, is reported. A 37-year-old Japanese man with abdominal lumps was admitted to our hospital. He had had proctocolectomy two years before because of FPC with rectal cancer. At laparotomy, tumors were present in the abdominal wall, mesentery, and retroperitoneum. Only a small part of the tumors was resected and diagnosed microscopically to be desmoid tumors. With prednisolone administration (20 to 5 mg/day) subjective symptoms were ameliorated and desmoid tumors slowly regressed. Bilateral hydronephrosis continued and resulted in "retroperitoneal fibrosis." To our knowledge, this case is the first well-documented case of retroperitoneal fibrosis in a patient with FPC. The characteristics of the desmoid tumor in familial polyposis coli or in Gardner's syndrome and the methods for its management are discussed. 
Epidemiology of primary osteogenic sarcoma in the San Francisco Bay Area of California. This epidemiologic study represents an analysis of all registered new cases of osteogenic sarcoma (OGS) during the 14-year period from January 1973 to December 1986 in five San Francisco Bay counties. Inclusion into the study was limited to patients who were diagnosed in the first three decades of life and who were residents within the Bay Area at the time of diagnosis. To determine epidemiologic characteristics of OGS, records on 96 patients from the Bay Area Resources for Cancer Control with histologically proven OGS were reviewed. The incidence of OGS was influenced by age, gender, and race, but none of the effects were statistically significant. A geographic variation in the incidence of OGS was discovered, although it was not statistically significant. The results are presented in support of a continued search for environmental variables that may someday reveal the etiologic factors of OGS. 
Detection of primary colorectal cancer with indium 111 monoclonal antibody B72.3. B72.3 is a murine monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin subclass IgG1 directed against TAG-72, a cell surface antigen present on colorectal carcinoma cells. We investigated the utility of scanning with indium 111-labeled B72.3 in 16 patients with a high clinical suspicion of or biopsy-proven primary colorectal cancer. Each patient received 1 or 2 mg of B72.3 monoclonal antibody labeled with 152 MBq of indium 111. Patients underwent scanning 2 to 3 days and 7 days after infusion by planar and emission computed tomography. Nineteen lesions were confirmed in 12 patients. Three patients with benign polyps had true-negative monoclonal antibody scans. Indium 111-labeled imaging of B72.3 detected nine of 19 lesions. Unsuspected tumor sites were identified by monoclonal antibody scan in three patients. By detection of additional abdominal disease and extra-abdominal spread, indium 111-labeled scanning of B72.3 directly affected treatment in 18% of patients. 
Determinants of cell type in patients with cancer of the lungs. In order to evaluate the determinants of cell type in patients with primary lung cancer, we compared smoking characteristics in 1,939 patients (1,474 men and 465 women). Patients with squamous cell carcinomas, adenocarcinomas, or small-cell carcinomas were eligible. This study did not consider smoking as a risk factor for lung cancer, as all subjects had a confirmed diagnosis. We were interested in smoking history and the pattern of smoking among those whose risk was 100 percent. Among these patients, we confirmed that a larger subset of nonsmoking individuals developed adenocarcinomas than squamous cell or small-cell carcinomas; however, the duration and intensity of cigarette smoking, as measured by pack-years, were not determinants of tumor cell type in male patients. Small-cell carcinomas in women were more strongly associated with cigarette smoking than either squamous cell carcinomas or adenocarcinomas. More than 3,500 different substances have been measured in tobacco smoke, including tumor initiators, promoters, and those involved in tumor progression. These data confirm the hypothesis that factors other than cigarette smoking are more likely to be involved in the initiation of adenocarcinomas than other cell types. Endogenous and exogenous factors related to gender may be more important than the duration or intensity of cigarette smoking. 
Lymphoscintigraphy with 123I-labelled epidermal growth factor We have used 123I-labelled epidermal growth factor (EGF) scans to study 14 patients with advanced cervical cancer. Abnormal lymph node imaging was seen most clearly 6-8 h after the injection and revealed abnormal uptake by pelvic lymph nodes in 11 patients. 4 of these 11 had abnormal computerised tomographic and ultrasound scans; in the other 7 conventional radiology did not confirm the presence of disease. 
Oncogene amplification in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Cellular oncogenes appear to be involved in the control of normal cell growth and differentiation. The abnormal activation of these genes in naturally occurring and experimentally induced cancers may have an important role in the expression of the malignant phenotype in cancer cells. Mechanisms for the activation of these genes include chromosomal translocation, point mutation, and DNA amplification. The amplification of specific oncogenes correlates with clinical prognosis in several human malignancies, including breast cancer and neuroblastoma. We examined 21 fresh-frozen human squamous cell carcinomas of the aerodigestive tract for amplification of 10 known cellular oncogenes (c-myc, N-myc, L-myc, N-ras, H-ras, K-ras, erb-B, erb-B2, raf, and int-2), using Southern blotting techniques. Eleven of 21 tumors demonstrated a two-fold to 11-fold amplification of the int-2 oncogene, one member of a family of genes related to basic fibroblast growth factor. Amplification of c-myc, a gene that codes for a DNA-binding protein involved in the regulation of cell growth, was seen in two tumors. None of the other eight genes studied were amplified in any of the tumor specimens. 
Metabolism of human gliomas: assessment with H-1 MR spectroscopy and F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose PET Localized hydrogen-1 magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) were employed to obtain metabolic information from intracranial gliomas. Advantages and difficulties associated with comparison of results from the two modalities were realized. Forty patients were studied with H-1 MR spectroscopy. MR signal intensities from lactate, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline, and creatine from a volume of interest containing the tumor and a contralateral volume were obtained and evaluated. NAA signal intensities were generally decreased in the tumor spectra, and choline signal intensities were elevated. H-1 MR spectroscopy was unsuccessful in eight patients, and FDG PET scans were not obtained in four of the patients with successful MR spectroscopic examinations. Lactate signal intensity was detected in 10 of the 28 patients who had successful H-1 MR spectroscopic and FDG PET studies. Lactate signal intensities were observed in lesions shown at FDG PET to be hypermetabolic, as well as in lesions found to be hypometabolic. 
Capsular transgression of prostatic carcinoma: evaluation with transrectal US with pathologic correlation. One hundred twenty-five patients with biopsy proved clinical stage A or B prostatic carcinoma were evaluated with biplane transrectal ultrasonography (US) prior to radical prostatectomy. Sonograms were evaluated for capsular transgression of the tumor into the posterior and posterolateral aspects of the glands as manifested by local contour deformity and irregularity or interruption of the periprostatic fat echoes. Correlation of the findings at US with the findings at pathologic examination of the step sections was obtained, and the presence and depth of capsular penetration were assessed. Of the 250 halves or hemispheres of the prostate gland that were evaluated, capsular penetration was seen at pathologic examination in 86. US enabled correct identification of pericapsular tumor spread in 59 of the 86 hemispheres but did not depict pericapsular tumor spread in 27 hemispheres. Absence of pericapsular tumor spread was verified at pathologic examination in 149 of the 164 hemispheres that either did not have tumor or did not show pericapsular tumor spread. Pericapsular tumor spread was incorrectly diagnosed in 15 hemispheres. A positive US diagnosis of pericapsular tumor spread correlated moderately well with the depth of penetration demonstrated at pathologic examination. Transrectal US is an effective noninvasive procedure that demonstrates the presence of prostatic cancer. 
Utility of frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma at mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy. We conducted a retrospective analysis of the utility of frozen-section diagnoses in determining lymph node status at mediastinoscopy in 122 consecutive patients with bronchogenic carcinoma. Thirty-five of 122 patients had one or more lymph nodes with frozen-section evaluation positive for metastatic carcinoma. Subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-section study revealed metastatic carcinoma in two additional patients. The false-negative rate was 1.6%. Sensitivity was 94.6%. Predictive value of negative frozen-section evaluation results was 97.7%. Because there were no false-positive frozen-section results, specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section evaluation were 100%. The statuses of individual lymph nodes from these 122 patients were also evaluated. Six hundred twenty lymph nodes were sampled from the mediastinum at mediastinoscopy. Frozen-sections in 47 lymph nodes were positive. Subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-sections examination revealed metastatic carcinoma in four additional lymph nodes. The false-negative rate was 0.6%. Sensitivity was 92.2%. Predictive value of negative results from frozen-section evaluation was 99.3%. Because there were no false-positive frozen-section results, specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section examination were 100%. We conclude that frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes at mediastinoscopy reliably indicates lymph node status, thus enabling the physician to decide whether to proceed to thoracotomy. Thus staging of the carcinoma and definitive surgery can be accomplished during a single anesthetic procedure. Combining mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with frozen-section diagnostic control also reduces both the length and cost of hospitalization. 
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the conjunctiva. Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of the conjunctiva is an extremely rare tumour, and only three previous cases have been reported. We describe two patients with MFH of the conjunctiva: a 58-year-old white male with epibulbar tumour who had exenteration and is alive after five years' follow-up, and a 3 1/2-year-old African girl with xeroderma pigmentosum and an MFH of her right eye conjunctiva, the first reported case of this association. The characteristics and the methods of diagnosis of MFH are discussed. 
Treatment of adenocarcinoma of the cardia with synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Twenty-nine evaluable patients with adenocarcinoma of the cardia were treated with synchronously administered chemotherapy (two cycles of 5-fluouracil and cisplatin and 30-36 Gy of radiation to determine whether these tumours are responsive to such treatment. Complete regression of tumour was observed endoscopically in 19 patients, and partial regression in four. Fourteen patients had their tumours resected and in six no microscopic tumour was found in the specimen. Nine patients received additional radiotherapy to a total dose of 54-60 Gy instead of surgery. Tumour response was associated with rapid reversal of dysphagia. Only one patient required subsequent intervention for relief of dysphagia due to fibrous stricture. Enhanced survival was associated with a complete endoscopic response to initial chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and a tumour of less than 5 cm in length. The median survival of responding patients was 15 months. Synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy was of major palliative benefit in this series and merits further evaluation. 
The effects of midazolam on cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption. Interaction with nitrous oxide in patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours. Cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen were measured in 30 patients during craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours by a modification of the Kety-Schmidt technique using Xenon 133 intravenously. Anaesthesia was induced with midazolam 0.3 mg/kg, fentanyl and pancuronium, and maintained with midazolam as a continuous infusion, fentanyl, pancuronium and nitrous oxide in oxygen or oxygen in air. The concentration of midazolam in the blood of 10 patients was about 300 ng/litre during two measurements; the patients' lungs were ventilated with N2O in oxygen. The concentration of midazolam in the blood of another 10 patients was doubled to about 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement; the patients' lungs were ventilated with N2O/O2. The concentration of midazolam in the blood of the third group of 10 patients was doubled to 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement; the patients' lungs were ventilated with oxygen in air. No relationship was found between the dose of midazolam and cerebral blood flow or oxygen consumption. Nitrous oxide in combination with midazolam also had no effect on these variables. 
Mortality among aerial pesticide applicators and flight instructors: a reprint [corrected and republished article originally printed in Arch Environ Health 1990 Sep-Oct;45(5):295-302] A cohort mortality study was conducted of male aerial pesticide applicators and flight instructors identified from computerized Federal Aviation Administration medical examination records from 1965-1979. Vital status of 9,677 applicators and 9,727 instructors was determined through January 1, 1980, and standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were calculated. The overall SMR was 127 for applicators (699 deaths) and 93 for instructors (454 deaths). Fatalities from nonmotor vehicle accidents, mostly aircraft crashes, were in notable excess (SMR = 1,168 among applicators, 630 among instructors), whereas deaths from most chronic diseases, including all cancer, was below expectation (e.g., for arteriosclerotic heart disease, SMR = 52 among applicators and 50 among instructors). The ability of the study to assess cancer risk among applicators was limited by a relatively brief follow-up period. However, 8 applicators (SMR = 171), but only 1 flight instructor (SMR = 24), died of leukemia, and small, nonsignificant risk elevations for some other cancer sites among applicators were observed and warrant continued follow-up. 
Premorphological metabolic changes in human breast carcinogenesis. Malignant breast tissue is characterized by morphological and metabolic changes when compared with normal breast tissue. In this study, the cytochemical measurement of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity was used to detect abnormal metabolism in breast tissue and to determine whether abnormal metabolic activity precedes morphological change during human breast carcinogenesis. Normal and benign breast tissue, morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts, and malignant breast tissue were studied. In malignant tissue, mean(s.e.m.) G6PD activity was significantly increased when compared with normal and benign tissue (9.69(2.3) versus 27.02(1.7) mean integrated extinction (MIE) x 100, P less than 0.01). G6PD activity was increased in morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts when compared with normal and benign breast tissue from breasts with no known cancer (27.02(1.7) versus 18.42(2.6) MIE x 100, P less than 0.05). These findings suggest that metabolic abnormalities precede morphological changes in breast carcinogenesis. Abnormal metabolism can be detected widely within a cancer-containing breast. The detection of such abnormality may prove helpful in identifying patients at high risk of developing breast cancer. 
Lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit. Proliferations of mature adipose tissue, while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites, rarely occur in the orbit. We describe the clinical, radiographic, and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man. The mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth. Due to the age at onset, the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat, and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements, we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity. 
Primary neoplasms of the hollow organs of the gastrointestinal tract. Staging and follow-up. The number of imaging modalities available to stage and follow-up patients with primary neoplasms of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract continues to increase. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and ultrasonography are useful techniques for both staging and follow-up. For staging, CT is most frequently used for the detection of liver metastases and is increasingly used as a substitute for the chest radiograph in the detection of lung metastases. CT is still the imaging test of choice for the preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma. CT is less helpful in staging the patient with gastric carcinoma or colorectal carcinoma. The current usefulness of MRI in the staging of GI tract malignancies is limited by the lack of an adequate oral intraluminal contrast agent and degradation of images due to motion. Sonography, especially the new technique of endoscopic ultrasound, is promising for the detection of local invasion from GI tract malignancies. CT is used in the follow-up of patients with tumors of the GI tract to detect liver, adrenal, and nodal metastases as well as local recurrence because of the ability of CT to detect extraluminal masses. CT of the pelvis has been recommended as a routine follow-up procedure in patients who have undergone abdominal-peroneal resection. Both CT and MRI can be used to detect local recurrence, but suffer from the inability to differentiate scar from recurrent tumor. The initial hope that MRI would be capable of differentiating postoperative scar tissue from recurrent tumor has not been realized. Therefore, with positive CT or MRI findings, occasionally a percutaneous biopsy will be required to confirm local recurrence. 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy induces cell differentiation in small-cell lung carcinoma. Despite the high response rates resulting from chemotherapy, the majority of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients relapse with chemoresistant tumors. To analyze the phenotypic changes that are precursors of chemoresistant status, and to investigate the role of chemotherapy in these changes, tumor samples from 20 patients, taken before chemotherapy (etoposide, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide) and again at the onset of chemoresistance (after at least three courses of chemotherapy), were compared. The histologic changes were minor in 10 of 20 patients, as shown by an increase in cell size; they were major in 10 of 20 patients, with the appearance of mixed composite tumors in which neuroendocrine (NE), epidermoid, and glandular components were mixed. Major changes correlated with a good response to chemotherapy (P = .001). Ultrastructural studies showed an increase in neurosecretory granules and desmosomes, and a high frequency of multidirectional differentiation (45%) when comparison was made with pretherapy samples (10%) (P less than .01). Immunohistochemical (IH) analysis showed an increase in cytokeratin (CK) expression in treated patients, with a different labeling pattern and the expression of higher molecular weight CK. The expression of NE lineage markers (Leu 19, Sy 38, SL 11-14) remained stable, while that of NE differentiation markers (Leu 7, chromogranin) increased in the treated patients. The neuron-specific enolase (NSE) activity remained stable in treated SCLC. Large cells with a more differentiated phenotype and proliferative capacity (as shown by Ki 67 labeling), appeared to be characteristic of treated and secondary chemoresistant SCLC. The acquisition of a more complex phenotype, which correlates with primary response to therapy, implies a drug-induced differentiation in SCLC. 
Treatment of high-risk solid tumors of childhood with intensive therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation. Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) allows delivery of intensive, marrow-ablative chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy to children with high-risk solid tumors. Results from several studies of neuroblastoma suggest that outcome is improved by ABMT; however, relapses can occur months to years after complete clinical remission. Other high-risk tumors including peripheral neuroepithelioma, Ewing's sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Wilms' tumor, and brain tumors also appear to be responsive to intensive marrow-ablative therapy, although few studies have been reported. For tumors that can metastasize to marrow, a sensitive method is necessary for detecting tumor cell contamination. Immunocytologic analysis with monoclonal antibodies can identify one neuroblastoma cell per 10(5) normal marrow cells; this method also is applicable to other tumors with appropriate antibodies. Ex vivo removal (purging) of tumor cells decreases the probability of infusing tumorigenic cells with the ABMT. There is considerable experience in tumor detection and purging for neuroblastoma, but little has been done for other childhood solid tumors. Future investigations of ABMT will aim to further increase disease-free survival by intensifying induction and marrow-ablative regimens and by developing therapies to be given after ABMT that are directed at minimal residual disease. As pilot investigations mature, the efficacy of ABMT and conventional chemotherapy will be compared in multi-institution randomized studies. 
Identical splicing of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts from amplified rearranged genes in human glioblastomas. The epidermal growth factor receptor gene has been found to be amplified and rearranged in human glioblastomas in vivo. Here we present the sequence across a splice junction of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts derived from corresponding and uniquely rearranged genes that are coamplified and coexpressed with non-rearranged epidermal growth factor receptor genes in six primary human glioblastomas. Each of these six tumors contains aberrant transcripts derived from identical splicing of exon 1 to exon 8 as a consequence of a deletion-rearrangement of the amplified gene, the extent of which is variable among these tumors. In spite of this intertumoral variability, each intragenic rearrangement results in loss of the same 801 coding bases (exons 2-7) and creation of a new codon at the novel splice site in their corresponding transcripts. These rearrangements do not, however, affect the mRNA sequence for the signal peptide, the first five codons, or the reading frame downstream of the rearrangement. 
Osteoma of the middle ear. Osteomas involving the middle ear and causing a functional disturbance are rare. We report a case of a patient with an osteoma arising from the lateral semicircular canal. The main symptom was vertigo and to halt this the defect of the canal was obliterated with a bone chip and fibrin glue after removal of the tumour. 
cDNA cloning and sequencing of human fibrillarin, a conserved nucleolar protein recognized by autoimmune antisera. We have isolated a 1.1-kilobase cDNA clone that encodes human fibrillarin by screening a hepatoma library in parallel with DNA probes derived from the fibrillarin genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (NOP1) and Xenopus laevis. RNA blot analysis indicates that the corresponding mRNA is approximately 1300 nucleotides in length. Human fibrillarin expressed in vitro migrates on SDS gels as a 36-kDa protein that is specifically immunoprecipitated by antisera from humans with scleroderma autoimmune disease. Human fibrillarin contains an amino-terminal repetitive domain approximately 75-80 amino acids in length that is rich in glycine and arginine residues and is similar to amino-terminal domains in the yeast and Xenopus fibrillarins. The occurrence of a putative RNA-binding domain and an RNP consensus sequence within the protein is consistent with the association of fibrillarin with small nucleolar RNAs. Protein sequence alignments show that 67% of amino acids from human fibrillarin are identical to those in yeast fibrillarin and that 81% are identical to those in Xenopus fibrillarin. This identity suggests the evolutionary conservation of an important function early in the pathway for ribosome biosynthesis. 
Advances in molecular biology. Potential impact on diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the thyroid. Advances in molecular biology research continue to have a major impact on clinical medicine. These advances have provided a means to produce proteins previously available in limited supply and allow for the production of novel proteins that are improved agonists or else antagonists with greater specificity for therapeutic targets. Newer drug delivery systems should facilitate delivery of these proteins. By combining the capabilities to produce drug targets in acceptable quantities with improved methods for determining the three-dimensional structures of these targets, novel organic therapeutic molecules that act on these targets will be designed. Gene transfer therapy using genes that express important proteins or that encode "antisense" RNAs that inhibit the translation of specific mRNAs will soon become a reality. The use of RFLPs and PCR methodologies promises increased means to diagnose specific genetic diseases and infections. Most importantly, molecular biology is helping to understand the mechanisms of disease such that novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches can be described. These advances are providing an understanding of the mechanisms involved in cancers of the thyroid gland. They have already led to an enhanced understanding of (1) the growth factors that control proliferation of the thyroid gland, (2) the potential steps in thyroid nodule and neoplasia development, (3) particular mutations that may occur as thyroid cancers develop, (4) oncogenes that are expressed in thyroid cancers, and (5) the genetic defects that are responsible for thyroid gland malignancies in the multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndromes. With the latter, the RFLP technology has already provided an enhanced means to diagnose the disorder. With further progress, enhanced means for diagnosis and treatment should emerge. Molecular biology techniques are contributing to an increased understanding of the mechanisms of development of autoimmune thyroid disease as with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The potential role of infections, histocompatibility antigens, thyroid gland and extraglandular antigens, immune modulators, subpopulations of T-cells such as suppressor and helper cells, other cells involved in immune responses, and a combination of influences of several different functions on the thyroid gland are being defined. This knowledge should soon suggest improved means for diagnosis and treatment. Understanding of the function of the thyroid hormone receptors should have clinical importance. This knowledge suggests a means to develop thyroid hormone antagonists that may be used to more rapidly ameliorate the effects of hyperthyroidism and could be useful in nonthyroidal disorders such as cardiac arrhythmias.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Paraneoplastic pemphigus. An autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia. BACKGROUND and METHODS. We describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed, usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities. Histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells, keratinocyte necrosis, and acantholysis. Immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients. We studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation, using extracts of 14C-labeled human keratinocytes. IgG purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity. RESULTS. Immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes, including complex and simple epithelia, and myocardium. An identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250, 230, 210, and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples. The 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin I (a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia), and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid. Cutaneous blisters, a positive Nikolsky's sign, and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected. Electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris. CONCLUSION. These five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer. The autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin I and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens. We suggest the term "paraneoplastic pemphigus" for this disease. 
Isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey cells from a child with acute interstitial pneumonia who cytologically had giant-cell pneumonia without a rash. The isolation of measles virus in primary Rhesus monkey kidney cells (PRMK) in patients with documented giant-cell pneumonia who have presented without a rash is limited. The diagnosis usually is made by cytologic examination of nasal or bronchial secretions in which characteristic multinucleated giant cells with intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies are observed. The diagnosis of giant-cell pneumonia has been associated with measles virus but not exclusively. Canine distemper, herpes group viruses, and parainfluenza infections have been associated with these cells. In addition, vitamin A deficiency also has been cytologically associated with multinucleated giant cells. The authors describe the isolation of measles virus from bronchial washing and sputum in PRMK cells at 4 days from an 11-year-old child with acute interstitial pneumonia who was in remission for acute lymphocytic leukemia. Classic cytopathologic effect (CPE) consisting of syncytial and hole formation on the PRMK monolayer was apparent. In addition, a foamy appearance of the monolayer was noted in an otherwise clean lot of monkey cells. Confirmatory testing with measles antibody of the infected areas of the monolayer by indirect immunofluorescence (IFA) was positive for measles antigen and negative for mumps, parainfluenza (types I, II, and III) and influenza A and B virus. Serologic studies for measles antibody revealed an IFA IgG titer of greater than 1:10,240, and an IgM titer of 1:128. Cytologic examination of the same bronchial fluid revealed the typical giant cells with characteristic inclusions associated with measles virus. Because this disease usually is severe, and often fatal, prompt recognition of this virus is essential, not only to the patient, who can be treated with immunoglobulin and/or antiviral therapy, but also to prevent the spread of the virus to other patients and medical personnel. These findings also support direct evidence for the etiologic role of measles virus in giant-cell pneumonia that has been detected either histologically or cytologically and in tissue culture at autopsy. 
Endometrial carcinoma: a pathologic evaluation of 142 cases with and without associated endometrial hyperplasia. The association of some cases of endometrial carcinoma (EC) with hyperestrogenism is well known. The prognostic significance of concomitant endometrial hyperplasia (EH) in EC were evaluated in 142 patients with clinical stage I EC in whom lymph node assessment was carried out in 121 patients. The presence of EH was significantly associated with better differentiated tumor having lesser degrees of myometrial invasion, low segment-adnexal-lymphovascular space and pelvic/para-aortic lymph node involvement. However, the presence of EH was not significantly associated with the less virulent histologic subtypes. The possible existence of two types of EC--a hormonal-dependent EC associated with EH, and an independent EC not associated with EH--is discussed and the prognostic significance of concomitant EH stressed. 
Transfection of C6 glioma cells with connexin 43 cDNA: analysis of expression, intercellular coupling, and cell proliferation. C6 glioma cells express low levels of the gap junction protein connexin 43 and its mRNA and display very weak dye coupling. When implanted into the rat cerebrum, these cells quickly give rise to a large glioma. To investigate the role of gap junctions in the tumor characteristics of these cells, we have used Lipofectin-mediated transfection to introduce a full-length cDNA encoding connexin 43. Several transfected clones were obtained that exhibited various amounts of connexin 43 mRNA transcribed from the inserted cDNA. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed an increase in the amount of connexin 43 immunoreactivity in the transfected cells, being localized at areas of intercellular contact as well as in the cytoplasm. The level of dye coupling was also assessed and found to correlate with the amount of connexin 43 mRNA. When cell proliferation was followed over several days, cells expressing the transfected cDNA grew more slowly than non-transfected cells. These transfected cells will be useful in examining the role of gap junctions in tumorigenesis. 
The rapid detection of clonal T-cell proliferations in patients with lymphoid disorders. A series of T-cell proliferations in peripheral blood, bone marrow, or tissue samples were analyzed for clonality. The technique used employs the polymerase chain reaction to amplify portions of the rearranged T-cell receptor beta chain genes, using primers recognizing conserved sequences of the variable, diversity, and joining region segments. We examined 17 cases of T-cell lymphoma or leukemia; a clone was identified in 13 cases (76%) overall and in 7 of 8 cases (87.5%) in which both beta-chain alleles were known to be rearranged, as shown by restriction enzyme analysis. No clonal rearrangements were detected in samples from 13 non-T-cell disorders, including B-cell lymphomas, reactive lymphoid proliferations, and nonlymphoid tumors. This method is useful for detecting clones in thymic and post-thymic T-cell malignancies and has the advantages of being extremely rapid (a result is obtained within hours of the biopsy procedure), requiring no radiolabeling, using only a small amount of tissue, and being applicable to formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue. 
Improving diagnostic accuracy of cervical metastases with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Elective neck dissection in patients with head and neck cancer continues to be controversial. The management of these patients would be greatly facilitated by improvements in predicting cervical metastases. Recent investigations have suggested that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are more sensitive in detecting cervical metastases than physical examination. The Department of Otolaryngology at the Ohio State University Hospitals, Columbus, undertook a prospective study to compare the preoperative sensitivities of physical examination, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging with pathologic findings in 27 patients undergoing neck dissections for head and neck cancer. The results indicate that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were more sensitive (84% and 92%, respectively) than physical examination (75%), although the results did not achieve statistical significance. The sensitivity of combined computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging was 90%. 
Primary malignant melanoma in the parotid gland. Reports of primary malignant melanoma arising from the parotid salivary gland are extremely rare and, to date, have been sporadic. We report a pertinent case, and tabulate and correlate the clinical findings of the 13 cases reported thus far in the literature. The most common symptom is a progressively enlarging, asymptomatic, firm, and fixed mass. Total excision has been the established treatment of choice. The contribution of radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy remains unclear, and it is not possible at present to predict the outcome of treatment in individual patients. Although rare, primary malignant melanoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of parotid tumors. The clinical significance of establishing the diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma of the parotid gland is emphasized. 
Skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis. A case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented. While the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature, no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported. The literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined. 
Evaluating cervical cone biopsy specimens with frozen sections at hysterectomy. Frozen section evaluations of cervical cone biopsy specimens were performed at the time of hysterectomy to exclude invasive cervical cancer. During a two-year period we prospectively evaluated 43 cone biopsy specimens. We found all the diagnoses made with frozen sections to be accurate when compared with prospective permanent sections, and all patients received appropriate therapy. Thirty-eight cases showed no evidence of invasion. Two patients had invasive squamous cell cervical cancer, one had invasive cervical adenocarcinoma extending to the endometrial cavity, and two had microinvasion. All invasive cancers were diagnosed correctly with frozen sections and confirmed with permanent sections. When hysterectomy immediately followed conization, no complications occurred, and no significant increase in blood loss was noted. We found frozen section evaluation of a cone biopsy specimen at the time of hysterectomy to be a reliable procedure that saves time, eliminates the risk of additional anesthesia and decreases patients' costs. 
Resection of the primary liver cancer of the hepatic hilus. Primary liver cancer (PLC) of the hepatic hilus was designated as a tumor situated at the main branch of the portal vein or pedicle of the hepatic veins in contact with the intrahepatic vena cava. That is, the main tumor located at segment I, IV, V, or VIII and concentrating on the central part of the liver was called "the central type of PLC," which differed from a tumor located at segment II, III, VI, or VII; the latter was called "the peripheral type of PLC." Surgical treatment of the PLC has been significantly improved in the past two decades, but the resection of the central type of PLC is difficult and hazardous. This institution admitted 903 PLC from January 1970 to April 1988, of which 118 cases were the central type; 65 cases were resected successfully, a resectability of 55.1%. One patient died from sepsis within 1 month of operation (mortality 1.53%). The modes of operation for the different segments are described, and suggestions for improvements are presented. The survival rates were compared with a similar number of patients with the peripheral type of tumor in the same period and treated by the same surgeons. The results show noticeable differences. The one-year, three-year, and five-year survival rates after resection were 70.9%, 43.2%, and 39.2% in the central type of PLC; they were 98.3%, 85.0%, and 76.4% in the peripheral type of PLC (P less than 0.001). Further discussion of improvements in surgical techniques and mental awareness are suggested. 
Black-white differences in cancer prevention knowledge and behavior. Data from the 1987 National Health Interview Survey Cancer Control Supplement were used to estimate multivariate logistic regression models of diet change, mammography utilization, stool blood test utilization, and smoking. Predictor variables included race, sex, age, income, dietary concerns, and four knowledge-related variables: education and three measures of cancer prevention knowledge. When knowledge variables were included in the models, race was not a significant predictor of behavior, with one exception: among women, Blacks were found to smoke less than Whites. 
Adoptive immunotherapy with high-dose interleukin-2: kinetics of circulating progenitors correlate with interleukin-6, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor level. Immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells results in significant tumor regression in patients with advanced cancer. We have investigated the kinetics of circulating erythroid (BFU-E) and granulocytic-macrophage (CFU-GM) progenitors after IL-2 therapy in 11 cancer patients, mainly affected by metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. Administration of IL-2 from day 1 through day 5 constantly induced a dramatic decrease of the number of circulating BFU-E and CFU-GM, which then showed a striking rebound (up to values fourfold and sevenfold higher, respectively, than the pretherapy levels) on discontinuation of IL-2, ie, from day 5 through day 10. A similar kinetic pattern was observed during and after the second cycle of IL-2 administration. 3[H]-thymidine killing experiments showed that the cycling activity of the progenitors was virtually unmodified in the rebound phases. To explore the mechanism(s) underlying this kinetic pattern, we have analyzed the plasma concentration of several hematopoietic growth factors, including IL-1 beta, IL-3, IL-4, IL-6, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), G-CSF, and erythropoietin (Ep). No modifications in the levels of IL-3, GM-CSF, or IL-1 beta were observed, whereas a pronounced increase of IL-6 and G-CSF concentration was monitored, starting at day 3 and peaking at day 5 of treatment (a parallel, but modest, increase of Ep level was also observed). The elevation of IL-6 and G-CSF concentration is directly correlated with and may, at least in part, underlie the subsequent rebound of circulating hematopoietic progenitors. Furthermore, the increase in IL-4 level observed at day 10 of therapy may mediate the eosinophilia gradually starting at this stage of treatment. 
Expression of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase gene in normal and leukemic cells: regulation of the transcript by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. The levels of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) messenger RNA (mRNA) are evaluated in B and T lymphocytes, monocytes, and polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs), and this transcript is found to be present only in PMNs. Precursors of the myelomonocytic pathway, represented by leukemic cells isolated from several cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in its stable and blastic phase and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), are devoid of LAP transcript. These data support the notion that LAP is a marker of the granulocyte terminal differentiation. Despite the absence of LAP mRNA in both the myeloid and the lymphoid precursors, nuclear run-on experiments show constitutive transcription of the LAP gene in leukemic cells obtained from AML, CML, as well as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In CML and in chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia (CMML) PMNs, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) specifically accumulates LAP mRNA without showing a substantial increase in the rate of transcription of the LAP gene. Once increased by G-CSF, LAP mRNA is very stable, showing a half-life of more than 4 hours in the presence of actinomycin-D. G-CSF is suggested to play a pivotal role in the modulation of LAP transcript in PMNs. 
Total sacrectomy and reconstruction for huge sacral tumors. The authors carried out successful total sacrectomy in three cases, two with giant cell tumors and one with a chordoma. The anterior and posterior approach is feasible for resecting huge sacral tumors en bloc, but it is important to reconstruct the continuity between the pelvic ring and spinal column using spinal instrumentation and sacral rods or AO plates. As total sacrectomy is a large-scale, time-consuming, and collaborative operation, two or three teams should be used in relays. Both pelvic and spinal surgical techniques are required. Post-operatively the patient can stand within 3 to 6 months and well-planned rehabilitation allows ambulation. In spite of the serious structural and neurologic damage caused, total sacrectomy can be rewarding procedure in terms of improved morbidity and mortality. 
Cellular internalization, transport, and esterification of iodine-125-NP59 by MA-10 Leydig tumor cells. The present studies were directed toward understanding the cellular processing of the cholesterol analogue, NP59. NP59 readily entered MA-10 Leydig tumor cells. The cholesterol analogue entered the cells by binding to the plasma membrane and becoming internalized along with plasma membrane cholesterol. Internalized NP59 was readily esterified to NP59 ester. Transport of NP59 within the cell was indistinguishable from transport of cholesterol. Cholesterol and NP59 transport were under the control of cAMP, however, only cholesterol entered the mitochondria and was converted into progesterone. Thus, internalized NP59 could not be removed from the cell by conversion into steroid hormones. Esterified NP59 was metabolically inert and could not be converted back to free NP59 and free fatty acid. Since NP59 was not a substrate for the cholesteryl ester hydrolase, it became trapped in the cell as NP59 ester. 
A hypothesis: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce the incidence of large-bowel cancer. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit prostaglandin synthesis and tumor growth in the rodent colon. We assessed NSAID use in relation to risk of human large-bowel cancer in a hospital-based, case-control study of 1326 patients with colorectal cancer and 4891 control patients. For regular NSAID use that continued into the year before interview, the multivariate relative risk estimate was 0.5 (95% confidence interval, 0.4 to 0.8); the estimate decreased as the duration of use increased, but the trend was not statistically significant. Similar results were obtained whether cancer or non-cancer controls were used, and the inverse association was apparent for both colon cancer and rectal cancer in men and women and in subjects younger and older than 60 years. Regular NSAID use that had been discontinued at least 1 year previously and non-regular use were not associated with risk. Almost all regular NSAID use was of aspirin-containing drugs. The present data suggest that the sustained use of NSAIDs reduces the incidence of human large-bowel cancer. 
Radical prostatectomy versus expectant primary treatment in stages I and II prostatic cancer. A fifteen-year follow-up. A fifteen-year follow-up of a prospective, randomized study comparing placebo with radical prostatectomy as the primary treatment of early prostatic cancer is presented. A total of 111 patients with clinical Stage I or II prostatic cancer, normal acid phosphatase levels, and negative findings on skeletal x-ray film were evaluable. Thirty Stage I patients and 20 Stage II patients received placebo only; 31 Stage I and 30 Stage II patients underwent radical prostatectomy. The survival status for 95 patients (86%) was established at the fifteen-year follow-up. No significant differences in crude survival occurred in either stage or in both stages combined. Moreover, the survival curves closely followed reference curves based on expected U.S. mortality for men of comparable ages and races. A statistically significant association between a high Gleason histologic score and poor survival was established. In this study, initial treatment with radical prostatectomy did not yield longer survival than initial placebo treatment alone. However, the findings should be interpreted with caution, since sample size was small and staging procedure was simplified. 
HLA class I and class II antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. We compared human major histocompatibility (HLA) class I and class II antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with that on normal mucosa. Frozen sections of a consecutive series of 30 squamous cell carcinomas were stained with the monoclonal antibodies W6/32 (class I) and anti-DR (class II) using an immunoperoxidase technique. Normal mucosa showed class I and class II expression in the basal layers only. Class I expression on tumors was diffuse in 87%, patchy in 10%, and scattered in 3%. Class II expression on tumors was diffuse in 20%, patchy in 53%, scattered in 20%, and absent in 7%. Patterns of expression did not correlate significantly with clinical parameters, including survival, except that class II diffuse and patchy patterns were found to correlate with more poorly differentiated tumors. 
Etoposide. Current and future status. Etoposide (VP-16-213) is an antineoplastic agent with demonstrated efficacy against a broad spectrum of human malignancies, including testicular, germ cell, lung, and other cancers. Etoposide can be synergistic with other agents. As part of combination chemotherapy, etoposide has become a so-called standard in therapies for testicular cancer and small cell lung cancer. Its activity in tumors such as lymphoma and leukemia, as well as solid tumors, identifies etoposide as a highly important chemotherapeutic agent. Cellular and animal models have shown that the cell kill and tumor response depend on both dose and time of exposure. Recent clinical studies again show that dose and schedule of etoposide can have important effects on clinical response to the drug. Further research should now continue: (1) on the use of etoposide as part of initial therapy in several cancers, and (2) in higher doses and prolonged schedules to optimize this agent's potential. 
The human costs of cancer and the response of the National Cancer Program. The three foundations of the National Cancer Program are basic research, clinical trials (in prevention and treatment), and cancer centers. These foundations have supported a great deal of progress against cancer over the past 20 years. Nevertheless, a number of challenges remain, and continued progress will depend on the speed with which research advances can be translated into practical realities. Poverty is a risk factor for cancer incidence and mortality. Thus, a lack of access to the technologies generated by the National Cancer Program can be a force for bringing about differential burdens of cancer in underserved populations. 
Tumor cell heterogeneity and subpopulations with metastatic ability in differentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung. Histologic and cytofluorometric DNA analyses. To investigate tumor cell heterogeneity and subpopulations with metastatic ability in differentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung, the primary and metastatic lesions in 20 cases of differentiated adenocarcinoma were examined by histologic and cytofluorometric DNA analyses. The primary tumor was divided histologically into three compartments: tumor area of type 1, papillary adenocarcinoma with thin stroma; tumor area of type 2, papillary adenocarcinoma with thickened fibrovascular stroma: tumor area of type 3; solid carcinoma with scant gland formation. The nuclear DNA content (NDC) was higher in type 2 than in type 1 tumor in terms of mean NDC and DNA histogram pattern (p less than 0.01). Metastatic tumors in distant organs often resembled the type 2 of primary tumors histologically and also in their DNA histogram patterns, and their mean NDC values were significantly correlated with each other (p less than 0.01). Metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes had a significantly lower mean NDC than those in distant organs (p less than 0.01). These results suggest that (1) type 2 tumors originate from type 1 tumors by malignant progression and metastasize hematogenously, and (2) hematogenous metastases are composed of tumor subclones different from those of lymphatic metastases. 
Squamous cell carcinoma of prostate. A primary squamous cell carcinoma occurring in the prostate of a sixty-nine-year-old man is described. A radical excision that included cystoprostatectomy, total penectomy, scrotectomy, pubic symphysiectomy, and abdominoperineal resection of rectum was done. The patient died of systemic metastases six months after diagnosis. Review of the literature suggests that such a cancer of the prostate is rare, highly aggressive, and responds poorly to any mode of therapy. Histogenesis of this tumor remains controversial; however, it probably does not originate from the prostatic acinar cells. 
Partial laryngectomy after irradiation failure. Forty-three patients who had partial laryngectomies after radiotherapy were evaluated. Forty-two had failed irradiation for laryngeal carcinoma. Nine had supraglottic procedures, 3 endoscopic, and 31 vertical partial. Twelve (28%) required subsequent completion laryngectomy. Major complications included laryngeal stenosis in 1, incompetent laryngeal sphincters in 2, mucocutaneous fistulas in 3, and delayed deglutition in 3. Six patients had positive permanent section margins. In 5 of those, intraoperative frozen sections had been taken and were negative. Recurrent or persistent disease was eventually demonstrated in all patients with positive margins. The 2-year determinant disease-free survival rate for stage I and II disease was 85%. Three-year disease-free survival was 50% for stage III and IV disease. Partial laryngectomies, including supraglottic, can be done after irradiation failure with a high expectation of cure and acceptable morbidity. Immediate additional operation should be considered in patients with positive margins. 
Multiple hormone elevations in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Prospective study of clinical significance and of the development of a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome. In the present study of 45 patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the frequency and clinical importance of the release of multiple gastrointestinal peptides were assessed prospectively. During an initial evaluation, extent of gastrinoma, clinical symptoms, disease duration, and presence or absence of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type I (MEN-I) were assessed. All patients had determinations of fasting plasma gastrin, human pancreatic polypeptide, motilin, neurotensin, and somatostatin; 35 had determinations of insulin and gastrin-releasing peptide and 21 had determinations of glucagon. A plasma elevation of additional peptides besides gastrin was detected in 62%, with 44% having one, 18% having two, and 0% having three additional peptides elevated. Motilin was elevated in 29%, human pancreatic polypeptide in 27%, neurotensin in 20%, and gastrin-releasing peptide in 10%, whereas insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin were not elevated in any patient. The presence or absence of elevation of any peptide did not differ in patients with or without MEN-I, with gastrinoma size, with the presence or absence of metastatic disease, or with various clinical symptoms. Patients were assessed yearly for clinical evidence of a secondary symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome with a median follow-up of 146 and 84 months from onset or diagnosis, respectively. Only one patient (2% of patients) developed a second syndrome (rate, 2 patients per 100 patients observed for 10 years). These results demonstrate that the plasma elevation of multiple gastrointestinal peptides is common in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; however, the rate of developing a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome is much lower than generally believed. Furthermore, no evidence is found to support the conclusions that the detection of the plasma elevation of these peptides is clinically important in assessing MEN-I status, disease extent, or presence of metastatic disease or that elevated levels of motilin, neurotensin, gastrin-releasing peptide, or human pancreatic peptide are associated with any distinct clinical symptoms. Therefore, we recommend that plasma concentrations of these additional gastrointestinal peptides should not be assessed routinely but rather only if new symptoms develop. 
Prostate cancer: local staging with endorectal surface coil MR imaging. Endorectal surface coil magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was used to stage the local extent of prostate cancer in 22 patients. The endorectal coil images were acquired with a 10-12-cm field of view and a 4-mm section thickness. All pathologic specimens were reviewed by one pathologist. Endorectal surface coil MR imaging was 82% accurate in the differentiation of stage B from stage C cancer. One case was overestimated, and three cases were underestimated. The three underestimated cases consisted of two cases of microscopic capsular invasion and one case of minimal seminal vesicle invasion. In a comparison of retrospective, blinded readings of endorectal coil and body coil images, there was an average improvement in accuracy of 16% in staging prostate cancer with endorectal coil images. 
In vitro drug sensitivity of cells from children with leukemia using the MTT assay with improved culture conditions. The knowledge about drug resistance in childhood leukemias and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in general is limited. This is because of the lack of a suitable in vitro drug sensitivity assay, which is in part due to low in vitro ALL cell survival. We recently adapted the highly efficient 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay to test cells from ALL patients and showed that its results were comparable with those of the DiSC assay, up to now the most valid but laborious assay. In this study, in vitro drug sensitivity was assessed in cells from 82 children with leukemia, 79 of whom had ALL, with the MTT assay. Dose response curves were obtained for 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine (6-TG), prednisolone (Pred), daunorubicin (DNR), vincristine (VCR), cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), L-asparaginase (L-Asp), mafosfamide, and mustine. A cytotoxic effect of methotrexate could be detected in only a few cases. Large interindividual differences in drug sensitivity were detected. Compared with leukemia cells from newly diagnosed patients, leukemia cells from relapsed patients were significantly more in vitro resistant to 6-TG, Pred, Ara-C, mafosfamide and mustine but not to DNR, VCR, and L-Asp. Improvements of culture medium and methods to increase MTT reduction were studied. From 10 components tested, addition of insulin and bovine serum albumin to serum-containing medium improved ALL cell survival. Addition of succinate did not increase the amount of MTT reduction. We conclude that the in vitro MTT assay highly facilitates large-scale studies on drug resistance of ALL patients that can lead to rational improvements in existing treatment protocols. 
Ras gene mutations in intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas. Analysis in five cases. Five intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas were analyzed for the presence of the Ras gene mutations. Three (60%) of the five neoplasms showed point mutations at K-ras codon 12. This incidence of the mutations was rather low compared with that found with ordinary pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The presence of the mutations did not correlate with the severity of cellular atypia, but was apparently related to the size of the tumor. The two neoplasms that had no mutations were smaller than the others that had mutations. The analysis suggested that Ras gene mutation is not the first genetic alteration of tumor progression, but that it occurs during the development of neoplasms of the pancreas. 
Clinical evaluation of a side entry access port: a novel dual-lumen venous access device. The initial clinical experience with a low-profile side entry access (SEA) dual-lumen implantable venous access port for cancer chemotherapy administration is summarized in this report. The catheter material is polyurethane. The overall experience in 35 patients in this study was a total of 6,224 patient days, with a mean of 178 days per patient. A variety of chemotherapeutic agents, biologic response modifiers, and antibiotics were administered. In 26% of the patients, the device chambers were in simultaneous use during the treatment period. A 6% incidence of clinical subclavian vein thrombosis was noted. There was no infectious complications. Inconsistencies in blood withdrawal and temporary catheter dysfunction were comparable to other access ports in clinical use. The novel design of this side entry port and the catheter material of low thrombogenicity make this device a good option in patients requiring a low-profile system and dual access. Nursing staff should be made aware of the side entry design and that in-service training for accessing the septum is required in centers where such devices are not routinely used. 
Clinical implications of screening for cervical cancer under Medicare. The natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly: what do we know? What do we need to know? Despite the recent passage of coverage for Papanicolaou test screening under Medicare, several aspects of the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly remain uncertain. This article reviews what we know about cervical cancer in elderly women to provide clinicians with the background necessary for assessments of screening recommendations, integration of new data into practice, and development of consensus approaches to screening in the elderly. Two central questions that affect a screening program for the elderly are how long the neoplastic process takes from preinvasive disease to the development of invasive cancer, and how likely is it that a given neoplastic state observed in an elderly woman will, in fact, progress to a more severe state. The ultimate success of the new Medicare benefit will also be affected by the use of Papanicolaou testing, the technique of obtaining the smear, and the adequacy of reporting and follow-up. The expansion of Medicare benefits to include early cervical cancer detection has the potential to improve the quality and the duration of older women's lives. 
Neodymium: YAG laser hysteroscopy in large submucous fibroids. The preoperative use of a potent, subcutaneously injected gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) was evaluated in a series of 60 women with large submucosal fibroids. Myomectomy by hysteroscopy and Nd:YAG laser was easily performed. In 12 cases, the largest portion of the myoma was not inside the uterine cavity and myomectomy was carried by a two-step hysteroscopy. In women who wished to become pregnant, a pregnancy rate of 66% was achieved. Advantages of preoperative use of a GnRH-a are (1) the significant decrease of the fibroid size, (2) a lower fluid absorption, and (3) the restoration of a normal hemoglobin concentration. 
Embryologic fusion planes and the spread of cutaneous carcinoma: a review and reassessment. It has long been held that embryologic fusion planes influence the spread of skin cancer. Embryologic fusion planes have been implicated in the depth of invasion, horizontal spread, and recurrence of cutaneous carcinoma. However, these structures have never been studied in detail. A review of the surgical literature reveals considerable confusion regarding the exact nature, location, and tumor interactions of these fusion planes. We review the gross and microscopic development of sites of embryologic fusion. We examine histologic sections through fusion sites in normally developed adult and fetal fresh cadaver specimens. Our studies, supported by our review of developmental anatomy, indicate that fusion planes do not persist as identifiable anatomic structures that would influence tumor spread. 
Activation of early events of the mitogenic response by a P2Y purinoceptor with covalently bound 3'-O-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyladenosine 5'-triphosphate. 3'-O-(4-Benzoyl)benzoyl-ATP (BzATP), a photoaffinity analog of ATP, was used as a ligand for a P2Y purinoceptor (adenine nucleotide receptor) present in intact Swiss 3T3 and 3T6 cells and A-431 epidermoid carcinoma cells. Photolysis of serum-starved cells in the presence of 10-50 microM BzATP, followed by extensive washing to remove unincorporated BzATP, induced the release of arachidonic acid. A trace (less than 0.01%) of photoincorporated BzATP was as effective as when 50 microM BzATP or ATP was contained in the incubation medium during the assay. Photoincorporated BzATP also stimulated the production of prostaglandin E2 and the accumulation of cyclic AMP. In previous studies, we demonstrated that these three events are obligatory early steps in a pathway leading to DNA synthesis in the above cell lines. The evidence indicated that the purinoceptor activated by extracellular ATP or BzATP was linked to a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein. Consistent with these observations, we now find that pertussis toxin inhibits the effect of photoincorporated BzATP on arachidonic acid release. These results indicate that BzATP is an effective agonist for the P2Y purinoceptor concerned with stimulation of DNA synthesis in 3T3, 3T6, and A-431 cells. Furthermore, after photolysis it becomes irreversibly associated with intact cells and promotes the activation of early events required for DNA synthesis. 
Results of radiation therapy in carcinoma of the base of the tongue. The Curie Institute experience with about 166 cases. Between 1960 and 1980, 166 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the base of the tongue were treated with primary irradiation at the Curie Institute (Paris, France). Distribution according to the TNM system 1978 International Union Against Cancer (UICC) was the following: 22 T1 lesions, 47 T2 lesions, 64 T3 lesions, and 33 T4 lesions. Regional nodes were not palpable in 50 cases, 35 had N1 nodes, 12 had N2 nodes, and 69 had N3 nodes. All patients received external beam radiation. The 2-year, 3-year, and 5-year overall survival rates for all patients were, respectively, 45%, 37%, and 27%. Local control was significantly related to the initial status of the primary, to the tumor regression at the end of the radiation therapy, and to the histologic differentiation. The 2-year local control was 96% for T1 lesions, 57% for T2 lesions, 45% for T3 lesions, and 23% for T4 lesions. Local control was 70% if the tumor regression was complete at the end of the treatment and 27% if the tumor regression was partial. No significant differences were found in primary local control with respect to degree of infiltration, age, and dose of radiation therapy over a dose of 60 Gy in 6 weeks. The 3-year regional control was 86% for N0, 78% for N1, and 60% for N2 and N3. Among the tumor characteristics analyzed, the most useful ones for predicting local control and survival were clinical tumor staging parameters and tumor radiation-induced regression. A new therapeutic approach based on the evaluation of the tumor regression at 50/55 Gy is under discussion. 
A phase I trial of cisplatin in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of 5-fluorouracil by continuous intravenous infusion in patients with advanced malignancies. Thirty-four patients with incurable solid tumors were treated in a Phase I trial with a fixed dose of high-dose cisplatin (CDDP) administered in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Five treatment levels of 5-FU, ranging from 500 to 900 mg/m2/day for 5 days, were studied. Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and oral mucositis were the dose-limiting toxicities encountered. Nephrotoxicity was minimal. Ototoxicity and peripheral neuropathies were rare and mild in this patient group, but most patients received only a small number of treatment cycles. Diarrhea was not dose-limiting. Two complete responses (one non-small cell lung cancer and one sweat gland carcinoma) were observed. No other major responses were noted. With the dose of CDDP set at 35 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a concurrent 5-day 5-FU infusion was found to be 900 mg/m2/day. The recommended dosages for Phase II trials are 35 mg/m2/day CDDP and 800 mg/m2/day 5-FU for 5 consecutive days. Cancers of the lung, breast, gastrointestinal tract, and genitourinary tract would be reasonable targets for Phase II studies. 
Chemical carcinogenesis: too many rodent carcinogens. The administration of chemicals at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in standard animal cancer tests is postulated to increase cell division (mitogenesis), which in turn increases rates of mutagenesis and thus carcinogenesis. The animal data are consistent with this mechanism, because a high proportion--about half--of all chemicals tested (whether natural or synthetic) are indeed rodent carcinogens. We conclude that at the low doses of most human exposures, where cell killing does not occur, the hazards to humans of rodent carcinogens may be much lower than is commonly assumed. 
Monoclonal antibody B72.3 in benign breast lesions. It has been suggested that the monoclonal antibody B72.3 may be useful as a diagnostic tool in fine needle aspirates of breast masses because it recognises "tumour associated glycoprotein (TAG)-72". The antigen was sought in paraffin wax sections of 43 normal and benign breast biopsy specimens, using the avidin-biotin complex technique, to assess the extent of its presence in non-malignant tissue. Strong focal staining was seen in 21 (49%) cases. In 29 cases of fibrocystic change staining was present in 17 (59%). All areas of apocrine metaplasia were positive, as well as a few normal ducts and acini and occasional areas of adenosis. Focal positivity was present in five out of 12 foci of ductal epithelial hyperplasia and in three out of seven radial scars. Staining was absent in two areas of lobular hyperplasia, three areas of sclerosing adenosis, and in a focus of lactational change. Focal positivity was also seen in two out of five fibroadenomas and in two out of three intraduct papillomas. Five normal subareolar sections and a section of normal lactating breast were negative. It is concluded that B72.3 monoclonal antibody can show focal reactivity with a variety of normal and benign epithelial mammary structures, and it is doubtful that its use would be of any help in differentiating benign from malignant cells in fine needle aspirates. 
Parotid gland plasmacytoma with crystalline deposits. A case of primary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the parotid gland with a marked deposition of intracytoplasmic crystals is presented. The immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics of the crystals suggest formation from monoclonal immunoglobulin. 
Reproductive experience after complete and partial molar pregnancy and gestational trophoblastic tumors. We reviewed the subsequent pregnancy experience in patients with complete and partial mole and gestational trophoblastic tumors who were managed at the New England Trophoblastic Disease Center between June 1965 and December 1989. Such patients should be reassured that they can anticipate a normal reproductive outcome in the future. 
New directions in medical imaging of cancer. Magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography. Magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are developing technologies that provide both functional and anatomic information. Their role in the diagnosis and monitoring of cancer is the subject of current clinical research. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) delineates organs and tissue heterogeneities using differences in the relaxation parameters of water and fat protons; both protons and other nuclei can be imaged or studied by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to provide information on the state of naturally occurring or infused molecules. SPECT quantifies the distribution of radiolabeled agents in tissues and organs; labeled monoclonal antibodies provide highly specific imaging of tumors. Spatial resolution is the limiting technologic factor. Proton MRI provides the highest current resolution, better than 1 mm in vivo in deep tissues, whereas the resolution of MRS and SPECT is limited to several cubic centimeters. Recent advances in these technologies have significantly increased their specificity and ability to detect small, deep lesions. 
Comparative in vitro activities of newer quinolones against Pseudomonas species and Xanthomonas maltophilia isolated from patients with cancer. The in vitro susceptibilities of three Pseudomonas species (Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas putida, and Pseudomonas fluorescens) and Xanthomonas maltophilia to quinolone antimicrobial agents were determined. Several newer agents, particularly PD117558, PD117596, PD127391, sparfloxacin (AT-4140), A-56620, and temafloxacin, were active against Pseudomonas species. X. maltophilia isolates were generally less susceptible than were Pseudomonas isolates but were inhibited by some of the newer quinolones. 
Vitamin C and cancer prevention: the epidemiologic evidence. Epidemiologic evidence of a protective effect of vitamin C for non-hormone-dependent cancers is strong. Of the 46 such studies in which a dietary vitamin C index was calculated, 33 found statistically significant protection, with high intake conferring approximately a twofold protective effect compared with low intake. Of 29 additional studies that assessed fruit intake, 21 found significant protection. For cancers of the esophagus, larynx, oral cavity, and pancreas, evidence for a protective effect of vitamin C or some component in fruit is strong and consistent. For cancers of the stomach, rectum, breast, and cervix there is also strong evidence. Several recent lung cancer studies found significant protective effects of vitamin C or of foods that are better sources of vitamin C than of beta-carotene. It is likely that ascorbic acid, carotenoids, and other factors in fruits and vegetables act jointly. Increased consumption of fruits and vegetables in general should be encouraged. 
Survival of children and adolescents with acute lymphoid leukemia. A study of American Indians and Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites treated in New Mexico (1969 to 1986). During the period 1969 to 1986, 196 American Indian and Hispanic and non-Hispanic white children and adolescents (ages, 0 to 19 years) were treated for acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) at the University of New Mexico affiliated institutions. There were 28 American Indians (14%), 91 Hispanic whites (46%), and 77 non-Hispanic whites (39%). Median survivals for patients undergoing antileukemic therapy ranged from 8 months for American Indian boys to 140 months for non-Hispanic white girls. American Indian boys had the highest initial median leukocyte count (WBC) at 23.8 X 10(9)/l. Compliance problems occurred most commonly among American Indian children of both genders. Other clinical and pathologic features evaluated in this study were distributed similarly among the ethnic gender groups. Multi-variate analysis revealed that independent prognostic variables for survival included initial WBC, age, and gender. Ethnicity and compliance problems were possible, but confounded, prognostic variables. To the authors' knowledge this represents the most comprehensive study to date of ALL in American Indian patients. 
Radical vulvectomy with partial rectal resection and temporary colostomy as primary therapy for selected patients with vulvar carcinoma. The patient with carcinoma of the vulva may present with tumor involvement of the perirectal area. Traditional treatment has often involved ultraradical therapy including a radical vulvectomy with posterior or total pelvic exenteration in an effort to obtain adequate surgical margins. Five-year survival rates for these patients range from 20-50%, and major operative morbidity as well as psychological problems are associated with this extensive surgery. Five patients treated for a locally advanced vulvar carcinoma involving the perirectal area were thought to be candidates for a rectum-sparing procedure. They underwent a radical vulvectomy, bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy, partial rectal resection, and a diverting colostomy. Four of the five patients agreed to a colostomy closure 6 months after their primary therapy; these four patients have resumed normal bowel function. All patients remain clinically free of tumor. 
Topical calcipotriol treatment in advanced breast cancer [published erratum appears in Lancet 1991 Jun 29;337(8757):1618] 19 patients with locally advanced or cutaneous metastatic breast cancer were treated with the topical vitamin D analogue calcipotriol 100 micrograms daily. 14 patients completed 6 weeks' treatment; 3 showed a 50% reduction in the bidimensional diameter of treated lesions and 1 other patient showed a minimal response. 2 patients became hypercalcaemic during treatment. In all patients who responded the tumours contained receptors for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, shown by immunocytochemistry. 
Detection of circulating candida enolase by immunoassay in patients with cancer and invasive candidiasis BACKGROUND. Invasive candidiasis is a major nosocomial infection that is difficult to diagnose. Few biochemically defined markers of invasive candidiasis are known. Initial findings suggested that the presence of candida enolase in the blood may be a novel marker for invasive candidiasis. METHODS. We tested 170 patients at high risk for invasive candidiasis for candida enolase antigenemia. All the patients had cancer and neutropenia. We detected antigen using a double-sandwich liposomal immunoassay for candida enolase in serially collected serum samples. Invasive candidiasis was proved by finding candida species in deep nonmucosal tissue, blood cultures, or both. Antigen testing was performed with the investigator blinded to tissue or culture diagnosis. RESULTS. Among 24 patients with proved invasive candidiasis, 149 serum samples were tested for enolase antigenemia; 80 were positive and 69 negative (sensitivity per sample, 54 percent). Multiple sampling improved the detection of antigenemia, which was found in 11 of 13 proved cases of deep tissue infection (85 percent) and in 7 of 11 proved cases of fungemia (64 percent). Specificity was 96 percent as measured against control groups including patients with mucosal colonization, bacteremia, and other deep mycoses. Antigenemia was detected in the absence of fungemia in 5 cases of deep tissue candidiasis, but was not detected in 6 cases of fungemia alone. CONCLUSIONS. Candida enolase antigenemia is a novel marker for invasive candidiasis. It may be a useful indicator of deep infection in patients with cancer and neutropenia and may complement the diagnostic usefulness of blood cultures. 
Osteosarcoma of the maxilla in Hong Kong Chinese postirradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. A report of four cases. Postirradiation osteosarcoma of the maxilla was seen in four Hong Kong Chinese patients treated for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. These cases represent four of 42 (9%) cases of osteosarcoma at all sites in this institution during the period 1979 to 1989, when more than 1000 patients were treated with radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The latent periods varied from 8 to 11 years from completion of radiotherapy treatment to development of osteosarcoma. The radiation dosage varied from 6000 to 6280 cGy in three of the patients. These cases fit the criteria for diagnosis of postirradiation sarcomas. Maxillary osteosarcomas after irradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma do not appear to have been described. The very high incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (for which radiotherapy is the treatment of choice) in Hong Kong Chinese would make the occurrence of such tumors more likely in Hong Kong, although the small risk does not contraindicate the use of radiation in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in view of its well-documented efficacy. 
Thyroid disease and pregnancy. Thyroid disease is common in younger women and may be a factor in reproductive dysfunction. This probably only applies to severe cases of hyper- or hypothyroidism. Once adequately treated, neither of these disorders significantly impacts on fertility. The key is to recognize and to treat thyroid disorders in the reproductive-age woman before conception. Thyroxine therapy and even antithyroid drug therapy should be continued during pregnancy as necessary. Pregnancy is a euthyroid state that is normally maintained by complex changes in thyroid physiology. The fetal and neonatal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops independently, but it may be influenced by thyroid disease in the mother. Early pregnancy is characterized by an increase in maternal T4 secretion stimulated by hCG and an increase in TBG, resulting in the elevated total serum T4 in pregnancy. The debate continues as to whether maternal T4 is important in early or late fetal brain development. If so, the physiologic changes in thyroid hormone secretion and transport in early pregnancy would help to ensure that a sufficient amount of thyroid hormone was available. There is new evidence in human subjects that substantial maternal T4 can cross the placenta during pregnancy, and this may be particularly important when fetal thyroid function is compromised as a result of congenital hypothyroidism. Maternal and fetal/neonatal outcomes in pregnancy are adversely affected if severe hypothyroidism is undiagnosed or inadequately treated. Thyroid function tests should be obtained during gestation in women taking T4 and appropriate dose adjustments should be made for TSH levels outside a normal range. The TSH-receptor blocking antibodies from the mother are a recognized cause of congenital hypothyroidism in the fetus and neonate that can be permanent or transient. If neonatal hypothyroidism is detected through neonatal screening programs, and prompt and adequate T4 replacement therapy is instituted as soon as possible following delivery, subsequent growth and development are usually normal. Paradoxically, pregnancy often has a favorable effect on the course of maternal Hashimoto's disease, although there is the risk of relapse postpartum. Pathophysiologic conditions of hCG secretion such as gestational trophoblastic disease and hyperemesis gravidarum may present as thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy, but the main cause of this syndrome is Graves' disease. The mainstay of treatment is antithyroid drugs and either propylthiouracil or methimazole may be used safely. Subtotal thyroidectomy, after medical control, is the alternative treatment, but radioiodine ablation is contraindicated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Ectatic blood vessels in port-wine stains lack innervation: possible role in pathogenesis. The innervation pattern of port-wine stains was investigated using indirect immunohistochemistry with antibodies to protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and neurofilament (NF). The pathologically dilated vessels in the middle and deep dermis were found to have defective innervation with only single or no nerve fibers in their vicinity, while other structures in the skin showed a normal density of fibers. NSE- and PGP-like immunoreactive (-LI) nerve fibers were observed innervating vessels with a normal morphology and other structures in the skin, such as sweat glands and hair follicles, as free nerve endings and in nerve bundles. The nerve bundles were often seen to pass the ectatic vessels without giving off any branches. CGRP-LI nerve fibers were detected running toward epidermis, whereas no fibers were found around the ectatic vessels. NF-LI fibers were seen innervating normal vessels in dermis, while in relation to the dilated vessels, no or only occasional fibers were observed. The lack of innervation may be of importance for the development of the disease as a result of decreased tonus of the vessels and/or a loss of neuronal trophic factors. 
An immunohistochemical study of pi class glutathione S-transferase expression in normal human tissue. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), a family of isoenzymes that play an important role in protecting cells from cytotoxic and carcinogenic agents, can be separated by biochemical and immunologic characteristics into three distinct classes named alpha, mu, and pi. Previous studies have indicated that there is marked heterogeneity in the expression of different GST isoenzymes in different normal and malignant tissues. To better understand the regulation of the human pi class glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme (GST-pi), the tissue distribution of this protein wa studied by an immunohistochemical technique using an anti-GST-pi polyclonal antibody in normal paraffin-embedded human tissues. These studies indicate that there is a broad distribution of GST-pi in normal human tissues and establish a precise localization within the different organs studied. GST-pi was expressed predominantly in normal epithelial cells of the urinary, digestive, and respiratory tracts, suggesting a possible role for GST-pi in detoxication and elimination of toxic substances. Previous studies have indicated that GST-pi and the putative drug efflux pump P-glycoprotein are both overexpressed in multidrug-resistant human breast cancer cells and in xenobiotic resistant preneoplastic rat hyperplastic liver nodules. Results from this study indicate that there are also similarities between the normal tissue distribution GST-pi and that previously reported for mammalian P-glycoprotein, particularly in secretory epithelia. This finding suggests that these two gene products, which have been implicated in the development of resistance to cytotoxic drugs, may be coregulated in normal and malignant cells. 
A phase I study of 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin. Clinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics. A Phase I study of intravenous (IV) bolus 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin (Pirarubicin) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractory tumors. Twenty-six had minimal prior therapy (good risk), 23 had extensive prior therapy (poor risk), and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction. A total of 167 courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable. Maximum tolerated dose in good-risk patients was 70 mg/m2, and in poor-risk patients, 60 mg/m2. The dose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia. Granulocyte nadir was on day 14 (range, 4-22). Less frequent toxic effects included thrombocytopenia, anemia, nausea, mild alopecia, phlebitis, and mucositis. Myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction. Pharmacokinetic analyses in 21 patients revealed Pirarubicin plasma T 1/2 alpha (+/- SE) of 2.5 +/- 0.85 minutes, T beta 1/2 of 25.6 +/- 6.5 minutes, and T 1/2 gamma of 23.6 +/- 7.6 hours. The area under the curve was 537 +/- 149 ng/ml x hours, volume of distribution (Vd) 3504 +/- 644 l/m2, and total clearance (ClT) was 204 + 39.3 l/hour/m2. Adriamycinol, doxorubicin, adriamycinone, and tetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amount of doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10% of the total metabolites. Urinary excretion of Pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10%. Activity was noted in mesothelioma, leiomyosarcoma, and basal cell carcinoma. The recommended starting dose for Phase II trials is 60 mg/m2 IV bolus every 3 weeks. 
Immunolocation of TNF-alpha/cachectin in human melanoma cells: studies on co-cultivated malignant melanoma. We have investigated the ability of metastatic cells to produce the macrophage cytokine, TNF-alpha/cachectin, as these cells have macrophage-like properties such as infiltration and migration. We looked for TNF-alpha/cachectin in three tumor cell lines derived from human malignant melanomas and six co-cultivated malignant melanomas derived, in vitro, from these three cell lines plus angioma fibroblasts. Immunohistochemistry with an anti-TNF-alpha/cachectin monoclonal antibody showed that TNF-alpha/cachectin was produced by two of the three parent melanoma cell lines. All the tumor cells in both the co-cultivated malignant melanomas and their in vitro tumorous nodules produced TNF-alpha/cachectin, even those derived from the melanoma cell line, which originally did not. The results clearly show that TNF-alpha/cachectin can be produced by non-hematopoietic tumor cells. A co-cultivated tumor model prepared from other types of human tumor cell lines promises to provide a useful tool for exploring the relationship between TNF-alpha/cachectin and oncogenesis. 
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I infection as an oncogenic and prognostic risk factor in cervical and vaginal carcinoma. The seroprevalence of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) antibody in 6701 healthy females and 226 women with gynecologic malignancies, all living in an adult T-cell leukemia-endemic area in southwestern Japan, was investigated to determine whether HTLV-I infection was a risk factor influencing oncogenesis and prognosis. The seroprevalences in cervical carcinoma patients younger than 59 years and in vaginal carcinoma patients of all ages were significantly higher than in age-matched healthy controls. The ratios of observed to expected HTLV-I seroprevalence in patients younger than 59 with cervical carcinoma and in vaginal carcinoma patients were 2.92 and 7.36, respectively. Among the patients with cervical carcinoma or vaginal carcinoma, the tumor recurrence rate in HTLV-I carriers was significantly higher than that in HTLV-I seronegative patients. Our results suggest that HTLV-I infection may be oncogenic and may affect the prognosis in some patients with cervical or vaginal carcinoma. 
Selection of patients with stage B prostate cancer for radical prostatectomy. There are several areas of concern in dealing with clinical stage B disease. First, understaging is common. Second, recognition of extension into the seminal vesicles is important. Third, the patient's predicted life expectancy must be taken into account. Moreover, even clinically localized prostate cancer may have metastasized, and the need for surgical staging by lymph node dissection has been a significant factor in the authors' preference for radical retropubic rather than radical perineal prostatectomy. Neither of the two serum markers in clinical use is an absolute predictor of stage. Analysis of tumor ploidy may prove useful, and transrectal ultrasound warrants further study. In the elderly patient, the urologist certainly may elect to monitor the tumor without definitely deciding on operative versus conservative treatment. 
Association between neuroepithelial tumor and multiple intestinal polyposis (Turcot's syndrome): report of a case and critical analysis of the literature. We report a case of association of a brain tumor with multiple intestinal polyposis (Turcot's syndrome) and offer a critical analysis of the relevant literature with a view to revising the classification of the syndrome in relation to familial multiple polyposis and Gardner's syndrome. For this purpose, we considered only cases of intestinal polyposis associated with a primary neuroepithelial tumor (medulloblastoma, glioma, or glioblastoma) as originally described by Turcot. Differences emerged, depending on the central nervous system tumor type, which suggests that this neoplastic association may be classified as two distinct syndromes. 
SPECT imaging of pediatric brain tumor with hexakis (methoxyisobutylisonitrile) technetium (I). Technetium-99m-Hexamibi [Hexakis (methoxyisobutylisonitrile) technetium (i)] was developed as a myocardial perfusion agent with biologic properties similar to those of thallium-201 (201TI). As 201TI has recently been observed to be of value for the diagnosis of brain tumors when used in conjunction with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging technology, the possibility that the biologic similarity of the two radiopharmaceuticals extended to their affinity for tumors was tested. A 5-yr-old female patient with a brain stem astrocytoma showed marked focal uptake of 99mTc-Hexamibi at the site of tumor recurrence as defined by biopsy and prior 201TI/SPECT study. Tumor-to-normal cortex radioactivity ratios for the 99mTc-Hexamibi/SPECT study were 132:1 and the spatial resolution of the 99mTc-Hexamibi images was high. This observation suggests that 99mTc-Hexamibi merits further study as a potential agent for SPECT imaging of human brain tumors. 
The Van Nes tibial rotationplasty. A functionally viable reconstructive procedure in children who have a tumor of the distal end of the femur. Twelve patients who had a malignant tumor of the distal end of the femur were treated with a Van Nes tibial rotationplasty. The survival rates were comparable with those for above-the-knee amputees and patients who had an endoprosthetic replacement. The results of functional testing showed that these patients performed as well as those who had endoprosthetic replacement and better than those who had above-the-knee amputation. Rotationplasty is therefore a favorable alternative to amputation or endoprosthetic replacement, either as a primary or as a salvage procedure. 
Treatment of angiomas with sclerosing injection of hydroxypolyethoxydodecan. The authors discuss the indications for hydroxypolyethoxydodecan in the sclerosing treatment of angiomas, with particular reference to cavernous, venous, and evolutive angiomas (ie, immature angiomas that fail to involute by eight to ten months). Moreover, the sclerosing agent may be employed, in connection with embolization and subsequent surgery, in arteriovenous angiomas with a relevant cutaneous-subcutaneous development. The authors have successfully used the "interstitial" sclerosing technique, according to Andrews' method. This technique involves interstitial injections to obtain the sclerosis of the thin threads of fibrous tissue stroma between the blood vessels. The sclerosing therapy may cause the complete regression of "low flow" angiomas or, at least, a partial reduction that simplifies the ensuing surgical excision. In the case of partial regression of the angioma obtained with the sclerosing therapy, the surgery of the remaining angioma causes a lesser degree of bleeding (especially in areas that do not particularly lend themselves to surgical exploration, ie, the oral cavity); an increased reliability in the radicality of the intervention (due also to the reduced size of the lesion); and better results from an aesthetic-functional point of view. 
Genetic mechanisms of tumor suppression by the human p53 gene. Mutations of the gene encoding p53, a 53-kilodalton cellular protein, are found frequently in human tumor cells, suggesting a crucial role for this gene in human oncogenesis. To model the stepwise mutation or loss of both p53 alleles during tumorigenesis, a human osteosarcoma cell line, Saos-2, was used that completely lacked endogenous p53. Single copies of exogenous p53 genes were then introduced by infecting cells with recombinant retroviruses containing either point-mutated or wild-type versions of the p53 cDNA sequence. Expression of wild-type p53 suppressed the neoplastic phenotype of Saos-2 cells, whereas expression of mutated p53 conferred a limited growth advantage to cells in the absence of wild-type p53. Wild-type p53 was phenotypically dominant to mutated p53 in a two-allele configuration. These results suggest that, as with the retinoblastoma gene, mutation of both alleles of the p53 gene is essential for its role in oncogenesis. 
Primary de novo adenocarcinoma of the colon measuring 8 mm in diameter with lymph node metastases. Report of a case. Colonic adenocarcinomas measuring less than 10 mm are rare. Herein, we report a carcinoma measuring 8 mm in diameter associated with subserosal extension through a "locus minoris resistentiae" and metastases to lymph nodes, an association not previously reported. No residual adenomatous tissue was found, suggesting a de novo carcinoma. 
Mammographic measurements before and after augmentation mammaplasty. Thirty-five augmented women underwent mammography using both the standard implant-compression technique and, when possible, the implant-displacement technique; all had preaugmentation film-screen mammography available for evaluation. The area of mammographically visualized breast tissue before and after augmentation mammaplasty was measured using a transparent grid. Patients with subglandular implants had a mean decrease of 49 percent of measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 39 percent decrease with displacement mammography. Patients with submuscular implants had a 28 percent decrease in measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 9 percent decrease with displacement mammography. Anterior breast tissue was seen better with displacement mammography; posterior breast tissue, with compression mammography. Most patients had some degree of parenchymal scarring and lower image quality after augmentation. State-of-the-art mammography was not possible in most patients augmented with silicone-gel-filled implants. 