Multiple representations contribute to body knowledge processing. Evidence from a case of autotopagnosia. Body schema disturbances were studied in a 62-yr-old woman with Alzheimer's disease. She was severely impaired in verbal and nonverbal tasks requiring her to localize body parts (on her own body, the examiner's body or a doll's body) even though she correctly named the same parts when pointed at by the examiner. Pointing responses were misdirected mainly to parts contiguous with the target area and, to a lesser extent, to functionally equivalent body parts. We also found that the patient was able to define body part names functionally but not spatially. In another series of tasks, and in contrast to the above results, performances were normal when small objects, attached to the patient's body, served as pointing targets. Furthermore, on subsequent testing she pointed correctly at the remembered position of these objects. The fact that the same point in 'body space' is localized correctly when it corresponds to an external object and erroneously when it corresponds to a body part contradicts the idea of the body schema as a unitary function. Learning the position of objects on the body surface requires access to some form of body-reference system on which this information can be mapped. We argue that such a system can be available in autotopagnosia and is independent from the visuospatial representations of the body structure that are postulated to be damaged or inaccessible in this syndrome. An integrated account of the present results and of those reported by other authors suggests that multiple levels of representation (e.g., sensorimotor, visuospatial, semantic) are involved in the organization of body knowledge. 
Tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin. Case report. The authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction. Two similar cases were found upon review of the literature. The embryology of this lesion is discussed. 
Acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that quantitation of either C-reactive protein (CRP) or the total peripheral WBC count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children. DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection, signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure, levels of CRP in serum, and total peripheral WBC counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses. SETTING: Emergency department and acute care "walk-in" clinic of an urban, university-affiliated general hospital. PARTICIPANTS: 160 previously well, acutely febrile infants and children (median age, 6 months). RESULTS: The prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6%. Sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17. Sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81. Of the acute phase reactants, sensitivity of a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL was 0.80, while that of a total peripheral WBC count of more than 15,000/mm3 was 0.40. The presence of signs and/or a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). The absence of signs and a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.47). Of 125 children without meningeal signs, the combination of symptoms and a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). The absence of these symptoms and/or a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.66). CONCLUSION: Quantitation of CRP but not the total peripheral WBC count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis. Measurement of CRP in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child. 
Mortality in acute stroke with atrial fibrillation. The Italian Acute Stroke Study Group. We compared 211 consecutive patients who had acute ischemic hemispheric stroke and atrial fibrillation with 837 consecutive patients who had stroke without atrial fibrillation. The atrial fibrillation group included a higher frequency of women, older subjects, and those with a severe neurologic deficit, abnormal computed tomogram, and elevated heart rate. The 1-month case-fatality rate in the atrial fibrillation group was 27% while that in the group without atrial fibrillation was 14%. The 6-month case-fatality rates in the two groups were 40% and 20%, respectively. The risk of death attributable to atrial fibrillation, adjusted for the effect of other prognostic factors, was significant at 1 month (relative risk = 1.55) and at 6 months (relative risk = 1.74). The causes of death were equally distributed in the two groups during both the acute and subacute phases. We conclude that atrial fibrillation is a negative prognostic factor in patients hospitalized for acute stroke. Nevertheless, cerebral embolism alone does not completely explain the increase in mortality for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation. Other associated pathogenetic mechanisms must also be taken into account. 
Lexical organization of nouns and verbs in the brain. The analysis of neuropsychological disorders of lexical processing has provided important clues about the general organization of the lexical system and the internal structure of the processing components. Reports of patients with selective dysfunction of specific semantic categories such as abstract versus concrete words, living things versus inanimate objects, animals, fruits and vegetables, proper names and so forth, support the hypothesis that the neural organization of the semantic processing component is organized in these categories. There are reports of selective dysfunction of the grammatical categories noun and verb, suggesting that a dimension of lexical organization is the grammatical class of words. But the results reported in these studies have not provided unambiguous evidence concerning two fundamental questions about the nature and the locus of this organization within the lexical system. Is the noun-verb distinction represented in the semantic or in the phonological and orthographic lexicons? Is grammatical-class knowledge represented independently of lexical forms or is it represented separately and redundantly within each modality-specific lexicon? Here we report the performance of two brain-damaged subjects with modality-specific deficits restricted principally (H.W.) or virtually only (S.J.D) to verbs in oral and written production, respectively. The contrasting performance suggests that grammatical-class distinctions are redundantly represented in the phonological and orthographic output lexical components. 
Ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities. A total of 111 amniotic fluid samples, clear or blood stained, with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined. Samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly, 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14. All 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. Three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14. These results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly, open spina bifida, encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. The procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory. 
Clarifying confusion: the confusion assessment method. A new method for detection of delirium OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate a new standardized confusion assessment method (CAM) that enables nonpsychiatric clinicians to detect delirium quickly in high-risk settings. DESIGN: Prospective validation study. SETTING: Conducted in general medicine wards and in an outpatient geriatric assessment center at Yale University (site 1) and in general medicine wards at the University of Chicago (site 2). PATIENTS: The study included 56 subjects, ranging in age from 65 to 98 years. At site 1, 10 patients with and 20 without delirium participated; at site 2, 16 patients with and 10 without delirium participated. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: An expert panel developed the CAM through a consensus building process. The CAM instrument, which can be completed in less than 5 minutes, consists of nine operationalized criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III-R). An a priori hypothesis was established for the diagnostic value of four criteria: acute onset and fluctuating course, inattention, disorganized thinking, and altered level of consciousness. The CAM algorithm for diagnosis of delirium required the presence of both the first and the second criteria and of either the third or the fourth criterion. At both sites, the diagnoses made by the CAM were concurrently validated against the diagnoses made by psychiatrists. At sites 1 and 2 values for sensitivity were 100% and 94%, respectively; values for specificity were 95% and 90%; values for positive predictive accuracy were 91% and 94%; and values for negative predictive accuracy were 100% and 90%. The CAM algorithm had the highest predictive accuracy for all possible combinations of the nine features of delirium. The CAM was shown to have convergent agreement with four other mental status tests, including the Mini-Mental State Examination. The interobserver reliability of the CAM was high (kappa = 0.81 - 1.0). CONCLUSIONS: The CAM is sensitive, specific, reliable, and easy to use for identification of delirium. 
Meralgia paresthetica after coronary bypass surgery. Meralgia paresthetica is a neurologic disorder characterized by localized paresthesia and numbness on the anterolateral aspect of the thigh and involving the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. It involves no motor deficits. Meralgia paresthetica, which may result from a variety of causes, has been observed as a rare complication in heart operations. Its cause when associated with such operations is uncertain but may be prolonged relaxed positioning on the operating table and recovery room stretcher. Another possible cause of meralgia paresthetica after heart operations is the "frog-leg" position of the legs during vein harvesting. Patients with this condition should be advised of its untreatable, but benign and self-limiting, nature. 
The influence of the calcium antagonist nimodipine and induced hypertension on the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries, the blood-brain barrier, cerebral edema, and cerebral infarction in cats with one-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Thirty anesthetized cats were randomly assigned to one of three groups of 10 cats each: nimodipine treatment, nimodipine treatment combined with induced hypertension, or a control group. The behavior of the cerebral pial arteries was measured by means of microscopic observation through a cranial window. The middle cerebral artery of each cat was clipped for 1 hour via the transorbital approach. Five hours after circulation was reestablished in the middle cerebral artery, Evans blue dye was injected intravenously: 30 minutes later, the animal was killed. Administration of nimodipine or saline in the treated or control group was started 5 minutes before the middle cerebral artery was clipped and maintained until the end of the experiment. Induced hypertension was produced by administration of dopamine during the occlusion. Damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) was judged by extravasation of Evans blue dye. Cerebral edema and infarction were evaluated from histological findings. They were most prominent in the control group: the extent of hemisphere affected was as follows (mean +/- standard error): extravasation, 40.5 +/- 8.8%; edema, 43.2 +/- 5.7%; infarction, 35.5 +/- 9.6%. On the other hand, the extravasation of Evans blue dye and cerebral edema were significantly more extensive in the group treated with nimodipine and induced hypertension (extravasation, 28.2 +/- 9.6% of the hemisphere; edema, 30.3 +/- 7.1%) than in the group treated with nimodipine alone (extravasation, 18.5 +/- 8.7% of the hemisphere; edema, 19.4 +/- 6.3%), but the infarction size was similar in both groups (16.6 +/- 4.9% of the hemisphere in the former; 17.0 +/- 6.2 in the latter). 
The distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb. To determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured. Four groups of patients were studied: 22 control subjects, 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis, 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis. In the testing posture (seated), patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side. Gravitational torques were included in the measurements. However, proximal muscles (acting at hip and knee) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles (acting at ankle and hallux). At any particular joint, physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects. As in the upper limb (Colebatch and Gandevia, 1989), the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects, although no muscle groups were especially affected. 
Shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis: a long-term follow-up study. Hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis. Case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus, who underwent shunt surgery between July, 1975, and June, 1986, were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results. Seven factors were studied in each case: 1) age at admission; 2) grade on admission (I to IV, classified by the authors; Grade I being the best and Grade IV being the worst); 3) duration of alteration of sensorium; 4) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell content at initial examination; 5) CSF protein levels at initial examination; 6) number of shunt revisions required; and 7) the necessity for bilateral shunts. During a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years (mean 45.6 months), the mortality rate was 20% for patients in Grade I; 34.7% for patients in Grade II; 51.9% for patients in Grade III; and 100% for patients in Grade IV. Only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome (p less than 0.001). Based on these results, the authors advocate early shunt surgery for Grade I and II patients. For patients in Grade III, surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection. All patients in Grade IV should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage, should have shunt surgery. 
AAEM case report #1: ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. A patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented. The electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments. The interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology. 
Aspiration in bilateral stroke patients. Seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations; 34 (48.6%) aspirated. Patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes, abnormal cough, abnormal gag, and dysphonia. However, patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough, an abnormal gag reflex, or both. The prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information (ie, presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs). 
Prognostic factors in the treatment of alopecia areata with diphenylcyclopropenone. One hundred thirty-nine patients with alopecia areata were treated with diphenylcyclopropenone. Before treatment, 85 patients had subtotal or total hair loss (greater than 90% bald area) and in the remaining patients scalp involvement was between 40% and 90%. The following three factors were found to be of prognostic significance: type of alopecia areata as documented before treatment, duration of the disease before therapy, and presence of nail changes. Other factors such as age at onset, sex, presence of atopic features, the extent of variation in the range of diphenylcyclopropenone concentrations during treatment, and sleep disturbances caused by pruritus did not influence the prognosis significantly. 
Stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using a multimodal image analysis system. Technical note. A methodology has been developed for stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using an image-analysis system that simultaneously displays different structural and functional images of the brain. The validity and accuracy of this system were established with phantom studies. Surgical planning and electrode implantation are guided by stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging, digital subtraction angiography, and position emission tomography. This methodology provides the spatiotemporal relationship of cerebral structure and function necessary to identify seizure onset and propagation in human limbic system epilepsy. 
Excitatory amino acids in the developing brain: ontogeny, plasticity, and excitotoxicity. Besides their role as neurotransmitters, excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in the developing brain are crucially involved in plasticity and excitotoxicity which are modified by their distinct ontogeny. Along with incomplete neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis, presynaptic markers of the EAA system are immature in the developing brain; however, postsynaptic EAA system activities, particularly of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors, are transiently enhanced early in life. This transient enhancement is presumably beneficial to the immature brain because physiologic activation of the EAA system plays a critical role in plasticity of early learning and morphogenesis. At the same time, this transient hypersensitivity renders the immature brain vulnerable to pathologic excitation of the EAA system (excitotoxicity) as observed during neonatal hypoxia-ischemia. 
Ubiquitin immunoreactivity in kuru plaques in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Cerebellar kuru plaques in 2 cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease were studied immunohistochemically. Similar to cerebellar senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease, many kuru plaques contained ubiquitin-positive, tau-negative small granular elements, presumably representing dystrophic neurites. Our results suggest that similar mechanisms are involved in neuritic changes in cerebellar plaques in Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Alzheimer's diseases despite differences of amyloid proteins in the plaques. 
Apneic oxygenation in apnea tests for brain death. A controlled trial. We performed a prospective controlled study of apneic oxygenation on 15 patients undergoing apnea tests for brain death. All patients were preoxygenated with 100% oxygen at existing respirator settings. During the 10-minute apnea tests, nine patients were given continuous apneic oxygenation by tracheal cannula. The other six patients had tracheal tubes open to room air. The patients given apneic oxygenation had little or no hypoxia by the end of the test. The patients given room air during the test became hypoxic. Many neurologists perform apnea tests with no oxygenation or with preoxygenation alone. This is the first prospective controlled study (to our knowledge) of apneic oxygenation; it shows that preoxygenation alone does not prevent hypoxia during apnea tests for brain death. We recommend that all apnea tests be performed with apneic oxygenation. 
Richner-Hanhart's syndrome. Electron microscopic study of the skin lesion. The plantar hyperkeratotic skin lesion in a case of Richner-Hanhart's syndrome was investigated using ultrastructural examination. Light microscopic examination showed remarkable hyperkeratosis and some aberrant keratinocytes with multiple nuclei. On ultrastructural examination, some abnormal structures were seen in the affected keratinocytes: aggregations of tonofilaments and intracytoplasmic inclusions. The inclusions were needle shaped and were considered to be "crystal ghosts," presumably of tyrosine. The formation of tyrosine crystalline inclusions seems to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the cutaneous lesions in Richner-Hanhart's syndrome. 
Thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children. Thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions, including infectious diseases. We studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections, particularly pneumonia with empyema in children. A systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted. Twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied. Thrombocytosis (platelet counts greater than 500 x 10(3)/microliters) was present in 92.5%. Platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 +/- 3.7 days (range, 7 to 25) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness. Compared with a healthy control group, significant thrombocytosis, but of lower incidence, was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion, bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis. Platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed. Bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia. We found no correlation between thrombocytosis, neutrophilia, fever, the clinical course, complications, prognosis or treatment. Neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed. 
Intrathecal baclofen for spasticity in cerebral palsy Seventeen patients with congenital spastic cerebral palsy and six patients with other forms of spasticity were injected intrathecally with doses of placebo or baclofen, 25 micrograms, 50 micrograms, or 100 micrograms, in a randomized, double-blind manner. Muscle tone in the upper and lower extremities was assessed by Ashworth scores both before the injections and every 2 hours afterward for 8 hours. Function of the upper extremities was evaluated before the injections and 4 hours afterward. Muscle tone in the lower extremities was significantly decreased within 2 hours after baclofen injection and remained lower than baseline 8 hours afterward. Upper extremity tone and function were not significantly affected by these single doses. Confusion and drowsiness occurred in two of the youngest children in the study after the 50-micrograms dose, but cleared within 2 hours. Our findings indicate that intrathecal baclofen reduces spasticity in children with cerebral palsy, as it does in adults with spasticity of spinal origin. 
Embolism of cerebral tissue: a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction? Report of a case. We report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury, which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction. Autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue. We suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation, with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction. 
Low plasma iron status and akathisia. Thirty patients were examined to test the hypothesis that a depletion of iron levels is associated with symptoms of akathisia. Fifteen akathisic patients were pair-matched with 15 non-akathisic patients. Plasma ferritin levels were significantly decreased in the akathisic patients, and there was a significant inverse correlation between plasma iron levels and akathisia rating. In addition, akathisia ratings were found to be correlated with a scale measuring symptoms of tardive dyskinesia. 
The effect of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to a change in heart rate. The ventricular effective refractory period was measured at a basic drive cycle length of 500 msec with basic drive train durations of two beats, eight beats, 20 beats and 3 minutes. The ventricular refractory periods were measured in the baseline state and after oral treatment with quinidine or mexiletine in 20 subjects each. In the baseline state, there was progressive shortening of the ventricular refractory period as the drive train duration increased from two beats to 3 minutes. Quinidine prolonged refractoriness by 5% (p less than 0.001) at each drive train duration. Mexiletine did not affect the ventricular effective refractory period at any of the drive train durations. In a control group of 20 subjects, there were no significant differences between two determinations of refractoriness at each basic drive train duration. In conclusion, neither quinidine nor mexiletine affect the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate. Although the ventricular effective refractory period measured with a conventional basic drive train duration of eight beats is often more than 20 msec longer than the actual ventricular effective refractory period measured with a drive train duration of 3 minutes, the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the conventionally measured ventricular effective refractory period accurately reflect the effects of these drugs on the actual ventricular effective refractory period. 
Intracranial aneurysms: interventional neurovascular treatment with detachable balloons--results in 215 cases Patients with complex or surgically difficult intracranial aneurysms are being treated with interventional neurovascular techniques. With neuroleptic anesthesia and a transfemoral femoral approach, a silicone micro-balloon can be flow directed through the intracranial circulation, guided directly into the aneurysm, and detached. The aneurysm is thus eliminated from the circulation, and the parent artery is preserved. For broad-based or ectatic aneurysms, test occlusion followed by permanent occlusion of the aneurysm and parent vessel can be performed. Since 1981, 211 patients with 215 aneurysms, including 177 cases involving the anterior and 38 cases involving the posterior circulation, have been treated with this technique. In 127 cases (59.1%), the parent vessel was occluded; in 88 cases (40.9%), primary occlusion of the aneurysm was achieved with preservation of the parent artery. Therapy-related complications included 21 deaths (9.8%) and 16 strokes (7.4%). Follow-up examinations were performed at 1, 3, and 12 months after treatment, and follow-up ranged from 5 months to 9 years. In patients in whom standard surgical therapy fails or for aneurysms in surgically inaccessible anatomic locations, interventional techniques that make use of detachable balloons may be a useful therapeutic alternative. 
Outpatient management of schizophrenia. As effective antipsychotic pharmacotherapy has become available, patients with schizophrenia are increasingly managed in an outpatient setting by primary care physicians. Pharmacotherapy is generally effective in treating "positive," or psychotic, symptoms and lessening the risks of relapse, but ineffective in improving "negative," or deficit, symptoms. Aggressive attempts to totally control positive symptoms and to ameliorate negative symptoms tend to increase side effects and may be detrimental to the patient. Intensive psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative approaches are generally unproductive. Attempting to obtain a cure is unrealistic. A moderate approach is recommended, taking into consideration the limitations of existing treatments, achieving control of extreme symptoms and minimizing social and occupational limitations. 
Beneficial effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema following brain embolization in rats. We assessed the effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema after inducing multifocal brain infarcts in 108 rats by the intracarotid injection of 50-microns carbonized microspheres. An ethanol dimer that induces systemic ketosis, 25 mmol/kg i.p. butanediol was injected every 3 hours to produce a sustained increase in the plasma level of beta-hydroxybutyrate. Treatment significantly attenuated ischemia-induced metabolic changes by increasing the concentrations of phosphocreatine, adenosine triphosphate, and glycogen and by reducing the concentrations of pyruvate and lactate. Lactate concentration 2, 6, and 12 hours after embolization decreased by 13%, 44%, and 46%, respectively. Brain water content increased from 78.63% in six unembolized rats to 80.93% in 12 saline-treated and 79.57% in seven butanediol-treated rats 12 hours after embolization. (p less than 0.05). The decrease in water content was associated with significant decreases in the concentrations of sodium and chloride. The antiedema effect of butanediol could not be explained by an osmotic mechanism since equimolar doses of urea or ethanol were ineffective. Our results support the hypothesis that the beneficial effect of butanediol is mediated through cerebral utilization of ketone bodies arising from butanediol metabolism, reducing the rate of glycolysis and the deleterious accumulation of lactic acid during ischemia. 
Barrett's esophagus in children and young adults. Frequent association with mental retardation. Since few data are available on epidemiologic features of Barrett's esophagus in young persons, we reviewed the case records of patients undergoing esophageal biopsies at Children's Hospital, Boston, from 1982 through 1986. There were 1423 esophageal biopsies obtained from 1173 patients, and histological evidence of esophagitis was present in 397 cases; Barrett's epithelium was diagnosed in 10 patients (0.9% of total and 2.5% of esophagitis cases). Specialized columnar epithelium was present in seven of these 10 patients. The mean age of those with Barrett's epithelium was 19.0 +/- 7.9 years (range 3.7-27 years) compared to 8.7 +/- 6.7 years (range 4 days to 31 years) for all patients biopsied (P less than 0.0001); 80% (8/10) of the Barrett's cases were male compared to 54% of all cases. The relative importance of the possible risk factors was assessed by comparing the 10 patients with Barrett's with the 541 patients that had esophageal biopsies in calendar years 1984-1985. Mental retardation, a risk factor not previously described for young persons with Barrett's esophagitis, was present in 70% (7/10) of the Barrett's patients but in only 15% of all patients biopsied (P less than 0.0002). The frequency of mental retardation was also higher, but not significantly so (P greater than 0.07), in patients with biopsies that were positive for esophagitis (19%) than in those with normal biopsies (14%). No significant differences were found between the Barrett's group and all patients biopsied in regards to racial origin, prior stricture, or fundoplication. 
Multiple noncontiguous spine fractures. The data from a prospective study of 508 spine injuries were reviewed to determine the incidence of multiple noncontiguous spine fractures. All patients were examined at admission and at 1 and 2 years postinjury. This series identified 77 (15.2%) multilevel fractures. Motor vehicle accidents were the primary cause of these fractures. The incidence of neurologic injury was not significantly different between multiple noncontiguous and single fractures. Failure to use seat belts and ejection from the vehicle were the main factors associated with multiple noncontiguous spine injuries. Seven major fracture patterns were identified, which accounted for 60% of these injuries. The prognosis for multilevel spine fractures was not significantly worse that that for single-level injuries. 
Functional outcome measures in stroke rehabilitation. I examine statistical considerations in the analysis of functional outcome following stroke and discuss the mathematical relation between improvement in function and discharge functional score. I demonstrate mathematically that the predictor variables of improvement and discharge functional score are the same and that the regression coefficients for improvement and discharge functional score will be equal, except for the admission functional score, for which a mathematically defined relation exists. I argue that the relation between admission functional score and discharge functional score must be positive and strong and that the relation between admission functional score and improvement must be negative for the stroke population. I believe that an ignorance of statistical concepts, especially confounding, and of the differences between raw correlations, partial correlations, and predictors have led to much confusion in functional outcome research. 
Visuospatial impairment in Parkinson's disease. We explored the nature of the visuospatial deficit in Parkinson's disease (PD) and its progression as a function of disease duration. We compared the performance of 183 patients with idiopathic PD and 90 control subjects matched for age and education on six visuospatial measures. We divided patients into three groups according to the disease duration: early (1 to 4 years), middle (5 to 10 years), and advanced (greater than 10 years). Performance deteriorated in five of the six visuospatial measures, as a function of disease duration. However, the pattern of visuospatial decline depended on whether dementia was present. The results were not influenced by age or anticholinergic medication. These findings support the presence of visuospatial deficits in PD patients, with a changing pattern of impairment related to dementia and progression of the disease. 
Long-term follow-up review of 31 children with severe closed head trauma. Thirty-one children aged 3 to 15 years were followed for 5 to 11 years after suffering severe closed head trauma which caused coma for 1 week or more (median duration of coma 3 weeks). One patient remained in a persistent vegetative state until his death 9 years later. The other 30 recovered consciousness and were discharged. All suffered diminution of their abilities, and 24 of them had major permanent disability. The most common motor disabilities were pure spastic hemiparesis (seven cases), basal ganglia syndromes (four cases), ataxia (three cases), and a combination of hemiparesis and ataxia (five cases). Of the 30 patients, 26 regained independent ambulation, seven were epileptic, and 14 were dysarthric in various degrees. Only 10 had the cognitive ability to profit from the normal educational system, and none had attempted postsecondary education. Social problems were common. The worst outcomes were associated with intracranial bleeding and/or brain contusion seen on computerized tomography (CT) scans at the acute stage; the best were associated with normal CT scans. The degree of residual disability in these children seems no less than that of adults with trauma of similar severity. 
Long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty. Sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively. There were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma. The mean prelaser intraocular pressure (IOP) was 35.2 (SD = 6.5) mmHg. Success was defined as IOP less than or equal to 22 mmHg without medication. The probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year, 0.66 at 2 years, 0.57 at 3 years, and 0.50 at 4 years. Three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmHg without medication. High prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure. 
Evolution of energy expenditure and nitrogen excretion in severe head-injured patients. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to estimate the influence of therapeutic changes on the level of energy expenditure (EE) and N excretion in a homogeneous group of patients usually considered hypermetabolic. DESIGN: EE and N excretion of head-injured patients were measured simultaneously at phases 1 and 2 (patients treated 4 +/- 3 and 18 +/- 8 days after injury, respectively). SETTING: Acute care hospital. PATIENTS: Eight severe head-injured patients, mean weight 63.1 +/- 6.1 (SD) kg, mean age 21 +/- 3.8 (SD) yr. INTERVENTIONS: At phase 1, all patients were sedated with fentanyl (6.7 +/- 1.9 micrograms/kg.hr) plus flunitrazepam (9.1 +/- 4.8 micrograms/kg.hr) and were mechanically ventilated. All patients received continuous total parenteral nutrition. The nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1092 +/- 200 kcal/day, including 77% glucose and 23% fat (Intralipid 20%). The total N intake averaged 7 +/- 5 g/day, consisting of crystalline amino acids. At phase 2, no patient received any sedative and all were breathing spontaneously via tracheostomy. All patients received parenteral and/or enteral nutrition. The nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1929 +/- 200 kcal/day consisting of 65% carbohydrates and 35% fat. The total N intake averaged 13 +/- 2 g/day. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The EE was significantly higher at phase 2 than at phase 1 (2121 vs. 1737 kcal), but the interindividual variability was low at both phases. N excretion was high at the two periods of the study and not correlated to the level of EE. The RQ was 0.75 at both periods, indicating predominant fat oxidation. CONCLUSIONS: We could not demonstrate any parallelism in the evolution of EE and protein catabolism in head-injured patients. The therapeutics (mechanical ventilation, sedation, and nutrition) have a major effect on EE but little on N excretion. 
Paraesthesia with lumbar epidural catheters. A comparison of air and saline in a loss-of-resistance technique. The epidural space was located in 32 obstetric patients using loss of resistance to air, while in a further 35 saline was used. The incidence of paraesthesia was 56% in the air group and 57% in the saline group. There was no significant difference between the groups in terms of other complications or in the quality of analgesia provided. 
Effects of MK-801 on recovery from sensorimotor cortex lesions. Histologic evidence suggests that drugs acting as noncompetitive antagonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor can have beneficial or pathologic effects on central nervous system neurons. In the present experiments we examined the effects of MK-801 on recovery of behavioral function after unilateral lesions in the rat somatic sensorimotor cortex. In the first experiment, rats with unilateral sensorimotor cortex lesions were given either MK-801 (1 mg/kg) or saline 12-16 hours after surgery. Additional injections were given on postoperative days 2, 4, and 6. Behavioral tests measured somatosensory asymmetries (i.e., bilateral tactile stimulation tests) and forelimb placing. After creation of sensorimotor cortex lesions, rats showed an ipsilateral somatosensory bias and an impairment in placing the contralateral forelimb. Rats treated with MK-801 recovered slightly faster than saline-treated animals as measured by a bilateral tactile stimulation test (p less than 0.05). In contrast, there was no significant difference between the groups in the recovery of forelimb placing. In a second experiment, rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions were treated with a single injection of MK-801 after behavioral recovery. Twenty hours after the MK-801 injection, rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions showed a reinstatement of the placing deficits. The impairment endured for at least 7 days after injection. These behavioral data support the idea that MK-801 can have either beneficial or detrimental effects when administered after brain damage. 
Results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy. The results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical, radiographic, and isokinetic strength-testing criteria. Forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied. In the extremity that had been operated on, the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent, the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent, and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity. The over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients, good in eleven, fair in six, and poor in three. There was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome. The results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures. 
Fetal homotransplants (ventral mesencephalon and adrenal tissue) to the striatum of parkinsonian subjects. Fetal ventral mesencephalon and fetal adrenal tissue grafted to the caudate nucleus of four and three parkinsonian patients, respectively, have been shown to be an alternative treatment for the amelioration of the signs of the disease. The ventral mesencephalon patients had a significant amelioration of rigidity, bradykinesia, postural imbalance, gait disturbance, and facial expression. Three of these four patients have returned to work. The fatal adrenal group only showed amelioration of rigidity and bradykinesia. Though these patients are now able to perform their basic daily living activities, and one of them has renewed her household tasks, the other two have not yet been able to return to work. The differences observed between the ventral mesencephalon- and the fetal adrenal-transplanted patients may be related to the heterogeneity of their disease and/or the type of graft implanted. However encouraging our results may be, this experimental procedure obviously requires further studies, and should not be practiced outside of highly qualified clinical research centers. 
Trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation. Trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects. Detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content. Detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling, because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait. We report a patient with chronic neutropenia, mild mental retardation, and low sulfur content in hair. Our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy. 
Effect of normal MSAFP screening on maternal age for genetic amniocentesis. Routine maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (MSAFP) screening for neural tube defects is considered by many to be standard obstetrical care, and recently many have encouraged this test to screen for Trisomy-21 (Down's syndrome). We questioned whether, after a normal MSAFP screen, the risk of Trisomy-21 decreases enough to warrant modifying the recommended age for genetic amniocentesis for Down's syndrome. A logistic regression was developed which, using reported values for sensitivity and specificity for MSAFP detection of Trisomy-21 and assuming a constant threshold risk in opting for amniocentesis, indicates that genetic amniocentesis for Trisomy-21 may be deferred in some women who have a normal MSAFP screening. Sensitivity analysis of varying thresholds for a normal MSAFP demonstrates that a 37 year old woman with a median MSAFP level has the same risk for Trisomy-21 as an unscreened women who is 4.5 years younger. An abnormal MSAFP is useful in screening for neural tube defects and possibly for Trisomy-21. A normal MSAFP may allow for delaying the potentially risky amniocentesis in otherwise low-risk pregnancies. 
Prospective observations of 100 high-risk neonates by high-field (1.5 Tesla) magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system: I. Intraventricular and extracerebral lesions. The results of observations of the first 100 neonates at the University of Texas Health Science Center (Houston) who received magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system by means of a high-field image (1.5 T) are reported. All were assessed prospectively to be at risk neurodevelopmental delay. This first report specifically addresses the appearance of primarily hemorrhagic intracranial lesions, including intraventricular hemorrhage (n = 28), and extracerebral lesions, which include 3 cases of venous sinus thrombosis (n = 20). The signal intensities of hemorrhage underwent a characteristic evolution with time with only minor variations in the study group. Magnetic resonance imaging detected direct evidence of hemorrhage for up to 2 months, but hemosiderin was detected as a late indicator of hemorrhage for up to 9 months. Magnetic resonance imaging was equal in benefit to head ultrasonography and computed tomography for the diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhage, but magnetic resonance imaging was also able to approximate the time of onset of hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance imaging was superior for the evaluation of extracerebral hemorrhage; ultrasonography failed to detect any of these lesions and computed tomography detected only 3 of 7. Short-term neurological abnormality was assessed, but the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to predict long-term neurodevelopmental delay is unknown and is the subject of an ongoing project. 
Normal proprioceptive trigeminal afferents in patients with Sjogren's syndrome and sensory neuronopathy. A pure sensory neuropathy due to neuronal damage in the gasserian and spinal ganglia has been described in patients with Sjogren's syndrome. Conventional electromyographic (EMG) studies can demonstrate the selective involvement of the sensory pathways but they do not provide definite evidence for the site of the lesion. Noting that the trigeminal sensory neurons carrying cutaneous and muscular afferents are differentially located in the gasserian and mesencephalic nuclei, respectively, we carried out an electrophysiological study of the trigeminofacial and trigeminotrigeminal reflexes in 5 patients with Sjogren's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy, in 10 patients with sensory-motor neuropathies of other causes, and in 10 healthy subjects. Our results show that patients with Sjogren's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy who exhibited abnormal blink reflexes and an abnormal, cutaneous-induced masseter silent period had normal jaw jerks, whereas patients with sensory-motor neuropathies who exhibited abnormal cutaneous responses had abnormal jaw jerks. These findings suggest that the lesion in pure sensory neuropathy involves damage to the neurons of the gasserian ganglia and not to the trigeminal axons, since an axonal lesion would be expected to involve the large axons from muscle spindle receptors. 
Naproxen sodium in menstrual migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind placebo controlled study. In this study, the efficacy of Naproxen sodium (Nxs) in the prophylaxis of Menstrual Migraine (MM) was tested, versus Placebo (PL). Forty women suffering from MM were admitted to a double-blind treatment protocol with Nxs 550 mg twice each day by mouth or Placebo (PL), for 3 months; in the next 3 months all the women were treated with the active drug in an open study. The headache intensity and duration, as well as the number of days of headache and the analgesic consumption, were significantly reduced with Nxs compared to PL. The efficacy of Nxs, shown also in improving premenstrual pain, and its good tolerability, support the use of this drug in the prophylactic therapy of MM. 
Ulnar nerve decompression with medial epicondylectomy for neuropathy at the elbow. Ulnar nerve decompression with medial epicondylectomy was performed in 66 elbows between 1966 and 1986 for compressive ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. This study is an updated review that adds 36 cases to a previously published report on 30 cases. These elbows were graded preoperatively and postoperatively using McGowan's grading system. Eighty-three percent improved one or two grades, and 11% improved subjectively although they showed no objective improvement, 3% noted no change, and 3% were subjectively worse. One early case sustained damage to the ulnar collateral ligament with resultant instability. No other complications occurred. The best results were seen in the Grade I and II lesions, whereas those with Grade III lesions were the least predictable. The procedure is technically uncomplicated with minimal morbidity and reliable results. 
Circulatory and thermal adjustments to prolonged exercise in paraplegic women. The circulatory and thermal responses to 90 min of wheelchair ergometer exercise were examined in five wheelchair dependent (WD) women with low level spinal dysfunction and five able-bodied (AB) women who served as a comparison group. Metabolic rate during exercise was 221 W for WD and 255 W for AB (P greater than 0.05). Oral temperature (Tor), mean skin temperature (Tsk), oxygen uptake (VO2), heart rate (HR), and cardiac output (Qc) were assessed periodically throughout the exercise period. Ambient conditions were 24-25 degrees C and 38-52% relative humidity. A significant group X time interaction was found for Tor (P less than 0.001) and Tsk (P less than 0.001). Tor of the WD group steadily increased during the exercise, whereas the AB group showed a stable Tor. Tsk of WD increased rapidly during the first 5-10 min of exercise and continued to rise at a slower rate throughout the exercise. In contrast, Tsk of AB rose to a peak during the first 10 min and then showed a decreasing trend. VO2 and HR remained stable in both groups throughout the exercise period. Following an initial increase in Qc from minute 10 to minute 20 in both groups, values for WD continually decreased until Qc at 80 min was 14% lower than at 10 min. The findings suggest that the WD women had greater thermoregulatory strain than the AB women as indicated by a higher Tor and Tsk and by an inability to maintain Qc due to paralysis of the lower limbs and perhaps an increase in cutaneous blood volume. 
Measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades III and IV intraventricular hemorrhages. To develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) would require intervention, we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without IVH. The infants were divided into three groups: (1) those with no IVH (22 infants), (2) those with IVH with acute ventricular dilation (13 infants), and (3) those with IVH with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention (13 infants). The decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms. The rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with IVH who needed intervention was greater (4.2 +/- 3.3 ml/day) than that in infants without IVH (0.0 +/- 0.1 ml/day; p less than 0.001) and in infants with IVH and acute ventricular dilation (0.0 +/- 0.2 ml/day; p less than 0.001). Using these data, we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with IVH and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. The guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants. 
Topographic comparative study of magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography in 34 children with tuberous sclerosis. A series of 34 children with confirmed tuberous sclerosis (TS) were studied prospectively by both EEG and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at ages ranging from 5 months to 18 years. Size and topography of the cortical tubers were analyzed on axial and coronal views, in T2 sequences, and the large tubers greater than 10 mm were studied. In addition, EEG follow-up data were reviewed retrospectively. Twenty-six patients (76%) had both MRI large cortical tubers and EEG foci, 3 had normal EEG, 2 had normal MRI, and the remaining 3 had only small tubers. The number of large tubers was significantly related to EEG foci. A topographic MRI/EEG correspondence was observed for at least one tuber in 25 of the 26 patients, and correspondence was complete in 10 patients. Large cortical tubers without corresponding EEG foci were observed in 11 patients; these tubers mainly involved the frontal regions and were found before the patients were 2 years old. EEG foci without corresponding tubers were observed in 4 patients. In addition, secondary bilateral synchrony was preferentially observed in patients with frontal lesions and after the age of 2 years. These data confirm that the cortical tubers are epileptogenic and that their expression may be influenced by regional cortical maturation. 
Ocular manifestations of onchocerciasis in a rain forest area of west Africa. The epidemiology and natural history of onchocerciasis and its ocular complications in rain forest areas are poorly understood. The present study was conducted on a rubber plantation in a hyperendemic area in the rain forest of Liberia, West Africa, where 800 persons were examined. The prevalence of infection was 84% overall 29% had intraocular microfilariae, and 2.4% were blind in one or both eyes. Onchocerciasis was the cause of all binocular blindness and one-third of all visual impairment. Over half of the visual impairment caused by onchocerciasis was due to posterior segment diseases. Chorioretinal changes were present in 75% of people, and included intraretinal pigment clumping in 52% and retinal pigment epithelium atrophy in 32%. Atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium was associated with increasing age and severity of infection. Intraretinal pigment was strongly associated with anterior uveitis. There was a strong correlation between uveitis and the inflammatory chorioretinal sequelae: retinitis, intraretinal pigment, subretinal fibrosis, and optic neuropathy. These findings indicate that considerable visual impairment associated with rain forest onchocerciasis is common and is due largely to chorioretinal disease. 
Comparative ophthalmologic studies on children and adults with craniopharyngiomas. The subjects of the study are 74 patients with craniopharyngiomas treated at the Clinic of Neurosurgery, Bulgarian Medical Academy, within the period 1960-1989. Fifty of the patients are children and 24 adults. The diagnosis of all patients is made on the base of clinical, X-ray and histological studies. The ophthalmologic state was studied in all patients, prior to operation, via routine methods. Reduced visual acuity was established in 69.6% of the children and 81.8% of the adults. The presence of congestive optic papilla was diagnosed in 22% of the children and 12.5% of the adults. Optic atrophy was established in 62.5% of the adults and 52% of the children. Various defects in the visual field were established in 67.7% of the children and 81.8% of the adults with the predomination of bitemporal defects. The use of highly informative conventional and modern X-ray methods is recommended in all patients suspected of compression of the visual pathways. 
Rett syndrome: findings suggesting axonopathy and mitochondrial abnormalities. We report the histopathologic findings of 3 sural nerve biopsies and 1 muscle biopsy from 3 patients with Rett syndrome. The 3 sural nerve biopsies demonstrated a few ultrastructural abnormalities, including the presence of many Pi-granules and mitochondrial changes in the cytoplasm of Schwann cells, occasional bands of Bungner and onion-bulb formations, and mitochondrial alterations in myelinated axons. Morphometric analysis disclosed reduction in the number of large myelinated fibers with normal densities in comparison to those of an age-matched normal control. Light microscopic examination of the biopsied muscle from a 6-year-old patient with Rett syndrome revealed the existence of many small, dark, angulated fibers with NADH-TR staining. Ultrastructural investigation of the muscle confirmed the presence of the dumbbell-shaped mitochondria. Peripheral nerve involvement and the possibility of mitochondrial abnormalities in Rett syndrome were suggested by the results. 
Anoxic injury of mammalian central white matter: decreased susceptibility in myelin-deficient optic nerve. The rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white matter tract, rapidly loses excitability when it is exposed to anoxia and is irreversibly damaged by prolonged anoxia. Neonatal optic nerve is extremely resistant to anoxia-induced dysfunction and injury; the adult pattern of response to anoxia appears between 10 and 20 days postnatal, that is, during the period of oligodendroglial proliferation and myelination. To test the hypothesis that myelination, or associated events, confer anoxic susceptibility on developing white matter, we analyzed the effects of anoxia on the myelin-deficient (md) strain of rat. Acutely isolated optic nerves from 19- to 21-day-old md rats and control optic nerves from unaffected male littermates were maintained in vitro at 37 degrees C, and exposed to a standard 60-minute period of anoxia. The supramaximal compound action potential was recorded and amplitude of the compound action potential, expressed as % of amplitude before anoxic exposure, was determined. The compound action potential was nearly abolished within 3 to 6 minutes after onset of anoxia in control optic nerves, while optic nerves from md rats displayed a slower decrease in compound action potential amplitude during anoxia, with a distinct action potential present even after 60 minutes of anoxia. Optic nerves from md rats showed significantly greater recovery of compound action potential (71 +/- 25%) than did control optic nerves (33 +/- 21%; p less than 0.02) after 60 minutes of anoxia. These findings support the hypothesis that myelination, or changes associated with it, may be important in the development of anoxic susceptibility in central white matter. 
Elderly men with histories of heavy drinking: correlates and consequences. Recognition that the physical, psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly. We examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker (H+) in a population-based (N = 1,155, mean age = 73.7 years) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders; 10.4% of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives. H+ men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers (H-) or never drinkers (N). Mortality was higher among H+ men who were current drinkers than among H- or N men. H+ men reported more major illnesses, poorer self-perceived health status, more physician visits, more depressive symptoms, lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did H- or N men. Self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among H+ men, who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination. Thus, a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical, psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men. 
Idiopathic first seizure in adult life: who should be treated? OBJECTIVE--To assess the accuracy of the diagnosis, recurrence rate, and fate after the first recurrence in adult patients with an untreated idiopathic first seizure. DESIGN--Hospital based follow up study. SETTING--One university hospital and three general hospitals in The Netherlands. PATIENTS--165 patients aged 15 years or more with a clinically presumed idiopathic seizure; diagnosis was based on a description of the episode according to prespecified diagnostic criteria. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Results of additional investigations and follow up regarding the accuracy of the diagnosis; first recurrence; and response to treatment after the first recurrence. RESULTS--Computed tomography showed major abnormalities in 5.5% of the patients and follow up led to doubts about the initial clinical diagnosis in another 6%. Cumulative risk of recurrence was 40% at two years. The cumulative risk of recurrence at two years was 81% (95% confidence interval 66% to 97%) in patients with epileptic discharges on a standard or partial sleep deprivation electroencephalogram, 39% (27% to 51%) in patients with other electroencephalographic abnormalities, and 12% (3% to 21%) in patients with normal electroencephalograms. Treatment was initiated in most patients who had one or more recurrences; 40 (70%) patients were completely controlled, eight (14%) had sporadic seizures, and nine (16%) did not become free of seizures within one year despite treatment. CONCLUSIONS--The decision to initiate or delay treatment should be based on electroencephalographic findings. 
Cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis A 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis. Occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging. Cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare. The pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus. 
South American blastomycosis: ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions. A case of South American blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis. The patient was treated with Amphotericin B and showed a clinical regression. Four months later, he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy, aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death. Necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis. 
Immunophenotypic characteristics of cerebrospinal fluid cells in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at diagnosis. The presence of meningeal involvement in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) may have important prognostic and therapeutic implications. Conventional methods of diagnosing central nervous system (CNS) leukemia rely on the interpretation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell morphology, which may produce ambiguous results in the presence of minimal leukemic involvement. A methodology has been developed for immunophenotyping small numbers of CSF cells while preserving cell morphology. CSF samples from 33 children with CD10 (common ALL antigen [CALLA]) positive ALL were examined at initial presentation using both conventional morphology and this combined immunohistopathologic technique. Six (18%) of the samples contained lymphoblasts or cells considered morphologically suspicious for leukemic involvement. Nine additional samples (27% of the total) had normal CSF morphology, but contained increased numbers of CALLA positive cells. Twelve of the 33 samples were also examined for the simultaneous presence of nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and demonstrated increased numbers of cells positive for both TdT and CD10. These data suggest that a large proportion of children with ALL may have abnormalities of CSF cells at initial diagnosis consistent with the presence of occult leukemic involvement. 
The anatomical basis of the caecocentral scotoma. New observations and a review. It is shown that the 'papillomacular bundle' of optic nerve fibres, although a concept discussed frequently in the clinical literature, lacks a clear anatomical definition. It is suggested that the explanation for this is that the 'bundle' was originally described in autopsy studies of toxic amblyopia, not normal anatomy. The optic nerve fibre projection and vascular architecture of the caecocentral region of the retina is described. These anatomical features are discussed in relation to a number of possible anatomical explanations for the fact that a caecocentral scotoma is the characteristic field defect found in toxic amblyopia. We have been unable to identify a distinct anatomical feature which might explain this vulnerability but suggest that the problem has not as yet been clearly addressed by anatomists. 
Infantile CNS spongy degeneration--14 cases: clinical update. We studied 14 Arab infants with infantile spongy degeneration, 13 of whom were products of consanguineous marriages. They presented in infancy with macrocephaly, poor visual behavior or blindness, and axial hypotonia with appendicular spasticity. Brain CT and MRI showed diffuse symmetric leukoencephalopathy, even before neurologic symptoms. There were relatively normal EEGs. The visual evoked responses (P100) were either absent or delayed early in the course. The brainstem auditory evoked responses showed milder abnormalities, with loss of later components before the earlier ones. Deficient aspartoacylase activity in cultured fibroblasts or brain biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in all patients. 
Isolated trigeminal sensory loss secondary to a distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report. A previously healthy 25-year-old woman suddenly developed right-sided facial numbness and a headache. The neurological examination was within normal limits with the exception of meningismus and right-sided facial sensory loss. A computed tomographic scan and a magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated an acute hematoma in the right cerebellopontine angle. A 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed no abnormalities. Posterior fossa exploration disclosed a large, partially thrombosed, fusiform anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm, which indented the pons at the trigeminal root entry zone. The aneurysm was excised, and the patient made an excellent recovery. She was left with a persistent trigeminal sensory deficit. Anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms are rare lesions that generally present with a cerebellopontine angle syndrome; occasionally, facial sensory loss is also a feature. Isolated trigeminal sensory findings, as illustrated in this case, are extremely unusual in posterior fossa vascular lesions. 
Postischemic seizures and necrotizing ischemic brain damage: neuroprotective effect of postischemic diazepam and insulin. Insulin has recently been shown experimentally to modify ischemic brain damage when administered either before or after the episode of ischemia. In controlled studies in the rat, high doses of insulin (greater than or equal to 8 IU/kg) result in seizures and early death. The present study was undertaken to determine whether diazepam, a potent, centrally penetrating GABAmimetic, alone or in combination with insulin, could mitigate postischemic seizures or regional selective neuronal necrosis and infarction. Forebrain ischemia was induced in rats for 10 1/2 minutes by carotid clamping and hypotension. The animals were observed clinically until elective perfusion-fixation and quantitative pathologic examination at 1-week recovery. Diazepam, either alone or with insulin, reduced regional brain necrosis and reduced the seizure rate. Insulin alone also led to reduced regional necrosis. However, the combination of diazepam plus insulin yielded the greatest proportion of undamaged brains in the hippocampus, thalamus, and midbrain. In the neocortex, the diazepam-only group showed the greatest number of normal hemispheres. Hypothalamic infarction was eliminated by all three treatments. Seizures per se were associated with increased damage in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and brainstem, irrespective of treatment group. The findings indicate that ischemic brain necrosis can be mitigated by diazepam and insulin treatment begun in the immediate postischemic period. 
Intracranial pressure and cerebrospinal fluid outflow conductance in healthy subjects. Conductance of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow (Cout) is an important parameter to be considered in patients with CSF circulation abnormalities. In patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus it is the single most important parameter in determining if the patient needs CSF shunting. The lower normal limit for Cout has been estimated from the effect of shunting in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus, from patients retrospectively reevaluated after recovering from illness, and from patients with known abnormalities in the brain or the CSF system. The true value of Cout in normal individuals, however, has hitherto not been reported. In the present study, Cout has been measured by a lumbar infusion test in eight young volunteers with no suspicion of disease. The mean intracranial pressure (ICP) was 11 mm Hg and a linear relationship was found between CSF absorption and ICP. The mean Cout was 0.11 ml/min/mm Hg and the lower 95% confidence level was 0.10 ml/min/mm Hg. These values are in accordance with those obtained from previous studies. 
In vivo leukocyte migration in arthritis. We quantitated in vivo migration of neutrophils into the knees of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis, using 99mtechnetium-hexamethyl-propylene-amineoxime-labeled leukocytes and gamma scintigraphy. Significant neutrophil migration occurred in patients with RA irrespective of disease duration, and it was reduced by 60% following intraarticular steroid injection. The reduction in neutrophil migration correlated with reduction in pain. Leukocyte migration into osteoarthritic joints was also demonstrated, although it was much less than that seen in rheumatoid joints. No significant leukocyte migration into the joints of patients without arthritis was demonstrated. This technique appears to provide a sensitive method for quantitatively assessing the neutrophil component of inflammation in individual joints of patients with arthritis. 
Childhood stroke after minor neck trauma: case report. Cerebral infarction after minor trauma to the neck has rarely been reported. A case is presented of a child with trauma to the vertebrobasilar artery resulting in stroke. Computerized tomography scan and angiography results are presented. Despite two subsequent, separate transient episodes of vertigo, the child had good functional recovery with complete restoration of language and cognitive function. After 28 months, residual impairments identified were a mild right-sided ataxia and hemiparesis. 
Profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: successful treatment with fluconazole. Although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with AIDS, papilledema is rarely reported. We have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with AIDS. After treatment failure with amphotericin B, the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole, and the papilledema resolved. 
Efficacy and complications of radiotherapy of anterior visual pathway tumors. A progressive disturbance in visual acuity or visual field, along with an unexplained optic nerve atrophy, suggests the possibility of a tumor. Tumors that frequently affect the anterior visual pathway include primary optic nerve sheath meningiomas, intracranial meningiomas, optic gliomas, pituitary tumors, and craniopharyngiomas. The location of these tumors sometimes prohibits a complete surgical excision that might jeopardize the visual system. Radiation therapy, however, can be beneficial in these cases. This article reviews the indications for radiotherapy of tumors that involve the anterior visual pathway, along with the possible complications. Cases that present the effect of radiation therapy and radiation damage are presented. 
Diagnostic and prognostic value of electrophysiologic tests in meralgia paresthetica. Electrophysiologic diagnosis of unilateral meralgia paresthetica is usually assessed by side-to-side comparison of SNAP amplitudes, SNCVs, and SEP latencies following stimulation of lateral femoral cutaneous nerves. To determine the relevance for diagnosis of these tests and side-to-side comparison, the results were compared in patients with unilateral meralgia paresthetica and normal subjects. The long-term outcome was also considered, in order to determine whether electrophysiologic findings contribute to the prognosis. In our study, SNAP amplitude comparison was found to be more useful for diagnosis than SNCV and SEP latency comparisons. However the value of the SNAP amplitude on the affected side, just as the results of the other tests, was not found to be predictive of the outcome. Also the results of the tests depend on the methods used and on the nerve's route. 
Intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia. We evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen, cow milk beta-lactoglobulin (BLG) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms. Sixteen patients (77% of those with arthralgia) responded to diet (RD) with marked reduction of symptoms; the others did not respond (NR). Ten (all but one RD with arthralgia) had increased permeability to BLG after oral administration of cow milk. Four with high titers of IgG to BLG showed the highest absorption of BLG and the groups with arthralgia showed higher BLG levels than those without arthralgia. In all cases, specific IgE to cow milk was absent. These data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria, and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet, are related to excess intestinal permeability. The measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction. 
Role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass. The role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults. Cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 mL.kg-1.min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm Hg. Flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6% and 97.1% of patients, respectively. Fifteen patients (3.0%) suffered new renal and 13 (2.6%) new central nervous system dysfunction. Low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass, expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units, were not predictors of either adverse outcome. Multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation (p less than 10(-6], excessive blood loss in the ICU (p less than 10(-4], need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass (p less than 10(-4], postoperative myocardial infarction (p less than 10(-3], emergency reoperation (p less than 0.002), excessive postoperative transfusion (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction. Independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit (p less than 10(-6], intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification (p less than 0.02), and chronic renal disease (p less than 0.03). Age greater than 65 years (40.7% of patients) did not predict either outcome. We conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations. 
Quantitation of skin vasomotor control in normal subjects and in diabetic patients with autonomic neuropathy. Peripheral autonomic neuropathy in diabetes has been difficult to evaluate. We have developed a test to quantitate sympathetic skin vasomotor function in the extremities. Skin vasomotor reflexes were investigated after warming and cooling the left arm and recording changes in skin temperature as a measure of skin blood flow in the right hand and both feet. Twenty-three diabetic patients with cardiac autonomic neuropathy and 28 healthy control subjects were examined. In contrast to the healthy subjects, the diabetic patients showed reduced or even absent responses in skin temperature to both warming and cooling. The rate of skin temperature decrease for the hand and feet during cooling, which was used as the actual parameter to quantitate skin vasomotor control, was significantly reduced in the diabetic group as compared with the healthy control subjects. We conclude that this technique provides a simple non-invasive method for quantitating skin vasomotor function in the extremities of diabetic patients. 
Management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm. We initially observed our patient, who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm, until his wound demarcation was complete. After wound demarcation, we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting. Upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy. This is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis. 
Assessment of the components of observed chronic pain behavior: the Checklist for Interpersonal Pain Behavior (CHIP). This article describes the development of the Checklist for Interpersonal Pain Behavior (CHIP), an observation scale which assesses overt pain behavior. The study is an extension of an earlier study in which the dimensions and components of observed chronic pain behavior were examined. A broad definition of pain behavior is chosen (interpersonal pain behavior), namely the interaction between the pain patient and his/her direct environment. The list of pain behaviors, taken from the earlier study, has been transformed into a 78-item global rating scale to be used by nurses to quantify observed pain behavior in a clinical setting. Six studies examine the factor structure and the psychometric properties of this behavioral observation method. In the first study, 6 internally reliable factors are derived using factor analytic techniques from a sample of 152 chronic pain patients. They are labeled as: 'distorted mobility,' 'verbal complaints,' 'non-verbal complaints,' 'nervousness,' 'depression' and 'day sleeping.' Internal consistency of all factors, except 'day sleeping' was excellent. The following studies show that the CHIP is sufficiently reliable and valid. After a discussion on the advantages of this observation scale, the conclusion seems justified that the CHIP is a useful tool in pain assessment that can easily be used by nurses. 
Venous infarction following the interhemispheric approach in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Postoperative venous infarction following aneurysm surgery was studied in 48 patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms operated on through the interhemispheric approach at the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Of 23 patients whose bridging veins were sacrificed during surgery, 11 (47.8%) showed venous infarction in the frontal lobes. In contrast, only one (5.9%) of 17 patients whose bridging veins were preserved developed cerebral edema. None of eight patients who were operated on after Day 11 (the day of SAH was defined as Day 0) showed this complication, although bridging veins were sacrificed in six of them. Venous infarction following acute aneurysm surgery tended to occur more frequently in patients of higher SAH grade and/or more advanced age, but these correlations were not significant. However, the correlation between the sacrifice of veins and venous infarction was significant (p less than 0.025). Because this potential complication may compromise the benefit of acute aneurysm surgery and cause damage, it is important to preserve the venous system and in some instances to select another surgical approach based on the pattern of venous drainage in the frontal lobe. 
Etiologic importance of the intimal flap of the external carotid artery in the development of postcarotid endarterectomy stroke. A technically unsatisfactory end point (transition from the removed diseased plaque to normal distal intima) leading to an intimal flap of the external carotid artery has been identified as a source of perioperative stroke. The mechanism involves thrombus formation with retrograde propagation of the thrombus and subsequent embolization of the internal carotid artery. This report describes three cases illustrating this mechanism and methods of identification and correction. This mechanism of postoperative stroke adds further justification for the routine use of intraoperative surveillance studies to document the technical result of endarterectomy involving the internal and external carotid arteries. When an unsatisfactory end point is identified in the external carotid artery, it should be corrected with the same sense of concern as a similar finding in the internal carotid artery. 
Presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose. A one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine (200-300 mg/kg). The patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion. The child developed ventricular arrhythmias, seizures, metabolic disturbances, and severe pulmonary edema. She survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor. 
Ventilatory function as a predictor of fatal stroke. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the relation between ventilatory function and subsequent mortality due to cerebrovascular disease. DESIGN--Prospective longitudinal study. SUBJECTS--A total of 18,403 male civil servants aged 40-64 years at entry examination for the Whitehall study. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Mortality from cerebrovascular disease (ICD8 430-438) after 18 years of follow up. RESULTS--In all, 262 men with sinus rhythm at entry died due to stroke during the 18 years of follow up. Compared with men with a forced expiratory volume in one second of greater than or equal to 3.5 litres those with a value of less than 3.0 litres were almost twice as likely to die of cerebrovascular disease (rate ratio adjusted for age and systolic blood pressure = 1.88, 95% confidence interval 1.32 to 2.69). This increased risk occurred within each tertile of systolic blood pressure. Nested case-control analyses were used to control precisely for confounding effects of age, height, and smoking (by matching) and employment grade and physiological risk factors (by modelling). The effect of forced expiratory volume in one second was independent of age, height, smoking habits, employment grade, blood pressure, weight, cholesterol concentration, glucose tolerance, electrocardiographic abnormalities, history of chest pain, and history of intermittent claudication. CONCLUSIONS--Measurements of ventilatory function may assist clinical decisions about whether to treat mild hypertension. Impaired ventilatory function and stroke may share common causes. 
Temporal lobectomy and independent bitemporal interictal activity: what degree of lateralization is sufficient? We attempted to determine whether the degree of lateralization of independent bitemporal interictal spikes and sharp waves (ISSW) is correlated with good results after temporal lobectomy. Three observers independently counted ISSW in the scalp EEGs of 59 candidates for temporal lobectomy to determine the degree of lateralization of ISSW. Interobserver correlation in percentage of lateralization was excellent (r = 0.92). Thirty-one candidates were also evaluated with depth EEG (DEEG). Operative success was graded by the number of seizures reported in the second postoperative year. There was a significant progressive decrease in the number of good operative results as the degree of lateralization of ISSW lessened (p = 0.0142). Ninety-two percent of patients with greater than 90% lateralization had a good surgical outcome, whereas only 50% with less than 90% lateralization had a good outcome. Even when all DEEG-recorded seizures emerged from the side of the lobectomy, patients with greater than 90% lateralization appeared to have better outcomes than patients with less than 90% lateralization. We conclude that greater than 90% lateralization of temporal ISSW is associated with good surgical outcome, and DEEG may not be necessary in these patients. Less than 90% lateralization is associated with poor surgical outcome and the additional information provided by DEEG may be especially useful in such patients. 
Right parietal stroke with Gerstmann's syndrome. Appearance on computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single-photon emission computed tomography. We examined a patient who exhibited Gerstmann's syndrome (left-right disorientation, finger agnosia, dyscalculia, and dysgraphia) in association with a perioperative stroke in the right parietal lobe. This is the first description of the Gerstmann tetrad occurring in the setting of discrete right hemisphere pathologic findings. A well-localized vascular lesion was demonstrated by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single-photon emission computed tomographic studies. The patient had clinical evidence of reversed functional cerebral dominance and radiologic evidence of reversed anatomic cerebral asymmetries. 
Rett syndrome and the autistic disorders. Rett syndrome is a disorder noted to date only in females and characterized by a pervasive developmental disability following apparently normal early infancy. In addition to gait difficulties, stereotypic hand movements, and loss of communication and purposeful hand skills, autistic-like behavior is an early sign that often results in misdiagnosis. Despite these significant clinical abnormalities, neuropathologic features are modest, and no consistent laboratory abnormality or diagnostic marker has been identified. The current status of research in RS is considered within the context of autism and other disorders in which autistic features may occur, such as the fragile X syndrome. The concept of autism as neurobiologically based behavior is developed. As such, autism is regarded as an umbrella category containing an ever-expanding list of specific disorders. 
Stiff-man syndrome: a GABAergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity. Autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type I diabetes. Immunoblot experiments using this patient's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the GABAergic cytosolic enzyme, L-glutamic acid decarboxylase. While L-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome, they do not appear to be easily demonstrated. 
Landau-Kleffner syndrome: a clinical and EEG study of five cases. In five children with normal initial psychomotor development, a Landau-Kleffner syndrome appeared at age 3-7 years. No neuroanatomic lesions were noted. Aphasia and hyperkinesia were isolated in three patients and associated with global regression of higher cortical functions in one patient. Massive intellectual deterioration and psychotic behavior were associated with transient aphasia in one patient. The epilepsy (focal motor and generalized tonic-clonic seizures, subclinical EEG focal seizures during sleep, and atypical absences) always regressed spontaneously or with antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment. The EEG in waking patients showed focal and generalized spike-wave discharges on a normal background rhythm. Discharge topography and pattern changed frequently. During sleep, discharges always increased. At some time during syndrome development, all patients had bilateral spike-waves for greater than 85% of the sleep period, while at other times the discharges were discontinuous or continuous but focal or unilaterally hemispheric. Discharge topography and abundance changed from night to night. The abnormal EEG and the impaired higher functions developed and regressed together, but not with strict temporal correlation. Our own experience suggests that the Landau-Kleffner syndrome and epilepsy with continuous spike-wave activity in slow-wave sleep cannot be clearly differentiated. They may be different points on the spectrum of a single syndrome. 
Synaptic transmission in human neocortex removed for treatment of intractable epilepsy in children. Synaptic transmission to pyramidal cells was studied in slices of neocortex resected from infants and children (n = 10, age 8 months to 13 years) undergoing surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy. Most specimens were from the least abnormal area of the resection. Stable intracellular recordings could be obtained for up to 8 hours. Most of the recorded neurons had electrophysiological characteristics similar to those of regular-firing pyramidal cells and were in layers III to V, which was confirmed by intracellular staining with Lucifer yellow. Local extracellular stimulation evoked a sequence of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. After application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist, bicuculline (10-30 microM), extracellular stimulation induced large excitatory postsynaptic potentials and epileptiform bursts. Spontaneous bursts occasionally occurred in bicuculline. This effect of bicuculline was observed in all the tissue samples, even those from infant patients (n = 4, age 8-16 months). Kynurenic acid depressed or abolished both spontaneous and stimulation-induced bursts. The competitive antagonist for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid decreased the duration of bicuculline-induced bursts. These data provide evidence that, similar to rat and cat neocortex, excitatory and inhibitory amino acids are important transmitters to pyramidal cells in immature human neocortex. 
Burden: a review of measures used among caregivers of individuals with dementia This paper critiques and discusses 10 measures of burden that have been used with caregivers of individuals with dementia. Current measures target diverse caregiver and care recipient populations, and vary in conceptualization and measurement of burden. Although many measures contain reliability data, relatively few report content validity, convergent/divergent validity, criterion validity, or sensitivity to change. Implications of these limitations for research and clinical practice are discussed. 
Effects of age on seizure susceptibility in genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPR-9s). To study the effect of age on seizure latency, intensity, reproducibility, and mortality in genetically epilepsy-prone rats of the severe colony (GEPR-9s), 472 seizure-naive rats, ranging in age from 14 to 65 days, received a series of three audiogenic stimulations. Both the percentage of rats having one or more seizures and the percentage of seizures that were stage 9 generally increased with advancing age of the animal at the time of the first stimulation. Mean latency to seizure onset decreased while seizure intensity increased with increasing age of the animal. Reproducibility of seizure stage also increased with advancing age of the animal. The effects of senescence on seizure susceptibility were also investigated in an additional 18 prepubescent rats (25-35 days) who received three audiogenic stimulations and were tested again between the ages of 480 and 540 days with identical testing procedures. No significant changes occurred with either latency to seizure onset or seizure intensity in rats tested during prepubescence and again at senescence. Although GEPR-9s provide an excellent model of inherited seizures, latency to seizure onset, seizure intensity, and seizure reproducibility is dependent on age of the animal. Once established, however, audiogenic-induced seizures persist throughout life. 
The modified Schollner costoplasty. The modified Schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis. We present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis. We found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications. Objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case. All but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit. 
Brain potentials associated with movement in traumatic brain injury. Brain potentials may be used to assess the functional abnormalities that underlie impairments of movement. The purpose of this article is to illustrate the usefulness of examining these potentials. In addition to an overview of the topic, the article includes a report of a study demonstrating that there were differences between the brain potentials of five patients with traumatic brain injury and those of four healthy control subjects. All five patients were in the postacute phase of hemiplegia. Slow cortical potentials associated with simple goal-directed forearm and finger movements were recorded from frontal and parietal electrodes. Two seconds of movement-related electroencephalographic activity (movement-related potential) were recorded. The patients showed reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their paretic limb and, to a lesser extent, reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their nonparetic limb. The waveforms obtained from the patients were unusual, with uncharacteristic cross-cortical movement-related potential correlations associated with specific electrode configurations, as well as with specific movement conditions. Brain potentials associated with the fore-period interval of a simple reaction time paradigm were later recorded in two of the patients with traumatic brain injury and in a control subject to help determine the functional significance of the relative positivity apparent in their movement-related potential data. This preliminary study indicates that electroencephalographic potentials obtained during the preparation for and execution of movement can provide information regarding the basis for motor dysfunction. 
Acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation. Pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described. Recently, we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope, near syncope, or sudden death following the act of defecation. In all four cases, acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events. A retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. These nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period. Six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism. These six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period. Based on our experience, we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis. 
Neurologic status of spina bifida patients and the orthopedic surgeon. The purpose of this paper is to review recent developments in the neurologic assessment of spina bifida patients. Determination of the neurosegmental level of the lesion, recognition of spasticity and progressive paralysis, the potential for deformity, and functional expectations are described. The status of the neurologic deficit remains the most important factor in determining the myelomeningocele patient's ultimate functional abilities. Accurate neurologic assessment will assist in meeting the aims of orthopedic management, which include preventing joint contracture, correcting deformity, preventing skin sores, and obtaining the best possible locomotor function. 
Ocular motor abnormalities from head trauma. Head injuries cause the hospitalization of 200-300 persons per 100,000 population per year. Ophthalmologists provide diagnostic and therapeutic care to those trauma victims with damage to the globe, optic nerve, orbit, and ocular motor system. Eye movements can be affected by damage at any level of the central nervous system or peripheral motor unit. Comprehensive ocular motor assessment of the trauma patient can substantially contribute to the understanding of the patient's injury, recovery, and rehabilitation. This review examines all aspects of head and face trauma that can lead to ocular motility disturbances. 
Auditory brain stem implant: effect of tumor size and preoperative hearing level on function. The auditory brain stem implant is an investigational device designed to provide hearing sensations to patients without functioning auditory nerves. We analyzed results from 17 implants in 15 patients to determine if tumor size or preoperative hearing level might be related to proper device function. We found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level or tumor size and device function. We also found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level and tumor size in these 15 patients. 
Comparison of continuous subcutaneous and intravenous hydromorphone infusions for management of cancer pain. To compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous and intravenous infusion of opioid analgesics, a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial was carried out in inpatients. 15 patients with severe cancer pain received two 48 h infusions of hydromorphone--one subcutaneously and one intravenously in randomly allocated order. The study was made double-blind by the use of two infusion pumps throughout; during the active subcutaneous infusion the intravenous pump delivered saline and vice versa. Serial measurements of pain intensity, pain relief, mood, and sedation by means of visual analogue scales showed no clinically or statistically significant difference between the two infusion routes. Side-effects were slight, and the mean number of morphine injections for breakthrough pain did not differ significantly between the routes (4.8 [SD 4.5] for intravenous vs 5.3 [5.6] for subcutaneous). Plasma hydromorphone concentrations measured at 24 h and 48 h of infusion showed stable steady-state pharmacokinetics; the mean bioavailability from subcutaneous infusion was 78% of that with intravenous infusion. Because of the simplicity, technical advantages, and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous opioid infusion into the chest wall or trunk, intravenous opioid infusion for the management of severe cancer pain should be abandoned. 
Ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle: case report. Ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare. These tumors usually occur in the pineal, parasellar, or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis. We report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle. The tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach. Ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor. The distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important, since ectopic retinoblastomas, unlike metastasis, can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision. 
Can clinical judgment detect children with speech-language problems? Pediatricians often rely on clinical judgment derived from observation or parental concern to identify children with developmental problems. The less popular but recommended alternative is to repeatedly administer standardized screening tests. Such tests are time consuming but, unlike clinical judgment, have known detection rates. Preliminary research concerning clinical judgment showed that clusters of parental concerns related to their childrens' performances on screening tests. In the present study, previous research was refined by assessment of the meaning of parents' concerns about their childrens' speech-language development. In this study of 157 families seeking pediatric care, 72% of children whose speech-language screening yielded positive results had parents who were concerned about their speech-language development. Of children with negative screening results, 83% had parents with no concerns about their speech-language development. Although standardized screening tests should be used occasionally in the developmental surveillance process, the findings show that the problems of most children with developmental problems were detected through clinical judgment based on parental concern. 
The role of diencephalic pathology in human memory disorder. Evidence from a penetrating paranasal brain injury. A patient (B.J.) is reported who developed severe memory impairment following a penetrating brain injury caused by a snooker cue which entered through his left nostril into the basal regions of the brain. Initially, his memory disorder had the clinical features of a dense amnesic syndrome, with both anterograde and retrograde amnesia, but B.J. subsequently showed significant recovery of memory function. Formal memory testing was carried out 21 months after injury. This demonstrated marked verbal memory impairment, as severe as that seen in patients with the amnesic syndrome. On nonverbal memory tests, his impairment was relatively mild and patchy. His retrograde amnesia had regressed mainly to affect a 6 month period before the injury. On other cognitive tasks, he performed at an average or above average level, and there was no neuropsychological evidence of frontal lobe dysfunction. Neuroradiological investigations at various stages after his injury failed to demonstrate a lesion in any of the thalamic nuclei. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a lesion in the hypothalamus in the region of the mamillary bodies. Our study demonstrates that marked, relatively focal, memory disorder after diencephalic injury can occur without direct pathology to the body of the thalamus. It also indicates that structures in or adjacent to the hypothalamus, such as the mamillary bodies, may play a more important role in human memory functioning than has hitherto been considered. 
Moustache appearance in craniopharyngiomas: unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema. This report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema. In both patients, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern, invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls. The intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic, containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by MRI and confirmed by operative findings. There was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor, the optic tracts, and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules, resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and MRI scans. The perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy. The "moustache" appearance seems a unique, characteristic feature of perifocal edema, which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas. 
Quantitative evaluation of hypnotically suggested hyperaesthesia and analgesia by painful laser stimulation. The ability to reduce both clinically and experimentally induced pain by hypnotic suggestion of analgesia is well known. However, the nature of hypnotic analgesia still remains uncertain. Attempts to demonstrate and identify specific psychophysiological mechanisms have, so far, been unsatisfactory. Methodological problems in inducing pain and monitoring physiological responses may be the reason for this lack of success. In the present study, we have attempted to eliminate some of these methodological problems. The sensory and pain thresholds to laser stimulation were determined, and the laser-evoked brain potentials were measured for 8 highly hypnotically susceptible subjects in 3 conditions: (1) waking state, (2) suggestion of hyperaesthesia, (3) suggestion of analgesia. The thresholds were reduced during induced hyperaesthesia and increased during analgesia. During hyperaesthesia sensations could be evoked by laser intensities which were below intensities that could be perceived in the awake state. The amplitude of the evoked brain potentials increased during hyperaesthesia and decreased during analgesia. The latency of the potential remained constant. The perception of pain during hypnosis can change very fast, indicating that slow endogenous mechanisms may play only a minor role in suggested hyperaesthesia/analgesia. 
Return to work for persons with traumatic brain injury: a supported employment approach. Supported employment was used to place 41 persons into competitive employment during 30 months. All individuals had experienced severe head injuries; almost 70% of injuries were due to motor vehicle accidents. A mean of seven years had passed since injury for all referred clients, who had been unconscious a mean of 53 days. Only 36% of referred clients had achieved any competitive postinjury employment, compared with 91% of the same group who were competitively employed before injury. A job retention rate of 71% was reported, with most jobs in warehouse, clerical, and service-related occupations. A mean of 291 hours of job coaching was required to place and maintain all clients in supported employment. 
Cognitive function testing in comprehensive geriatric assessment. A comparison of cognitive test performance in residential and clinic settings. Tests of cognitive function are frequently used in geriatric assessment, but the effect of test setting has rarely been explored. To determine the effect of testing site on the performance of elderly patients undergoing a comprehensive geriatric assessment, we administered the Mini-Mental State Exam to 116 geriatric patients in the clinic and at their residence. Their cognitive abilities varied from normal to severely impaired. The patients' scores were 1.5 +/- 3.6 (mean +/- SD) higher at their residence. The clinical importance of a difference in score of 1.5 is not clear. For this reason a second analysis was performed in which a difference in scores of five points or greater between settings was considered clinically meaningful. Twenty-five percent (29 of 116) differed by five points or more. Of these 29 patients, 22 (76%) tested better in the residential setting. These differences were statistically significant (P = .001). We conclude that the testing site may affect test performance and that in-home assessment may reveal the optimal cognitive function of geriatric patients. 
Physical features of Prader-Willi syndrome in neonates. A retrospective study of 16 patients was undertaken to identify physical features that may typify neonates with Prader-Willi syndrome. Several features known to be typical of Prader-Willi syndrome in early infancy were confirmed, including hypotonia and genital hypoplasia. A number of features that have not previously been emphasized as characterizing Prader-Willi syndrome were also identified, most notably abnormal cry and, in males, signs of genital hypoplasia but with an apparently normal phallus. Other features included disproportionately large head circumference, disproportionately large anterior fontanelle, mild micrognathia, mild anomalies of the gingivae or alveolar ridges, and changes in the appearance of the skin. Appreciation of these features may assist the pediatrician in recognizing the child with Prader-Willi syndrome during the neonatal period, before the appearance of better-known findings of later onset, such as obesity and acromicria. 
Shy-Drager syndrome. Effect of fludrocortisone and L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine on the blood pressure and regional cerebral blood flow. In nine cases of Shy-Drager syndrome, the changes in blood pressure and cerebral blood flow on sitting up from a supine position were studied. The influence of fludrocortisone, a synthetic mineralocorticoid, and L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (DOPS), a precursor of norepinephrine, on these changes was examined. On sitting up, the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured by Xe133 inhalation showed a tendency to decrease. Fludrocortisone reduced the fall of the mean blood pressure significantly. DOPS reduced the fall of both the diastolic blood pressure and rCBF significantly. 
Practice effects on the preprogramming of discrete movements in Parkinson's disease. The effects of practice on the simple and choice reaction times (RTs) of Parkinson's disease (PD) and control subjects in a discrete aiming task were analysed. For controls, practice led to a selective decrease in choice RTs, as has been reported previously. An opposite effect was seen in the PD group, with little change in choice RTs and substantial reduction in simple RTs. The results suggest that PD subjects can use advance information to initiate discrete movements more rapidly, but that this ability to "preprogramme" movements requires practice. Reconciliation of these results with studies reporting an inability to preprogramme in PD are made in a discussion of task characteristics which may allow or preclude preprogramming. 
Potentially fatal asthma and syncope. A new variant of Munchausen's syndrome in sports medicine. We report a case of Munchausen's syndrome in a 19-year-old female college athlete who presented with potentially fatal asthma and recurrent syncopal episodes. Failure to control her asthma with the appropriate medications and the lack of objective findings on both physical examination and diagnostic testing raised the possibility of factitious disease. Munchausen's syndrome, although not described with any frequency in asthmatic patients, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of those patients refractory to aggressive medical management. 
Ultrastructural study of Norrie's disease. We studied the clinicopathologic and ultrastructural features of a full-term infant with Norrie's disease. The infant had bilateral retrolental fibrous vascular masses and retinal detachment with no other apparent physical abnormalities and no family history of ocular defects. A vitrectomy and a membrane peeling were attempted, and specimens of the retina, the retrolental membrane, and a vascularized epiretinal peripheral mass were examined by light and electron microscopy. The retrolental membrane was composed of layered collagenous tissue and contained structures resembling blood vessels. Inner and outer neuroblastic layers were identified in the retinal tissue, but no vessels were present. In the epiretinal mass, portions of retina and cortical vitreous were seen along with primitive vascular structures. The histologic appearance of these specimens suggests that the major pathologic event of Norrie's disease occurs in the retina in the third to fourth gestational month. We believe the subsequent ocular abnormalities found in this patient were secondary to this early retinal malformation and did not represent a progressive ocular disorder. 
Thrombolytic therapy for noncoronary diseases. Thrombolytic therapy has been used fairly extensively in the management of acute proximal deep-vein thrombophlebitis of the extremities, acute pulmonary embolism, and acute peripheral arterial thrombosis and embolism in addition to acute thrombotic coronary events. In the presence of acceptable indications and a favorable benefit to risk ratio, this form of therapy, when successful, has served as a useful adjunct in the management of these disorders. In deep-vein thrombophlebitis, lysis of the thrombus before permanent pathological changes (eg, organization, scarring) have occurred can prevent venous valvular dysfunction and postural venous hypertension and its complications, especially the postphlebitic syndrome. In the more severe forms of acute pulmonary embolism, thrombolytic therapy, when applied early after symptom onset, decreases morbidity and is likely to prevent a chronic increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and persistent pulmonary hypertension. In peripheral arterial thrombo-occlusive events, early restoration of flow through thrombolysis has been shown to limit ischemic damage and serve as a useful supplement to angioplasty or surgery. Thrombolytic therapy has been used less extensively in acute strokes. Here the danger of reperfusion causing bleeding into a softened area of brain undergoing infarction has slowed its evaluation for this disorder; its application to stroke remains experimental. 
Patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury. A consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma. Neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses (PCAs). Each PCA extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments, as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes. Measures identified by the PCAs were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas: disorders of learning and memory, neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change, slowness in rate of information processing, and a range of basic neuropsychological skills. Overall, impairments occurred in 70% of the series. Disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit (56.5%), with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent (16.5%). Variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group, but the largest proportion (one-third) demonstrated isolated impairments. The implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed. 
Alkalinisation of prilocaine for intravenous regional anaesthesia. Suitability for clinical use. Eighty unpremedicated patients undergoing day-case hand surgery under intravenous regional anaesthesia were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind study, either 40 ml 0.75% prilocaine hydrochloride, with 5 ml 8.4% sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml 0.9% saline. The alkalinised group had significantly less pain on injection (p = 0.0045), during surgery (p = 0.0074) and 5 minutes after the tourniquet was deflated (p = 0.0027). The time elapsed between insertion of the block and commencement of surgery was not affected. 
Iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia: successful therapy with neuroma resection. We report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region. Early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain, with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities. Exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site, medial to the knee. Resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition. It is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee. Saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons. If the condition is intractable, it does respond to surgical therapy. 
Early cerebral infarction: gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement Gadopentetate dimeglumine was administered prospectively to 50 patients who presented for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging within 2 weeks after a cortical cerebral infarction. Twenty-two patients (44%) were imaged within 3 days after clinical ictus. Abnormalities detected with gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement were observed in 46 (92%) of 50 patients. Classic parenchymal enhancement was a late finding, observed in all patients (17 of 17) imaged at 7-14 days after infarction. Before this time, three additional phases of contrast material-related abnormalities were observed. Enhancement of vessels supplying the infarct ("intravascular enhancement sign") was the earliest finding, seen in 17 (77%) of 22 infarcts aged 1-3 days. From day 2 to day 6, abnormal enhancement of meninges adjacent to the infarct was frequently noted ("meningeal enhancement sign"). Finally, a transition phase that combined intravascular or meningeal enhancement with early parenchymal enhancement was seen from day 3 to day 6. Gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging in early stroke reveals evidence of vascular engorgement and sluggish flow, which precede the development of classic parenchymal enhancement. 
Blood pressure reactivity predicts myocardial infarction among treated hypertensive patients. High blood pressure (BP) defines a prognostically heterogeneous group. Because BP varies according to time, setting and means of observation, it has been postulated that BP reactivity might better predict cardiovascular disease (CVD) than does unidimensional measurements. To assess BP reactivity, the difference between pretreatment nurse (RN) and physician (MD) diastolic BP (DBP)--systematically recorded in that order--or MD-RN DBP, was obtained in 1737 previously untreated patients with sustained, RN BP greater than or equal to 160 and/or 95 mmHg. Patients stratified by tertiles of MD-RN DBP [(I) less than or equal to - 3, (II) -2 to 3 and (III) greater than or equal to 4 mmHg] were similar by sex, race, age, body mass index, cholesterol, electrocardiography, prior CVD, smoking and pretreatment or attained in-treatment BPs. During 14 years of followup, myocardial infarction (MI) incidence per 1000/year were, tertile I (3.2), II (3.7), III (7.6) (relative risk = 2.4, III vs I + II, p less than 0.05), whereas stroke incidence and non-CVD mortality were evenly distributed. By Cox survival analysis, controlling for other entry characteristics only age, sex and DBP reactivity remained predictive (p less than or equal to 0.03) of MI or total CVD. Thus, BP reactivity, probably a centrally-mediated phenomenon, identifies a subgroup of hypertensives with an increased propensity for MI despite successful BP control. 
Failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome. We evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear. In addition to a thorough history, physical examination, local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder. In 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors, and in 28 operative errors; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct. Subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker's compensation benefit had a 75% success rate, whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46%. 
Myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. We report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it. We stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections. 
The child with recurrent syncope: autonomic function testing and beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity. Recurrent syncope in the child with a normal heart poses both diagnostic and therapeutic problems. To assess autonomic contributions to syncope, formal autonomic function testing was performed in 22 children (aged 7 to 18 years) with recurrent syncope and a normal heart. Autonomic testing consisted of eight to nine separate tests; 14 of the 22 patients had reproduction of syncope or symptoms during testing. Patients with a positive test had a lower norepinephrine level while supine (334 +/- 86 versus 547 +/- 169 pg/ml, p less than 0.01) and lower norepinephrine level in the upright position (628 +/- 219 versus 891 +/- 270 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) than did patients with a negative test. The slope of heart rate response versus log isoproterenol dose was greater in patients with a positive test than in those with a negative test (1.70 +/- 0.70 versus 0.89 +/- 0.19, p less than 0.01). All five patients with a positive test who were given intravenous propranolol had elimination of syncope with repeat testing. Eight of 10 patients with a positive test were successfully treated with atenolol, including 2 patients without prior resolution of symptoms after pacemaker implantation for symptoms attributed to bradycardia. Beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity may cause recurrent syncope in young patients. Inappropriate heart rate response to standing may elicit the Bezold-Jarisch reflex, resulting in bradycardia or hypotension, or both, in some patients. Beta-adrenergic blockade is of benefit in many of these patients. 
Dementia, depression, or grief? The differential diagnosis. Depression, grief, and dementia are conditions frequently encountered among the community-living elderly. This review offers a primary care perspective of the distinguishing features for each and discusses the special issues of managing the elderly. Major depression in the elderly usually responds to antidepressant medication, whether the depression occurs alone (endogenous) or as a response to another condition (reactive). 
rCBF-SPECT in brain infarction: when does it predict outcome? We prospectively studied 26 patients with ischemic stroke within 24 hr, after 2 wk, and after 6 mo with thallium-201-diethyldithiocarbamate single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and neurologic and functional assessments. The admission flow deficits correlated with outcome. The admission and 6-mo scores correlated with clinical conditions at each time. At 2 wk, the flow deficits were smaller and did not correlate with clinical parameters. Nor did the presence or absence of hyperfixation of the radiopharmaceutical. Six months after the infarct, the flow defect had decreased in 9 of 15 patients in whom three serial scans were available, with better clinical improvement than in the remaining six whose flow deficits increased. More patients in the first group had been treated randomly with the calcium-entry blocker flunarizine. SPECT imaging of rCBF within 24 hr after stroke correlates with clinical outcome and condition, whereas rCBF imaging at 2 wk after the stroke shows no clinical correlation. 
Risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine: experience of the Brain Resuscitation Clinical Trial II. Risk monitoring for the Brain Resuscitation Clinical Trial II, a multicenter, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors, posed unexpected challenges. Concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias, including rearrest, in the lidoflazine group. To ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue, an in-depth review of data was conducted, outside experts were consulted, and additional data were collected. These efforts suggested possible causes for the problem. Existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced, resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates. Thus, through an efficient monitoring system, an important problem was uncovered and resolved, allowing the trial to be completed without major changes. 
National General Practice Study of Epilepsy: recurrence after a first seizure In the National General Practice Study of Epilepsy 564 patients classified as having definite seizures have been followed up for 2-4 years. 67% (95% confidence interval 63-71%) had a recurrence within 12 months of the first seizure, and 78% (74-81%) had a recurrence within 36 months. Seizures associated with a neurological deficit presumed present at birth had a high rate of recurrence (100% by 12 months), whereas seizures that occurred within 3 months of an acute insult to the brain, such as head injury or stroke, or in the context of an acute precipitant such as alcohol, carried a much lower risk of recurrence (40% [29-51%] by 12 months). Other factors affecting the risk of recurrence were age-the highest risk being for patients under the age of 16 (83% [77-89%] by 36 months) or over the age of 59 (83% [76-90%] by 36 months-and type of first seizure-the risk of recurrence being much higher for patients with simple partial or complex partial seizures (94% [90-99%] by 36 months) than for those with generalised tonic clonic seizures (72% [67-77%] by 36 months). 
Strategies underlying the control of disordered movement. The purpose of this article is fourfold. First, a theory of motor control--the dual-strategy hypothesis--is outlined. Second, the methodologies and theoretical framework that are used to develop this theory are examined. Third, motor dysfunction is discussed in the context of this theory. In particular, Down syndrome, Parkinson's disease, cardiovascular accidents, and spasticity are discussed. Finally, potential applications of the theory to physical therapy are considered. 
The contribution of median nerve SEPs in the functional assessment of the cervical spinal cord in syringomyelia. A study of 24 patients. Since the early study of Halliday and Wakefield (1963) it has generally been agreed that scalp somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) are normal in patients with dissociated loss of pain and temperature sensation. Up to now a few patients with abnormal spinal N13 and preserved scalp P14 and N20 have been reported in the literature, but there is no firm evidence, based on group data, that this dissociation can be related to any form of dissociated sensory loss. We studied median nerve SEPs in 24 patients with syringomyelia documented by CT scan or MRI. For the recording of the cervical N13 we used a Cv6 anterior cervical montage, which cancels the potentials generated above the foramen magnum and enhances the amplitude of N13. Scalp far-field and early cortical SEPs were recorded using a noncephalic reference electrode. Since N13 pathological changes are mainly changes in amplitude we measured the N13/P9 amplitude ratio in normal subjects and patients and found that it was a reliable index to quantify the amplitude decrease of N13. Absent or reduced N13 was observed in 40 median nerve SEPs (83%) in conjunction with normal P14 and N20 in 30 SEPs. Thus the dissociated loss of the cervical N13 was identified as the most conspicuous SEP feature in syringomyelia. A significant correlation was found between abnormal N13 and loss of pain and temperature sensations, whereas P14 abnormalities correlated well only with loss of joint and touch sensations. In the median nerve territory, sensation was either normal (6 cases) or lost only for pain and temperature (24 cases) when SEPs showed abnormal N13 and normal P14. Although it does not directly reflect the postsynaptic activity of spinal cells receiving their inputs from A delta and C fibres the N13 potential proved to be a reliable index of spinal cord grey matter dysfunction in syringomyelia. 
Myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia Gravis is a disorder of neuromuscular function resulting from an immunologically based premature destruction of acetylcholine receptors. The disease is characterized clinically by variable weakness accentuated by repetitive muscular activity and usually responding to the administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Myasthenia Gravis is a complex disease and requires understanding of the many facets of its natural history and immunological basis to ensure optimal individual patient management. The long-term goal is control of the immunological imbalance; treatment regimens include thymectomy, corticosteroids, azathioprine, and plasmapheresis. The common use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors provides symptomatic relief during variable daily muscular activity. Disability due to myasthenia gravis is to a large extent reversible and death is preventable. Early recognition of myasthenia gravis and appropriate treatment are often rewarded by remission that may be permanent. 
Effect of age on the efficacy of blood pressure treatment strategies. To study whether the proportion of excess cardiovascular events attributable to various levels of systolic blood pressure varies with age, we calculated the population-attributable risk of all-cause mortality, fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events (stroke, coronary heart disease, angina, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease), and stroke incidence due to systolic blood pressure in men and women 45 years of age or older in the United States during 1980. Our estimates are based on US census counts, blood pressure prevalence distributions from the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and the annual risk of cardiovascular complications during 18 years of follow-up in the Framingham cohort. We then determined the impact of age on the relative efficacy of mass treatment and case-finding strategies in preventing systolic blood pressure-related events. At 45-54 years of age, only 30-40% of systolic blood pressure-related excess events occur in hypertensive individuals (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg). With increasing age, however, the percentage of systolic blood pressure-related events that occur in hypertensive individuals rose substantially; in the older age group (greater than or equal to 75 years), 65-70% of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular disease events occur in hypertensive persons. The pattern is similar for men and women. The potential impact of a mass treatment strategy designed to shift the distribution of blood pressure downward by a small amount is greater in younger than in older groups, whereas an opposite trend is seen for a high-risk, hypertensive case-finding and treatment approach. 
Assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording. Using event recording, we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously. Of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds (54 patients), 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds, 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds, and 118 exceeded 25 seconds. Of these episodes, 75.3% were isolated and 14.9% were associated with pulse deceleration, 4.4% with irregular transthoracic impedance, and 5.4% with bradycardia. Event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients: 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation. Follow-up of 51 patients (three not located) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome. Our results in these older infants and children (median age 6.7 months) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring. Further, these data suggest that in selected older infants, longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated; however, hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified. Our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses, and was typically free of symptoms, so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants, infants with chronic lung disease, and patients with symptomatic apnea. 
An eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an L-tryptophan containing product. A syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of L-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the Centers for Disease Control. We report a case of this new clinical entity, highlighted by severe myositis, and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes. 
Screening for biotinidase deficiency in children with unexplained neurologic or developmental abnormalities. To test the hypothesis that the frequency of biotinidase deficiency is greater in children with unexplained developmental delay or neurologic abnormalities than in the general population, we studied children seen at a large outpatient clinic over a four-year period who had one or more of these neurologic abnormalities and for whom no specific cause for their abnormalities could be found. The group totaled 274 children (163 boys; 111 girls) whose ages ranged from 2 weeks to 17 years. Characteristics were IQ/DQ, 30 to 70 in the 115 for whom scores were available; 41% had seizures; 15% had sensorineural hearing loss; 54% showed gross motor delay or ataxia; and 27% had decreased muscle tone. One patient with a classical clinical picture of biotinidase deficiency was diagnosed during the study period and was not included in the study. None of the patients with nonclassic findings had a deficiency of biotinidase activity. Our results suggest that biotinidase deficiency does not account for a large proportion of children with unexplained neurologic abnormalities or developmental delay. This does not negate the importance of biotinidase testing in children with clinical patterns specifically suggestive of the deficiency. 
Genetic flanking markers refine diagnostic criteria and provide insights into the genetics of Von Hippel Lindau disease. Von Hippel Lindau disease (VHL) is a hereditary syndrome, associated with tumors and cysts in multiple organ systems, whose expression and age of onset are highly variable. The availability of a genetic test for the early and reliable detection of individuals carrying the defective gene would be beneficial for VHL patients and their relatives, since many of the manifestations of VHL can be successfully treated if detected in their early stages, while the complications of undetected disease can be devastating. We have previously shown that the VHL gene maps to chromosome 3p. To provide genetic markers for the development of a reliable diagnostic test, and to further narrow and eventually clone the VHL defect, we have generated DNA markers for chromosome 3p. With these markers, we have performed a multipoint genetic linkage analysis in 28 VHL pedigrees, comprising 470 individuals, 164 of whom were affected with VHL. Here we report the identification of tightly linked markers, including flanking markers that bracket the VHL gene to a small region on chromosome 3p25-p26. This finding has several major implications. While visceral cysts of the kidney, pancreas, and epididymis are commonly found in VHL and are considered diagnostic criteria for this disorder, they also occur in the general population. The presence of cysts, unaccompanied by other more typical lesions such as retinal and cerebellar hemangioblastoma, may therefore represent a major diagnostic problem, leading to errors in the assessment of disease status. The application of flanking markers for the VHL gene for presymptomatic diagnostic testing confirms that epididymal cysts are indeed not suitable as a diagnostic criterion in this disorder. Pheochromocytomas occur nonuniformly in VHL families and may also be associated with other hereditary tumor syndromes; our genetic studies imply that the phenotype in VHL families with and without pheochromocytomas is caused by defects within the same gene. The absence or presence of this tumor type is therefore due to the pleiotropic expression of a single gene rather than to the existence of several different genes for VHL. The region on chromosome 3p13-p14 known to contain several chromosomal translocation breakpoints in families with "pure familial renal cell carcinoma" is quite proximal to the VHL locus in 3p25-p26 we have identified. Chromosome 3p may therefore contain two loci for renal cell carcinoma: one gene (or genes) in 3p13-p14 and the VHL gene in 3p25-p26, whose aberration is also associated with other typical manifestations of VHL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The effect of epilepsy or diabetes mellitus on the risk of automobile accidents BACKGROUND. Previous studies of possible associations between chronic medical conditions and traffic safety have been inconsistent and subject to bias because of the incomplete identification of affected persons. Recent advances in the diagnosis and management of epilepsy and diabetes mellitus have improved the control of these disorders and suggest a need to reexamine the risk of traffic mishaps among patients with these conditions. METHODS. We conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of 30,420 subjects 16 to 90 years of age, with and without epilepsy or diabetes mellitus. Subjects included all the licensed drivers in seven contiguous ZIP Code areas in which the Marshfield Clinic and St. Joseph's Hospital, Marshfield, Wisconsin, are the primary sources of medical care. Standardized rates of moving violations and accidents over a four-year period (1985 through 1988) were compared in affected and unaffected cohorts. RESULTS. Standardized mishap ratios for subjects with diabetes were 1.14 for all moving violations (P = 0.23) and 1.32 for accidents (P = 0.01); for subjects with epilepsy the ratios were 1.13 for moving violations (P = 0.26) and 1.33 for accidents (P = 0.04). CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that drivers with epilepsy or diabetes mellitus have slightly increased risks of traffic accidents as compared with unaffected persons. The increases in risk observed in our study were generally smaller than those in previous studies, and we believe they are not great enough to warrant further restrictions on driving privileges. 
Sensitivity for detecting fibrillation potentials: a comparison between concentric and monopolar needle electrodes. The sensitivity of monopolar and concentric electrodes for detecting fibrillation potentials (FP) has never been formally compared. We studied 35 muscles with FP, sampling 20 sites each with concentric and monopolar needles. The concentric needle identified 0.88 +/- 3.44 (mean +/- standard deviation) more sites with spontaneous activity. Although statistically significant (Wilcoxon signed rank test P less than .03), this difference in sensitivity did not appreciably affect diagnostic interpretation. Subjects described the concentric needles as more painful. Needle insertions in 25 other muscles demonstrated that needle movement generated the majority of FP. We suggest that the increased tissue injury caused by concentric needles may account for both their increased sensitivity and discomfort. 
Orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury: treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine. We report a case of a 28-year-old woman with C5 quadriplegia, unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension. Ergotamine, daily combined with fludrocortisone, successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension. In this report, neural, renal, and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described. Experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that (1) in persons with quadriplegia, plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting, indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes, (2) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension, and (3) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction. 
The timed "Up & Go": a test of basic functional mobility for frail elderly persons. This study evaluated a modified, timed version of the "Get-Up and Go" Test (Mathias et al, 1986) in 60 patients referred to a Geriatric Day Hospital (mean age 79.5 years). The patient is observed and timed while he rises from an arm chair, walks 3 meters, turns, walks back, and sits down again. The results indicate that the time score is (1) reliable (inter-rater and intra-rater); (2) correlates well with log-transformed scores on the Berg Balance Scale (r = -0.81), gait speed (r = -0.61) and Barthel Index of ADL (r = -0.78); and (3) appears to predict the patient's ability to go outside alone safely. These data suggest that the timed "Up & Go" test is a reliable and valid test for quantifying functional mobility that may also be useful in following clinical change over time. The test is quick, requires no special equipment or training, and is easily included as part of the routine medical examination. 
Large cystic optic glioma. A 5 1/2-year-old boy developed a huge cyst in his chiasmal glioma 4 years after radiation therapy. The cyst produced obtundation but was successfully treated. 
Protective and curative effects of rifampicin in Acanthamoeba meningitis of the mouse. BALB/c mice inoculated nasally with Acanthamoeba culbertsoni, resulting in amebic encephalitis and death 3-7 days, were treated with rifampicin prophylactically (daily for 2 days with 75 and 100 mg/kg) and after infection (daily for 5 days with doses of 10-100 mg/kg). Prophylactic treatment resulted in full protection against infection, as assessed by absence of symptoms of central nervous system malfunction and negative brain culture 10 days after inoculation. Curative treatment was effective at the same doses; however, at doses of 10, 25, and 50 mg/kg, only two of six animals were free of symptoms and infection. 
Feasibility of reversing benzodiazepine tolerance with flumazenil To examine whether the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil can reverse tolerance to benzodiazepines but without precipitating withdrawal seizures, the antiepileptic effect of flumazenil itself and its ability to reverse tolerance at a dose that would leave sufficient receptors free for the binding of benzodiazepines were investigated. Electroencephalographic studies in 6 patients with partial and 6 with generalised seizures showed that flumazenil had a short (20 min) non-dose-dependent suppressant effect on epileptic discharges in those with partial seizures. Receptor occupancy studies in 12 patients showed that 1.5 mg flumazenil given intravenously occupied 55% receptors, whereas 15 mg occupied nearly all receptors. When 3 patients with partial seizures who had become tolerant to clonazepam were given 1.5 mg flumazenil, they were seizure-free for 6-21 days after the injection. The value of intermittent therapy with a benzodiazepine antagonist for preventing or reversing tolerance to benzodiazepine agonists ought to be investigated further. 
A study of immunoglobulin G in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the Log IgG-Index. A comparison and diagnostic applications. Cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin G from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods: isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding, and quantitative measurement of IgG and albumin for the formulation of a Log IgG-Index. A comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of IgG showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall, with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the Log IgG-Index, but also a higher specificity, with a false positive rate of 0% versus 3.5%. In addition, of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 (58%) were positive by the Log IgG-Index. Of the 1007 patients studied, 206 had multiple sclerosis (MS), and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95% of clinically definite cases, with a 90% detection rate overall. The Log IgG-Index was positive in only 67% of clinically definite cases, with an overall 59% detection rate. Thus with the exceptions noted above, local synthesis of IgG as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating, inflammatory, infectious and postinfectious disorders. Our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis, and better than those for evoked potentials. Where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct. For the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging, isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative. We would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of IgG abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes. 
Bacterial meningitis in adults. Bacterial meningitis continues to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective bactericidal antibiotics. Penicillin or ampicillin remains the drug of choice for meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis. The third generation cephalosporins have revolutionized the treatment of gram-negative meningitis. Future therapy for bacterial meningitis will use recent developments in the understanding of pathogenic and pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this disease. 
Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke. Trust Study Group. The value of oral nimodipine 120 mg per day for acute stroke was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study of 1215 patients. The primary end-point was independence after 6 months, defined as a score of 60 or more on an activities of daily living (ADL) scale, the Barthel index. Patients were entered into the trial if they were aged over 40, became hemiparetic in the previous 48 h, were conscious, were able to swallow, and had been living independently before the stroke. At 6 months, 55% of the nimodipine group and 58% of the placebo group were independent, the odds ratio for independence on nimodipine being 0.88 (95% confidence limits 0.70-1.10). For mortality the odds ratio with nimodipine was 1.22 (95% confidence limits 0.95-1.57). ADL and neurological scores also suggested delayed recovery in the nimodipine group at 3 weeks. The results do not support the case for oral nimodipine therapy 120 mg per day starting within 48 h of the stroke, for patients with acute stroke. 
Neurobehavioral outcome 1 year after severe head injury. Experience of the Traumatic Coma Data Bank. The outcome 1 year after they had sustained a severe head injury was investigated in patients who were admitted to the neurosurgery service at one of four centers participating in the Traumatic Coma Data Bank (TCDB). Of 300 eligible survivors, the quality of recovery 1 year after injury was assessed by at least the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) in 263 patients (87%), whereas complete neuropsychological assessment was performed in 127 (42%) of the eligible survivors. The capacity of the patients to undergo neuropsychological testing 1 year after injury was a criterion of recovery as reflected by a significant relationship to neurological indices of acute injury and the GOS score at the time of hospital discharge. The neurobehavioral data at 1 year after injury were generally comparable across the four samples of patients and characterized by impairment of memory and slowed information processing. In contrast, language and visuospatial ability recovered to within the normal range. The lowest postresuscitation Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score and pupillary reactivity were predictive of the 1-year GOS score and neuropsychological performance. The lowest GCS score was especially predictive of neuropsychological performance 1 year postinjury in patients who had at least one nonreactive pupil following resuscitation. Notwithstanding limitations related to the scope of the TCDB and attrition in follow-up material, the results indicate a characteristic pattern of neurobehavioral recovery from severe head injury and encourage the use of neurobehavioral outcome measurements in clinical trials to evaluate interventions for head-injured patients. 
Assessment of Proplast-Teflon disc replacements [published erratum appears in J Oral Maxillofac Surg 1991 Feb;49(2):220] This retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which Proplast-Teflon (Vitek Inc, Houston, TX) replacements were used. Among the problems noted were pain, malocclusion, restricted opening, and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa. 
Meningeal involvement in Bence Jones multiple myeloma. A case of Bence Jones kappa multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement in a 64-year-old woman is presented. Three years after the diagnosis of multiple myeloma, gait disturbances developed followed by visual disorders and impaired consciousness. A lumbar puncture revealed numerous atypical plasma cells in the cerebrospinal fluid. Craniospinal irradiation and intrathecal injections of methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone were effective for a short period. At autopsy, the leptomeninges were infiltrated diffusely with atypical plasma cells. A review of the literature showed that multiple myeloma with meningeal involvement is accompanied frequently by circulating atypical plasma cells or plasma cell leukemia. Meningeal involvement is a rare complication and shows poor prognosis in cases of multiple myeloma. 
Approach to diagnosis of meningitis. Cerebrospinal fluid evaluation. CSF evaluation is the single most important aspect of the laboratory diagnosis of meningitis. Analysis of the CSF abnormalities produced by bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal infections may greatly facilitate diagnosis and direct initial therapy. Basic studies of CSF that should be performed in all patients with meningitis include measurement of pressure, cell count and white cell differential; determination of glucose and protein levels; Gram's stain; and culture. In bacterial meningitis, Limulus lysate assay and tests to identify bacterial antigens may allow rapid diagnosis. Where there is strong suspicion of tuberculous or fungal meningitis, CSF should also be submitted for acid-fast stain, India ink preparation, and cryptococcal antigen; unless contraindicated by increased intracranial pressure, large volumes (up to 40-50 mL) should be obtained for culture. If a history of residence in the Southwest is elicited, complement-fixing antibodies to Coccidioides immitis should also be ordered. Newer tests based on immunologic methods or gene amplification techniques hold great promise for diagnosis of infections caused by organisms that are difficult to culture or present in small numbers. Despite the great value of lumbar puncture in the diagnosis of meningitis, injudicious use of the procedure may result in death from brain herniation. Lumbar puncture should be avoided if focal neurologic findings suggest concomitant mass lesion, as in brain abscess, and lumbar puncture should be approached with great caution if meningitis is accompanied by evidence of significant intracranial hypertension. Institution of antibiotic therapy for suspected meningitis should not be delayed while neuroradiologic studies are obtained to exclude abscess or while measures are instituted to reduce intracranial pressure. 
Long-term follow-up of cemented total hip arthroplasty in rheumatoid arthritis. Seventy-five primary cemented total hip arthroplasties (THAs) were performed in 53 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. All patients were followed for an average of 7.4 years, unless their prosthetic hips failed before that time. Clinical evaluation was based on a 10-point maximum rating scale, and ratings for pain, walking, function, and activity improved from preoperative values to the most recent follow-up examination. Revision THA was performed for aseptic acetabular loosening in four hips, and femoral loosening in one hip. Sepsis occurred in another four hips. Complications of wound healing occurred in 14 hips. Roentgenographic evidence of loosening was seen in six acetabular components, in three femoral components, and in the femoral and acetabular component of one hip; none of these hips have as yet required revision THA. The Kaplan-Meier survivorship analysis revealed a 93% survival probability at seven years, which fell to 77% at 12 years in these patients. A trend was that younger, larger patients had increased failure and component loosening rates. Cemented primary THA has been a satisfactory operation in the rheumatoid patient. The relatively high rate of wound healing problems and sepsis may be due to the systemic immune nature of rheumatoid arthritis; however, 25% of these prosthetic hips either failed or are at risk for future failure. Thus, improved techniques are still necessary to increase the long-term success of THA in the rheumatoid patient. 
Pain in children. The assessment and management of children's pain is a topic that has received a great deal of attention since the late 1970s. Nurse researchers have played a dominant role in all areas of pediatric pain relief and likely will continue to do so. There are currently a number of pediatric pain assessment instruments developed that are used in selected practice settings, but their use should be extended to document the existence of pediatric pain and its relief. Pharmacologic interventions for pediatric pain relief have been hampered by incorrect beliefs about analgesic risks, prescribing and administrating habits, and a virtual explosion of information in the area of analgesics. Although nurses have traditionally used nonpharmacologic interventions for pain relief, these methods have not been well researched. Continued research efforts in this important area will result in improved diagnosis and management of pediatric pain. 
Heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain. Male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves, and the development of autonomy was monitored. The deafferented animals were then interbred, always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and, alternatively, relatively low levels of autotomy. Offspring were similarly operated and interbred. By the sixth generation of selective breeding, lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high (HA) or consistently low (LA). There was no indication of sex linkage. Thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury: response thresholds were lower in HA than in LA rats. F1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous HA and LA animals showed low levels of autotomy, similar to LA stock. This indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait. Backcrossing F1 hybrids onto the LA line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases; backcrossing F1 hybrids onto HA stock yielded about 50% high autotomy and 50% low autotomy. These ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene. Taken together, the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait. 
Buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations. DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, prospective clinical trial. SETTING: Urban emergency department. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled. Patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded. INTERVENTIONS: Each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized, double-blind protocol. The pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Analysis of pooled data and paired data (using patients as their own controls) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine (P = .03 and P = .02, respectively). There was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing. CONCLUSION: Buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations. 
Internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the Chiari type II malformation. We describe 3 cases of Chiari type II malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO). Although prominent, the INO was not an isolated sign in any of the patients; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2, and deficits in smooth pursuit, optokinetic nystagmus, and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3. Two had hydrocephalus: 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years; the other did not improve with shunting. Findings in our 3 patients, along with the 4 previously reported, confirm that INO is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction. Its origin is probably multifactorial, related to hydrocephalus, vascular compromise, direct neuronal distortion, or congenital neural malformation. 
Familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex. A 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol, betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein B. Computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem. Of the six family members examined, four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia, and one had mild ataxia. Similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives. This case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia, cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex. 
An unusual complication of silastic dural substitute: case report. A case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of Silastic dural substitute. In 1983, the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura. Five years later, he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule, which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically. 
Seizure-associated speech arrest in elderly patients Recurrent, brief episodes of speech arrest associated with bifrontal electroencephalographic seizure activity developed in three ill elderly patients. The seizures ceased after the initiation of antiepileptic drug therapy and the correction of metabolic abnormalities. The cause of the seizure activity remains unknown, but a possible mechanism may be a transient epileptogenic cortical dysfunction that predominantly affects the frontal lobes as a result of concomitant metabolic alterations. 
Is caffeine withdrawal the mechanism of postoperative headache? This study examined the hypothesis that headache after general anesthesia is related to a caffeine withdrawal state. Two hundred eighty-seven patients undergoing minor elective procedures under general anesthesia were studied. Four to six hours after anesthesia each patient completed a questionnaire assessing his or her own alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine consumption, and the occurrence of postoperative side effects. A highly significant difference was found between the caffeine consumption of patients with and without preoperative (P = 0.0035) and postoperative (P less than 0.0001) headache. Logistic regression analysis of trend between headache and caffeine consumption suggested that with each 100-mg increase in caffeine consumption, there was a 12% increase in the odds of headache developing in the immediate preoperative period (P less than 0.0066) and a 16% increase in the odds of postoperative headache developing (P less than 0.0001). No relationship was found between headache and the patients' age, sex, usual frequency of headache, consumption of alcohol or nicotine, or the anesthetic agents or adjuvants used. It is concluded that postoperative headache is related to caffeine intake and that this relationship is explained, at least in part, by a perioperative caffeine withdrawal syndrome. 
Coffee, caffeine, and cardiovascular disease in men BACKGROUND. For many years, an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected. Although based on small numbers of end points, a prospective study has suggested a particularly strong association between recent coffee drinking and the incidence of cardiovascular disease. METHODS. We examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction, need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty, and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 U.S. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease. RESULTS. During two years of follow-up observation, 221 participants had a nonfatal myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease, 136 underwent coronary-artery surgery or angioplasty, and 54 had a stroke. Total coffee consumption was not associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. The age-adjusted relative risk for all cardiovascular disease among participants who drank four or more cups of coffee per day was 1.04 (95 percent confidence intervals, 0.74 to 1.46). Increasing levels of consumption of caffeinated coffee were not associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease. Higher consumption of decaffeinated coffee, however, was associated with a marginally significant increase in the risk of coronary heart disease (relative risk, 1.63; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 2.60). Finally, we observed no pattern of increased risk across the subgroups of participants with increasing intakes of caffeine from all sources. Adjustment for major cardiovascular-risk indicators, dietary intake of fats, and cholesterol intake did not materially alter these associations. CONCLUSIONS. These findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. 
Hypoxemia alone does not explain blood pressure elevations after obstructive apneas. In patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), substantial elevations of systemic blood pressure (BP) and depressions of oxyhemoglobin saturation (SaO2) accompany apnea termination. The causes of the BP elevations, which contribute significantly to nocturnal hypertension in OSA, have not been defined precisely. To assess the relative contribution of arterial hypoxemia, we observed mean arterial pressure (MAP) changes following obstructive apneas in 11 OSA patients during non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep and then under three experimental conditions: 1) apnea with O2 supplementation; 2) hypoxemia (SaO2 80%) without apnea; and 3) arousal from sleep with neither hypoxemia nor apnea. We found that apneas recorded during O2 supplementation (SaO2 nadir 93.6% +/- 2.4; mean +/- SD) in six subjects were associated with equivalent postapneic MAP elevations compared with unsupplemented apneas (SaO2 nadir 79-82%): 18.8 +/- 7.1 vs. 21.3 +/- 9.2 mmHg (mean change MAP +/- SD); in the absence of respiratory and sleep disruption in eight subjects, hypoxemia was not associated with the BP elevations observed following apneas: -5.4 +/- 19 vs. 19.1 +/- 7.8 mmHg (P less than 0.01); and in five subjects, auditory arousal alone was associated with MAP elevation similar to that observed following apneas: 24.0 +/- 8.1 vs. 22.0 +/- 6.9 mmHg. We conclude that in NREM sleep postapneic BP elevations are not primarily attributable to arterial hypoxemia. Other factors associated with apnea termination, including arousal from sleep, reinflation of the lungs, and changes of intrathoracic pressure, may be responsible for these elevations. 
Vesicular changes in the myopathies of AIDS. Ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment. Six patients with AIDS and AIDS related complex (ARC) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported. Two patients in the advanced stages of AIDS, who did not receive zidovudine, developed proximal limb weakness and wasting: both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres. There were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils. Four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for AIDS. One of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria. The three other patients with ARC developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum CK while on zidovudine. These patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies. The muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities. 
Long-term potentiation of electrotonic coupling at mixed synapses. Long-term potentiation of chemical synapses is closely related to memory and learning. Studies of this process have concentrated on chemically mediated excitatory synapses. By contrast, activity-dependent modification of gap junctions, which also widely exist in higher structures such as hippocampus and neocortex, has not been described. Here we report that at mixed synapses between sensory afferents and an identified reticulospinal neuron, the electrotonic coupling potential can be potentiated, as well as the chemically mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential, for a prolonged time period using a stimulation paradigm like that which produces long-term potentiation in hippocampus. The effect on coupling is due to an increase in gap-junctional conductance. Our data indicate that the potentiation of both synaptic components requires an increase in intracellular calcium, involves activation of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors, and is specific to the tetanized pathway. 
Young-onset Parkinson's disease: a clinical review. Young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD) is arbitrarily defined as that which produces initial symptoms between the ages of 21 and 39, inclusive. The special problems and concerns of the patient with YOPD present as much of a challenge and opportunity for the clinician as the disease itself does for the researcher. In contrast to juvenile parkinsonism, which is a heterogeneous group of clinicopathologic entities presenting (also arbitrarily) before age 21, YOPD appears to be the same nosologic entity as older-onset PD. It comprises approximately 5% of referral populations in Western countries and about 10% in Japan. Its annual incidence relative to the population at risk is about 1/10 that of PD at age sixty. YOPD tends to have more gradual progression of parkinsonian signs and symptoms, earlier appearance of levodopa-related dyskinesias and levodopa-dose-related motor fluctuations, and frequent presence of dystonia as an early or presenting sign. Studies conflict with regard to the suspected greater familial frequency and lesser frequency of dementia than in older-onset PD. 
Celiac disease, brain atrophy, and dementia. We report 5 patients who developed dementia before age 60 and were subsequently found to have celiac disease (CD). Intellectual deterioration ranged from moderate to severe, and diffuse cerebral or cerebellar atrophy was found on brain CT. Diagnosis of CD was confirmed by findings of subtotal villous atrophy in jejunal biopsy specimens and positive serum reticulin and gliadin antibodies. Conspicuously, gastrointestinal symptoms were mild. The gluten-free diet failed to improve the neurologic disability except in 1 patient. CD is a multisystem disorder and may play a role in some cases of presenile dementia. Although the pathogenetic mechanisms are obscure, immunologic mechanisms are implicated. 
A case-control study of Alzheimer's disease in Australia. We conducted a case-control study of clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD) on 170 cases aged 52 to 96 years, and 170 controls matched for age, sex and, where possible, the general practice of origin. Trained lay interviewers naive to the hypotheses and to the clinical status of the elderly person carried out risk-factor interviews with informants. Significant odds ratios were found for 4 variables: a history of either dementia, probable AD, or Down's syndrome in a 1st-degree relative, and underactivity as a behavioral trait in both the recent and more distant past. Previously reported or suggested associations not confirmed by this study include head injury, starvation, thyroid disease, analgesic abuse, antacid use (aluminum exposure), alcohol abuse, smoking, and being left-handed. 
A discriminant validity study of negative symptoms with a special focus on depression and antipsychotic medication. If the construct validity of the negative symptom syndrome is to be established, the conceptual and operational overlap between negative symptoms and other syndromes such as depression and the effects of medication must be explained. The author assessed 26 patients with schizophrenia and 21 patients without schizophrenia, most of whom had depression, at the end of an average 2-week drug washout period and after approximately 2 months of psychotropic medication administration. Negative symptoms were remarkably consistent in patients with schizophrenia despite pharmacological intervention. In contrast, the patients without schizophrenia manifested significant decreases in negative symptoms. 
Computerized neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy. The value of a range of computer-aided tests in the neuropsychological assessment was investigated in 94-177 children with epilepsy, aged 8-18 years, compared with 68-161 controls in the same age group. Children from the age of 8 years could cope with rather complex tests in a wide range of functions: reaction time measurements, motor speed, information processing, and memory. The speed of performance tended to increase with age in both groups, with differences in information processing becoming apparent from the age of 12 years. The precise control of stimulus and response required to define the mainly minor differences between the epilepsy and control groups can only be fulfilled by computerized testing, which should undergo further refinement including voice and language recognition, followed by artificial intelligence. 
Motor dysfunction in HIV-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit. Motor tests were performed in 50 HIV-infected patients in all stages according to the current CDC classification, but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit, and the results compared with an age-matched control group. Patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse, fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection. The parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands, most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements (MRAM) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions (MRC). Whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls, MRAM and rise times of MRCs showed significant slowing in the patient group. Morphologically, the motor test performance of the HIV-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease (Parkinson's, Huntington's and Wilson's diseases). MRI scans of all patients were normal. It is concluded that in HIV-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection, especially of the basal ganglia, which is detectable with appropriate, quantitative motor function tests. These functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the MRI scans. 
Vasospasm contributes to monosodium glutamate-induced headache. Consumption of monosodium glutamate has long been considered to precipitate headaches in susceptible patients. In this study the direct effects of glutamate and its metabolite, glutamine, on arterial contractility were examined using rings of rabbit aorta. In a high concentration glutamate caused significant concentration-dependent contractions (EC50, 10(-1)M; maximum tension, 188.4 +/- 33.3 mg wt tension/mg tissue). Agonists and antagonists for alpha-adrenergic, histaminergic, serotonergic, cholinergic, and GABA-nergic receptors as well as inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis failed to influence glutamate contractions. At high concentrations (10(-5)M) the calcium channel blocker, verapamil, inhibited the glutamate response. Glutamate and glutamine both exhibited concentration dependent relaxation of norepinephrine (NE), phenylephrine (PE), histamine, serotonin (5-HT), and prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha)-induced contractions. Kainic acid (10(-4)M), an agonist of one subpopulation of central glutamate receptor, potentiated glutamate-induced vasoconstriction; a higher concentration (10(-3)M) produced an irreversible inhibition of glutamate contractility. Only the central glutamate receptor antagonist, ketamine (10(-4)-10(-2)M), induced a reversible, concentration dependent inhibition of glutamate-induced contractions. Glutamate contractility was not dependent on extracellular calcium, an intact endothelium or neuronal function. These results demonstrate a direct effect of glutamate on peripheral arterial tone. Dietary consumption of large quantities of MSG may represent a serious health hazard to certain individuals with pre-existing vascular disease. 
Response to treatment with antihistamines in a family with myotonia congenita. In a family in which myotonia congenita was found in five generations, both great-grandparents of the index case were affected. In subsequent generations mild and severely affected cases were clearly segregated down parallel lines of this family. The grandmother of the index case had noted improvement with an antihistamine. When the index case was prescribed trimeprazine, she showed a striking reduction in severity of symptoms. Antihistamines seem to deserve further evaluation as a safe and effective treatment for myotonia congenita. 
Accessory arm--dysraphism or disparity? Case report. The case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported. The extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma. Possible theories of origin are examined. 
Surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon. Eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this "internal" variety of snapping hip. We referred to the pathologic, painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the "internal" snapping hip. This is in contrast to the more common and better-known "external" snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues. The results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here. Lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas. The pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here. Iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence, synchronous with the patient's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap. The average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years, and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months. All patients, except one, had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening, and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively. Of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping, all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state. Two hips required reoperation. Postoperatively, only three patients complained of subjective weakness, and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football, pole vaulting, and long-distance running. 
Pharmacokinetics of tiaprofenic acid after oral administration in fasting patients during and between migraine attacks. This study examined the pharmacokinetics of 300 mg of tiaprofenic acid, a NSAID belonging to the 2-arylpropionic class, as a single oral dose, in 10 migraine patients during and out of migraine attacks. Plasma concentration of tiaprofenic acid was determined by HPLC analysis. Drug absorption appeared to be the same during and out of migraine attacks (absorption half life: during attack, 0.249 +/- 0.122 hr; out of attack, 0.249 +/- 0.105 hr; maximum plasma concentration: during attack, 37.8 +/- 9.8 ug/ml; out of attack, 40.1 +/- 13.2 ug/ml). The other pharmacokinetic parameters evaluated were not affected by headache attacks as well. We conclude that tiaprofenic acid absorption and metabolism are not affected by migraine attacks. Also, our data suggest that tiaprofenic acid might be useful in the treatment of migraine. 
A case of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. II: The sterol content of a cataractous lens. The cholestanol content of a cataractous lens nucleus from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) was quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be 0.27 micrograms per mg freeze-dried lens tissue. The cholestanol-cholesterol ratio of 1.7% in the lens nucleus was similar to that in the serum of the CTX patient. The cholestanol content and cholestanol-cholesterol ratio in the CTX lens were approximately four-fold and six-fold greater respectively than the mean levels found in three senile cataractous lens nuclei analysed simultaneously for comparative purposes. 
Meningiomas mimicking cerebral schwannoma. A brain tumor with histological features reminiscent of schwannoma with underlying meningioangiomatosis was subjected to electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis, which confirmed the neoplasm as a meningioma. This prompted reexamination of a similar tumor, described in a previous publication as a cerebral schwannoma, with identical immunohistochemical techniques. The results obtained favored alteration of this diagnosis to that of meningioma. This experience has led the authors to recommend the use of immunohistochemistry techniques when evaluating unusual intracranial neoplasms. 
Long-term visual outcome in patients with optic nerve pit and serous retinal detachment of the macula Serous detachment of the macula is a well-known complication in patients with an optic nerve pit. Despite the many descriptions of this condition and possible treatment options, the long-term natural history is not well known. The authors identified 15 eyes of 15 consecutive patients seen over 21 years who were diagnosed with a serous detachment of the macula arising from an optic nerve pit. Average length of follow-up was 9 years. Twelve eyes lost three or more lines of vision, two eyes remained unchanged, and only one eye improved. All of the 12 eyes losing three or more lines of vision experienced this decrease within the first 6 months of follow-up. Although only two patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less initially, 12 of 15 patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less at the time of their last examination. The appearance of the macula at last examination included cystic changes of the neurosensory retina, full-thickness hole formation, retinal pigment epithelial mottling, and lamellar hole formation in the outer retinal layer. The long-term visual prognosis in patients with optic nerve pit and untreated serous retinal detachment of the macula is poor, and visual loss occurs within 6 months of the serous detachment. 
Cardiopulmonary perfusion and cerebral blood flow in bilateral carotid artery disease The fear of cerebral complications after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heart disease and severe carotid artery disease has led many authors to suggest combined approaches in these patients. The pathogenetic mechanism for stroke is based partly on the stenotic narrowing of the carotid artery. A diameter reduction of 75% is frequently considered hemodynamically significant and indicative of an increased risk for neurological morbidity. We studied the cerebral blood flow in 7 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting who also had severe bilateral carotid disease. The results were compared with the results in 17 patients without carotid disease who had bypass grafting. The cerebral blood flow was measured by xenon 133 washout technique before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia. Acid-base regulation was according to the alpha-stat theory, and blood pressure was kept greater than 50 mm Hg. The cerebral blood flow levels (mL.100g-1.min-1) before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass in the study group (30 +/- 11, 31 +/- 8, 47 +/- 20) (mean +/- standard deviation) were almost identical to those in the control group (30 +/- 11, 28 +/- 8, 47 +/- 12). The cerebral blood flow levels for the left and right hemispheres in the group with carotid disease were comparable and within normal ranges. In 2 patients, slight differences were noted between hemispheres, and this finding may indicate an increased risk for ischemia. These patients, however, did not show any signs of postoperative deficit. The flow limitations of critical carotid stenoses do not seem to imply a risk for cerebral hypoperfusion if cardiopulmonary perfusion is performed in a controlled manner. 
Oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem. Four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia. The combination of an unusual clinical pattern, involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms, should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour. 
Are myotonias and periodic paralyses associated with susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia? Excised muscles from patients with myotonia or periodic paralysis were subjected to the in vitro contracture test for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia (MH). In a group of 44 patients, this standard test gave four positive, 10 equivocal and 30 negative results. The results for 27 control muscles from normal subjects were negative. When the test was performed with less than normal concentrations of contracture-triggering substances (caffeine less than or equal to 2 mmol litre-1, less than or equal to 2% halothane), 70% of the muscles from the patients and only 15% of the controls responded with small contractures (less than 0.2 g). These results should not be taken to indicate that the patients have the genetic trait for MH. The positive and equivocal test results, in addition to the slight contractures, may be accounted for by the electrical after-activity in the cases of pure myotonia, and by increased resting myoplasmic [Ca2+] in myotonic dystrophy. This shows that the in vitro contracture test lacks specificity. 
Mesencephalic cholinergic nuclei in progressive supranuclear palsy. Using an antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), mesencephalic cholinergic cell nuclei were studied in autopsy material from 3 cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 4 controls. ChAT-immunoreactive neurons were quantified in sections that spanned the rostrocaudal extent of each nucleus. In PSP, there was a significant decrease in the number of neurons with detectable immunoreactivity for ChAT in and adjacent to the central gray substance in the following nuclei: the nucleus of Edinger-Westphal (69%); the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (97%); the interstitial nucleus of Cajal (78%). A cell loss was also evident in a group of neurons found in the deep layers of the superior colliculus (93%). In contrast, the estimated number of ChAT-immunoreactive cell bodies in cranial nerves III and IV, in the mesencephalic reticular formation, and in the parabigeminal nucleus was not different from that of controls. The results are compatible with the notion that, in PSP, there is a regionally selective destruction of cholinergic neurons. 
Fourth ventricular schwannoma. Case report. A schwannoma arising from the dorsum of the pontomedullary junction and presenting as an exophytic mass in the fourth ventricle is described. A ventricular schwannoma has not previously been reported in the literature. The presenting clinical and radiographic features and the pathology of this tumor are summarized, and an explanation is sought for its unusual location. 
West syndrome associated with hyperlexia. Two patients are reported with West syndrome associated with hyperlexia. They had peculiar linguistic and psychosocial development and autistic behavior, yet began to read Japanese and Chinese characters, numbers, Roman alphabet letters, and trademark letters at 3 years of age. Neuropsychologic, electroencephalographic, and radiologic studies were performed at 11 years of age in Patient 1 and at 10 years of age in Patient 2. Although they were able to read fluently with correct intonation, their comprehension was significantly impaired. The neuropsychologic evaluation of both patients demonstrated selective, excellent ability in auditory memory in contrast to impairment of associational abilities, visual retention, and visual constructional abilities. These findings suggest that the functions in the nondominant hemisphere were also impaired. Although children with West syndrome frequently have associated mental retardation, patients with West syndrome associated with hyperlexia have never been reported. A neuropsychologic investigation of epileptic children with mental retardation is necessary for the detection of hyperlexia. 
Spinal cord stimulation: a contemporary series Forty-three patients with chronic pain disorders of different causes were selected for spinal cord stimulation. All underwent implantation of a ribbon electrode through a small laminotomy, under general anesthesia. Thirteen patients (30%) failed to obtain significant pain relief during a period of trial stimulation, and their electrodes were removed. The remainder underwent a definitive implant and were followed for a mean of 13 months (range, 3-33 months). Nineteen of them (63%) continued to experience pain relief. A detailed analysis of this series, as well as a literature review, is presented. 
Cerebellar and frontal hypometabolism in alcoholic cerebellar degeneration studied with positron emission tomography. Local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was studied utilizing 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography (PET) in 14 chronically alcohol-dependent patients and 8 normal control subjects of similar age and sex. Nine of the 14 patients (Group A) had clinical signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration, and the remaining 5 (Group B) did not have signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration. PET studies of Group A revealed significantly decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in the superior cerebellar vermis in comparison with the normal control subjects. Group B did not show decreased rates in the cerebellum. Both Groups A and B showed decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose bilaterally in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex in comparison with the normal control subjects. The severity of the clinical neurological impairment was significantly correlated with the degree of hypometabolism in both the superior cerebellar vermis and the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex. The degree of atrophy detected in computed tomography scans was significantly correlated with local cerebral metabolic rates in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex, but not in the cerebellum. The data indicate that hypometabolism in the superior cerebellar vermis closely follows clinical symptomatology in patients with alcoholic cerebellar degeneration, and does not occur in alcohol-dependent patients without clinical evidence of cerebellar dysfunction. Hypometabolism in the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex is a prominent finding in alcohol-dependent patients with or without alcoholic cerebellar degeneration. 
The effect of pH buffering on reducing the pain associated with subcutaneous infiltration of bupivicaine [published erratum appears in Am J Emerg Med 1991 Jul;9(4):410] The authors propose that pH buffering of bupivicaine with sodium bicarbonate reduces the pain associated with its local subcutaneous infiltration. In a double-blind, prospective study, 62 healthy adult volunteers received a 0.5 mL subcutaneous infiltration of 0.5% buffered bupivicaine into the dorsum of a randomly chosen hand. The pH was adjusted to 7.0 by adding 0.05 mL of sodium bicarbonate (1 mEq/L [corrected]) to 10 mL vials of commercially available bupivicaine (1:200 dilution). The control hand was injected with the same amount of unbuffered agent. Pain was scored after each infiltration using a nonsegmented visual analogue scale. Student's t-test for paired measurements was used to analyze intergroup pain score differences. Forty-three subjects (69%) reported less pain with buffered bupivicaine and only 17 (27%) noted a modest increase: two subjects (3%) reported no difference. The mean pain score for the buffered agent was 22 mm compared with 30 mm for the control. The mean difference (control-experimental) was 8 mm (t = 4.64, df = 61, P less than .001). The authors conclude that the addition of sodium bicarbonate to bupivicaine reduces the pain associated with its local infiltration. 
Cerebellar degeneration and Meige's syndrome. We have reported a case of Meige's syndrome in a middle-aged man who eventually had a cerebellar degeneration syndrome. The extrapyramidal symptoms preceded cerebellar signs and symptoms by 5 years. Most patients with idiopathic Meige's syndrome show some improvement with high-dose anticholinergic therapy. Our patient's lack of response to such agents and his subsequent cerebellar symptoms are reminiscent of the situation seen with parkinsonian patients who do not respond to medications, indicating a more widespread degenerative disease. The association of extrapyramidal symptoms with some spinocerebellar disorders, and the pathologic changes seen in the one reported autopsy case, should place the group of spinocerebellar disorders high on the differential list. 
Alpha 1-antichymotrypsin as a possible biochemical marker for Alzheimer-type dementia. We measured serum alpha 1-antichymotrypsin levels in 38 patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, 89 control subjects, 2 subjects with Down's syndrome, 20 with vascular dementia, 18 with Parkinson's disease, 14 with spinocerebellar degeneration, 15 with cerebrovascular disease without dementia, and 14 with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were also measured in 15 patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, 26 control subjects, 6 with vascular dementia, 7 with cerebrovascular disorder, and 11 with degenerative disorders. In control subjects, there were no age-related changes or sex differences. Serum and CSF levels were significantly and specifically higher in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia than in other subjects (serum, p less than 0.001; CSF, p less than 0.05). Serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were significantly elevated in the early stage of Alzheimer-type dementia, whereas there was no definite correlation between serum levels and the degree of dementia. CSF levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin tended to parallel the severity of dementia. Serum levels were not correlated with CSF levels. These data indicate that serum and CSF levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin might be independently upregulated in Alzheimer-type dementia. We concluded that the measurement of serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin could be useful as a screening marker for Alzheimer-type dementia. In addition, CSF levels also could be a useful marker for Alzheimer-type dementia, because they might reflect the state of dementia. 
Pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis. Advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis have occurred primarily through the use of experimental animal models. These models have proven to be particularly valuable in experimental bacterial meningitis, focusing on the bacterial virulence factors responsible for the initiation of infections, CNS invasion, and induction of SAS inflammation. Recent studies have examined the formation of host inflammatory cytokines in response to these virulence factors. These cytokines may be responsible for many of the pathophysiologic consequences of bacterial meningitis (eg. increased BBB permeability, cerebral edema, and increased intracranial pressure). Meningitis due to C. neoformans occurs most commonly in patients with defects in cell-mediated immunity (eg, AIDS), and the depletion of T helper cells in AIDS patients may allow unrestricted cryptococcal growth. Viral meningitis is an illness of low prevalence when compared with the overall occurrence of viral infections at other sites. CNS infection usually occurs by means of traversal across barriers that normally exclude viral invasion of the CNS, primarily through hematogenous dissemination from initial sites of infection. These advances in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of bacterial, fungal, and viral meningitis may lead to the development of innovative treatment strategies for these disorders. 
Implications of a dynamical systems approach to understanding infant kicking behavior. Implications of the dynamical systems approach to understanding movement dysfunction in infants are discussed. Traditional theories of motor development attribute changes in movement to the hierarchical maturation of the central nervous system. The dynamical systems approach emphasizes that movement self-organizes as the result of the interaction of the participating subsystems in developmental and real time. In this article, I discuss, from the theoretical perspective of the dynamical systems approach, the organization of leg movements in low- and high-risk preterm and full-term infants, developmental changes in movement in low-risk preterm infants from 34 weeks' gestational age to 40 weeks' postgestational age, and differences in movement between low-risk preterm infants at 40 weeks' postgestational age and full-term infants. Preliminary data on high-risk preterm infants are presented. Based on these data, the necessity to review and reinterpret traditional concepts of motor development is explored. Suggestions are offered and questions posed on how the dynamical systems perspective may influence the practice of physical therapy in the evaluation, and treatment of infants at risk for movement dysfunction. 
Heterogeneity in spasmodic dysphonia. Neurologic and voice findings. Spasmodic dysphonia is a disturbance of phonation with laryngeal spasms. We report voice and neurologic examination findings in 45 subjects. Neurologic abnormalities were found in 32 subjects (71.1%). Rapid alternating movement abnormalities, weakness, and tremor were common. Incoordination and spasticity were rare. Lower extremity findings were frequent. Abnormalities were bilateral. Spasmodic dysphonia severity was related to age. Type, severity, and duration of vocal symptoms were not different for subjects with or without neurologic abnormalities. Vocal tremor was more frequent in neurologically abnormal subjects. Involvement of a pallidothalamic-supplementary motor area system could account for neurologic findings, brain imaging findings, and clinical heterogeneity. The view emerging is that spasmodic dysphonia is a manifestation of disordered motor control involving systems of neurons rather than single anatomical sites. 
Intraoperative ultrasonic imaging of the ascending aorta in ischemic heart disease. In an attempt to locate any atherosclerotic lesion in the ascending aorta and to prevent embolization, intraoperative B-mode ultrasonography was performed in 100 patients with ischemic heart disease (31 women and 69 men). Ultrasonography was carried out with a 10-MHz probe placed directly on the ascending aorta. Ultrasonic imaging demonstrated an atherosclerotic lesion in the lower half of the aorta in 76 patients (76%), a lesion in the upper half of the aorta in 89 patients (89%), and a lesion at the orifice of the innominate artery in 99 patients (99%). Prospective palpation identified an atherosclerotic lesion in 12 (25%) of 48 patients. Thoracic computed tomography in 79 patients showed calcification in the lower half of the aorta in 6 patients (7.6%) and in the upper half of the aorta in 11 (13.9%). Palpation and thoracic computed tomography underestimated the frequency of atherosclerotic lesions. Intraoperative ultrasonography accurately identified atherosclerotic disease. This technique allows the surgeon to modify cannulation, aortic clamping, and operative technique to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke due to embolization of atherosclerotic debris from the ascending aorta. 
Snoring and sleep architecture. The purpose of this study was to examine whether snoring adversely affects sleep architecture and sleep efficiency, and thus may account for the frequent complaints of daytime tiredness and fatigue expressed by heavy snorers. We recruited eight self-confessed heavy snorers and six self-confessed nonsnorers. All subjects had full nocturnal polysomnography, including continuous monitoring of snoring, which was quantified by counting the number of snores per hour of sleep (snoring index), the number of snores per minute of snoring time (snoring frequency), maximal and mean nocturnal sound intensity (dBmax and dBmean, respectively). We found that even the self-confessed nonsnorers snored lightly, with significantly smaller frequency and index than the heavy snorers. Sleep architecture was similar in both groups. Distribution of snoring among the sleep stages differed for light and heavy snorers: light snorers snored uniformly throughout all sleep stages, whereas heavy snorers tended to snore more during slow-wave and REM sleep. Snoring frequency and snoring index were similar during all sleep stages in light snorers, but they were higher during slow-wave sleep in heavy snorers. Wakefulness time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency correlated significantly with the snoring index. We conclude that although snoring does not affect sleep architecture in general, it influences sleep efficiency and wakefulness time after sleep onset; this may have an adverse effect on daytime function of heavy snorers. 
Posthypoxic glucose supplement reduces hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in the neonatal rat. We evaluated the effect of posthypoxic glucose supplement in a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic animal model. Seven-day-old rats underwent bilateral ligation of the carotid arteries, followed by exposure to an 8% oxygen atmosphere for 1 hour. The extent of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage was assessed histologically 72 hours later. Glucose load immediately after the end of the hypoxic exposure reduced the volume of neocortical infarction to 37% of the unsupplemented value, and attenuated ischemic damage in the striatum and the dentate gyrus. At the end of the hypoxic exposure, the brain level of glucose was 0.3 mmol/kg and the level of lactate 9 mmol/kg. Glucose supplement produced a rapid rise in brain glucose level to 3 to 5 mmol/kg over the next 2 hours. Lactate in both brain and plasma gradually fell toward the baseline level during the first hour of recovery. Posthypoxic glucose supplement slightly retarded lactate restitution. At any period of this neonatal model, brain lactate levels did not exceed the toxic level, which is postulated to be responsible for cerebral infarction in adult ischemic models. These results illustrate the important role of glucose in the development of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and the fact that full cortical infarction can develop even if brain lactate levels are low. 
Effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats. The purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). Treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril (45 mg/kg/day), an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, or with hydralazine (18 mg/kg/day). Cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure (from 195 +/- 8 to 125 +/- 5 and 148 +/- 3 mm Hg, respectively [mean +/- SEM]; p less than 0.05). To examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles, we measured pressure (servonull), external diameter, and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall (histologically) in pial arterioles of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and SHRSP that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine. Arterioles were maximally dilated with EDTA. In WKY rats, cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure, external diameter, or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall. In SHRSP, both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from WKY rats (from 1,911 +/- 155 to 1,244 +/- 101 and 1,388 +/- 59 microns 2, respectively, compared with 1,405 +/- 95 microns 2 for untreated WKY rats). Cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure (from 110 +/- 6 to 62 +/- 2 mm Hg with cilazapril versus 79 +/- 5 mm Hg for hydralazine compared with 60 +/- 4 mm Hg for untreated WKY rats). Cilazapril, but not hydralazine, attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles (from 91 +/- 4 to 100 +/- 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 +/- 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 +/- 3 microns for untreated WKY rats). 
Tuberothalamic infarct after division of a hypoplastic posterior communicating artery for clipping of a basilar tip aneurysm: case report. The authors present a case of a tuberothalamic infarct subsequent to division of the posterior communicating artery for clipping of a high-lying aneurysm of the basilar bifurcation using the pterional approach. In view of this clinical observation and some particular aspects of the microsurgical anatomy of the perforating vessels of the posterior communicating artery, we conclude that interrupting this parent vessel carries a significant risk of infarction. 
Cerebral glucose utilization during sleep in Landau-Kleffner syndrome: a PET study. Three right-handed male children (aged 5, 6, and 11 years) with signs, symptoms and/or history of the syndrome of acquired aphasia-epilepsy (Landau-Kleffner syndrome) were studied during drug-induced, electroencephalographically (EEG)-monitored sleep by positron-emission tomography (PET) and the [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) method. Our data demonstrate that in Landau-Kleffner syndrome, cerebral glucose utilization is not normal during sleep. The metabolic pattern varied between the children but the metabolic disturbances always predominated over the temporal lobes. They were right-sided, left-sided, or bilateral. In the two first patients, EEG recordings showed continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep and a right-greater-than-left asymmetry was observed in temporal areas. In patient 1, the asymmetry was associated with a relative increase of glucose utilization of the right posterior temporal region. In patient 2, the glucose utilization was relatively decreased in the left anterotemporal and left perisylvian regions. In patient 3, the sleep EEG showed no discharge and no significant asymmetry was observed; however, glucose utilization of both temporal lobes was decreased. Lower metabolic rates in subcortical structures than in cortex were also noted in the three children. This metabolic pattern may be related to the maturation of the central nervous system (CNS). 
Rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity. Data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) indicated that 54% of respondents also reported other chronic conditions, and that 20% rated at least one of these other conditions as severe. Both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms, social connectedness and on the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scales. These findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with RA. 
Serum keratan sulfate. Quantitative and qualitative comparisons in inflammatory versus noninflammatory arthritides. The concentration of keratan sulfate (KS) epitope was measured in the serum of patients with osteoarthritis (OA) or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared with that in the serum of patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome (PFS) and of controls who had no joint disease. By Student's tau-test, the mean serum KS concentrations in OA and RA patients measured with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) 5-D-4 and 2-D-3 were significantly increased over those in the PFS and normal groups; similar findings were observed using a nonparametric test, except that levels in RA patients showed no difference from those in PFS patients and normal subjects. There was no significant correlation between joint scores or disease duration and KS levels in OA or RA patients. Gel filtration of sera revealed mainly large, polydisperse KS-bearing fragments which eluted in a broad profile. KS purified from sera by immunoaffinity chromatography consisted mainly of high-density proteoglycans. Electrophoresis of pooled high-density KS fractions in polyacrylamide-agarose gels followed by Western blotting with MAb 5-D-4 showed diffuse bands with relative mobilities corresponding to large proteoglycans. These findings are consistent with attachment of KS to protein core fragments of various sizes; KS in patient sera is comparable in size with that in normal sera. Elevations of serum KS levels occur in the presence of cartilage degradation, but do not quantitatively define the extent or duration of articular involvement. 
Primary leptomeningeal lymphoma: report of 9 cases, diagnosis with immunocytochemical analysis, and review of the literature. We describe 9 patients who presented with a neoplastic meningitis of lymphomatous origin. No evidence of parenchymal central nervous system or systemic tumor was identified either at the time of presentation or throughout the course of their disease. We have chosen to call this entity "primary leptomeningeal lymphoma" (PLML). This unusual form of neurologic lymphoma must be differentiated from the more common clinical situations of primary parenchymal lymphoma with meningeal involvement and systemic lymphoma complicated by lymphomatous meningitis. 
The influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication. To identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic, unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication (serum theophylline concentration, greater than or equal to 167 mumol/L after protracted use). The median age of the sample was 47.5 years (range, 4 days to 91 years). Median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/L, with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/L. A life-threatening event (LTE) occurred in 28 patients (39%) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22. The median peak (theophylline) of patients who had an LTE vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/L. However, the median age of patients with an LTE compared with those without an LTE was significantly greater (70.5 vs 18.0 years). Stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of LTE with advancing years: patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of LTE than patients less than 25 years old (95% confidence interval, 3.56, 77.5) despite comparable intergroup median serum (theophylline). These data suggest the primary determinant of LTEs after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age. Elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of LTE than younger patients. Peak serum theophylline concentration cannot predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an LTE. Finally, these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients. 
Treating systemic fungal infections in AIDS patients. Prolonging life against the odds. Fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients, particularly patients with AIDS. Accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult; therefore, empirical therapy is often necessary. This scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses. Because the population of AIDS patients is increasing, physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections. Despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients, several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors. Many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality, but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality. 
Scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass. We report the CT, MRI, and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass. Even though bone destruction was better shown with CT, the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with MRI. The arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery. 
Epidermoid cysts of the brain stem. Report of three cases. The authors report the cases of three patients with epidermoid cysts which insinuated themselves into the brain stem. In all three patients, the tumor occupied the pons, although in one it was predominantly located in the medulla. The cyst contents and nonadherent tumor capsule were removed in all three patients, but no attempt was made to remove tumor densely adherent to the brain stem. One patient's cyst was removed in one operation, but maximal resection in the other two required two operations. After surgery, sixth nerve function completely returned in one patient; another patient had a stable pontine gaze palsy but developed new facial weakness; and the third patient had stable cranial nerve deficits with a diminished hemiparesis. The last patient developed a pseudomeningocele and communicating hydrocephalus, and required a lumboperitoneal shunt. In all three patients, computerized tomography scans demonstrated hypodense tumors not enhanced by contrast material. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed on two patients; in both, the tumors showed increased signal intensity relative to brain on T1-weighted images and decreased signal intensity relative to brain on T2-weighted studies. Magnetic resonance imaging, the most accurate modality for localizing these lesions and determining their extent, was also invaluable for postoperative monitoring and follow-up evaluation. Safe and adequate resection includes decompression of cyst contents and removal of nonadherent portions of the cyst capsule. Cyst wall adherent to the brain stem, however, should not be removed. 
Developments in 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor pharmacology in migraine. Because a satisfactory animal model for migraine does not exist, attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents may be of benefit in elucidating the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome. The present review demonstrates that the clinical data that has developed over the past 30 years may allow for the elucidation of the role of specific 5-HT receptor subtypes in the pathophysiology of migraine. A large number of both acute and prophylactic antimigraine agents share an ability to interact with 5-HT receptor subtypes in human brain. As summarized in Table 3, acute antimigraine drugs (e.g., ergots, sumatriptan) share high affinity for 5-HTID receptors and somewhat lower affinity for 5-HT1A receptors. These receptors are present in certain intracranial blood vessels. 5-HT1D receptors are also located on nerve terminals where they act to inhibit the release of 5-HT and other neurotransmitters. Theoretically, 5-HTID receptor agonists may acutely inhibit the release of vasoactive or pain-inducing substances in the perivascular space. Conceivably, drugs acting at this receptor would stop the progression of this perivascular process. In addition, a number of prophylactic antimigraine drugs display a relatively high affinity for both 5-HT2 and 5-HT1C receptors in human brain. Although these receptors are also found in certain blood vessels, they are present throughout the nervous system. The receptors appear to mediate neuronal depolarizations at the cellular level. Moreover, the 5-HT2 receptor appears to play a key role in the development of inflammation in certain smooth muscle systems. Theoretically, the ability of 5-HT2 antagonists to protect perivascular inflammation may account for their efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. These data offer a novel approach to the analysis of antimigraine agents. Drugs could be selected for use in clinical migraine studies based on their selectivity for a specific 5-HT receptor subtype. For example, an agent that displays both high affinity and selectivity for 5-HT1D receptors could be clinically evaluated. Its effectiveness, or lack thereof, would indicate the importance of this specific 5-HT receptor site in the pathogenesis of migraine. Future attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents should facilitate the elucidation of the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome. 
Some endorphin derivatives and hydrocortisone prevent EEG limbic seizures induced by corticotropin-releasing factor in rabbits. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) injected into the cerebral ventricles of small mammals induces EEG limbic seizures, behavioral excitability, stereotyped behavior, and tardive enhancement of hippocampal theta voltage and frequency. Because we addressed this phenomenon when we explained the pathogenesis of infantile spasms in children, we wished to study the interference exerted by some gamma-endorphin fragments on EEG epileptiform and behavioral symptoms induced by CRF in the rabbit. Animals were implanted intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with semichronic cortical and hippocampal electrodes, together with a cannula into the left lateral ventricle. When some gamma-endorphin derivatives (DT gamma E, DE gamma E) were injected intravenously (i.v.) for 4 days (or hydrocortisone once), they prevented the EEG ictal seizures induced in the hippocampus of rabbits by CRF injected i.c.v. Hydrocortisone and DE gamma E also prevented the appearance of scattered spiking and partially prevented tardive enhancement of theta voltage in the hippocampal EEG. Finally, DE gamma E also prevented stereotyped behavior and excitability induced by CRF. These results confirm the regulatory role exerted by CRF in limbic structure excitability and suggest that the above peptides may be involved in a regulatory feedback mechanism of CRF metabolism or activity. The possibility that these peptides may also have interesting antiepileptogenic properties should be considered. 
Cognitive function and time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy. Different parameters of antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment have been shown to affect cognitive function. The drug, dose, and duration of treatment have been studied. The present study assessed cognitive function in relation to time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine (CBZ) concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy. We studied 10 males and 12 females with a mean age of 36 years and a mean duration of CBZ-therapy of 4.4 years. Patients had been seizure-free for at least 1 month and took two daily CBZ doses. The test battery included tests of motor speed, reaction time, attention, and memory. In the experimental design, the subjects were tested twice at times close to expected daily maximum and minimum serum CBZ concentration. They were studied in two balanced blocks (block 1 tested at 8 a.m. and noon, block 2 tested at noon and 8 p.m.). Blood samples were collected every 2 hr from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The subjects showed significant differences in serum CBZ concentration between testing times, with suggested maximum concentration between 10 a.m. and noon. The test battery showed no consistent differences between performance at times of high versus low serum concentration. A supplementary analysis of correlations between mean performance level on cognitive tests and variables related to CBZ treatment did not show consistent trends. 
Slow release carbamazepine in treatment of poorly controlled seizures. Thirty three children with poorly controlled epilepsy, and six new patients, were treated with slow release carbamazepine. Twelve of the former had a reduction in the number of seizures of more than half, and 10 had fewer side effects. Three of the new patients stopped having seizures. Variations in plasma concentrations between doses was significantly less when patients took the slow release preparation (22%) compared with the standard preparation (41%). Slow release carbamazepine may improve the conditions of children whose seizures are poorly controlled. 
Goal attainment scaling and outcome measurement in postacute brain injury rehabilitation. Relationships among two-month and final goal attainment scaling (GAS) scores, preadmission and final Portland Adaptability Inventory (PAI) scores, and work outcome for 16 graduates of a comprehensive, postacute brain injury rehabilitation program were examined. Final GAS scores were higher for program graduates who obtained the most desirable work outcomes, and preadmission and final PAI scores were lower for the successful program graduates. Final GAS scores were significantly correlated with other outcome measures. Preadmission PAI scores predicted work outcome, and two-month GAS scores predicted final GAS scores. Initial PAI scores distinguished between program successes and failures, but not between program successes and dropouts. A brief look at one case illustrates the modified application of GAS in postacute brain injury rehabilitation. Results of this study and case analyses support GAS as a quantifiable, individualized measure that is useful for (1) monitoring patient progress, (2) structuring team conferences, (3) ongoing rehabilitation planning and decision-making, (4) concise, relevant communication to family, referral sources, and funding sources, and (5) overall program evaluation when used in the context of other objective outcome measures. Although our results support the clinical utility of GAS, further study is recommended to assess the psychometric characteristics of GAS in this application. 
Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score in patients with cerebrovascular disease and in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors. Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) activity in peripheral blood was determined in 54 patients with cerebrovascular disease (CVD), 11 patients with primary brain tumor, and 23 patients with metastatic brain tumor. The LAP score of the primary brain tumor patients (155 +/- 40) was significantly higher (P less than 0.03) than the LAP score for cerebrovascular disease patients (96 +/- 87). The LAP score levels of the metastatic brain tumor patients (251 +/- 55) was significantly higher as compared with both the cerebrovascular disease (P less than 0.001) and primary brain tumor groups (P less than 0.001). The LAP score could serve as an additional, although non-specific, marker to assist in the differentiation between cerebrovascular disease and brain tumors. 
Restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis. To analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) or temporal arteritis (TA) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed. The mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with PMR 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months. In patients with TA the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months, and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months. Patients with coexisting TA and PMR demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either TA or PMR and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years. No visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated. Our study indicates that most patients with PMR or TA can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily. With few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months. 
Diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography. The presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in Doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations. This flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood. We demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations. The mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds, with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations. The presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia. Therefore, the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value. However, our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation, namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation. 
Mini-Mental State exam scores vary with education in blacks and whites. Previous studies have suggested that education and race may affect performance on standardized mental status tests. In order to more clearly define these relationships, a prospective longitudinal study was devised to answer two questions: (1) whether race or level of education affects scores on the Mini-Mental State (MMS) exam in non-demented people and (2) what numerical cutpoints maximize the sensitivity and specificity of utilizing the MMS to help diagnose dementia in blacks of varying educational attainment. A total of 100 white and 258 black individuals, recruited from two city hospital primary care geriatric clinics, were evaluated and subsequently followed longitudinally over a 2 1/2 year period in order to assess accurately the presence or absence of dementia. In the non-demented, total MMS scores and performance on each item of the MMS were analyzed, revealing that people with an 8th grade or less education consistently had significantly (P less than .01) worse results than the better educated (9th grade or better) on borough, attention items, recall of table and dog, copying, sentence writing, phrase repeating, and total score. Furthermore, a total of 25% of the lower education group had an MMS score in the 18-23 range, traditionally thought to suggest dementia. There were no consistently significant differences between blacks and whites of equal education. In the better educated groups, using a score of 23 or less to define dementia maximizes the sensitivity and specificity of using the MMS in this diagnosis at 93% and 100%, respectively. In the lower education group, using 17 or less to define dementia maximizes sensitivity and specificity at 81% and 100%, respectively. 
Emergence of recreational drug abuse as a major risk factor for stroke in young adults OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical and epidemiologic relations between recreational drug abuse and stroke in young persons. DESIGN: A case-control study based on medical records. SETTING: San Francisco General Hospital, a 400-bed municipal hospital. PATIENTS: Consecutive sample of 214 patients aged 15 to 44 years, admitted between 1979 and 1988 with a diagnosis of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. An equal number of control patients admitted with diagnoses of status asthmaticus, acute appendicitis, or acute cholecystitis were matched to stroke patients by age, sex, and year of hospitalization. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Seventy-three patients with stroke (34%) were drug abusers compared with 18 (8%) of the controls. In 47 patients with stroke, temporal proximity of drug administration (n = 34) or infectious endocarditis (n = 13) suggested a direct association between drug abuse and stroke. After controlling for other identifiable stroke risk factors, the estimated relative risk for stroke among drug abusers compared with that among non-drug abusers was 6.5 (95% CI, 3.1 to 13.6), and this increased to 49.4 (CI, 6.4 to 379.0) for those patients whose symptoms began within 6 hours of drug administration. Among patients less than 35 years of age, drug abuse was the most commonly identified potential predisposing condition (47%), and it was the only condition with a significantly elevated relative risk for stroke (11.7; CI, 3.2 to 42.5). Further, a substantial rise in the proportion of drug-related strokes was observed in the last 3 years of the study (31% in 1986 to 1988, compared with 15% in 1979 to 1985, P = 0.008). Cocaine, especially recently, was the drug used most frequently in drug-related strokes. CONCLUSION: In an urban population such as ours, recreational drug abuse appears to be a prominent and growing risk factor for strokes in young adults. 
Perivascular innervation of the cerebral arteries in spontaneously hypertensive rats--an immunohistochemical study. Perivascular innervation in cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats and of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats was studied. Adrenergic nerve fibers and neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasoconstrictor nerves, were denser in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats than those of Wistar-Kyoto rats. In contrast, cholinergic nerve fibers and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P-containing nerve fibers, indicative of vasodilator nerves, remained unchanged in all cerebral arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rats, as compared with findings in the Wistar-Kyoto rats. Thus, not only adrenergic nerve fibers but also neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers may play an important role in preventing the disruption of the blood-brain barrier and the development of hypertensive encephalopathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats. 
Overt hepatic encephalopathy precipitated by zinc deficiency. Encephalopathy in liver disease may be unresponsive to protein restriction, lactulose, and neomycin. Zinc supplements have been reported to improve psychometric performance in liver cirrhosis, but the importance of zinc deficiency in overt hepatic encephalopathy has not yet been clearly established. A patient with severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy was studied to determine the relation between her signs of encephalopathy and zinc deficiency. The study included a period in which zinc deficiency was artificially induced by oral histidine. An episode of overt encephalopathy occurred that was identical to earlier episodes and responded to oral zinc. The study showed an association between encephalopathy and zinc deficiency by successive zinc depletion and supplementation regimens. Long-term zinc supplementation improved severe recurrent hepatic encephalopathy and therefore the quality of life. 
A prognostic system for transient ischemia or minor stroke. OBJECTIVE: To build a prognostic system for patients with carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. DESIGN: Inception cohort study with 2-year follow-up. SETTING: Urban community teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Eligible patients (n = 142), identified on a carotid ultrasound roster, had been hospitalized between 1984 and 1987 within 30 days of a first carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke. MEASUREMENTS: Stroke or death within 2 years. MAIN RESULTS: Three factors were associated with stroke or death: age of more than 65 years, diabetes, and hypertension. Based on regression coefficients, age of more than 65 years was assigned 3 points; diabetes, 3 points; and hypertension, 2 points. An initial prognostic system comprised risk groups 1 (0 points), 2 (1 to 5 points), and 3 (6 to 8 points). Outcome rates in the three groups were 2%, 31%, and 54% (P less than 0.0001), respectively. In an independent test sample, the corresponding outcome rates for the initial system were 12%, 21%, and 31% (P = 0.04). A final prognostic system, including two additional predictors (coronary heart disease [1 point] and the distinction between stroke and transient ischemic attack for the baseline event [2 points]), comprised risk groups 1 (0 to 2 points), 2 (3 to 6 points), and 3 (7 to 11 points). Corresponding outcome rates were 3%, 27%, and 48% (P less than 0.001) in the original cohort and 10%, 21%, and 59% (P less than 0.001) in the test cohort. CONCLUSION: For selected patients with carotid transient ischemia or minor stroke, five clinical features can be combined to stratify effectively the risk for a subsequent stroke or death. 
Sumatriptan in acute migraine: pharmacology and review of world experience. The introduction of sumatriptan, a novel abortive antimigraine agent, has generated a significant amount of preclinical and clinical interest during the past few years. At the scientific level, sumatriptan is unique in terms of its selective pharmacological properties. The effects of sumatriptan in various experimental paradigms have led to new insights into the pathophysiology of migraine. At the clinical level, sumatriptan appears to be an effective abortive anti-migraine agent with minimal side effects. Its ability to decrease, rather than exacerbate, the nausea and vomiting of migraine appears to be an important advance in the treatment of migraine. 
Denervation in hemiplegic muscles. This study examined the frequency of denervation activity in hemiplegic muscles in relation to the size and location of the central lesion. We studied 20 patients, 14 with major unilateral cerebral infarctions in the middle cerebral or internal carotid territories; four with a single lacune in the pons, internal capsule, or thalamus; and two with precentral infarcts. Using somatosensory evoked potentials, motor conduction studies, and assessments of conduction across the plexus and roots, we detected no conduction abnormalities on the affected side. Fibrillation was common in both groups, especially in distal and intermediate muscles. The distribution of the fibrillation and the normal conduction studies suggested that trauma of peripheral nerves was not a factor. Although the normal conduction studies and pattern of fibrillation activity do not exclude peripheral nerve trauma as the cause of the fibrillation, we suggest that transsynaptic degeneration is a reasonable alternative explanation. 
Right-left disorientation in dementia of the Alzheimer type. We demonstrated that right-left orientation (R/L-O) on a confronting subject is more impaired in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type than in patients with multi-infarct dementia of comparable degree of dementia. The impairment in R/L-O is independent of aphasia and spatial disorientation. 
Percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia: a case report. Percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia. The patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction, but she made a good recovery. We describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis. 
Comparative pharmacodynamics and brain distribution of E-delta 2-valproate and valproate in rats. The E-isomer of 2-unsaturated valproate (E-delta 2-VPA) is a pharmacologically active metabolite of VPA that is less teratogenic and hepatotoxic than its saturated precursor. To assess potential use of E-delta 2-VPA as an alternate to VPA, a dose-response study comparing the anticonvulsant activity and neurotoxicity of E-delta 2-VPA and VPA was conducted in rats using the intravenous (i.v.) pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-infusion threshold seizure model. Assay of drug in whole brain and plasma allowed comparison of the drug concentration-effect relationships and the brain distribution characteristics of the two compounds. E-delta 2-VPA was two to three times more potent than VPA in elevating the clonic seizure threshold of PTZ, in reference to either plasma or whole-brain drug concentrations. Furthermore, much steeper response curves were observed with E-delta 2-VPA as compared with VPA. Within the pharmacologic concentration range (defined as EC25 to EC75), E-delta 2-VPA was less neurotoxic than VPA as assessed by behavioral tests. Therefore, E-delta 2-VPA has a much more favorable protective index than VPA. At low doses, the concentration ratios of brain to plasma for both E-delta 2-VPA and VPA increased markedly with increasing plasma drug concentration. E-delta 2-VPA and VPA were previously shown to exhibit saturable binding to rat plasma proteins. If we assume that uptake of drug into the CNS is limited to the equilibrium plasma free fraction in the brain microvasculature, much of the nonlinear brain distribution features of VPA could be accounted for by saturable drug plasma protein binding. On the other hand, more complex kinetics involving simultaneous saturation of plasma protein binding and blood-to-brain transport are proposed to explain the brain distribution of the unsaturated compound. In addition, the brain-to-free drug concentration ratios for both E-delta 2-VPA and VPA were below unity at high drug-concentration range, consistent with the presence of an efficient efflux mechanism of these compounds from brain. 
X-linked spinal muscular atrophy (Kennedy's syndrome). A kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia. Kennedy's syndrome, X-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy, has been described in over 30 families. The characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome, augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia. Type IV or type II hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families. We have studied another family with Kennedy's syndrome, this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia. The diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy. However, gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for Kennedy's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor, which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities. 
Unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation: no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy OBJECTIVE--To examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy. DESIGN--Perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation. SETTING--One routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital. PATIENTS--23 Patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy, nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia, and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution, without a personal or family history of diabetes. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres (acetylcholine sweatspot test), a pupil test, and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mU/kg/h insulin infusion test; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia, which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas. RESULTS--There was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. By contrast, in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. Unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated (p less than 0.01). The response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls (change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l). The patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response (3.7 pmol/l), but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation (72.4 pmol/l) compared with that of the controls (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS--Unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy. The blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre, rather than classical autonomic neuropathy. 
A comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia. Pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting PRL-lowering activity, allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug. The results of two open-label, randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported. Pergolide (taken once a day), was compared with bromocriptine (taken two to four times daily) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of PRL levels, the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea, the improvement in sexual function, and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without (trial I; 61 patients) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors (trial II; 96 patients). Both drugs were equally effective in lowering PRL levels in both trials. A median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed PRL levels in the 61 patients of trial I by more than 80%. During the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96% and 87% of patients, whereas menstruation returned in 90% and 96% of patients, respectively. An equally high efficacy (optimal median dose: 75-100 micrograms pergolide, 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily) was observed in trial II, although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial I (50% and 58% of patients, respectively). Sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients. In addition, tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs. A high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds: nausea, dizziness, vomiting, asthenia, headache, and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine. Patients in trial I treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever, vasodilatation, and flu syndrome. Conclusions: in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients, a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine. Longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily, are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen. This might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia. 
Symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trials. The possible benefit of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is being evaluated in three major clinical trials. To date, the European Carotid Surgery Trial has randomized 2,200 patients, 30% of whom have a carotid stenosis of greater than 70% appropriate to their symptoms. The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial has randomized 1,000 patients, of whom more than half have this severity of appropriate stenosis. Quality control and the evaluation of outcome events in this trial is achieved by a three-tier review, including review by medical and surgical adjudicators who are blinded to the treatment arm of each patient. Baseline characteristics of the patients eligible but not randomized are similar to those of patients who have been randomized. Two percent of the patients randomized to the surgical arm have declined surgery and crossed over to the medical arm, and 3% have elected surgery after randomization to the medical arm. Both of these studies, as well as a Veterans Administration trial, are continuing to randomize patients. 
Neurinoma in the cavernous sinus: report of two cases. Two cases of trigeminal neurinoma located solely in the cavernous sinus are reported. Preoperatively, magnetic resonance imaging provided the accurate localization of the lesions, allowing precise planning of the surgical approach, that is, a subtemporal lateral approach and a pterional superior approach, respectively. The neurinomas inside the cavernous sinus were removed successfully, and the patients developed no new neurological deficits except for anesthesia in the 1st division of the trigeminal nerve. The characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings of trigeminal neurinoma in the cavernous sinus are presented, and the different surgical approaches are discussed. 
Silent myocardial ischemia during rehabilitation for cerebrovascular disease. In asymptomatic patients the importance of silent ischemic ST-T wave changes on Holter monitoring is known to be a significant predictive variable for one-year mortality of postmyocardial infarction patients. This case report represents the uses of ambulatory ECG to detect ischemic ST changes in patients who have had recent strokes. The cases reported here of silent myocardiac ischemia in stroke patients reflect previous reports in which 70% of the ischemic episodes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease are not associated with angina and in which approximately 10% to 15% of acute myocardial infarctions are silent. We now believe that the incidence of "silent" ischemia may be precipitated in poststroke patients during their rehabilitation program. This belief is supported by two main factors. First, a high level of personally relevant mental stress exists which activates the sympathoadrenal system, which may lead to myocardial ischemia. Second, some stroke patients become aphasic and are unable to communicate adequately even if they experience angina symptoms. We have found that poststroke, most patients could not undergo exercise treadmill testing secondary to a variety of factors: inability to coordinate limbs, poor endurance, inability to follow directions, and/or lack of attention. We now propose that 24-hour monitoring for ST-T wave changes poststroke should be considered as part of a vigorous investigation for myocardial ischemia during the rehabilitation of these patients because they have an increased risk of cardiac morbidity. 
Locked-in syndrome with bilateral ventral midbrain infarcts. We report a patient who was quadriplegic and mute, but retained consciousness and communicated by eye movements and blinks. EEG and SEPs were normal. BAEPs showed slight prolongation of latencies for waves IV and V. MRI showed bilateral infarcts only in the middle and lateral portions of the cerebral peduncles. 
Persistence and remission of depressive symptoms in late life. OBJECTIVE: The relation of poor health to the onset of depression symptoms in late life is well recognized, but little attention has been given to characteristics that might predict persistence or remission of depressive symptoms. In previous analyses the authors found that increasing disability and declining health preceded the emergence of depressive symptoms in older community residents and accounted for 70% of the variance explained by discriminant analyses. The aim of the present analysis was to examine the relevance of changes in health and disability to the persistence of depressive symptoms. METHOD: A representative sample of 1,855 adults aged 65 or older were assessed with the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale at baseline. Twenty-four months later, 1,577 individuals were available for a second assessment of depressive symptoms. The characteristics of the 97 community residents whose depressive symptoms persisted over 24 months were compared to those of the 114 whose symptoms remitted. RESULTS: Changes in health, differences in age, sleep disturbance, and added formal support services accounted for more than 30% of the variance between the persistently depressed and remission groups. Advanced age and worsening health were associated with persistent symptoms, improved health with remission. CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies have indicated that untoward changes in health and disability play a major role in the onset of depressive symptoms. These findings show a substantial contribution to chronicity as well. 
Central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox--cause or coincidence? A 7.5 year old boy, known to have a seizure disorder, presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory, 10 weeks after severe chickenpox. Immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32. Cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis. He presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct, but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process. Cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32. Although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence, a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis, similar to that reported with herpes zoster, and with potentially significant clinical implications, should be considered. As a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy, however, which is generally not indicated in such cases, only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity. 
Silent cerebrovascular disease in the elderly. Correlation with ambulatory pressure. Does the average daily blood pressure correlate with hypertensive cerebrovascular disease better than the casual pressure, as has been reported in other target organ involvement? We investigated the associations of two abnormal findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of a vascular etiology, low intense foci (lacunae), and periventricular hyperintense lesions on T1- and T2-weighted images, with both office and average daily blood pressure values in a population of 73 healthy normotensive and hypertensive elderly individuals (70 +/- 6 years old). Lacunae were detected in 34 subjects (47%); the number per subject ranged from 0 to 19 and was significantly correlated with advancing age. Furthermore, these changes were supposedly related to the average of noninvasive ambulatory (24-hour and during awake and asleep periods) pressure recordings but not to office pressures. The grade of periventricular hyperintensity was also significantly associated with advancing age and the average of ambulatory systolic pressure recordings, particularly during sleep, but not with office blood pressure. In comparisons of normotensive, "office hypertensive," and hypertensive subgroups, abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were appropriate to the level of the 24-hour blood pressure measurements but not to that of clinic pressure. In hypertensive patients, the presence of electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy was also associated with greater abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging. We conclude that ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is superior to casual pressure measurements in predicting latent cerebrovascular disease, which is unexpectedly common in apparently healthy elderly subjects. 
Effects of acute hypermagnesemia on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures in the rat. The effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70% nitrous oxide and 30% oxygen. In experiment 1, male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (group I) or 5.0% magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 +/- 0.1 (group II) or 10.5 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (group III). In experiment 2, pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (normomagnesemia) or magnesium sulfate, resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 +/- 1.4 mg/dl. Thirty minutes later, a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine (2.3 mg/kg per minute) was begun in both experiments. Biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously. At the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity, arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured. In groups I and III (experiment 1), brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed. There were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations (in experiments 1 or 2) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures. Brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion. We conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures. 
Relation of hyperglycemia early in ischemic brain infarction to cerebral anatomy, metabolism, and clinical outcome. We studied the relation of serum glucose level measured in the first 12 hours of symptoms to the clinical findings, results of computed tomography (CT), and patterns of cerebral metabolism in 39 patients who had acute ischemic cerebral infarction. Structural damage was assessed by CT. Metabolic disruption was assessed using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography (PET). Median initial serum glucose concentration was 155 mg/dl (6.7 mM). Clinical recovery was significantly poorer in patients with initial serum glucose levels higher than the median (p less than 0.05, chi square). PET tended to show normal results or minor abnormalities in patients with initial glucose levels less than the median, as opposed to lobar or multilobe abnormalities in patients with levels that were higher than the median (p less than 0.05, Kendall's Tau b). The severity of hypometabolism in the ischemic region, expressed as the percent asymmetry of local cerebral glucose metabolism between homologous brain regions, was greater in patients with initial glycemia concentrations higher than the median (p less than 0.001, t test). Relationships of serum glucose level with metabolic derangement and structural damage, but not outcome, held true in patients without a history of diabetes mellitus. 
Clinical-computed tomographic correlations of lacunar infarction in the Stroke Data Bank. Lacunar stroke was diagnosed in 337 (26%) of the 1,273 patients with cerebral infarction among the 1,805 total in the Stroke Data Bank. We analyzed the 316 patients with classic lacunar syndromes. Among these, 181 (57%) had pure motor hemiparesis, 63 (20%) sensorimotor syndrome, 33 (10%) ataxic hemiparesis, 21 (7%) pure sensory syndrome, and 18 (6%) dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. No striking differences were found among the risk factors for the lacunar subtypes, but differences were found between lacunar stroke as a group and other types of infarcts. Compared to 113 patients with large-vessel atherosclerotic infarction, those with lacunar stroke had fewer previous transient ischemic attacks and strokes. Compared to 246 with cardioembolic infarction, patients with lacunar stroke more frequently had hypertension and diabetes and less frequently had cardiac disease. We found a lesion in 35% of the lacunar stroke patients' computed tomograms, with most lesions located in the internal capsule and corona radiata. The mean infarct volume was greater in patients with pure motor hemiparesis or sensorimotor syndrome than in those with the other lacunar stroke subtypes. In patients with pure motor hemiparesis and infarcts in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, there was a correlation between lesion volume and hemiparesis severity except for the few whose infarct involved the lowest portion of the internal capsule; in these patients severe deficits occurred regardless of lesion volume. Taken together, the computed tomographic correlations with the syndromes of hemiparesis showed only slight support for the classical view of a homunculus in the internal capsule. 
Nd:YAG-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas. Forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor. The 1.32 microns Nd:YAG-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments. Tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the Nd:YAG-laser. This technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half. The Nd:YAG-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20% to zero. The postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76% of the patients. The use of the 1.32 microns Nd:YAG-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma. 
Cerebrospinal fluid immune complexes in patients exposed to Borrelia burgdorferi: detection of Borrelia-specific and -nonspecific complexes. We analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 32 patients with neurological symptoms and evidence of Borrelia burgdorferi infection (29 were seropositive as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, 2 were cell-mediated immune positive, and 1 had been seropositive as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 9 months previously). CSF immune complexes were found in 22 (69%) of 32 patients; in 18, there was sufficient sample to isolate immune complexes. By enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, isolated immune complexes from 10 of these 18 patients contained antibody specific for B. burgdorferi antigens. The isotypes were IgG (n = 8), IgM (n = 3), and IgA (n = 2). By immunoblot, these antibodies were directed against B. burgdorferi 41-kDa antigen and occasionally against the 33- and 17-kDa antigens. Anti-B. burgdorferi IgM was present in patients with acute neurological symptoms, was predominantly complexed rather than free, and decreased with clinical recovery in the one serial study. Three patients were nonreactive for free CSF antibodies, but had complexed antibodies to the organism. The preliminary finding of specific B. burgdorferi components in immune complexes in CSF suggests an active process triggered by the organism, even in the absence of other CSF abnormalities. 
Neurologic complications in chronic renal failure: a retrospective study. We have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications, laboratory data and therapeutic interventions. The common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness (40.7%) and convulsions (35.1%). When BUN concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1.73 m2, alteration of consciousness was observed and when BUN concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1.73 m2, abnormal convulsives appeared. Changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension. All of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months, and six of them had hemodialysis. Fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome. These findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with CRF may be particularly detrimental to the still developing CNS of the child. 
L-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. We describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with L-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. The illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias, arthralgias and paresthesias. The physical findings consist of muscle tenderness, neuropathies, rash, peripheral and periorbital edema. Electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3. Skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema, inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin, whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle. Seven patients were treated with prednisone; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted. 
Treatment of intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy with thrombin. Report of three patients. Of 165 consecutive patients undergoing computerized tomography- or magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic brain biopsies at the Cleveland Clinic between June, 1987, and November, 1989, four patients (2.4%) developed arterial hemorrhage refractory to conventional efforts to secure hemostasis. Craniotomy was performed in one of these patients to control the hemorrhage; in the other three, 0.5 to 2 cc of thrombin (5000 U/cc) was slowly injected via the biopsy cannula, resulting in immediate control of bleeding in all three cases. Postoperatively, the first two patients treated with 1 to 2 cc of thrombin were slow to awaken; one had evidence of vasospasm by transcranial Doppler ultrasound studies and multiple infarcts on cranial computerized tomography, while the other had a moderate-sized frontal hematoma with intracranial hypertension. After prolonged recovery periods, only mild neurological deficits persisted in both patients. The third patient, treated with 0.5 cc of thrombin, had an uneventful postoperative course. Thrombin is highly effective for stopping intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy; however, it is a vasospastic agent and may have been responsible for the cerebral infarctions in one patient. Therefore, thrombin should be used only as a last resort, short of craniotomy, to control intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy. 
Gene mapping and other tools for discovery. Genetic mapping provides a means of understanding the molecular basis of inherited diseases whose biochemistry is unknown. Adequate pedigrees, informative genetic markers, and accurate identification of the disease phenotype are necessary. For dominant inheritance, mapping studies can be done in a single large pedigree; the larger the number of affected individuals sampled the better the estimate of recombination between the gene causing the disease and one or more nearby genetic markers. For recessive inheritance, nuclear families with more than one affected sibling provide the best information. The development of many polymorphic DNA markers on the human genome has contributed to the success of mapping unknown genes because, as the genome is now densely covered with markers, the probability is good that at least one marker will be linked to the disease locus in a family that is segregating a disease allele. Most genetic markers now in use depend upon restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs), which are either the result of single-base-pair substitution or the presence of a variable number of tandemly repeated oligonucleotide units at a locus (VNTRs). RFLPs can be recognized by digesting DNA with restriction enzymes and separating the fragments by size on an electrophoretic gel. VNTRs can vary widely among individuals, and they provide more linkage information than single-site polymorphic markers because family members are more likely to be heterozygous. Genetic maps of each chromosome, constructed from linkage data relating marker loci to one another in normal reference families, permit rational choices of markers for disease-mapping studies. 
Presymptomatic and prenatal diagnosis of myotonic muscular dystrophy with linked DNA probes. Advances in neurogenetics are facilitating clinical care. Localization of the mutant gene that causes myotonic muscular dystrophy (DM) to chromosome 19 enabled our predictive testing using linked DNA probes in 74 members of 12 families at risk. Individuals sought either diagnostic confirmation or exclusion with childbearing in mind, or requested prenatal diagnosis. Valuable information was provided for 11 of 12 families. Of 14 individuals at 50% risk, 12 learned they did not have DM, two learned they did (although presymptomatic), and prenatal diagnoses of affected fetuses were made in three families--all with high degrees of certainty. The future opportunity for prenatal diagnosis was provided for 3 other families. The potential health risks to an affected female and her affected or nonaffected fetus provide cogent reasons for physicians to inform DM families in their care about these important advances and opportunities to avert grave complications. 
An evaluation of a 30-gauge needle for spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section. A 30-gauge spinal needle was evaluated for Caesarean section, using a combined epidural/spinal technique, in 50 mothers. Spinal anaesthesia failed in six mothers and was inadequate in another six. General anaesthesia was required on one occasion. A 25% overall failure rate suggests that a 30-gauge needle is not a practical proposition for routine clinical practice. 
Speech, velopharyngeal function, and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery. Articulation, voice, resonance, hearing sensitivity, and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after orthognathic surgery. Thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery. Errors on the sibilants /s/ and /z/ occurred most frequently, followed by those on /j,zh,ch/ and /sh/. Errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components. After surgery, articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention. Most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative, but, thereafter, a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months, errors occurred on /s/ and /z/. Voice, resonance, velopharyngeal port area, and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery. This study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors. 
EEG correlation of improvement in hemolytic-uremic syndrome after plasma infusion. We report a previously undescribed electroencephalographic pattern of epochs of diffuse delta background (85-240 sec) alternating with epochs of classic "burst suppression" (90-270 sec) in a 13-month-old girl with hemolytic-uremic syndrome. A dramatic electroencephalographic improvement was evident on continuous monitoring of cerebral function 3 hours after initiating fresh frozen plasma infusion, well before any clinical improvement was apparent. This patient, in addition to the unusual electroencephalographic findings, illustrates the role of continuous electrophysiologic monitoring of cerebral function and supports the use of fresh frozen plasma in hemolytic-uremic syndrome. 
Obstructive sleep apnoea in children undergoing routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. Sleep screening was used to discover the incidence of sleep apnoea in 50 children undergoing routine adenotonsillectomy for recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, randomly selected from the waiting list. Preoperative assessment included a detailed parental history, physical examination, and lateral cephalometry, in order to identify factors that might alert the clinician to a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea. There were 2 equal groups of snorers and non-snorers (grade 0); 1 patient was found to have the sleep apnoea syndrome (IV), 9 patients had obstructive snoring with apnoeic episodes (III), 3 patients had snoring with a disrupted sleep pattern (II), and 12 patients snored with no disruption of sleep (I). In identifying patients with apnoea, a history of snoring was unhelpful, whereas one of breathing irregularities was found to be highly specific. Nasal obstruction correlated poorly; however, there was a significant relationship between tonsillar position and size and sleep grade (Chi-squared P less than 0.01). Stepwise regression analysis showed a large contribution to the grading was made by the size of the oropharyngeal airway measured by lateral cephalometry. The children in grade II-IV were re-studied 3 months post-operatively and all reverted to grades 0 or I. 
Fulminating multiple sclerosis-like leukoencephalopathy revealing human immunodeficiency virus infection. A 66-year-old French homosexual man and a 42-year-old Brazilian man with no known risk factors for HIV infection developed headaches, asthenia, and neurologic episodes of abrupt onset. CT showed multiple hypodense, nonenhancing lesions. Serology for HIV was positive. They died respectively 2 months and 1 month after onset of the illnesses. Autopsy in both cases showed multiple, well-demarcated, demyelinating foci in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, and cerebellum with histologic features characteristic of recent plaques of multiple sclerosis. There were no multinucleated giant cells or microglial nodules. Immunostaining for HIV was negative. Although a random coincidence of MS and HIV infection cannot be ruled out, the close temporal relationship between the 2 disorders suggests a possible etiologic association. 
Cholinergic deficiency and frontal dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. To investigate the influence of central cholinergic deficit on cognitive function in Parkinson's disease (PD), we compared the neuropsychological performance of a group of 20 patients who were treated with anticholinergic drugs (mean daily dose, 10.2 mg) with that of a group of 20 patients who received no anticholinergics. The two groups were matched for all the variables of parkinsonism and levodopa therapy. At the dose used, there was no significant difference between the two groups of patients for intellectual, visuospatial, instrumental, and memory function. In contrast, in the group that received anticholinergics severe impairment was observed on tests believed to assess frontal lobe function. These results suggest that the lesion of the ascending cholinergic neurons, which has been demonstrated post mortem in PD, may play a role in the subcorticofrontal behavioral impairment of this disease. 
Liver failure occurring as a component of exertional heatstroke. An unusual case of an exertional heatstroke in a healthy 25-year-old man is presented. Initially, the patient was deeply comatose and developed severe rhabdomyolysis and massive hepatic necrosis. Subsequently, he received a liver transplant with remarkable improvement in his mental status, although the rhabdomyolysis continued. The patient died 41 days after the transplant due to a complicating infection. Providing that infections can be effectively controlled, liver transplants might be a promising therapeutic alternative for the few patients who survive the initial neurological consequences of this unusual event. 
Induction, blockade and restoration of a persistent hypersensitive state. A new model of chronic hypersensitivity was developed in the rat by daily intraplantar administration of either prostaglandin E2 dopamine or isoprenaline, for a period of 2 weeks. Like other hyperalgesic mediators, dibutyryl-cAMP, when applied to the paws, caused an acute effect but did not produce persistent hypersensitivity. The persistent hypersensitive state was not affected by a typical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (indomethacin), was temporarily inhibited by a centrally acting analgesic (morphine), was partially inhibited by a protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) and abolished by a single dose of peripherally acting analgesics such as dipyrone or N-methyl morphine. Once the residual hypersensitivity had been abolished with dipyrone or N-methyl morphine, a small dose of prostaglandin E2, dopamine or Interleukin-1 beta, which in normal animals causes a mild and short lived effect, restored the persistent hypersensitive state. This ability to restore the persistent effect was not observed with intraplantar administration of dibutyryl-cAMP. Our results suggest the existence of a peripheral trace of inflammatory pain, a phenomenon which may be associated with stimulation of neuronal adenylate cyclase and protein synthesis. This concept may explain part of the puzzle of chronic inflammatory pain and lead to the development of new analgesics. 
The efficacy of brainstem auditory evoked potentials in acoustic tumor surgery. As the identification of patients with small acoustic neuromas and salvageable hearing increases, intraoperative auditory nerve monitoring has been used increasingly in an attempt to improve the hearing preservation rate. Far-field recordings obtained by brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP), at times enhanced by electrocochleography, have become a standard method of intraoperative auditory nerve assessment. To evaluate the usefulness of this monitoring technique, the hearing preservation results of a series of unmonitored acoustic tumor removals were compared to a series of patients monitored via the standard brainstem auditory evoked potentials. With comparable average tumor sizes, 4 of 7 unmonitored patients had hearing preserved at preoperative levels compared to 4 of 9 monitored patients. Neither preoperative BAEP assessments nor absolute tumor size were predictive of hearing preservation. This report brings into question the effectiveness of far-field intraoperative BAEP monitoring during acoustic tumor resection and suggests that direct auditory nerve monitoring may be more appropriate. 
Murine retroviral neurovirulence correlates with an enhanced ability ofvirus to infect selectively, replicate in, and activate resident microglial cells [published erratum appears in Am J Pathol 1991 May;138(5):1058] To determine the biologic basis of ts1 MoMuLV neurovirulence in vivo, newborn CFW/D mice were inoculated with neurovirulent ts1 MoMuLV and nonneurovirulent wt MoMuLV and the temporal response to virus infection in the central nervous system (CNS), spleen, and thymus was studied comparatively. Experimental procedures included single and double labeling in situ immunohistochemistry with selective morphometric analyses, and steady state immunoblotting of viral proteins. Cellular targets for virus infection were identical for both ts1 and wt MoMuLV and consisted sequentially of 1) splenic megakaryocytes, 2) splenic and thymic lymphocytes, 3) CNS capillary endothelial cells, and 4) CNS pericytes and microglia. Resident microglial cells served as the major reservor and amplifier of virus infection in the CNS of ts1 MoMuLV-infected mice; a similar but much less significant role was played by microglia in wt MoMuLV-infected mice. The genesis and progression of severe spongiform lesions in ts1 MoMuLV-infected mice were both temporally and spatially correlated with amplified virus infection of microglia, and hyperplasia and hypertrophy of both virus-infected and nonvirus-infected microglial cells. Direct virus infection of neurons was never observed. The development of clinical neurologic disease and spongiform lesions in ts1 MoMuLV-infected mice correlated with the accumulation of both viral gag and env gene products in the CNS; there was no selective accumulation of env precursor polyprotein Pr80env. When compared to wt MoMuLV-infected mice, the neurovirulence of ts1 MoMuLV-infected mice occurred by an enhanced ability to replicate in the CNS and to infect and activate more microglia, rather than by a fundamental change in cellular tropism or topography of virus infection. 
Acute naming deficits following dominant temporal lobectomy: prediction by age at 1st risk for seizures. Age at 1st risk for seizures may predict anomia following dominant anterior temporal lobectomy. We assessed confrontation naming before and 2 to 3 weeks after surgery in 45 right-handed patients grouped by side of focus and presence or absence of early (less than or equal to 5 years) risk factors. After left lobectomy, 6 of 10 (60%) patients with no early risks demonstrated significant decline (greater than or equal to 25%) in naming, but none of the patients with early risks showed this decline. After right lobectomy, there was no change. Cerebral representation of naming may be atypical in patients with early risks. 
Delirium: masquerades and misdiagnosis in elderly inpatients. Delirium is an organic mental disorder defined as transient, fluctuating global dysfunction of cognition. It is common in elderly medical inpatients, yet its varied presentation is often missed or misdiagnosed. 
Effect of the topical anesthetic EMLA on the efficacy of pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains. EMLA cream (Eutectic Mixture of Local Anesthetics) is a new topical anesthetic composed of 25 mg lidocaine and 25 mg prilocaine in an oil-in-water emulsion cream. It has been found to be very effective for local anesthesia prior to venepuncture, minor surgical procedures, and pulsed dye laser (PDL) therapy for port-wine stains (PWS) in children. However, since EMLA may cause vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels, we tried to determine whether pretreatment with EMLA decreases the efficacy of subsequent PDL treatment. We report eight patients between the ages of 4 and 32 years with PWS who received two test site treatments prior to PDL treatment. One site was pretreated with EMLA cream under occlusion for 60 minutes and then left unoccluded for 15 minutes prior to PDL test treatment. The other site, in the same area of the PWS and patient's body, was not pretreated with EMLA. The test sites were compared 6-8 weeks later to determine whether EMLA decreased the degree of lightening of the PWS compared to the non-EMLA-treated site. We conclude that EMLA is an effective topical anesthetic for PDL treatment of PWS and does not adversely affect the efficacy of the treatment. 
Rehabilitation in brain disorders. 3. Intervention strategies. This self-directed learning module highlights advances in the principles of management of brain disorders. It is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. The chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. This article covers rehabilitation philosophy, management of cognitive remediation, and behavioral management, with attention to communication disorders, social factors, vocational/educational/avocational issues, treatment of motor deficits, dysphagia, sensory dysfunction, sexual dysfunction, and substance abuse. Advances that are covered in this section include pharmacologic and rehabilitative interventions for acute, chronic, and progressive brain injuries and diseases. The learner is directed to articles 1, 2, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information. 
Peroxisomal disorders. Although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige, their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades. Unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders, but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities, prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided. It is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases, as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders. Clearly, there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders. 
Magnetic resonance imaging and tomographic evaluation of occlusal appliance treatment for advanced internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint. This study evaluates the positional relationship of the disc and mandibular condyle in patients with late opening clicks treated with appliance therapy. A total of 30 joints (18 patients) were studied. Twenty-seven of these 30 joints were treated with the appliance until the joints were silent to auscultation. The patients were then evaluated with axial corrected tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the centric occlusion position and with their bite appliance (Sved-type) in place. Comparisons were made between condyle position in centric occlusion and with the appliance in place. Magnetic resonance imaging was then used to evaluate disc positional changes. Each imaging procedure was made in the same sagittal plane. Only changes in condyle positioning could be identified. Evidence of disc repositioning with the appliance in place was seen in only three MRI examinations. The remaining 27 joints continued to exhibit disc displacement with various changes in disc morphology. It is concluded that the concept of "disc capture" is a clinical term only, and that such perceived clinical success should not lead to the assumption that an actual change in intra-articular anatomic relationships has occurred. Joint noises may decrease because joint space is increased, allowing smoother condylar translation beyond disc surface irregularities and positional abnormalities. 
Cognitive and behavioural impairment among elderly people in institutions providing different levels of care. OBJECTIVE: To compare the prevalence and degree of cognitive and behavioural impairment in elderly patients in institutions providing different levels of care. DESIGN: Prevalence study. SETTING: A nursing home, a home for the aged and psychogeriatric wards in a provincial psychiatric hospital. PATIENTS: Only subjects 65 years of age or older were eligible for inclusion. A random sample was selected comprising 25% of the residents in the nursing home and the home for the aged; of the 119 asked to participate 95 agreed (44 in the nursing home and 51 in the home for the aged). All 50 on the psychogeriatric wards agreed to participate. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Kingston Dementia Rating Scale (KDRS). RESULTS: An MMSE score of less than 24 (cognitive impairment) was given to 37 (84%) of the residents in the nursing home, 43 (84%) of those in the home for the aged and 48 (96%) of the patients in the psychiatric hospital; the corresponding numbers for a KDRS score of more than 0 (cognitive impairment) were 41 (93%), 48 (94%) and 50 (100%). The seven patients receiving the highest level of care at the home for the aged (special care) had more behavioural problems than those in the psychiatric hospital did (p less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive and behavioural impairment was widespread in the three institutions regardless of the level of care. When planning services and allocating resources government funding agencies should consider the degree and prevalence of such impairment among elderly people in institutions. 
Tarsal tunnel syndrome in athletes. Case reports and literature review. Tarsal tunnel syndrome is being seen in increasing frequency in the athletic population, especially in the running athlete. The sports medicine physician must be cognizant of this entity, including proper diagnostic testing and management. 
Cerebral palsy: why we must plan for survival. The survival of children in the South East Thames region, born between 1970 and 1979 and diagnosed as having some form of cerebral palsy was investigated. Of the 732 children studied, 651 (90%) are still alive, and hence cerebral palsy must be regarded as a condition with which people live rather than a condition of which they die. Survival varies considerably among the different diagnostic groups: those suffering from spasic quadriplegia, dyskinetic and 'mixed' cerebral palsy are most severely affected. Our evidence suggests that, though immobility and severe mental subnormality are the strongest predictors of mortality in children with cerebral palsy, the majority of even the most severely affected patients survive to adulthood. It is therefore appropriate to plan for their survival by funding and evaluating programmes to maximise health, independence, and quality of life. 
Malignant glandular triton tumor. A case of left brachial plexus-related malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor showing neoplastic, glandular, and rhabdomyoblastic elements in a 39-year-old Chinese man is reported. The authors suggested that this tumor be termed a malignant glandular triton tumor in view of the presence of the adenocarcinomatous component. The patient had extensive local recurrence comprising mainly the Schwann spindle cells within a year after complete piecemeal removal and died 15 months later after the initial presentation. The natural behavior of this tumor, as in other reported cases of malignant triton tumor, is extremely aggressive, unlike malignant schwannoma or glandular malignant schwannoma. The histogenesis of this tumor is likely to be from primitive neural crest cells, Schwann's cell precursors, or metaplastic malignant Schwann's cells. 
Numb chin syndrome secondary to Burkitt's cell acute leukemia. We describe a case of Burkitt's cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting with the bilateral numb chin syndrome as the initial symptom of the disease. Postmortem study of the trigeminal nerve showed heavy infiltrations of leukemic cells and destruction of axon and myelin by leukemic cells in the mandibular nerve. 
Total knee arthroplasty fixation. Comparison of the early results of paired cemented versus uncemented porous coated anatomic knee prostheses. The results of 18 matched pairs of Porous Coated Anatomic knee prostheses were studied to compare the early clinical and functional performance of cemented versus uncemented fixation with an average five-year follow-up period for both. The knee score improved from a preoperative average of 35 points to a postoperative average of 90 points in the cemented group, and from 38 points to 93 points in the uncemented group. In particular, the individual pain scores and the range-of-motion values were well matched at the three-, six-, and 12-month follow-up visits and showed a steady improvement. Subjectively, all patients were pleased with the results of surgery; one-third preferred the cemented side, one-third preferred the uncemented side, and one-third found no difference in the performance of either knee. The clinical and functional performance of knee prostheses in patients who had one cemented knee and one uncemented knee were comparable and possibly unrelated to the type of fixation method. 
Attitudes of major employers toward the employment of people with epilepsy: a 30-year study. Beginning in 1956, major San Francisco Bay area employers were sampled at 10-year intervals for a 30-year period to assess attitudes toward the employment of epileptic workers. In this time, we documented a trend of sustained positive change that appears to validate the efforts of organizations that have focused on raising public awareness of this disorder. 
Musculoskeletal problems in association with cloacal exstrophy. The records of all thirteen patients for whom a diagnosis of cloacal exstrophy had been recorded in our hospitals were analyzed for evidence of musculoskeletal problems. All thirteen patients had spina bifida, four had congenital scoliosis, two had congenital kyphosis, and three had non-congenital scoliosis. All had a lipomeningocele, and eleven had paralysis of the lower extremities. Hydrocephalus and its associated problems were not found, but tethered-cord syndrome was diagnosed in eleven patients. Persistent diastasis of the symphysis pubis was found in all patients. Abduction and external rotation of the hips were more than normal. Mild dysplasia was seen in six of the twenty-six hips. Deformities of the foot were common, and twelve feet had been operated on for correction. Recurrent equinovarus deformity of the foot was associated with tethered-cord syndrome in two patients. 
Effect of flumazenil on midazolam-induced amnesia. We have studied the effect of i.v. flumazenil 0.01 mg kg-1 on the amnesia and sedation caused by midazolam 2 mg and 5 mg i.v. in volunteers in order to determine the relationship between the actions of the antagonist on these two effects. Midazolam caused dose-dependent central neural depression as assessed by critical flicker fusion frequency, and dose-dependent amnesia for word cards. In subjects given flumazenil 5 min after administration of midazolam, fusion frequency readings and memory were restored to levels comparable to those before midazolam administration. These two effects of flumazenil were similar in time course and extent, suggesting that they share the same mechanism of action. Flumazenil given alone had no effect on memory. The study has demonstrated anterograde amnesia following benzodiazepine administration and antagonism by flumazenil. There was neither retrograde amnesia nor retrograde antagonism of amnesia. 
Optic nerve sheath meningoceles. Clinical and radiographic features in 13 cases with a review of the literature Thirteen patients with dilated intraorbital optic nerve sheaths with an expanded, patulous cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space were studied with high-resolution computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Eleven patients had bilateral findings. Headache or visual complaints, or both, were present in all patients. Signs of optic nerve dysfunction were present in eight patients. Three patients had visual acuity worse than 20/200. Cerebrospinal fluid pressure was mildly elevated in two patients. Three patients underwent a surgical procedure; visual acuity improved in one. The authors propose the term meningocele for this condition and suggest MRI with fat-suppression techniques and off-axis sagittal views as the radiographic procedure of choice. 
Antinociception and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarius, nucleus reticularis ventralis, and the caudal medulla. In experiment 1, quantitative regional comparisons of the antinociceptive and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the caudal medulla, including regions such as the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), nucleus reticularis ventralis (NRV), nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRGC), nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis (NRPGC), nucleus raphe obscurus (NRO), and medial portions of the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN), were made in the rat. Electrical stimulation in all of these regions resulted in inhibition of the nociceptive tail-flick reflex, although the threshold intensity for inhibition was greater for sites in NTS compared to many sites ventral to the NTS. Antinociception was generally accompanied by an increase in mean arterial blood pressure, with the exception of sites in the NRO, where depressor responses were evoked by stimulation. Detailed comparisons between the NTS and NRV revealed that greater intensities of electrical stimulation were required to produce antinociception for sites in the NTS as compared to the NRV. There were no significant differences in threshold intensities for antinociception as a function of rostrocaudal subdivisions of the NTS, but the lateral subdivision of the NTS was significantly more efficacious than the medial subdivision. This mediolateral difference within NTS was primarily due to stimulation in medial sites producing overt movements in some animals, probably due to stimulation of adjacent midline nuclei or pathways. Within the NRV, thresholds for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex were greater for sites in the dorsal subdivision as compared to the ventral subdivision, which contains spinopetal projections from the NRM. The slopes of the lines of recruitment for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex at stimulation sites in either the NTS or NRV were both very steep, similar to other forms of antinociception. In experiment 2, the pulse duration of electrical stimulation was varied for sites of stimulation in the lateral NTS and NRV to generate strength-duration curves. This experiment confirmed that stimulation sites in the lateral NTS required greater current intensities to inhibit the tail-flick reflex than sites in the NRV. However, the chronaxies derived from the strength-duration functions for the NTS or NRV were both approximately 170 microseconds, indicating that the antinociceptive effects in these regions may not be exclusively due to the stimulation of fibers of passage. These results are discussed in terms of the role of the NTS, NRV, and caudal medulla in the modulation of nociceptive responses and cardiovascular function. 
Anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of two novel competitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonists, CGP 37849 and CGP 39551, in the kindling model of epilepsy. Comparison with MK-801 and carbamazepine. The orally active competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists CGP 37849 (DL-[E]-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid) and its ethyl ester CGP 39551 were evaluated in amygdala-kindled rats, a model for complex partial and secondarily generalized seizures. Anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of these novel compounds were compared with those of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imin e] and the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine, one of the major drugs for treatment of partial and generalized seizures in humans. For comparative evaluation, the compounds were injected i.p. at the following doses: 1 to 10 mg/kg (CGP 37849 or CGP 39551), 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg (MK-801) and 20 to 40 mg/kg (carbamazepine), respectively. In contrast to carbamazepine, CGP 37849, CGP 39551 and MK-801 exerted only weak anticonvulsant effects in fully kindled rats and did not increase the focal seizure threshold. The weak anticonvulsant effects of the NMDA receptor antagonists in kindled rats were associated with profound untoward behavioral effects. The behavioral syndrome induced by the NMDA receptor antagonists in kindled rats was characterized by marked ataxia, hyperactivity and, in case of CGP 37849 and MK-801, stereotypies, such as head weaving. The low or absent effectiveness of the novel NMDA receptor antagonists against kindled seizures suggests that these compounds will not be clinically useful antiepileptics against partial and secondarily generalized seizures. Furthermore, in view of the recent clinical findings on psychotomimetic effects of MK-801 in epileptic patients, the similarities in the excitatory effects produced by CGP 39551, CGP 37849 and MK-801 in kindled rats may indicate that competitive NMDA receptor antagonists may also produce psychotomimetic effects in humans. 
Postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst. Case report. A large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man. The cyst wall, histologically composed of mature bone tissue, was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte- or fibroblast-like cells on the inside. The ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation. 
Prevention of cardiovascular disease: risks and benefits of aspirin. Aspirin has been tested for its benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease in randomized trials in three categories of patients. In secondary prevention among those with a history of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke or transient cerebral ischemia, or unstable angina pectoris, 25 randomized trials demonstrated significant reductions from aspirin of 25% for the occurrence of an "important vascular event" (nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or vascular death), 32% for nonfatal MI, 27% for nonfatal stroke, and 15% for vascular mortality. Among those evolving an MI, the Second International Study of Infarct Survival (ISIS-2) showed a significant reduction of 23% in five-week vascular mortality among those started on a one-month regimen of daily aspirin within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of suspected MI. Aspirin also significantly reduced reinfarction, nonfatal stroke, and important vascular events. Finally, in primary prevention, the US Physicians' Health Study (PHS) showed a significant 44% reduction in the occurrence of a first MI among apparently healthy male physicians; numbers of strokes and vascular deaths were insufficient to permit conclusions for these endpoints. Thus, aspirin is of clear benefit in reducing MI, stroke, and vascular death in secondary prevention and among those evolving an MI. It is also beneficial in the primary prevention of MI among men over 40, but data concerning its effects on stroke and vascular death remain inconclusive. 
Widespread functional effects of discrete thalamic infarction. In order to investigate functional effects of various thalamic structures on metabolism in remote, morphologically intact cerebral regions, we used positron emission tomography of (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose to study regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (rCMRGlu) in 11 patients with chronic unilateral or bilateral infarcts strictly confined to the thalamus. Patients were grouped according to computed tomographic scans showing anterior (three), medial (four), or posterior (four) lesions. Compared with a matched group of 11 healthy subjects (hemispheric CMRGlu 35.2 +/- 3.49 mumol/100 g per minute), glucose metabolism was significantly lower in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the infarction (31.2 +/- 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute). Patients with bilateral infarcts had lower hemispheric CMRGlu (29.9 +/- 2.74 mumol/100 g per minute) than those with unilateral lesions (32.2 +/- 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute). Depending on infarct location within the thalamus, there was differential depression of rCMRGlu, with the largest effects on frontal and occipital areas in medial infarctions. Except for ipsilateral thalamic deactivation, metabolic patterns with anterior thalamic infarcts were close to normal, while posterior infarcts mostly depressed rCMRGlu in the visual and in the inferior limbic cortex. Cerebellar metabolic rates were within normal limits in most cases. These patterns of regional cerebral deactivation may be related to categories of thalamic projections--intrathalamic, to limbic system and basal ganglia, diffuse to most cortical areas, and specific to defined neocortical areas. Even small brain lesions may have widespread functional sequelae, potentially demonstrable by positron emission tomography. 
Sequencing in Parkinson's disease. Abnormalities in programming and controlling movement. Central programming deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) were studied in two reaction time (RT) experiments. In Experiment 1, PD patients and controls performed sequences of hand postures that varied in length, the number of different postures (repetitive vs heterogeneous), and the delay interval before movement. Before movement, the PD group planned repetitive movements like controls whereas for heterogeneous sequences RT increased less with sequence length for the PD group, implying less preprogramming. The interresponse time (IRT) data from repetitive sequences showed that the PD group had difficulty controlling movement such that IRTs were faster when sequences were longer, thus allowing more time to schedule the termination of the sequence during the course of movement. For heterogeneous sequences, the PD group made more errors and were slower than controls when changing hand postures, suggesting a deficit in switching between different responses. While RT decreased with a longer delay similarly for both groups, IRT1 continued to improve only for the PD group but similarly for both types of sequences, suggesting a deficit specific to programming the first response. In Experiment 2, subjects made decisions about the number of different hand postures contained within a sequence. PD patients' decision times improved more with a longer delay only for heterogeneous sequences, suggesting a problem in identifying the number of different hand postures. The results have implications for levels of motor dysfunction in PD which emphasize the influence of sequence length and complexity. 
Motor-evoked potentials reflect spinal cord function in post-traumatic syringomyelia. The purpose of this study was to examine electrophysiologic abnormalities, including motor-evoked potentials, in a patient with post-traumatic syringomyelia before and after syringopleural shunting. A patient with C5 quadriplegia presented with pain, ascending sensory loss, and new weakness in the left upper extremity two yr after spinal cord injury. MRI revealed a syrinx extending from C2 to T12. We measured central motor conduction times (CMCTs) to the biceps, median F-wave latencies, needle electromyography and motor nerve conduction studies. Six days before surgery, CMCTs were 9.0 ms on the left and 7.8 ms on the right (normal less than 8.0), median F-waves were absent on the left and needle EMG revealed evidence of denervation in the left biceps. Fifteen days after syringopleural shunting at the T7 level, CMCTs had dropped to 6.9 ms on the left and 4.6 ms on the right; the left median F-wave reappeared with a normal latency. Repeat MRI revealed the syrinx to be smaller in diameter. These results suggest that CMCTs measured from magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex may be useful in the diagnosis of post-traumatic syringomyelia, as well as for following such patients postoperatively. 
The neuromuscular pathology of the Eosinophilia-Myalgia syndrome. The Eosinophilia-Myalgia Syndrome (EMS) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of L-tryptophan. We studied the lesions of skeletal muscle, peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of EMS. Perimyositis was severe in four, moderate in two, mild in three and absent in three cases. The lesions contained many eosinophils, T-helper cells, mast cells and activated macrophages. Type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one, this was the only pathologic finding. Severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies. Indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs (two cases) and neurogenic atrophy (one case). Phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one. Fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one. 
Diagnostic evaluation of syncope Syncope is a common medical problem and is caused by a wide variety of diseases ranging from physiologic derangements with few consequences to conditions that may be immediately life-threatening. Because of the large differential diagnosis, many diagnostic tests are available for its evaluation. However, a cause of syncope is not established in 38% to 47% of patients despite these tests. In those patients in whom a diagnosis can be assigned, the history and physical examination identify a potential cause in 49% to 85%. Furthermore, in 8% of additional patients, history and physical examination are suggestive of causes that need confirmation by specific tests. Routine blood tests rarely yield diagnostically helpful information. In those patients in whom a potential cause for syncope is identified, arrhythmias are diagnosed by electrocardiogram in 2% to 11% of patients, cardiac monitoring in 3% to 27% (telemetry or Holter), stress test in less than 1%, carotid massage in less than 1%, and electrophysiologic studies in less than 3%. Diagnosis of arrhythmias as a cause of syncope is problematic because symptomatic correlation during electrocardiographic monitoring is rarely found (approximately 4%), and as a result, there is no uniform agreement on diagnostic criteria for abnormalities. Similar problems exist in the use of electrophysiologic studies. Upright tilt testing and psychiatric examination may be useful in evaluation of recurrent syncope of unknown cause in patients without organic heart disease. Based on the results of recent studies, strategies for evaluation of patients with syncope are possible that utilize selective and goal-directed diagnostic testing. 
A new syndrome of congenital hypoparathyroidism, severe growth failure, and dysmorphic features. Twelve infants (six boys, six girls) with severe hypocalcaemic tetany or convulsions were seen over a three year period. Nine patients were symptomatic in the newborn period. Their hypocalcaemia was associated with hyperphosphataemia and very low concentrations of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone. None of the babies suffered from congenital cardiac disease. Cell mediated immunity, measured in five patients, was normal. There were no chromosomal abnormalities but all patients shared several dysmorphic features including deep set eyes, microcephaly, thin lips, beaked nose tip, external ear anomalies, micrognathia, and depressed nasal bridge. Mental retardation of varying degree was found in all patients. All had severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation. Four patients have died. The remaining eight patients are on treatments with vitamin D and calcium supplements with no change in their growth pattern. We believe that this association of congenital hypoparathyroidism with severe growth failure and dysmorphism represents a new syndrome. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome. When levodopa withdrawal is the cause. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome has been described in patients receiving dopamine antagonists and in a few patients after withdrawal of dopaminergic antiparkinson therapy. Complications affect almost all organ systems and can be life-threatening. Most patients have fever, altered level of consciousness, bradykinesia, and rigidity. Treatment includes withdrawal of the causative agent and supportive therapy for complications. When withdrawal of a dopaminergic medication is the suspected cause, the agent should be reinstated. 
Hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis. Hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites, and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney's inability to excrete it normally. The morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances. The degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms. Altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy, symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia. The occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia. The appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients, long regarded as a poor prognostic sign, may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function. Therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal. 
Mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia: report of case. A case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia. This infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis. The mechanisms for these patients' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed. 
Microvascular sequestration of parasitized erythrocytes in human falciparum malaria: a pathological study. Thirty-nine falciparum malaria autopsy cases from the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand were divided into two groups that had had either cerebral malaria (CM) or non-cerebral malaria (NCM). We then studied significant pathological differences between these groups in order to investigate the correlation between parasitized erythrocyte (PRBC) sequestration in small blood vessels in the brain, heart, lungs and small intestines. We found that the percentage of PRBC sequestration in the organs which we studied was higher in the CM patients than in the NCM patients. The difference of PRBC sequestration among the organs of two groups was significant (P less than 0.05). In the CM group, the average percentage of PRBC sequestration in the brain was significantly higher than in the heart, lungs and small intestines (P less than 0.05). No statistically significant difference was found between PRBC sequestration in the brains, hearts, lungs and small intestines in the NCM group (P greater than 0.05). Our study indicates that severity of malaria in the CM patients depends on PRBC sequestration, especially in the brain. A combination of functional disturbances of the other organs, in addition to the cerebral pathology, may augment the severity of the disease. 
Seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children. BACKGROUND. Although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades, some patients are left with neurologic sequelae. It has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae, including late seizures or epilepsy. METHODS. We followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis. The mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years (range, 0.1 to 15.5). During the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter. RESULTS. One month after meningitis, 69 children (37 percent) had neurologic abnormalities. Many of these signs resolved within a year, leaving only 26 children (14 percent) with persistent deficits: 18 (10 percent) had only sensorineural hearing loss, and 8 (4 percent) had multiple neurologic deficits. Thirteen children (7 percent) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever. The presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures (P less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS. After bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy. Those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae, including epilepsy. 
Superiority of transesophageal echocardiography in detecting cardiac source of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemia of uncertain etiology. The diagnostic yield of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography for identifying a cardiac source of embolism was compared in 79 patients presenting with unexplained stroke or transient ischemic attack. There were 35 men and 44 women with a mean age of 59 years (range 17 to 84); 52% had clinical cardiac disease. Both transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms were performed using Doppler color flow and contrast imaging. Transesophageal echocardiography identified a potential cardiac source of embolism in 57% of the overall study group compared with only 15% by transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.0005). Compared with transthoracic echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography more frequently identified atrial septal aneurysm associated with a patent foramen ovale (9 versus 1 of 79 patients, p less than 0.005), left atrial thrombus or tumor (6 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.05) and left atrial spontaneous contrast (13 versus 0 of 79 patients, p less than 0.0005). All cases of left atrial thrombus or spontaneous contrast were identified in patients with clinically identified cardiac disease. In the 38 patients with no cardiac disease, transesophageal echocardiography identified isolated atrial septal aneurysm and atrial septal aneurysm with a patent foramen ovale more frequently than transthoracic echocardiography (8 versus 2 of 38 patients, p less than 0.05). The two techniques had a similar rate of identifying apical thrombus and mitral valve prolapse. Overall, transesophageal echocardiography identified abnormalities in 39% of patients with no cardiac disease versus 19% for transthoracic echocardiography (p less than 0.005). Thus, transesophageal echocardiography identifies potential cardiac sources of embolism in the majority of patients presenting with unexplained stroke. 
Medicare Peer Review Organization preprocedure review criteria. An analysis of criteria for three procedures The Medicare Peer Review Organization (PRO) program includes preprocedure review using explicit criteria to assess the appropriateness of specific procedures. This study evaluates the variability in the PRO preprocedure criteria for the three procedures most frequently reviewed by PROs: carotid endarterectomy, cataract removal, and cardiac pacemaker implants. In August 1989, the PRO review criteria were received from the Health Care Financing Administration. To provide a reference point for reviewing the PRO criteria, national practice guidelines for these three procedures were identified. Wide variability was demonstrated in the PRO procedure-specific carotid endarterectomy and cataract removal review criteria among PROs, and the criteria differed significantly from the identified practice guidelines. The criteria for cardiac pacemaker implants were somewhat less variable, and were based, to varying degrees, on practice guidelines developed by the American College of Cardiology (ACC). Greater attention is needed to improve the development of review criteria, including the use of relevant practice guidelines, to ensure that review criteria are optimal. 
Cerebrospinal fluid dynamics in the tardive cauda equina syndrome of ankylosing spondylitis. Typical cauda equina syndrome secondary to long-standing ankylosing spondylitis is reported in a 63-year-old man. Radionuclide cisternography demonstrated a resorption defect of cerebrospinal fluid in the enlarged lumbosacral dural sac. After transient symptomatic improvement with acetazolamide, a lumboperitoneal shunt was placed. The rate of cerebrospinal fluid, isotope resorption became normal. In the 5 years of follow-up, partial remission has been observed. 
Fetal alcohol syndrome in adolescents and adults. Fetal alcohol syndrome is a specific recognizable pattern of malformation. Manifestations in 61 adolescents and adults suffering from alcohol teratogenesis are presented. After puberty, the faces of patients with fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effects were not as distinctive. Patients tended to remain short and microcephalic, although their weight was somewhat closer to the mean. The average IQ was 68, but the range of IQ scores widely varied. Average academic functioning was at the second- to fourth-grade levels, with arithmetic deficits most characteristic. Maladaptive behaviors such as poor judgment, distractibility, and difficulty perceiving social cues were common. Family environments were remarkably unstable. Fetal alcohol syndrome is not just a childhood disorder; there is a predictable long-term progression of the disorder into adulthood, in which maladaptive behaviors present the greatest challenge to management. 
From disease to delirium: managing the declining elderly patient. Many geriatric patients have concurrent physical and psychiatric illnesses, but at times it may be difficult to determine which is primary. Delirium, a transient syndrome that presents with psychiatric symptoms, is usually the manifestation of an organic disorder and, if undetected and untreated, can be fatal. Clinicians, therefore, must learn to recognize the syndrome, search diligently for the underlying etiology, and treat accordingly. 
Sleep disturbances in HIV-infected homosexual men. To provide a better understanding of the etiology of subjective sleep complaints in HIV-infected individuals, a study to evaluate sleep/wake disturbances in 10 healthy HIV-infected male volunteers was performed. All subjects were HIV-infected but had no history of AIDS-related infections, and considered clinically asymptomatic. Interviews and sleep questionnaires revealed sleep complaints in nine subjects. Five healthy HIV-seronegative male subjects, with no history of sleep complaints, were also evaluated. Sleep architecture analyses detected that, in comparison to published normative data and to negative controls, there was a significant increase in the total percentage of slow wave sleep (SWS) and an increase in the percentage of SWS in the later sleep cycles. When compared with normative data, an increase in stage 1 shifts, rapid eye movement (REM) periods, and arousals were also observed in the HIV-infected group. Significant decreases in sleep latency, total percentage stage 2 sleep, and average REM durations were also observed in the HIV-infected group compared with normative data. These sleep architecture abnormalities could not be attributed to known sole primary sleep disorders, first night effect, medications, anxiety or depression. This study indicates that sleep disturbances occur early in the course of HIV infection and suggests that the observed alterations of sleep physiology may be a consequence of central nervous system involvement and/or immune defense mobilization in the early phases of HIV infection. 
Recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome after first rib resection. Seventy-seven patients with 84 operated limbs participated in a follow-up examination on an average of about six years after the resection of the first rib for thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS). Forty-two limbs (50%) were totally asymptomatic one month after the operation and remained so for at least half a year postoperatively. In the follow-up examination, 31 limbs were still asymptomatic, whereas 11 limbs had the same symptoms as before the operation. Of the nine patients with recurrent TOS (two with bilateral resection), seven were women and two were men. These nine patients were on average 38 years old (range = 19 to 51 years) and their jobs consisted of monotonous desk work. Seven of 11 stumps of the first rib were subluxated disclosed by the cervical rotation-lateral-flexion test. The occurrence of a subluxated stump of the first rib in the group of asymptomatic patients was far lower, only 3% (p less than .001). Of the 42 patients with persistent problems, a subluxated stump was encountered in seven (17%). Results of this follow-up examination suggest that monotonous desk work is an important factor causing kinesiologic abnormalities in the thoracic aperture. This abnormal kinesiology contributes to the recurrence of TOS symptoms even after the resection of the first rib. 
Swimmer's migraine. Three cases of sudden, severe headache occurring during swimming are described. A 51-year-old female had been engaging in a swimming exercise for about 20 minutes when she suddenly experienced a pulsating headache in the parietotemporal region, accompanied by nausea. A few days later, she experienced a similar episode, again during swimming practice. A 45-year-old male developed a pulsating headache with nausea immediately after diving into a swimming pool, and had a similar attack during diving practice 1 week later. A 32-year-old male developed a pulsating headache accompanied by nausea while swimming in the sea. In all three cases, blood pressure, pulse rate, neurological findings, cervical spinal x-rays, brain CT scans, and hematological findings were normal and the outcome was good. Although these patients' headaches were diagnosed as benign exertional headache, pathophysiologically they appeared to resemble the headache associated with sexual activity. 
Intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. Negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30% of patients. A previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group. The etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations; however, investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes. This report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography, in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma. For this reason, cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography. 
Meningitis in the neurosurgical patient. In the patient with a basilar skull fracture and CSF leak, the risk of meningitis is greatly increased. The diagnosis of both leak and infection can be obscured by the patient's other injuries, and requires aggressive investigation of symptoms that suggest infection. Although the diagnosis is made with CSF cultures, when clinically suspected, treatment should begin after appropriate cultures have been obtained. Treatment should be directed against the most likely organisms, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and the other organisms common to the upper respiratory tract. There are no good indications for prophylactic antibiotic usage in patients with known CSF leaks. The patient with a shunt or other CNS prosthetic device may have various manifestations of infection, depending on the type of device and its termination. Frank meningitis or ventriculitis is not always present. Diagnosis requires direct culturing of the shunt milieu, with the most frequent isolates being staphylococcal species and gram-negative enteric bacilli. The most effective therapy, for both eradication of the infection and minimization of the duration and morbidity of therapy, involves removal of the infected shunt, external drainage during parenteral antibiotic therapy, and complete replacement of hardware at the time of internalization. The postsurgical patient will not develop meningitis very frequently, but like the posttrauma patient, concurrent factors can make the diagnosis difficult. Differentiating infectious from chemical meningitis must often be initially based on CSF cell counts and chemistries alone. Treatment to cover the most likely organism, staphylococcal species and respiratory flora, should be started before the culture results are finalized. 
Critical review of gangliosides and thyrotropin-releasing hormone in peripheral neuromuscular diseases. The lack of effective therapy for many of the chronic neuromuscular diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary motor sensory neuropathy (Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease), spinocerebellar degenerations and idiopathic polyneuropathy has led to a search for substances that may stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration. Two such agents that have been proposed are gangliosides (mixed purified bovine brain gangliosides, Cronassial) and thyrotropin releasing factor (TRH). Studies on both of these agents were initially reported with enthusiasm to be successful, but later double-blind controlled studies have failed to confirm these findings. This review provides critical analysis of the designs of studies of potentially effective agents in chronic neuromuscular diseases, and emphasizes the power of the placebo response, and the importance of designing placebos which are indistinguishable from the trial medication other than in the active effect. 
Status epilepticus in infancy and childhood. Status epilepticus implies a prolonged seizure or recurrent seizures with persistent decreased consciousness, lasting at least 30 minutes. Both convulsive and nonconvulsive forms exist, either of which may lead to death or additional neurologic deficit. Therapy involves careful supportive care plus some combination of benzodiazepines, phenytoin, or phenobarbital. The outcome depends first on the etiology and second on the rapidity with which seizures are controlled. 
Pneumocephalus secondary to a high-pressure water injury to the nose. We report a case of pneumocephalus following a water jet injury to the nose incurred during a water-skiing fall. Pneumocephalus due to this type of injury has not been previously reported, to our knowledge. Since this unusual injury may be associated with serious complications, it must be promptly recognized and treated. 
Magnetic resonance in pediatric and adolescent neuroimaging. With improved availability and a practical understanding of the principles of utilization, MRI will continue to replace CT and US in pediatric neuroimaging, just as it has impacted upon the more invasive modalities. In general, US remains the procedure of choice for screening of fetal and infant CNS abnormalities, and CT continues as the principal screening modality beyond infancy and especially for acute, emergent presentations. MRI has now emerged as a primary option for screening as well as for more definitive assessment of many intracranial and most intraspinal conditions. 
Pontine supranuclear facial palsy. Two patients presented with a unilateral supranuclear facial palsy. Additional dysarthria was attributed to the pontine origin documented by magnetic resonance imaging on the contralateral side. The pontine disorder also was indicated by an isolated delay of the blink reflex R1 component or of the masseter reflex. We attribute the facial palsy to a lesion of a supranuclear fiber bundle supplying the facial nucleus. The location of the lesions favors these fibers taking a separate course from the main pyramidal tract at the mid- to upper pontine level. 
Combination of Anandron with orchiectomy in treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. Results of a double-blind study. A multicenter, randomized double-blind study was carried out in 203 patients with metastatic prostate cancer, in order to compare the efficacy of complete suppression of androgens achieved with surgical castration and nilutamide (Anandron), 100 mg t.i.d. The combined therapy was well-tolerated by patients, and they noted a better relief of bone pain after six months than those in the control group. There was a greater number of favorable responses in the combined treatment group. In addition, despite a similar median progression-free actuarial rate, the combined treatment (nilutamide plus orchiectomy) offered an improved survival time over orchiectomy alone. 
Multicenter long-term safety and efficacy study of vigabatrin for refractory complex partial seizures: an update. We followed 66 patients with refractory complex partial seizures and a favorable initial response to vigabatrin for 5 to 72 (median, 43) months. Thirty-seven patients discontinued vigabatrin for the following reasons: benefit-to-risk evaluation, 8; seizure breakthrough, 6; adverse events, 6; seizure breakthrough and adverse events, 5; moved or lost, 4; no longer eligible for study, 2; non-drug-related death, 2; narcotic abuse, 1; and patient request, three. There were no clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory studies including SMA 12, complete blood count, ECG, EEG, and visual evoked response testing, and no toxicity other than reversible, dose-dependent side effects. Based on this and other long-term data, clinical trials of vigabatrin have resumed in the United States and Canada. 
Evaluation of vigabatrin as an add-on drug in the management of severe epilepsy. The effects of the addition of Vigabatrin, a new anti-epileptic drug, to the therapy of 128 patients with severe medically refractory epilepsy is reported. Forty two (33%) of patients experienced side effects, which were predominantly neurotropic. In 28 (22%), the drug was withdrawn because of these side effects. The commonest side effects were drowsiness and behavioural change. The remaining 100 patients were followed for a mean of 30 weeks (range 12-75). Forty one of these patients showed a marked improvement in seizure frequency (a 50% or more reduction when compared with the pre-trial period), and nine (7%) were rendered seizure free. Apparent tolerance to the effects of the drug were noted in five patients. An exacerbation of seizures may occur if the drug is withdrawn too quickly. Vigabatrin appears to be a promising new anti-epileptic drug. 
Fibrillation potential amplitude and muscle atrophy following peripheral nerve injury. Maximum peak-to-peak fibrillation potential amplitude was measured in 69 subjects between 7 days and 10 1/2 years post complete or partial peripheral nerve injury. Mean amplitude during the first 2 months was 612 muV; third and fourth months 512 muV, fifth and sixth months 320 muV. After the first year, no population of fibrillation potentials greater than 100 muV was recorded. The sciatic nerve was sectioned in 13 guinea pigs and animals studied up to 17 weeks. Fibrillation potential amplitude in gastrocnemius muscles declined paralleling that in humans. By the end of the study, type I fibers had lost almost half of their initial diameter and type II fibers had atrophied more than twice this amount. Fibrillation potential amplitude may be useful in estimating the time post nerve injury and appears to correlate with the surface area and fiber diameter of a type I muscle fiber. 
Radiology for cochlear implants. One fifth of patients selected for cochlear implants have such bony irregularities in the cochlear duct that full insertion of a multichannel electrode array is impossible. Three cases of cochlear deafness are presented where pre- and post-operative radiology played an important part in the management. Standard CT at 2 mm cuts is compared with ultra high resolution CT at 1 mm cuts. The pitfall of poor definition is that the inexperienced surgeon may find himself unexpectedly drilling out an obliterated cochlear duct. Sections 30 degrees caudal to Reid's infra orbito-meatal base line at 1 mm intervals give maximum information for minimum radiation. Plain films show the placement of individual platinum electrode contacts in relation to the spiral 'frequency map' of the cochlea. This is vital information for the audiologist who has to route specific frequencies to specific sites within the ear for a good hearing result. 
Hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. A case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis. Evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1) acute hyperphagia and weight gain, 2) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle, 3) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone (GH) response to arginine, but normal GH response to growth hormone-releasing factor (GRF) and 4) Torkildsen's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity. 
Mastalgia refractory to drug treatment. Management of the patient with mastalgia who fails to respond to first line therapy is a difficult problem and there is a group of patients who do not respond to any therapy. A group of 126 patients with mastalgia who failed to respond to first line therapy and completed further treatment options was studied. The response rate of those with cyclical mastalgia fell to 57 and 25 per cent for second and third line therapy respectively. Equivalent figures for non-cyclical mastalgia were 24 and 21 per cent. Danazol maintains a high response rate after the failure of other drugs, whereas the second line response to bromocriptine and evening primrose oil is poor. Unresponsive patients were matched to a group of patients who responded to first line therapy, and reproductive and historical factors were compared using the chi 2 test, but failed to identify which patients would respond to therapy. 
Dementia: what to do. Dementia is a syndrome of acquired intellectual deterioration that interferes with personal or social functioning. Diagnosis requires historical information from the family and the mental status evaluation of orientation, recent memory, comprehension, calculation, and abstraction. Most dementias create permanent, even progressive cognitive deterioration, yet there are some presentations for which remission exists. Common reversible conditions include depression, drug toxicity, normal-pressure hydrocephalus, hypothyroidism, subdural hematoma, and neoplasm. Screening laboratory studies consist of urinalysis, chemistry profile, blood count, thyroid survey, vitamin B12 and folate measurements, serology, chest roentgenogram, computerized tomographic scan of the head, electroencephalogram, and electrocardiogram. Treatment focuses on potential reversibility, psychosocial issues, restoring deficits, and specific symptoms. 
Immunoglobulins from animal models of motor neuron disease and from human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients passively transfer physiological abnormalities to the neuromuscular junction. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating human disease of upper and lower motoneurons of unknown etiology. In support of the potential role of autoimmunity in ALS, two immune-mediated animal models of motoneuron disease have been developed that resemble ALS with respect to the loss of motoneurons, the presence of IgG within motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction, and with respect to altered physiology of the motor nerve terminal. To provide direct evidence for the primary role of humoral immunity, passive transfer with immunoglobulins from the two animal models and human ALS was carried out. Mice injected with serum or immunoglobulins from the animal disease models and human ALS but not controls demonstrated IgG in motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction. The mice also demonstrated an increase in miniature end-plate potential (mepp) frequency, with normal amplitude and time course and normal resting membrane potential, indicating an increased resting quantal release of acetylcholine from the nerve terminal. The ability to transfer motoneuron dysfunction with serum immunoglobulins provides evidence for autoimmune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both the animal models and human ALS. 
The relationship between viral RNA, myelin-specific mRNAs, and demyelination in central nervous system disease during Theiler's virus infection. The DA strain of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (DAV) causes a chronic demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains. To elucidate the pathogenesis of DAV-induced demyelination, the authors investigated the spatial and chronologic relationship between virus (antigen and RNA), myelin-specific mRNAs, and demyelination in DAV-infected mice using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and slot blot hybridization analyses. In spinal cord white matter, viral RNA was detected easily in ventral root entry zones 1 to 2 weeks after infection. Viral RNA increased to maximum levels by 4 weeks after infection, which was associated with inflammation and mild demyelination. At 8 to 12 weeks after infection, when demyelination became most extensive, viral RNA was significantly decreased. Demyelination did not chronologically or spatially parallel the presence of viral RNA within the spinal cord. Decrease of myelin-specific mRNAs, including myelin-basic protein and proteolipid protein mRNAs, was observed within the demyelinating lesions with or without detectable viral RNA. These results indicate that a viral infection of white matter in the early phase of the infection initiates spinal cord disease leading to demyelination, but later an ongoing immunopathologic process contributes to the presence of extensive demyelination. 
Headache and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Because the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) virus is neurotropic, physicians will continue to see a rise in the number of neurologic complications of this syndrome. Much of this increase will be accompanied by headache, not only as a primary symptom of HIV infection or opportunistic disease but also as a result of diagnostic tests and therapeutic efforts. Complete understanding of the ramifications of headache in AIDS will be important in the 1990s as we continue to treat a younger population, usually affected by benign vascular and muscle contraction-type headache. 
Complications of lateral C1-2 puncture myelography. This study reviewed the technical complication of 112 cases of lateral C1-2 puncture myelography for cervical spinal cord disorders. Spinal cord puncture and contrast injection, puncture between the occiput and C1, and blood vessel puncture were the main complications. These principally depended on the positioning of the patient's neck (hyperextension) and misdirection of the x-ray beam. For preventing major arterial puncture, the authors also reviewed 164 vertebral angiograms and determined the pathway of the vertebral arteries and the incidence of anomaly. 
Four chromosomal breakpoints and four new probes mark out a 10-cM region encompassing the fragile-X locus (FRAXA). We report the validation and use of a cell hybrid panel which allowed us a rapid physical localization of new DNA probes in the vicinity of the fragile-X locus (FRAXA). Seven regions are defined by this panel, two of which lie between DXS369 and DXS296, until now the closest genetic markers that flank FRAXA. Of those two interesting regions, one is just distal to DXS369 and defined by probe 2-71 (DXS476), which is not polymorphic. The next one contains probes St677 (DXS463) and 2-34 (DXS477), which are within 130 kb and both detect TaqI RFLPs. The combined informativeness of these two probes is 30%. We cloned from an irradiation-reduced hybrid line another new polymorphic probe, Do33 (DXS465; 42% heterozygosity). This probe maps to the DXS296 region, proximal to a chromosomal breakpoint that corresponds to the Hunter syndrome locus (IDS). The physical order is thus Cen-DXS369-DXS476-(DXS463,DXS477)-(DXS296, DXS465)-IDS-DXS304-tel. We performed a linkage analysis for five of these markers in both the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain families and in a large set of fragile-X families. This establishes that DXS296 is distal to FRAXA. The relative position of DXS463 and DXS477 with respect to FRAXA remains uncertain, but our results place them genetically halfway between DXS369 and DXS304. Thus the DXS463-DXS477 cluster defines presently either the closest proximal or the closest distal polymorphic marker with respect to FRAXA. The three new polymorphic probes described here have a combined heterozygosity of 60% and represent a major improvement for genetic analysis of fragile-X families, in particular for diagnostic applications. 
Diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs of young children with gait disturbance. The diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs was evaluated using 84 outpatients 1 to 5 years of age with gait disturbance whose lower extremities appeared physically normal. Chief complaints included limp (65 children [77%]), refusal to walk or stand (37 children [44%]), and frequent falling (6 children [7%]). A total of 43 children (51%) had more than one complaint. The mean age of patients was 26 months and the median duration of symptoms was 1 day. Trauma was reported in 43 (51%) cases and fever in 14 (17%). Results of radiographical studies appeared normal in 81 children (96%), demonstrated soft tissue swelling in 2 children, and revealed a bony island in 1 child. In 1 patient admitted to the hospital for failure to thrive and irritability, and whose radiographic results appeared normal, findings consistent with osteomyelitis later developed. Of the remaining children, 68 (81%) were available for follow-up observation 4 to 28 months after the initial visit and all reported spontaneous resolution of the initial complaint. It was concluded that in a well-appearing child with an otherwise normal physical examination results, an acute gait disturbance is likely to be a self-limiting condition and radiographs are unlikely to contribute to the diagnosis. 
Neurologic complications of alcoholism. Neurologic and myopathic complications of alcoholism are multiple and diverse, affecting both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In the ED, initial concern is for diagnosing readily reversible causes and ruling out possible life- or limb-threatening etiologies. A rapid assessment of the ABCs, a fingerstick blood glucose determination, and, in cases of AMS, the administration of intravenous naloxone is indicated. In almost every instance of a potential neurologic complication, intravenous thiamine replacement is indicated initially, along with the parenteral administration of folic acid and the other B vitamins, including nicotinic acid and pyridoxine. Metabolic screening with electrolytes, glucose, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, calcium, magnesium, liver enzymes (AST, alkaline phosphatase), bilirubin, arterial blood gases with carboxyhemoglobin determination, and a complete blood count are often warranted. Special tests such as CT scan, CK, ammonia, or toxicologic screens are indicated in specific instances. In terms of physical examination, attention to the presence of focal neurologic findings is paramount because of the possibility of a subdural or epidural hematoma. It is important not to miss meningitis and a low threshold for treatment or lumbar puncture should be maintained. Specialized consultation and referral are needed only after stabilization and appropriate tests are performed. If an organized approach to the evaluation of an alcoholic with neurologic symptoms is undertaken, occult disease will not be missed and outcomes will be improved. 
An objective score to predict upper tract deterioration in myelodysplasia. Bladder dysfunction in myelodysplasia may present a significant hazard to the upper tract and a threat to kidney function. Urodynamic features of high leak pressure and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia have been associated with an increased risk. We have developed an objective score to describe urodynamic findings in myelodysplasia. The score includes consideration of bladder compliance, detrusor contractility and reflux, in addition to leak pressure and sphincter behavior. In 171 myelodysplastic patients a significant correlation was demonstrated between the score and upper tract studies at the time of urodynamics and the score and the management decision. Of 73 myelodysplasia patients with normal upper tracts at the first urodynamics study hydronephrosis later developed in 14. The score was a potent predictor of outcome (p = 0.0006). 
Sleep apnoea syndrome associated with maxillofacial abnormalities. Four cases with Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (OSAS) are presented. They consisted of two cases with TMJ ankylosis with micrognathia, one case with Treacher Collins Syndrome, and one case with the Long Face Syndrome. Standard and specific cephalometric parameters were obtained to detect the site of the obstruction. Polysomnographic studies yielded information regarding the patient's sleep-wake state, respiratory and cardiac functioning, pre- and post-operatively. A temporary tracheostomy corrected the symptoms in one patient but the syndrome recurred when it was closed. Surgical correction of the maxillofacial anomalies will re-establish normal sleep patterns preventing OSAS. 
Periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy. Twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity (PVH) on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia, 6 intracranial hemorrhage, 2 bacterial meningitis, and 3 apnea. PVH was classified according to its extent. Round foci of PVH surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants (PVH pattern I). Continuous PVH was observed in 17 infants (PVH patterns II and III). Fourteen infants with continuous PVH had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia. Developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous PVH. No PVH pattern I infants had cerebral palsy; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay. Our study suggests that the extent of PVH reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries. 
Cerebral blood flow velocities in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery in hydrocephalus before and after treatment. We studied Pourcelot's index (PI), which shows cerebral vascular resistance, in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery, and the PI ratio (Pourcelot's index in the anterior cerebral artery/Pourcelot's index in the basilar artery) in 11 measurements of hydrocephalus. The mean values of PI in the anterior cerebral artery, basilar artery, and the PI ratio before treatment were significantly higher than those after treatment and those in normal infants. Before treatment, the mean PI in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly higher than the mean PI in the basilar artery. All PI ratios increased to 1.00 or more. After treatment and in normal infants, the mean PI in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly lower than the mean PI in the basilar artery. All PI ratios decreased to less than 1.00. We believe that the PI ratio is useful to evaluate the need or effect of treatment in hydrocephalus. 
An estimate of the incidence of dementia in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The proportion of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) who are considered demented ranges from 10% to 15%. Because dementia may affect survival in PD, the incidence rate of dementia, rather than proportion, would be a more accurate measure of disease frequency. We previously estimated the proportion of patients with PD and dementia to be 10.9% from the records of a cohort with the idiopathic form of PD in a major medical center. We reviewed the clinical records of this cohort after 4 years and 9 months to estimate the incidence rate of dementia. We identified 65 new cases of dementia from the 249 patient-records available. Using the number of person-years of follow-up for each case as the denominator, we estimated the overall incidence rate to be 69 per 1,000 person-years of observation. The mean age of this cohort was 71.4 years. The cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age. By 85 years of age, over 65% of the surviving members of the cohort were demented. The age-specific incidence rates for dementia in this cohort of PD were significantly greater than for a similarly aged cohort of healthy elderly people. The age-specific standard morbidity ratios indicated that, compared with people of similar ages, patients with PD have the highest increase in risk for dementia between ages 65 and 75. 
Motion analysis of the cervical spine in athetoid cerebral palsy. Extension-flexion motion. Frequently instability and premature onset of spondylosis of the cervical spine are found in athetoid cerebral palsy (CP) patients. These structural abnormalities appear to be related to athetoid motion of the neck in CP. Through motion analysis, the authors aimed to clarify the abnormalities of cervical motion that could precipitate structural abnormalities. The gross characteristic feature of cervical motion in athetoid CP is "whip movement." Both velocity and acceleration during extension-flexion motion were greater than in normal subjects, especially at the upper cervical levels. Also, a sudden increase in velocity and acceleration occurred during rapid motions at certain levels, followed by a larger range of motion of the cervical spine. Such kinematic abnormalities were thought to generate a greater shearing force and bending moment exerted on the corresponding cervical articulations-discs and facets. Olisthetic instability often accompanied disc degeneration at the upper cervical levels. A large range of extension--flexion motion of the cervical spine, analogous to a cantilever, caused a repeated bending moment of extraordinary magnitude and was regarded as a precipitative factor for disc degeneration and osteophytosis common at the middle and lower levels of the disc. 
Driving and epilepsy. A review and reappraisal Driving and epilepsy is a problem that involves physicians as both care providers to patients and consultants to regulatory authorities. Driving restrictions for people with seizure disorders are intended to ensure the public's safety, but such restrictions may unduly harm the welfare of many people with seizures. In the United States, all states now permit some people with epilepsy to drive. In general, only people whose seizures are adequately controlled are licensed to drive. Adequate control has been judged principally by the seizure-free interval, but individual state standards widely vary. There is a trend toward greater liberalization of driving standards for people with seizure disorders, but the appropriateness and application of these standards continue to raise questions, as does the role physicians should have in the licensing process. Our responsibilities to persons with disabilities and advances in our understanding of seizures and the nature of driving risks warrant a reappraisal of the current medical, legal, and social implications of driving and epilepsy. 
Anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer without bone graft. We followed 30 patients for more than 2 years after anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer for persistent patellofemoral pain associated with patellar articular degeneration. Twelve of these patients were followed more than 5 years. We report 93% good and excellent results subjectively and 89% good and excellent results objectively. The quality of improvement was sustained in all 12 of the patients who were evaluated again after more than 5 years from surgery. When examined separately, 75% of those patients with advanced patellar arthrosis achieved a good result; none of these patients achieved an excellent result. Postoperative continuous passive motion has markedly reduced the incidence of stiffness. Serious complications such as compartment syndrome, infection, and skin slough were avoided completely in 51 consecutive cases. Patellofemoral contact pressure studies in five cadaver knees have shown that anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer can provide substantial reduction of patellofemoral contact stress while helping to balance medial and lateral facet pressures. This surgical procedure is mechanically and clinically successful for alleviating intractable pain related to patellar malalignment and articular degeneration. This procedure enables the majority of appropriately selected patients with malalignment and patellar articular degeneration to resume increased levels of activity with substantially diminished pain. 
Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis: a combined institutional review. Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies. The charts of all patients (n = 649) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the University of Minnesota Hospital and to the University of Michigan Medical Center during a 13-year period (1975 to 1988) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications. The clinical presentation, bacteriology, involved sinuses, influencing host factors, white blood cell count on presentation, length of hospitalization, and postinterventional complications are presented. Twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7%. Aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality. Intracranial complications included subdural empyema, frontal lobe abscesses, intrahemispheric abscesses, cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, and osteomyelitis. 
Unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance. Five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment. In three of them, neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose (hypoglycemia, abnormal coagulation, cardiovascular collapse); in the other two, such a relationship could not be demonstrated. Neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance, but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis. 
Suppression of carbamazepine-induced rash with prednisone. We report our experience with 20 patients who developed a rash shortly after the introduction of carbamazepine and were treated with prednisone and an antihistamine. Sixteen patients were successfully continued on carbamazepine while 4 had to discontinue the drug. 
Cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid. Treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction. This resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide, reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose, and addition of pyridoxine. We discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid. Patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity. 
Elevated alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in spinal fluid from HIV-1-infected patients with central nervous system involvement. To assess the role of alpha-tumor necrosis factor in the pathogenesis of central nervous system involvement during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection, we recorded clinical data and measured alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples from 45 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1, classified as group II/III (10), group IV A (5), group IV B (10), and group IV C-1 (20) of the Centers for Disease Control acquired immunodeficiency syndrome classification system and 42 controls. Alpha-tumor necrosis factor was above the limit of detection in only 3 of 15 sera and 3 of 15 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients in group II/III and group IV A, whereas it was detected in 17 of 30 sera (p less than 0.05) and 22 of 30 cerebrospinal fluid (p less than 0.0002) samples from clinically more advanced patients (group IV B and group IV C-1). Alpha-tumor necrosis factor mean values were 21.5 pg/ml in sera and 50.0 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group IV B patients and 30.4 pg/ml in sera and 24 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group IV C-1 patients. 
Discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs in children who have outgrown epilepsy: effects on cognitive function. Cognitive function is frequently impaired in children with epilepsy, compared with age-matched controls. It can be hard to evaluate the significance of various contributory factors. The effects of antiepileptic drugs may be studied in children who have outgrown their epilepsy but are still being treated. A multicenter study to assess various aspects of cognitive function in children with different forms of epilepsy, both during and after treatment with antiepileptic drugs, is currently under way. Definitive results are not yet available; interim analysis of the findings suggests that short-term memory is decreased in all subgroups of children being treated for epilepsy, compared to controls. 
A critical appraisal of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in depressed patients. OBJECTIVE: The authors' goal was to evaluate the utility of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation assays in clinical research in psychoimmunology. METHOD: They examined 23 depressed patients and 23 matched comparison subjects with this assay. There were no significant differences between these groups. They then combined the results of this study with the results of their previous study of 20 depressed patients and 20 comparison subjects to examine possible determinants of lymphocyte proliferation in depression. RESULTS: Depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects had lower depression subscale, anergia subscale, and total scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects. This finding was unexpected and unexplained. Depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects also had fewer obsessions and compulsions and less psychomotor agitation according to the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia interview than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects. Stepwise discriminant analysis and cluster analysis contributed little further understanding of the determinants of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation of cells from depressed patients. CONCLUSIONS: Longitudinal studies using multiple serial determinations of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation are the minimal design needed to make this assay useful in further evaluating any immune system changes in depression. 
Why are autism and the fragile-X syndrome associated? Conceptual and methodological issues. Investigations of the association between autism and the fragile-X syndrome have yielded conflicting results with some studies indicating a strong correlation and others indicating no relation between the disorders. In this paper, we review the relevant research on this controversy and discuss the conceptual and methodological problems involved in such an inquiry. We conclude that autism and fragile X are associated and that this relation will prove fruitful in understanding the role of the X chromosome in a variety of behavior disorders and in unraveling various theoretical accounts on the etiology of autism. 
Haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy and sudden infant death In 2 pairs of non-identical twins, haemorrhagic-shock encephalopathy syndrome developed in 1 co-twin while the other died of sudden infant death syndrome. The twin pairs were aged 3 and 4 months, respectively, and no cause was identified. We suggest that stress protein deficiency may underlie both syndromes. 
Developmental dysmnesia in a poor reader. A 22-yr-old subject with moderate developmental dyslexia experienced poor memory from an early age. In spite of normal intelligence he had great difficulty in learning historical and geographical names, mathematical formulae, poems and songs, and verbal series such as the letters of the alphabet and the months of the year. His recognition of familiar faces was also faulty at times. A battery of memory tests confirmed a moderate deficit of verbal as well as visual memory, whereas spatial memory was preserved. Other cognitive functions were intact, except for a mild reading disability. No evidence of brain pathology was provided by his history, neurological examination and CT scanning. 
Central nervous system bioaminergic responses to mechanical trauma. An experimental study. Changes in biogenic amines in the brain and spinal cord following penetrating injury were studied in male Wistar rats using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Rapid increase in hemispheric concentration of these substances was noted beginning shortly after trauma. This trend continued until they were about three to four times control levels by about 24 to 48 hours postinjury. In the spinal cord, however, there was an initial sharp reduction in regional concentrations 2 hours postinjury followed by a slow rise thereafter. By 48 hours postinjury, levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin of the cords of injured animals were still less than those of nontraumatized controls. This variation in the central nervous system bioaminergic response with the level of injury raises questions as to its precise role in neurological damage following mechanical insult. 
Tamoxifen therapy for painful idiopathic gynecomastia. We have evaluated the efficacy of the antiestrogen tamoxifen in six men with painful idiopathic gynecomastia. Subjects were given either tamoxifen or placebo for 2 to 4 months and then were given the other agent for an identical period. Breast size was considered to have been reduced only if it had decreased by one or more Marshall-Tanner stages during the treatment period. Pain reduction with tamoxifen therapy was statistically significant for the group, occurring in five of six subjects during tamoxifen treatment and in only one of six during the placebo period. Size reduction with tamoxifen was only marginally significant for the entire group, but occurred in all three subjects who were initially in Marshall-Tanner stage III and in none of the three subjects who were initially in stage V. During tamoxifen treatment, there was a significant increase in the serum levels of luteinizing hormone and total estradiol and a marginally significant increment in the total testosterone level. 
Sleep disturbances in survivors of the Nazi Holocaust. OBJECTIVE AND METHOD: Sleep disturbances are commonly reported by victims of extraordinary stress and can persist for decades. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that survivors of the Nazi Holocaust would have significantly more and different sleep problems than depressed and healthy comparison subjects and that the severity of the survivors' problems would be correlated with length of time spent in a concentration camp. Forty-two survivors, 37 depressed patients, and 54 healthy subjects of about the same age, all living in the community, described their sleep patterns over the preceding month on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, a self-rating instrument that inquires about quality, latency, duration, efficiency, and disturbances of sleep, use of sleep medication, and daytime dysfunction. RESULTS: The survivors had significantly greater sleep impairment than the healthy comparison subjects, as measured by all subscales of the index, but had less impairment than the depressed patients except on the sleep disturbances and daytime dysfunction subscales. However, for specific items within these subscales, survivors had significantly more frequent awakenings due to bad dreams and had less loss of enthusiasm than the depressed subjects. Sleep disturbances and frequency of nightmares were significantly and positively correlated with the duration of the survivors' internment in concentration camps. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that for some Holocaust survivors, impaired sleep and frequent nightmares are considerable problems even 45 years after liberation. 
Higher incidence of carpal tunnel syndrome in oophorectomized women. To determine whether the hormonal changes of the menopause are related to the onset of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), 53 healthy women, younger than 44 years, and subjected to bilateral oophorectomy between 1 and 4 years before the study, were evaluated. Seventy healthy menstruating women matched for age were used as controls. In those complaining of symptoms and presenting signs suggestive of CTS, sensory and motor nerve conduction studies were done. In the oophorectomized group, 17 of 53 (32%) had clinical CTS, while only seven of 70 of the control group (10%) did so (relative risk for the oophorectomized group = 4.25; 95% confidence intervals 1.47 and 12.61). The nerve conduction studies were abnormal in 14 of 16 oophorectomized women (87.5%), and in only one of seven of the control group (14.2%; P less than 0.002). Symptoms tended to be milder in the controls. Symptoms developed in the first year after oophorectomy in 14 of the 17 women with CTS. This suggests that women develop CTS after oophorectomy more frequently than controls. 
Hospitalization and the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. The influences of age and education. The study investigated the relationship between length of hospitalization and increasing cognitive deficit in schizophrenics. Using Halstead-Reitan Battery data obtained from 245 schizophrenic patients, multiple regression analyses were performed using age, education, and length of hospitalization as independent variables and various summary test indices as dependent variables. These analyses showed that there was not a statistically significant change in percentage of explained variance when length of hospitalization was entered into the multiple regression equations. On the basis of these analyses, it was concluded that the association between increasing deficit and length of hospitalization experienced by schizophrenic patients is no greater than what would be anticipated on the basis of aging. 
Lymphomatous polyneuropathy. Biopsy of clinically involved nerve and successful treatment. We present a patient with large-cell lymphoma in remission who, over several weeks, developed widespread multifocal polyneuropathy. There was involvement of all four limbs, most severely the left upper extremity that had become useless. Biopsy of the left saphenous nerve within an area of sensory loss showed lymphoma in the endoneurium. There was no other evidence of recurrent lymphoma despite extensive investigation, including bone marrow, lumbar puncture, magnetic resonance imaging of the spine, and computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis. Intensive systemic chemotherapy was accompanied by nearly complete recovery. Biopsy of a symptomatic nerve is preferable to routine sural nerve biopsy in this condition because of its patchy distribution. Treatment with systematic chemotherapy can be effective. 
Gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-Purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume. Between 1982 and 1989, 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma, paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, and seropositivity for anti-Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution. Seven of the patients had no clinical, computed tomographic, or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-Purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma. Cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients. The cancers were 14 ovarian, 2 fallopian tube, 2 surface papillary, and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node. Two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume. A comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage III cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group (P = 0.05). Anti-Purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer. The small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor (presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells) may impair the metastatic process. Earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer, based on prompt serologic testing, may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis. 
Neuro-ocular Lyme borreliosis. Any patient who has a Bell's palsy (unilateral or bilateral), aseptic meningitis, chronic fatigue syndrome, atypical radiculoneuropathy, presenile dementia, atypical myopathy, or symptoms of atypical rheumatoid arthritis should be asked specifically about the following: visits to highly endemic areas, any known tick bites, any skin lesion suggestive of erythema migrans, any history of palpitations or of prior Bell's palsy, aching in joints (especially the knees), paresthesias, chronic fatigue and depression, forgetfulness, and eye problems. Any patient showing a chronic iritis with posterior synechiae, vitritis in one or both eyes, an atypical pars planitis-like syndrome, big blind spot syndrome, and swollen or hyperemic optic discs should be asked the same questions. The physician should send one red-top tube of blood containing 2 to 3 ml serum to Microbiology Reference Laboratory, 10703 Progress Way, Cypress, CA 90630-4714, requesting a Lyme/treponemal panel. For $90 the patient will receive an RPR test with titer, serum FTA-ABS test, serum Lyme IFA IgG and IgM, and a serum Lyme ELISA test. If these tests are within normal limits and the physician is still suspicious, a Western blot can be ordered on serum. A green top tube with fresh white blood cells sent out by overnight express on a Monday or Tuesday will produce a Lyme PCR and a lymphocyte stimulation test. Finally, R.K. Porschen, director of MRL Laboratory, will provide information on the urine antigen test on an investigational basis. A careful history with emphasis on the specific questions noted above, a complete neuro-ophthalmological and physical examination ruling out other causative problems, and the laboratory studies here discussed will usually provide sufficient data to choose therapy. Much further active research into Lyme borreliosis is an important priority in medicine. 
Clentiazem reduces infarct size in rabbit middle cerebral artery occlusion. We assessed the value of pretreatment with clentiazem (8-chlorodiltiazem), a diltiazem derivative with cerebroselective properties, on the consequences of surgical occlusion of the middle cerebral artery via a transorbital approach in 38 rabbits. Nineteen rabbits received 1.7 (n = 5), 5 (n = 8), or 15 (n = 6) mg/kg clentiazem orally four times a day for 24 hours before and 48 hours after occlusion. Upon sacrifice, a segment of the right middle cerebral artery distal to the occlusion and a corresponding segment from the nonoccluded left middle cerebral artery were mounted on myographs for in vitro study of their reactivity to histamine, acetylcholine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and electrical stimulation of intramural sympathetic nerves. Morphometric measurements of 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride-stained brain slices permitted us to estimate infarct volume. Pretreatment with 1.7, 5, and 15 mg/kg clentiazem significantly reduced infarct volume (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01, and p less than 0.01, respectively). Mean infarct volume of the 15 mg/kg-treated group was only 4% that of the untreated group. There were no postoperative deaths in any treated group compared with a death rate of 36% in the untreated group. Mean values for vascular smooth muscle contractility to histamine and relaxation to acetylcholine were significantly enhanced in vessels from treated rabbits. These studies indicate that pretreatment with clentiazem offers cerebral protection and significantly reduces infarct volume as well as arterial wall damage beyond the occlusion. 
Acetylsalicylic acid vs. metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis--a double-blind cross-over study. In a double blind cross-over study, 28 patients, 5 male and 23 female, aged 31 +/- 14 years, after a run-in period of 8 weeks, were treated for 3 months with acetylsalicylic acid and for another 3 months with metoprolol, both in a prophylactic mode. Attack frequency was reduced significantly with both therapeutic regimens (ASA p less than 0.001, metoprolol p less than 0.00005). Reduction of attacks below 50% was seen with metoprolol in 14 cases, and with ASA in three cases. Even though ASA was of statistically significant efficacy in migraine prophylaxis, it clearly is not the drug of first choice in migraine prophylaxis. 
Predictors of morbidity and mortality in neonates with herpes simplex virus infections. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Collaborative Antiviral Study Group. BACKGROUND. In a controlled trial comparing acyclovir with vidarabine in the treatment of neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, we found no significant difference between the treatments in adjusted mortality and morbidity. Hence, we sought to define for the entire cohort (n = 202) the clinical characteristics that best predicted the eventual outcome in these neonates. METHODS. Data were gathered prospectively at 27 centers between 1981 and 1988 in infants less than one month of age who had virologically confirmed HSV infection. We examined the outcomes by multivariate analyses of 24 variables. Disease was classified in one of three categories based on the extent of the involvement at entry into the trial: infection confined to skin, eyes, or mouth; encephalitis; or disseminated infection. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS. There were no deaths among the 85 infants with localized HSV infection. The mortality rate was significantly higher in the 46 neonates with disseminated infection (57 percent) than in the 71 with encephalitis (15 percent). In addition, the risk of death was increased in neonates who were in or near coma at entry (relative risk, 5.2), had disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (relative risk, 3.8), or were premature (relative risk, 3.7). In babies with disseminated disease, HSV pneumonitis was also associated with greater mortality (relative risk, 3.6). In the survivors, morbidity was most frequent in infants with encephalitis (relative risk, 4.4), disseminated infection (relative risk, 2.1), seizures (relative risk, 3.0), or infection with HSV type 2 (relative risk, 4.9). With HSV infection limited to the skin, eyes, or mouth, the presence of three or more recurrences of vesicles was associated with an increased risk of neurologic impairment as compared with two or fewer recurrences. 
The floppy infant: recent advances in the understanding of disorders affecting the neuromuscular junction. The clinician is often asked to evaluate the floppy infant. Numerous conditions that cause hypotonia in infancy are briefly outlined in this article. These conditions may affect the brain, spinal cord, or motor unit. Several disorders of neuromuscular transmission, including four distinct and recently described congenital myasthenic syndromes and infant botulism, are discussed thereafter. 
Influence of amphetamine treatment on somatosensory function of the normal and infarcted rat brain. The consequences of acute amphetamine administration on the metabolic responsiveness of the cerebral cortex to physiologic activation were studied in normal and infarcted rats. Treated rats received a 4 mg/kg intravenous injection of d-amphetamine 1 hour before unilateral vibrissae stimulation and 2-deoxyglucose study. In nontreated normal rats, metabolic activation was restricted to the major relay stations of the vibrissae-barrel circuit. In amphetamine-treated rats, stimulation-induced increased glucose utilization was widespread, including ipsilateral and contralateral cortical regions outside the barrel field circuit. For example, an 84% increase in glucose utilization above control was seen in cortical areas anterior to the barrel field region. Increased glucose utilization induced by stimulation was severely depressed in nontreated rats that had undergone infarction of the left cortical barrel field 2 weeks previously. Vibrissae stimulation failed to increase glucose utilization significantly in cortical areas remote from the infarct. In contrast, bilateral increases in glucose utilization were observed within cortical regions of treated infarcted rats. For example, a 50% increase in glucose utilization was detected in cortical areas bordering the infarct. Thus, in the normal and infarcted rat, amphetamine appears to promote alternate circuit activation--a pharmacologic property that may be advantageous for recovery after injury. 
Effect of nimodipine on acute ischemic stroke. Pooled results from five randomized trials. In a review of pooled data from five double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of nimodipine in acute ischemic stroke, we compared the effect of 120 mg nimodipine given orally with that of placebo. In the five studies, 871 patients were followed, and 781 adhered to entry and inclusion criteria. End points were mortality and outcome at the end of the treatment period (21 or 28 days). Outcome was assessed with Mathew's scale and the physician's clinical judgement. The treatment and control groups were well matched with respect to demographic data, risk factors, and baseline Mathew scores. In the treatment group, 34 patients (7.9%) died during the treatment period, whereas 54 (12.3%) in the control group died, corresponding with a mortality reduction of 36%. Significantly less neurologic impairment at the end of the treatment period was documented under nimodipine treatment, and this impairment improved more in patients with moderate-to-severe stroke (baseline Mathew score less than 66) if administration of nimodipine occurred within 12 hours after stroke onset or if the patient was more than 65 years old. The overall incidence of adverse reactions was relatively modest, and these were of minor severity; only a few appeared to have more than a remote relation to the study medication. 
Cerebral palsy and rhizotomy. A 3-year follow-up evaluation with gait analysis. A recent increase in the popularity of selective rhizotomy for reduction of spasticity in cerebral palsy has led to a demand for more objective studies of outcome and long-term follow-up results. The authors present the results of gait analysis on 14 children with spastic cerebral palsy, who underwent selective posterior rhizotomy in 1985. Sagittal plane gait patterns were studied before surgery and at 1 and 3 years after surgery using a digital camera system. The parameters measured included the range of motion at the knee and thigh, stride length, speed of walking, and cadence. The range of motion at the knee was significantly increased at 1 year after surgery and further improved to a nearly normal range at 3 years after surgery. In contrast, postoperative measurements of thigh range exceeded normal values at 1 year, but decreased toward normal range at 3 years. While improvements in range of motion continued between Years 1 and 3, the children developed a more extended thigh and knee position, which indicated a more upright walking posture. Stride length and speed of walking also improved, while cadence remained essentially unchanged. This 3-year follow-up study, the first to examine rhizotomy using an objective approach, has provided some encouraging results regarding early functional outcome. 
Asymptomatic ulnar neuropathy in carpal tunnel syndrome. Quantitative assessment of the vibration threshold of the second and fifth fingertips at 125Hz was performed on 28 affected limbs of 17 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) together with a median and ulnar sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) study. Twenty-six limbs of 26 age-matched healthy subjects were used as controls. Both the vibration threshold elevation of the second finger and the delay of median SNCV were significant in CTS patients as compared with controls (p less than .001). Although the ulnar SNCVs of all affected limbs were within the normal range, ten affected limbs (36%) were found to have a concomitant vibration threshold elevation of the fifth finger, and eight of those limbs were found to be exposed to chronic occupational mechanical stimulation at the wrist. These findings appear to support the presence of subclinical traumatic damage to the ulnar nerve at the wrist. In summary, digital vibration measurement can elucidate subclinical ulnar neuropathy in CTS which cannot be detected by SNCV studies. 
An improved photochemical model of embolic cerebral infarction in rats. To provide further evidence that the multiple cerebral infarcts found in rats following photochemical damage to the carotid artery are caused by emboli and to eliminate the systemic hypotension and heating of the blood reported with the previous photochemical embolic stroke model (rose bengal and a green laser), I have modified the photochemical technique. Brain pathology was studied in 18 Wistar rats following carotid artery irradiation with a red laser (632 nm) at powers ranging from 100 to 800 mW/cm2 for 10 or 20 minutes following the injection of the photosensitizing dye Photofrin II. Multiple cerebral arterioles were occluded by platelet aggregates containing frequent erythrocytes and leukocytes, identical to the thrombotic material in the carotid artery but different from the platelet aggregates seen in the carotid artery and the brain in the rose bengal model. Eighty infarcts were distributed randomly throughout the brain ipsilateral to the nonocclusive carotid thrombus. Significant heating (0.5 degree C or more) of the blood occurred only with laser powers higher (1,600 mW/cm2) or laser irradiations longer (25 minutes) than those used in the improved model of embolic stroke. This model mimics one mechanism of stroke in humans and provides a means to study systematically the morphological evolution of small cerebral infarcts. 
Cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy. Cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented. The authors measured cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure (three to five organs). They found that CBF and CMRO2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 3 mL/100g/min (mean +/- SEM) and 3.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.2 +/- 0.2 mL/100g/min, respectively. Cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) and cerebral circulatory index (CCI:CBF/CMRO2) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 +/- 0.1 to 3.0 +/- 0.4 mm Hg/mL/100g/min and 15.1 +/- 0.8 to 24.2 +/- 3.3, respectively. At the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements, their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the Glasgow coma scale. The electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients. Computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy. It is concluded that CBF and CMRO2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the CNS and decreased electrical activity. 
Development of a traumatic intracranial hematoma after a "minor" head injury. We have analyzed features of patients who had what appeared initially to be a minor head injury but who developed an acute traumatic intracranial hematoma. Over a 10-year period, 183 patients who were able to open their eyes spontaneously, were oriented to person, place, and time, and who obeyed commands when they were first seen at a hospital subsequently underwent operation for an acute intracranial hematoma. The hematoma was extradural in 54% of these patients. A history of altered consciousness or symptoms of headache and vomiting were present in 61% of the patients; 33% had a focal neurological deficit, and 43% had either focal deficit or signs of a basal skull fracture. A skull fracture was shown radiologically in 60% of patients, including 52% of those not clinically suspected of having an intracranial lesion. Six months after injury, 77% of the patients had made a moderate or good recovery. The possibility that a patient who has recently sustained a head injury might develop an acute intracranial hematoma can never be completely discounted, even when there are no abnormal clinical signs, and a skull x-ray retains a useful place in the investigation of selected patients with a minor head injury. 
LDH isoenzymes in cerebrospinal fluid in various brain tumours. This study examined the isoenzymatic pattern of LDH in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as well as the ratio between the five fractions of LDH among patients with various brain tumours, carcinomatous meningitis and control groups. LDH 1/LDH 2 less than 1 was found significant for carcinomatous meningitis (p less than 0.001) and brain metastases (p less than 0.001). LDH 1/LDH 2 ratio was found to be significantly lower in carcinomatous meningitis than in brain metastases (p less than 0.05). No LDH 1/LDH 2 ratios smaller than 1 were found in the other groups. The LDH 1/LDH 2 ratio smaller than 1 was found in the early stage of carcinomatous meningitis without other evidences of the involvement of the leptomeninges. Examination of LDH 1/LDH 2 can be found as an adjunctive method to identify brain metastases and carcinomatous meningitis at the initial stage. 
Events associated with rupture of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation devices. Nineteen intra-aortic balloon (IAB) ruptures occurred in sixteen patients during a three-year period. Perforation occurred secondary to abrasion with material failure or mishandling of the device during insertion. To avoid serious sequelae, it is important to be aware of the possibility of IAB rupture and to remove any defective device immediately upon recognition of an event. 
Rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery. We analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery. In all five cases, thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen. The mean +/- SD shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 +/- 0.4 mm. Our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion, which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion. 
Changes of hippocampal glucose utilization subsequent to amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures. Local changes in cerebral glucose utilization during the postictal phase of amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures were studied with the quantitative autoradiographic 2-[14C]deoxyglucose method in conscious rats. Measurement was initiated either just after termination of a behavioral seizure (GS-I) or 30 s after seizure termination (GS-II) to determine dynamic metabolic changes in the postictal phase. Although glucose utilization of the neocortex was remarkably depressed in both GS-I and GS-II, that of the hippocampus significantly increased in GS-I and then decreased in GS-II as compared with control. These changes of hippocampal glucose utilization were observed in all sectors of the pyramidal cell layer (CA 1-4) and in the molecular layer. Because metabolic changes associated with development of amygdaloid-kindled seizures begin in the limbic structures including the hippocampus, the transient increase in hippocampal glucose utilization observed in the early postictal phase indicates that the hippocampus is one of the key structures not only for initiating and maintaining but also for terminating kindled seizures. 
The pathophysiology of anoxic injury in central nervous system white matter. White matter of the mammalian brain is susceptible to anoxic injury, but little is known about the pathophysiology of this process. We studied the mechanisms of anoxic injury in white matter using the isolated rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white-matter tract. Optic nerve function, measured as the area under the compound action potential, rapidly failed when exposed to anoxia. Postanoxic recovery was variable, depending on duration of the anoxic insult; after a standard 60-minute period of anoxia, the compound action potential recovered to 28.5% of control. Irreversible anoxic injury was critically dependent on extracellular Ca2+; maintaining the tissue in zero [Ca2+] solution throughout the anoxic period resulted in 100% compound action potential recovery. Increasing perfusate [Ca2+] during anoxia from zero to 4 mM resulted in progressively less recovery. Anoxic damage to the optic nerve appears to depend on the gradual accumulation (over tens of minutes) of Ca2+ in a cytoplasmic compartment. The inorganic Ca2+ channel blockers Mn2+ (1 mM), Co2+ (1 mM), or La3+ (0.1 mM) had no effect on recovery of the compound action potential after anoxia; only Mg2+ (10 mM) significantly improved recovery. Treatment with the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers nifedipine (1-10 microM) or nimodipine (1-40 microM) also had no effect on recovery from anoxia. Thus, Ca2+ influx during anoxia does not occur via conventional Ca2+ channels. Preliminary evidence suggests that this Ca2+ influx may occur via other cation channels that are imperfectly selective for Ca2+ or via the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger. 
Emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding. Thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment, or both, failed to arrest variceal bleeding, or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts (EPSS) were studied. EPSS permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient. In this patient, the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography. Esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14. Three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed. The causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient. One patient was classified in Child's category B and two in Child's category C. Thirty-two patients submitted to EPSS and were discharged alive. Twelve of these patients subsequently died, at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure. Four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure; two patients died of hepatomas; two, other neoplasia; three, hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers, and one patient, renal failure. Analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent. The long term survival rates were fewer for patients with Child's category C than for those with combined Child's categories A and B (five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent; p less than 0.05). During the follow-up period, none of the patients had variceal bleeding. Chronic encephalopathy developed in six, which was mild in three, moderate in one instance and severe in two. It developed soon after EPSS, with onset in the first month after discharge in three. Thus, when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding, EPSS should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period. 
Facial bone fracture associated with carotid-cavernous sinus fistula. Out of 989 cases of facial bone fracture, ten patients had carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas (1.01%). Their ages ranged from 25 to 48 years. Seven were male and three female. Two of the ten patients had lower third, three patients had middle third, three patients had upper third, and two patients had combined middle and lower third facial bone fractures. The signs and symptoms of a fistula appeared from the first postinjury day up to 50 days after the injury (mean, 21 days). Four patients had symptoms after operation for facial bone fracture. Most fistulae were identified by arteriography before treatment. Followup ranged from 1 year, 8 months, to 5 years, 9 months (mean, 2 years, 9 months). One patient had a malocclusion. Nine patients had complete resolution of their bruits. Complications included unilateral complete visual loss (two), CSF rhinorrhea (two), and stroke in one of the two CSF rhinorrhea patients. One patient expired due to a severe head injury, and there was one death from an unrelated cause. 
Fluctuations of interictal brain imaging in repeated 123I-IMP SPECT scans in an epileptic patient. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain scans with N-isopropyl-(iodine 123) p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) were performed three times in interictal periods in a 35-year-old man with intractable frontal lobe epilepsy and normal X-ray CT findings. The first scan showed decreased 123I-IMP uptake in the right frontal lobe. This abnormal image was regarded as the primary focus of his epilepsy on the basis of its regional agreement with focal epileptic discharges on EEGs. In the second scan, he showed normal imaging, while the third scan showed the same abnormal image as before, in the right frontal lobe. The frequency of his clinical seizures was almost unchanged during the intervals between scans and further EEGs recorded soon after each scan showed almost no changes in the basic activities and frequency of the epileptic discharges. Such fluctuations in SPECT brain imaging suggest that the severity of functional inactivation underlying the focal hypoperfusion image as an epileptic focus may fluctuate considerably in the interictal state with no relation to the clinical features of epilepsy. 
The efficacy of suction drains after routine total joint arthroplasty [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Jun;73(5):791] A prospective study of thirty-eight patients (seventy-six knees) who had had a primary bilateral total knee replacement and twelve patients (twenty-four hips) who had had a primary bilateral total hip replacement was conducted to assess the effect of postoperative suction drainage on wound-healing. A suction drain was placed on each patient's right operative wound, while no drains were used on the left. Otherwise, the same operative technique and method of closure were used in all wounds. Statistical analysis of the results showed no difference between the two sides with regard to the incidences of swelling or persistent drainage. Return of active function of the quadriceps and of range of motion of the knee in patients who had had a total knee replacement was also unaffected by the use of suction drains. We concluded that the routine use of suction drains for wounds is unnecessary after uncomplicated total joint arthroplasty. 
Observation of cerebrospinal fluid flow with echo-planar magnetic resonance imaging. Using echo-planar (EP) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow patterns have been demonstrated in the normal subject and patients with pathological conditions including communicating hydrocephalus, aqueduct stenosis and syringohydromyelia. Snap-shot imaging times of 128 ms allow detailed demonstration of transient intraventricular CSF flow patterns, which is not possible with conventional MRI. The potential of EPI as a method for qualitative and quantitative assessment of CSF dynamics is illustrated. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome: consensus report of an ad hoc committee of the American Association for Hand Surgery on the definition of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome. This report proposes that reflex sympathetic dystrophy be defined as a pain syndrome in which the pain is accompanied by loss of function and evidence of autonomic dysfunction. In the clinical setting, this diagnosis is usually associated with other anatomic and psychological diagnoses and may be associated with a variety of systemic illnesses and medicolegal factors. All components should be assessed before a treatment plan is established. Priorities should go to emergency care, acute injuries, and systemic illness, psychiatric problems, and chronic anatomic problems, in that order. Early, accurate diagnosis improves prognosis. 
Volume conduction of the parietal N20 potential to the prerolandic frontal area. Somatosensory evoked potentials were recorded from the frontal and parietal areas in patients with various lesions in the central nervous system on stimulation of the median nerve. Five representative cases who showed a selective loss of the positive potential from the frontal area are reported. In each case, the parietal N20 potential was relatively well preserved, and the midposition between the frontal and central areas (FC area) showed a negative potential following P14. The peak of this negative potential was synchronous with that of the parietal N20 potential. This negativity on the FC area is considered to be a volume conducted potential from the parietal N20 to the prerolandic frontal area. Such an anterior volume conduction of the parietal N20 would not be explained by the concept of a tangentially oriented dipole generated in the posterior bank of the central sulcus. Instead, for the generator of the parietal N20 potential, a radically oriented dipole generated mainly in the parietal area is postulated. 
Transient hyperprolactinemia is associated with a midcycle luteinizing hormone surge. This study demonstrates that LH surge cycles in IVF patients were associated with significantly higher serum PRL concentrations than cycles in which a spontaneous LH surge did not occur. Our findings support the hypothesis of concomitant LH and PRL release at the time of the midcycle gonadotropin surge, as well as that of estrogen sensitization of pituitary lactotropes, and suggest a possible mechanism for transient midcycle hyperprolactinemia. 
Familial trigeminal neuralgia and Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy. Report of two families and review. Typical trigeminal neuralgia has occasionally occurred in multiple members of the same family over several generations. The clinical features of such cases, including the increased incidence in females, and the absence of other apparent hereditary, neurologic, metabolic, or structural abnormalities were identical to those of sporadic cases. More rarely, familial trigeminal neuralgia has been described in the setting of hereditary peripheral neuropathy, especially Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. We describe patients from two different families with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and medically intractable trigeminal neuralgia. Both patients were successfully treated by percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizolysis. The occurrence of cranial nerve symptoms in patients with demyelinating peripheral neuropathies is discussed in light of the current hypotheses regarding the etiology of trigeminal neuralgia. 
Quantitative proton magnetic resonance imaging in focal cerebral ischemia in rat brain. Proton magnetic resonance (MR) imaging has been recommended as a diagnostic tool for the detection of focal cerebral ischemia. We compared microscopic MR images of rat brains after focal cerebral ischemia with evidence of histological damage found on corresponding silver-impregnated or cresyl violet-stained brain sections. Ten male Wistar rats were subjected to permanent unilateral occlusions of the right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries under halothane anesthesia. Twenty-four hours later the area of injury on MR images amounted to 26% of the total slice area, whereas only 9% of the total slice area was necrotic on histological sections from the same animals. The infarcted areas on tissue sections were surrounded by regions of selective neuronal injury in the cerebral cortex and occasionally in the hippocampus. The area of injury on MR images was larger than the combined areas of infarction and selective neuronal injury on histological sections. Areas of increased T2 values on MR images extended medially into noninfarcted striatum and laterally and dorsally into noninfarcted cortex. The lateral and dorsal areas on MR images frequently coincided with cortical areas in which considerable selective neuronal injury was present in the upper cortical layers. We hypothesize that the abnormal areas on MR images above histologically normal brain tissue represent the ischemic penumbra. If true, this is the first demonstration of the ischemic penumbra by MR imaging and may reflect our use of Wistar rats, a new image analysis technique, and ultra-high resolution MR imaging. 
Posterior transfer of the adductors in children who have cerebral palsy. A long-term study. Seventy-eight posterior transfers of the adductors of the hip in forty-two children who has spastic cerebral palsy were reviewed an average of 5.7 years after the operation (range, two to 14.6 years). The results were assessed on the basis of the patient's ability to walk, the range of motion of the affected hip or hips, and the radiographic measurements. In 88 per cent of the patients, the transfer was successful in improving or maintaining abduction, extension, functional walking, and stability of the hip. The failures were all in patients who were unable to walk and who had spastic quadriplegia. Tenotomy of the iliopsoas tendon at the time of the transfer procedure resulted in an improved range of motion of the hip. 
Long-term evaluation of hemiparkinsonian monkeys after adrenal autografting or cavitation alone. Autografts of adrenal medulla were implanted into preformed cavities in the caudate nuclei of four rhesus monkeys with hemiparkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Five other hemiparkinsonian monkeys underwent caudate cavitation, but received no tissue implant. All of the animals had marked bradykinesia of the affected arm and stable apomorphine-induced turning before cavitation or implantation. Moderate behavioral recovery was seen in all five monkeys with cavitation and two of the three monkey with long-term adrenal autografts (the fourth adrenal recipient was sacrificed 10 days after grafting). The improvement occurred months after the procedure and was not as early or as complete as that seen after fetal dopaminergic grafts. Surviving adrenal tissue was found only in the animal that showed no behavioral recovery. The other two adrenal autograft recipients (with no surviving adrenal medulla) and all of the animals with cavitation had ingrowth of dopaminergic fibers from the area olfactoria and nucleus accumbens into the caudate, oriented toward the cavity. These findings show that the mechanism of improvement after adrenal medullary implants for parkinsonism is not dopamine secretion by chromaffin cells, but may be related to the sprouted host fibers. The results also indicate that the limited recovery after adrenal implants in parkinsonian patients may be a result of the cavitation, and not necessarily the result of tissue implantation. 
Anatomical, physiological, and theoretical basis for the antiepileptic effect of vagus nerve stimulation. The vagus is a mixed nerve carrying somatic and visceral afferents and efferents. The majority of vagal nerve fibers are visceral afferents and have a wide distribution throughout the central nervous system (CNS) either monosynaptically or via the nucleus of the solitary tract. Besides activation of well-defined reflexes, vagal stimulation produces evoked potentials recorded from the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the thalamus, and the cerebellum. Activation of vagal afferents can depress monosynaptic reflexes, decrease the activity of spinothalamic neurons, and increase pain threshold. Depending on the stimulation parameters, vagal afferent stimulation in experimental animals can produce electroencephalographic (EEG) synchronization or desynchronization and has been shown to affect sleep states. The desychronization of the EEG appears to depend on activation of afferent fibers that have conduction velocities of less than or equal to 15 m/s. Vagal afferent stimulation can also influence the activity of interictal cortical spikes produced by topical strychnine application, and either attenuate or stop seizures produced by pentylenetetrazol, 3-mercaptoproprionic acid, maximal electroshock, and topical alumina gel. The mechanisms for the antiepileptic effects of vagal stimulation are not fully understood but probably relate to effects on the reticular activating system. The vagus provides an easily accessible, peripheral route to modulate CNS function. 
Posttraumatic torticollis. We report six cases of torticollis precipitated by neck trauma. The dystonia began 1 to 4 days after the trauma and differed clinically from idiopathic torticollis by marked limitation of range of motion, lack of improvement after sleep ("honeymoon period"), and absence of geste antagonistique. Worsening with action was not present; nor was there improvement with support as seen with idiopathic torticollis. Onset of pain immediately after the trauma and marked spasms of the paracervical muscles were other predominant features. Anticholinergic therapy was without benefit; however, some improvement occurred with botulinum toxin injection. It is concluded that torticollis can be caused by peripheral trauma and that it has unique clinical characteristics. 
Brain water content, brain blood volume, blood chemistry, and pathology in a model of cerebral edema. STUDY OBJECTIVES: The objective was to correlate regional changes during brain water content with alterations in blood chemistry and cerebral pathology during hypo-osmotic edema. PARTICIPANTS: Sprague-Dawley male adult rats were used in these studies. DESIGN: Animals were block-randomized to receive either an intraperitoneal distilled water injection equivalent to 5% or 15% of their body weight or no injection (controls). Rats were sacrificed 15 or 60 minutes after water injection or at an equivalent time for controls. INTERVENTIONS: No interventions were performed. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Water content of cerebral cortical gray and white matter was calculated from measurements of tissue specific gravity. Blood plasma osmolality and sodium and potassium concentrations were determined at various times after water injection. An index of blood-brain barrier permeability was obtained by measuring brain red blood cell and plasma volumes. A qualitative assessment of edema was made from light and electron micrographs of the cerebral cortex. We found that water injection produced a dose-dependent decrease in plasma osmolality and sodium concentration within 15 minutes. Cortical water content was unchanged after this period. An influx of water into cerebral gray, and, less readily, into cerebral white matter occurred during the next 15 minutes. Whole blood specific gravity and brain blood content were unchanged and thus did not confound the measurement of cerebral water content. Hematocrit was increased 60 minutes after a 15% water injection. The blood-brain barrier remained intact throughout this period. Microscopy revealed astrocytic swelling with slight extracellular fluid accumulation 60 minutes after the water injection. CONCLUSIONS: Homeostatic mechanisms in the cerebral cortex can maintain constant water content for at least 15 minutes during maintained intravascular hypo-osmolality. Fluid that subsequently moves into the tissue primarily enters an intracellular compartment. This model will be useful in investigating physiological mechanisms of brain water regulation and the pathogenesis of brain edema, a common clinical entity in emergency conditions. 
Radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy: hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies. Cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours. We present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy. An 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy. In addition, she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy. Follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement. 
The association of carotid artery stenosis with carotid sinus hypersensitivity. Transitory cerebral ischaemic attack provoked by carotid sinus reflex The association of internal carotid stenosis with the carotid sinus syndrome represents a special clinical entity. Transitory cerebral ischaemic attack (TIA) will usually be manifested by activation of carotid sinus reflex. Eighteen patients were observed suffering from both carotid sinus hypersensitivity and TIA. The patients had had TIA's for many years. Unilateral internal carotid stenosis was detected in 15 cases, while 3 patients had bilateral carotid stenosis. On carotid sinus stimulation, syncope appeared and a TIA could be provoked. The mean duration of the syncopic attack was 5500 ms and was based on sinus arrest in 14 cases and on third degree AV block in 4 cases. In all patients carotid artery disobliteration was performed; in 14 patients pacemaker implantation was necessary, while 4 patients could be treated by atropine medication. The development of a TIA could be abolished in every patient and 14 patients remained totally symptom free. 
Relaxation training in school classes does not reduce headache complaints. The effect of teacher-presented Progressive Relaxation Training (PRT) on headaches, fear of failure and school problems was studied in school students. During ten physical education lessons, students received either PRT (n = 110) or placebo training (n = 92). The effect of the training was investigated in students who indicated the presence of headaches in a pre-training diary. No significant differences were found between both training groups regarding headache frequency, duration and intensity and the psychological variables. On the basis of these and previous findings, it is recommended to present PRT to fairly small groups of self-selected subjects instead of complete classes. 
Atrial fibrillation after stroke in the elderly. To examine the relationship between atrial fibrillation and mortality after stroke, we studied 186 men and 167 women from the Waikato Stroke Registry whose mean age was 75.2 +/- 7.5 years. Twenty-three percent (82 of 353) had atrial fibrillation or flutter on their admission electrocardiogram. This group differed significantly from that with sinus rhythm in three respects: 1) They were older (p less than 0.01); 2) they had more severe current stroke deficit as evidenced by lower limb power (p less than 0.05) and Mini-Mental State Score (p less than 0.001), higher incidence of homonomous hemianopia (p less than 0.05), and lower incidence of lacunar syndrome stroke (p less than 0.001); and 3) they had a significantly higher incidence of cardiomegaly and congestive heart failure (p less than 0.01). Functional outcome was insignificantly better in the group with sinus rhythm. During a mean follow-up period of 18 months, mortality was significantly higher in the group with atrial fibrillation (p = 0.001). Proportional hazards modeling, however, showed that the apparently poorer survival in those patients with atrial fibrillation could be explained by factors other than cardiac rhythm, such as age, Mini-Mental State Score, level of consciousness, and interstitial edema on admission chest radiograph. Thus, atrial fibrillation was not an independent predictor of survival after stroke. 
Sudden blindness after thermocoagulation of the trigeminal ganglion. Sudden blindness during percutaneous thermocoagulation of the gasserian ganglion occurred in a 72-year-old woman with trigeminal neuralgia. Considered a safe procedure, we highlight the possibility of this serious complication which was probably due to direct damage of the optic nerve. 
Articulatory impairment associated with tardive dyskinesia. The speech of two patients with tardive dyskinesia was studied, and one neuroleptic-treated patient having no signs of overt tardive dyskinesia served as control. A structured interview, including reading, repetition of sentences, and spontaneous conversation, was performed. A phonetic transcription and analysis of abnormal phonemes was done by a linguist under blind conditions. Both patients with tardive dyskinesia had abnormal phonemes whereas the control patient had none. These differences could not be explained by age, direct neuroleptic effect, or neuroleptic exposure time. The abnormal phonemes were all consonants. The authors conclude that tardive dyskinesia may cause articulatory communication problems. 
Striatonigral degeneration. A clinicopathological study. The clinical and pathological features of 10 cases of striatonigral degeneration are described: 5 were misdiagnosed in life as Parkinson's disease. Retrospectively, helpful early pointers to the diagnosis in these cases included unexplained falls, autonomic dysfunction, absence of rest tremor and failure to respond to L-dopa, but these were not always present. The pathological diagnosis could not be excluded on macroscopic examination of the striatum. Relative preservation of the putamen occurred in the 4 patients who benefited from L-dopa. The caudate nucleus was involved in all cases and there was no sparing of the large striatal neurons. In mild cases, involvement of the putamen was confined to its posterior two-thirds, dorsolaterally. With increasing severity this extended in a dorsal to ventral and posterior to anterior direction. Seven of the cases had evidence of olivopontocerebellar damage, but only 2 of these had clinical evidence of cerebellar disease. Correlation was found between the neuronal counts in caudate:putamen, striatum:nigra compacta, globus pallidus:nigra compacta, nigra compacta:locus coeruleus. The most severely involved part of the substantia nigra pars compacta was the ventrolateral zone, which projects to the dorsal putamen, the earliest site of striatal disease. 
Disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects: a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases. Quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow (CBF) by xenon-133 (133Xe) tomography, together with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), electroencephalography (EEG), psychometric tests, and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) seropositive asymptomatic subjects. Abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases (88%). These abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions (77% of cases). MRI demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases. EEG showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases. Psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55% of patients. These disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization. These results indicate that quantitative measurements of CBF by 133Xe-SPECT is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage (Phase II) of HIV-1 infection. These abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions. This technique appears to be superior to MRI at this stage of the disease's development. It could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment, and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy. 
Intrapartum, intranasal cocaine use and acute fetal distress. A case report. Intrapartum, intranasal cocaine was used for relief of labor pains by a healthy woman with an uncomplicated pregnancy. Fetal hypoxemia and distress followed the event. A causal relationship between the intrapartum use of cocaine and the fetal distress was postulated. Cocaine abusers could benefit from hospitalization early in labor for close surveillance and monitoring, thus avoiding exposure to cocaine and its unpredictable systemic effects. 
Auras and subclinical seizures: characteristics and prognostic significance. The characteristics and prognostic significance of subclinical seizures and independent auras were studied in 40 patients with partial epilepsy who had long-term electroencephalographic (EEG) monitoring with intracranial electrodes. Focal, restricted subclinical seizures were noted in 23 patients, and 11 patients experienced auras that were accompanied by ictal EEG discharges. Auras and subclinical seizures usually were identical in EEG appearance, but were distributed differently among patients. The subclinical seizures and auras usually had the same origin as complex partial seizures, but did not always reliably indicate complex partial seizure origin. Subclinical seizures and auras were of favorable prognostic significance for patients undergoing temporal lobectomy. A majority (greater than 80%) of individuals with subclinical seizures and auras were free of complex partial seizures after surgery, whereas a minority (29%) of patients without subclinical seizures and auras became free of complex partial seizures. 
Pituitary hemorrhage into a Rathke's cleft cyst This report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a Rathke's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman. The literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed. 
Posterior interosseous nerve palsies. One hundred seventy patients with radial nerve disorders were reviewed at the Louisiana State University Medical Center over a 15-year period. Of these, 32 had involvement of the posterior interosseous nerve exclusively. Findings included weak wrist extension with a radial drift, inability to extend the fingers, paralysis of thumb extension, and weak thumb abduction. Causes included entrapment at the arcade of Froshe (14 patients), laceration (6 patients), fracture (6 patients), compression or contusion (3 patients), and loss associated with tumor (3 patients). The ratio of men to women was 2:1, and the right arm was involved twice as often as the left. Preoperative evaluation included physical examination, electrophysiological testing (electromyogram/nerve conduction velocity), and roentgenograms of the elbow and forearm. Of the 30 patients (2 patients had bilateral lesions), 26 underwent operation. In the operative series, all 28 nerves had a function of Grade 3 or more of a possible 5 after 4 years of follow-up. Seventeen had achieved Grade 4/5, and 7 had obtained Grade 5/5. At operation, 23 nerves were found to be in continuity. Fourteen lesions of nerves in continuity were associated with entrapment and, not unexpectedly, transmitted a nerve action potential with slowed conduction and low amplitude across the lesion. Four nerves in continuity that had lesions caused by injury had nerve action potentials and were treated by neurolysis, and another 4 had no nerve action potentials and were treated by graft or suture repair. Five injured nerves were not in continuity. Two could be repaired by end-to-end suture, and 3 required graft repair. A large ganglion cyst involving the posterior interosseous nerve was also resected. 
Is it correct to correct? Developmental milestones in 555 "normal" preterm infants compared with term infants. To determine whether correction for preterm birth should be applied during developmental assessment, we conducted a prospective national survey of very premature infants (born at less than 32 weeks of gestation); neurodevelopment in the first 2 years was studied with the Dutch child health care developmental assessment. In 555 preterm children who had no evidence of handicap at 2 years of age, the age at which developmental milestones were reached was established. The results were compared with the results of the same assessment in Dutch children born at term. During the first year, the development of the very premature children equaled the development of normal children when full correction was applied. At 2 years of age, development was equal to or better than normal children's development without correction. We conclude that full correction for prematurity should be applied in the first year to avoid overreferral for developmental stimulation, whereas at 2 years of age correction is not necessary. 
Serial neurobehavioral assessments in preterm infants. The purpose of this study was to compare serial neurobehavioral assessments in a sample of preterm infants with intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) to those of a group of unaffected preterm infants. Of the 30 infants included in the study, 5 infants had a grade III or IV/VI intraventricular hemorrhage. Infants with IVH demonstrated more abnormalities in mental status and a cluster of abnormal neurologic findings (persistent ankle clonus, tremulousness, and brisk deep tendon reflexes). Of the 30 infants, 20 infants were included in a brain metabolism study. Infants who had experienced an IVH had significantly different brain metabolism findings, as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). There was a significant correlation between one measure of brain metabolism (PCr/PI) and the neurobehavioral assessment rating for infants with IVH. 
Abnormal single motor unit behavior in the upper motor neuron syndrome. We studied the discharge pattern of single motor units (SMUs) in the left and right biceps muscles from a patient with nonspastic weakness of the left arm. Detailed statistical analysis of the behavior of discharge patterns of 4 of 4 single motor units on the affected side showed abnormalities with characteristic features of an upper motor neuron lesion. Five out of 5 single motor units recorded from the right biceps were normal. An upper motor neuron lesion affecting the left arm, predicted by our results, was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which showed a lesion in the right precentral gyrus. It appears that changes in single motor unit firing characteristics, caused by an upper motor neuron lesion, can be detected at a time when there is no evidence of increased "tone" and/or hyperreflexia (spasticity) in the affected extremity. 
Sexual behavior of a sample of females with epilepsy. A sample of 700 female epileptic outpatients was examined between 1985 and 1987. The incidence of psychosexual disorders was 18%. Epileptic females with psychosexual disorders were compared with epileptic females without sexual disorders and with normal female controls on selected clinical and EEG parameters. Epileptic females with sexual disorders showed: lower marriage rates, a longer duration of illness, sexually colored prodromata, predominance of partial complex seizures (83%) and a higher incidence of menstrual abnormalities. Hyposexuality and exhibitionism were the psychosexual disorders most frequently noted. Temporal lobe EEG abnormalities were significantly higher. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in motor neuron disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was evaluated in 20 patients with motor neuron disease (MND) and in a control group of 11 healthy people. Bilateral increased signal areas of various sizes in the centrum semiovale, corona radiata, internal capsule, pedunculi of midbrain, pons, medulla and even in the frontal lobe, topographically related with the corticospinal tract, were found in 8 out of 20 patients. Three out of 4 patients with progressive bulbar paralysis and 5 out of 11 cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis had abnormal MRI. Such MRI abnormalities have neither been found in patients with progressive muscular atrophy nor in controls, suggesting that they may be the hallmark of pyramidal tract degeneration in motor neuron disease. 
Human olfactory discrimination after unilateral frontal or temporal lobectomy. Olfactory discrimination and detection was studied in 106 patients with unilateral cerebral excision in the right or left temporal lobe, right or left frontal lobe, left parietal lobe, or right frontal and temporal lobes, and in 20 normal control subjects. Detection thresholds for n-butyl alcohol, measured separately in each nostril, did not differ across subject groups or across nostrils, thus excluding any primary sensory loss. The discrimination task involved monorhinal presentation of repairs of unfamiliar odorants, which the subjects judged as same or different in quality. The results showed a significant deficit in discrimination confined to the nostril ipsilateral to the lesion in patients with temporal lobe removals. Patients with frontal lobe excisions were also impaired and, for patients with right frontal lesions including the orbital cortex, the impairment was found in both nostrils. Patients with left parietal lesions did not demonstrate any significant deficits. Normal subjects showed consistently better performance in the right than in the left nostril. The results are interpreted as reflecting the importance of the orbitofrontal cortex in olfactory discrimination. Temporal lobe lesions may disrupt the input to the orbitofrontal cortex, thereby producing poorer performance. The nostril difference in the normal subjects, together with the birhinal impairment in patients with right orbitofrontal damage, suggest a relative advantage of the right orbital region in olfactory processing. 
Plasticity in the aging brain. Reversibility of anatomic, metabolic, and cognitive deficits in normal-pressure hydrocephalus following shunt surgery. The course of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus was studied in a 78-year-old woman with a 4-year history of progressive dementia who underwent neuropsychologic testing, quantitative x-ray computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 to measure rates of regional cerebral glucose utilization. Preshunt cognitive testing demonstrated progressive deterioration during 2 years, and positron emission tomography showed significant reductions in regional cerebral glucose utilization of 34% to 49% as compared with age- and sex-matched control subjects in frontal, temporal, parietal, and whole brain regions. Periodic testing, carried out during a 2-year period after shunt surgery, showed steady improvement in clinical status. Parallel to the clinical changes, there was a significant reversal in neuropsychologic test scores with increased brain volume and increased regional cerebral glucose utilization in several brain regions. These results documented the considerable potential for recovery of compromised brain function in older subjects even after 4 years of progressive brain disease. 
Vagus nerve stimulation in humans: neurophysiological studies and electrophysiological monitoring. Evidence from studies of experimental animals indicates that electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve alters behavioral and electrographic seizure activity. We report on effects of electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve in five patients with medically intractable seizures as part of a clinical trial of chronic vagal stimulation for control of epilepsy. The mechanism of action of the vagal antiepileptic effect is unknown, and it is hoped that analysis of electrophysiological effects of vagal nerve stimulation will help elucidate which brain areas are affected. Stimulation of the left vagus nerve in the neck was accomplished with a programmable implanted stimulator. Effects of stimulus amplitude, duration, and rate were studied. Noncephalic reference recording of the vagus-nerve-evoked potential showed some unusual properties: a scalp negative component occurred with latency of 12 ms, very high amplitude (up to 60 microV), and widespread scalp distribution. Field distribution studies indicate that this potential is generated in the neck, in the region of the stimulating electrodes. Muscle paralysis confirms this observation. Stimulation at various frequencies had no noticeable effect on electroencephalographic (EEG) activity regardless of whether the patient was under general anesthesia, awake, or asleep. 
Perception and action in 'visual form agnosia'. A single case study of a patient with 'visual form agnosia' is presented. A severe visual recognition deficit was accompanied by impairments in discriminating shape, reflectance, and orientation, although visual acuity and colour vision, along with tactile recognition and intelligence, were largely preserved. Neuropsychological and behavioural investigations have indicated that the patient is able to utilize visual pattern information surprisingly well for the control of hand movements during reaching, and can even read many whole words, despite being unable to make simple discriminative judgements of shape or orientation. She seems to have no awareness of shape primitives through Gestalt grouping by similarity, continuity or symmetry. It is proposed that many of these perceptual disorders might be the combined result of (1) a selective loss of the cortical elaboration of the magnocellular visual processing stream, and (2) a selective output disconnection from a central processor of visual boundaries and shape primitives in the occipital cortex. 
The molecular biology of occlusive stroke in childhood. It is very likely that many of the same factors involved in occlusive disease in the adult are operative in the child. The major difference may be in the factors that damage endothelium in these two age groups and thereby initiate this catastrophe (atherosclerosis versus "other" causes of endothelial changes). Our task in this next decade is the rational exploration of the effects of endothelium-mediated kinins, endothelial secretory products, angiospasm, platelet aggregration, prostaglandins, and lipoproteins on pediatric stroke. 
Grading white matter lesions on CT and MRI: a simple scale. We developed and tested a simple three-point scale for grading white matter lesions in anterior and posterior regions of the brain. Twenty four CT scans and 24 MRI scans were separately judged by 11 and five observers, respectively, on the presence and severity of white matter lesions. The observers were radiologists and neurologists. For CT scans, these periventricular changes were graded according to their extent as absent, or partly involving the white matter, or extending up to the subcortical region. The MRI lesions were graded as no lesion or only a single one, multiple focal lesions, and multiple confluent lesions. The pairwise agreements of all possible combinations of observers for each scan were corrected for chance (kappa statistics; maximal agreement 1.0). The weighted kappa value, for anterior and posterior regions combined, was 0.63 for CT scans, and 0.78 for MRI scans. This three-point scale for two separate regions seems suitable as a basis for cross-sectional or longitudinal studies of large series of patients. 
Frontal impairment and hypoperfusion in neuroacanthocytosis. Cerebral blood flow tomography, by xenon 133 inhalation or HMPAO (99mTc-d, l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime) technetium Tc 99m injection, revealed a severe hypoperfusion in both frontal lobes of a 40-year-old woman with confirmed neuroacanthocytosis. This finding occurred in conjunction with neuropsychological deficits consistent with selective frontal lobe dysfunction. This observation is the first documentation of this type of dementia in neuroacanthocytosis. 
Progressive degeneration of the right temporal lobe studied with positron emission tomography. A 79 year old man with a twelve year progressive history of prosopagnosia and recent naming difficulty, in whom other intellectual skills were preserved, is described. Positron emission tomography (PET) revealed an area of right temporal lobe hypometabolism, with an additional area of less severe hypometabolism at the left temporal pole. This may represent an example of progressive focal cortical degeneration similar to that associated with primary progressive dysphasia, but affecting the right temporal lobe. 
Survey of adolescents with severe intellectual handicap. A diagnostic survey was undertaken of children aged 11 to 19 years in Tameside with severe learning difficulties (intelligence quotient less than or equal to 50). Eighty-two children were identified and their medical records reviewed. A specific diagnosis for the retardation was documented in 25 (30%) of the children, 18 of whom had Down's syndrome. A probable aetiology or a disorder of unknown aetiology had been identified in a further 21 (26%) children. To confirm the existing diagnosis, identify new diagnoses, and offer genetic counselling, the parents of 63 children were offered detailed reassessment of their child. Fifty three children were reviewed, and a specific disorder identified in 25 out of 31 previously undiagnosed children. The most frequent diagnoses made were fragile X syndrome and Rett's syndrome. On completion of the survey, 61 of the 82 children (74%) had a specific diagnosis or probable aetiology identified, 12 (15%) had associated disorders such as cerebral palsy, and in only nine of the 82 children (11%) were there no clues at all to the cause of their retardation. 
A retrospective study of spontaneous remission and long-term outcome in patients with infantile spasms. The spontaneous remission rate and long-term outcome in 44 patients with infantile spasms not treated with hormonal drugs were studied. The cumulative spontaneous remission rate during the first 12 months after onset of infantile spasms, as determined by retrospective analysis, was as follows: 1 month, 2%; 2 months, 2%; 3 months, 5%; 4 months, 7%; 5 months, 9%; 6 months, 11%; 7 months, 11%; 8 months, 14%; 9 months, 16%; 10 months, 18%; 11 months, 25%; 12 months, 25%. The average age at follow-up was 80 months. Nine percent of patients had normal development or only mild impairment. The remainder showed various degrees of retardation. These data should be useful in the design and interpretation of therapeutic drug trials in patients with infantile spasms. 
Evidence for platelet-activating factor as a novel mediator in experimental stroke in rabbits. Platelet-activating factor is a potent mediator of inflammation, which has untoward effects on cerebrovascular and neural elements. While several investigators have reported attenuation of ischemic damage after treatment with antagonists of platelet-activating factor, no study has proved endogenous production of platelet-activating factor in ischemia of the central nervous system. We hypothesized that endogenous production of platelet-activating factor participates in the early pathologic manifestations of deteriorating stroke. In 12 rabbits, we found tissue levels of platelet-activating factor measured by the release of serotonin from washed platelets to be elevated by approximately 20-fold in spinal cord injured by 25 minutes of ischemia and 2 hours of reperfusion (2.80 +/- 0.98 ng/g) compared with that in normal spinal cord (0.15 +/- 0.06 ng/g, p less than 0.01). Given during ischemia to seven rabbits, 10 mg/kg i.p. of a highly selective and potent antagonist of platelet-activating factor (BN 50739) accentuated the early postischemic hyperemia and prevented the delayed hypoperfusion measured by on-line laser-Doppler flowmetry (-35 +/- 7% of baseline [n = 7] without versus 33 +/- 14% with treatment, p less than 0.01) and the edema formation measured as the increase in tissue water content (4.4 +/- 0.7% without [n = 6] versus 2.1 +/- 0.6% with [n = 7]treatment, p less than 0.05) after 2 hours of reperfusion. This neurochemical and pharmacologic evidence emphasizes a new perspective of ischemia-induced phospholipid degradation and suggests an important role for platelet-activating factor in the early manifestations of stroke. 
Cardiovascular responses to arm cranking and FNS-induced leg exercise in paraplegics. Twelve spinal cord-injured males performed arm-crank exercise (ACE) with and without concurrent functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS) of paralyzed leg muscles to investigate the hypothesis that FNS would augment cardiovascular performance during submaximal ACE. Six men who exhibited vigorous isometric contractions of thigh and calf muscles were classed as "responders" to FNS (R), and the remaining subjects with poor or nonexistent contractions served as "nonresponder controls" (C). Steady-state heart rate and oxygen uptake during ACE at 30, 60, and 90 W were not appreciably different from the ACE + FNS condition. However, cardiac outputs in R were augmented by 30% during FNS at rest (from 4.9 to 6.4 l/min), by 18% during 30-W ACE + FNS (from 8.6 to 10.1 l/min), and by 28% during 90-W ACE + FNS (from 12.1 to 15.6 l/min). Similarly, resting stroke volumes were increased by 18% (9 ml) and by 23% (19 ml) at 60 W during FNS in the R group. Calculated total peripheral resistance was reduced at rest and during 90-W ACE + FNS by approximately 24%. In contrast, no alterations of circulatory hemodynamics were observed for C subjects. These data indicate that FNS-induced contractions of paralyzed leg muscles augment venous return to aid central cardiovascular control during upper-body submaximal exercise in paraplegics. 
The management of the painful first metatarsophalangeal joint in the older patient. Arthrodesis or Keller's arthroplasty? We report a prospective randomised trial comparing Keller's arthroplasty and arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint for the management of symptomatic hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in the older patient. In 81 patients (110 feet), with a minimum of two years follow-up, both procedures gave a similar degree of patient satisfaction and symptom relief. The incidence of metatarsalgia was also similar. As there were no obvious advantages to arthrodesis, and since six out of 50 arthrodesed toes required revision, we suggest that Keller's arthroplasty is the better operation in these patients. 
Horner's syndrome from hypothalamic infarction. We report a case of Horner's syndrome due to ipsilateral posterior hypothalamic infarction, occurring in the absence of other signs of hypothalamic dysfunction. Associated symptoms of contralateral faciobrachial weakness and dysarthria correlated with the extension of the infarct into the posterior limb of the internal capsule seen by magnetic resonance imaging. The likely vascular anatomy of this lesion is discussed. 
Long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits. Despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits, muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks. Rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at T10 (spastic paralysis) or by spinal cord removal below L7 (flaccid paralysis). Spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation. Hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks. This hypertrophy, thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction, was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy. Flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence. In flaccid muscle, marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy. Spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits, and cause pressure sores. However, feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible. 
Glucagon: prehospital therapy for hypoglycemia. STUDY OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the efficacy of glucagon for prehospital therapy of hypoglycemia in patients without IV access. DESIGN: Prospective clinical trial. SETTING: Prehospital in a busy, urban emergency medical services system. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Fifty consecutive patients presenting with documented hypoglycemia (ChemStrip BG less than or equal to 80 mg/dL) and symptoms of decreased level of consciousness, syncope, or seizure were enrolled. MEASURES AND MAIN RESULTS: Data collected included pretreatment (ChemStrip BG) and post-treatment serum glucose (hospital assay) as well as assessment of level of consciousness by a quantitative measure, the Glasgow Coma Score, and by a qualitative scale (0 to 3). The mean pretreatment blood glucose of 33.2 +/- 23.3 mg/dL increased after treatment to 133.3 +/- 57.3 mg/dL. Qualitative level of consciousness increased from a mean of 1.26 +/- .96 to 2.42 +/- .94 and Glasgow Coma Score increased from a mean of 9.0 +/- 4.19 to 13.04 +/- 3.68. The mean time until response was 8.8 minutes in those who responded to both level of consciousness criteria 82% (41 of 50). Glucagon administered for hypoglycemia resulted in a glucose increase in 98% (49 of 50) with headache as the only side effect noted in 4% (two of 50) of patients (P less than .0001). CONCLUSION: Glucagon is safe and effective therapy for hypoglycemia in the prehospital setting. 
Brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit: audit of recent practice OBJECTIVE--To assess the potential for increasing the yield of donors by comparing the current pattern of brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit with that reported in 1981 and with a recent national audit. DESIGN--Retrospective review of all deaths for 1986, 1987, and 1988 and prospective data for 1989. SETTING--A regional neurosurgical unit serving 2.7 million population. RESULTS--Of 553 deaths, 35% (191) patients died while on a ventilator and 17% (92) after discontinuation of ventilation. Medical contraindications to donation were found in 23% (32) of 141 patients tested for brain death, in 38% (19) of 50 patients who died while being ventilated who were not tested, and in 12% (11) of 92 patients no longer being ventilated. Consent for donation was sought in 88% (96) of 109 medically suitable brain dead patients and granted in 70% (67) of these. Half those with permission for multiorgan donation had only the kidneys removed. CONCLUSIONS--More organs may be lost owing to transplant team logistics than by failure to seek consent from relatives of brain dead patients. The estimated size of the pool of potential donors depends on what types of patients might be considered. Ensuring that all who die while being ventilated are tested for brain death and considering the potential for donation before withdrawing ventilation could yield more donors. Ventilating more patients who are hopelessly brain damaged to secure more donors raises ethical and economic issues. 
Modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences. The influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and the Dahl salt-sensitive (SS/Jr) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal F1 hybrids that were nurtured, respectively, during prenatal and postnatal life by SHR or SS/Jr mothers. Following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8% NaCl at 35 days of age, F1 rats reared by SHR mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than F1s reared by SS/Jrs. Across reciprocal F1 female groups, enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure, but this association was not seen across reciprocal F1 male groups. There was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each F1/gender subgroup: Rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke. Lower day 35 body weights (before exposure to the high-salt diet) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal F1 groups, and within three of the four F1/gender subgroups. The differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal F1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of SHR and SS/Jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers. 
Local anesthesia for neonatal circumcisions: are family practice residents likely to use it? Dorsal penile nerve block with lidocaine (DPNB) is a local anesthetic technique for neonatal circumcision which is both effective and consistent with ethical concerns for infant welfare. As such, it should be included in training programs that prepare residents to care for newborns. To assess the current level of DPNB use by residents in a family practice training program and to identify attitudes and other factors that relate to use, a survey was sent to 127 residents in the Department of Family Practice and Community Health, University of Minnesota. Of the 101 respondents, 55% had used DPNB, and 17% could be characterized as high users, employing the technique for over one half of the circumcisions they performed. Residents with comprehensive understanding of the newborn's capacity to feel pain were more likely to be using DPNB than their less well-informed counterparts. Four factors were identified as predicting use: cooperation of nursery staff for the procedure, accessibility of instruction in PNB technique, belief that PNB is effective in reducing infant pain, and likelihood of parents giving consent for PNB. These results suggest strategies which may be implemented by family practice educators who wish to promote the principles and techniques of DPNB. 
Calcium antagonists in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a review. Cerebral arterial vasospasm and infarction is the leading cause of death and disability among patients who reach a major medical center after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Recent evidence suggests that two calcium antagonists, nimodipine or nicardipine, may be useful in preventing this important complication of SAH. This paper reviews the current status of these two calcium antagonists in the management of SAH. 
Cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis: improvement following surgical therapy. A case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is described. The value of computerised tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised. In contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy. Surgery may be indicated in some patients, particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred. 
Advances in the treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders by interventional neurovascular techniques. Treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders, including intracranial aneurysms, carotid cavernous sinus fistulas, vertebral fistulas, arteriovenous malformations, atherosclerosis of brachiocephalic vessels, and arterial vasospasm, is being performed in selected cases by interventional neurovascular techniques. Recent advances in microballoon technology, permanent solidifying polymers, newer embolic agents, high-resolution digital subtraction angiography with road-mapping technique, and steerable micro-guide wires and catheters have greatly improved access in the distal intracranial circulation and markedly reduced the morbidity associated with these procedures. Interventional neuroradiology is emerging as an important adjunct to neurosurgery for selected cerebrovascular disorders. 
Effects of neuro-developmental treatment and orthoses on knee flexion during gait: a single-subject design. The interactive effects of neuro-developmental treatment and inhibitive ankle-height orthoses on gait were examined via a single-subject research design. Knee flexion during gait at initial contact, mid-stance, heel-off, and mid-swing were measured in a 2-year-old girl with diplegia by use of a goniometer and freeze-frame videography. During the treatment and treatment/orthoses phases, a decrease in excessive knee flexion was noted. Changes in trend over time were greater in the 3-week treatment phase than in the 3-week treatment/orthoses phase. Changes in level at the initiation of the treatment/orthoses phase were greater than in the treatment phase. The described neuro-developmental treatment activities were conducted correctly 92% of the time according to an independent observer. The interrater reliability of goniometric data measured by videography was .93 using intraclass correlation coefficients. The results of this study suggest that both methods of treatment can be used to decrease excessive knee flexion during gait in a child with diplegia. 
Anton's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions. We describe a patient who manifested Anton's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions. Denial of monocular blindness, generalized anosognosia, and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features. Anton's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions. Patients previously described who demonstrated Anton's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia. Our case demonstrates that Anton's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion, even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia. We suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of Anton's syndrome. Implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed. 
Immunoassay of P2 protein in cerebrospinal fluid in neurological disorders. Cerebrospinal fluid samples were obtained at lumbar puncture from 53 patients with a wide variety of neurological disorders. Cerebrospinal fluid samples were tested for the presence of P2 protein, a constituent of myelin, with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay technique using a specific polyclonal antibody. High concentrations of P2 in the cerebrospinal fluid paralleled a raised IgG index (clearance ratio), the presence of oligoclonal bands, as well as raised white cell counts or depressed albumin:IgG ratios. Twenty one patients had been diagnosed as having definite or probable multiple sclerosis and the remaining 32 had other conditions. Of the 13 patients with high positive P2, 12 (92%) were in the multiple sclerosis category; of the 40 patients with low (12) or undetectable (28) P2 concentrations, only nine (23%) were diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis. In this patient population the presence of high immunoreactive P2 concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid was closely associated with evidence of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and with the clinical diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. On this basis it is suggested that immunoassay of P2 concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid may be of potential value in the investigation of patients with demyelinating disorders. 
Experience with surgical treatment of Takayasu's disease. We reviewed 28 patients with Takayasu's disease to determine the incidence of stroke and its relationship to the involvement of the thoracic aortic arch and its branches. We describe surgical experiences with 10 of the 28 patients who required 21 vascular surgical procedures for critical thoracic aortic arch arterial stenoses, upper and lower extremity ischemia, and renal artery stenoses. Four of the 28 patients initially had a stroke caused by occlusion of one or more thoracic aortic arch arteries. Six of the 10 patients underwent 7 bypass procedures for critical thoracic arch stenoses. All have remained free of stroke for 5 or more years. Four patients had five anastomotic stenoses or graft occlusions in late follow-up; the development of these stenoses did not relate to disease activity at the time of the operative procedure. All bypass grafts originating from the subclavian axillary artery developed anastomotic stenoses; no anastomotic stenoses occurred in bypass grafts originating from the ascending aorta. In contrast to other reports, no anastomotic false aneurysms occurred. Occlusions of major aortic arch arteries in Takayasu's disease cause stroke. Bypass of critically stenoses aortic arch arteries protects against stroke and is best performed with grafts originating from the ascending aorta. Anastomotic stenoses but not anastomotic aneurysms are common. This study suggests that aggressive surgical treatment can be performed with good results. 
The South Karelia Air Pollution Study. The effects of malodorous sulfur compounds from pulp mills on respiratory and other symptoms. The paper mills in South Karelia, the southeast part of Finland, are responsible for releasing a substantial amount of malodorous sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide (H2S), methyl mercaptan (CH3SH), and methyl sulfides [(CH3)2S and (CH3)2S2], into ambient air. In the most polluted residential area the annual mean concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan are estimated to be 8 and 2 to 5 micrograms/m3 and the highest daily average concentration 100 and 50 micrograms/m3. The annual mean and highest daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide (SO2) are very low. We studied the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds on eye, nasal and respiratory symptoms, and headache in adults. A cross-sectional self-administered questionnaire was distributed in February 1987 and responded to by 488 adults living in a severely (n = 198), a moderately (n = 204), and a nonpolluted community (n = 86). This included questions about occurrence of the symptoms of interest during the previous 4 wk and 12 months and individual, behavioral, and other environmental determinants of the symptoms. The response rate was 83%. The odds ratios (OR) for symptoms experienced often or constantly in severely versus nonpolluted and moderately versus nonpolluted communities were estimated in logistic regression analysis controlling potential confounders. The odds ratios for eye (moderate exposure OR 11.70, Cl95% 2.33 to 58.65; severe exposure OR 11.78, Cl95% 2.35 to 59.09) and nasal symptoms (OR 2.01, Cl95% 0.97 to 4.15; OR 2.19, Cl95% 1.06 to 4.55) and cough (OR 1.89, Cl95% 0.61 to 5.86; OR 3.06, Cl95% 1.02 to 9.29) during the previous 12 months were increased, with a dose-response pattern. 
Sensations during chest tube removal. Nurses prepare patients for chest tube removal, yet little has been written to indicate the sensations to be expected during this routine procedure. The sensations reported by patients and factors that could influence those sensations were examined in this study. The sample consisted of 36 patients after thoracic surgery (24 men and 12 women), all of whom were scheduled to have either a mediastinal or a pleural tube removed. They reported their sensations and the intensity of those sensations (using a 100 mm visual analog scale) within 15 minutes after tube removal. The most frequently reported sensation during chest tube removal was burning, followed by pain and pulling with mean intensities of 64, 62, and 45, respectively. Subjects reported having few sensations after the tube was removed with only five reporting soreness in the chest. The sensations and intensities did not differ for those who did and did not receive analgesia or for those having a pleural tube versus a mediastinal tube removed. The sensations were similar for the old and young subjects with younger subjects reporting higher intensities. Women reported pain more frequently than men, but the intensities of the sensations reported by men and women were not significantly different. The sensations reported during chest tube removal differ from those described in the literature and can be used to prepare patients more appropriately for chest tube removal. 
Lateral deviation of the eyes on forced lid closure in patients with cerebral lesions. We examined 35 patients with unilateral cerebral lesions to determine the incidence of lateral deviation of the eyes under forcefully closed lids and the reliability of this sign in predicting the side of the lesion. Only patients with radiologically confirmed unilateral lesions were studied. Over 70% of patients had contralateral ocular deviation (Cogan's "spasticity of conjugate gaze"), 20% had ipsilateral deviation, and less than 9% of the patients had no deviation. Lateral ocular deviation was as sensitive, but not as specific, as a unilateral Babinski plantar response in determining the side with the lesion. Contralateral deviation was more common with parietotemporal localization, suggesting that the phenomenon reflects an underlying disturbance of attentional mechanisms. 
Osseointegration of titanium implants in total hip arthroplasty. Osseointegration is defined as direct contact on the light microscopic level between living bone tissue and the implant. Using titanium screw dental implants in the jaw, a lasting interface under loaded conditions extending over a 20-year follow-up period has been demonstrated. This demonstration brings up the question whether a similar interface can be achieved in total hip arthroplasty (THA) between living bone and a titanium alloy implant under necessitated conditions of immediate loading. Two series of cases are reported. The first series used a femoral, press-fit, titanium alloy component and the second used a press-fit titanium acetabular component and redesigned femoral, press-fit, titanium alloy component. Both demonstrated a high percentage of good to excellent results. Roentgenograms showed that the geometrical changes in the redesigned femoral component gave early indications of a better fixation with loading in valgus, less subsidence, and less evidence of distal stress transfer. A two-and-one-half-year postoperative anatomic specimen study confirmed osseointegration to the press-fit titanium alloy femoral component. Multiple areas of contact between bone and metal without fibrous interposition were seen. Examination by electron microscopy supported the light microscopic findings. These findings support further use of smooth, press-fit titanium components in THAs without the need for porous coating, mesh, or other surface modifications. 
Long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. A total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) of Grades I to III (Hunt and Hess classification) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography (CT)-visualized infarcts after SAH and surgery. The administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made. Of the 213 patients enrolled in the study, 58 were operated on early (within 72 hours after the bleed: Days 0 to 3), 69 were operated on subacutely (between Days 4 and 7), and 74 had late surgery (on Day 8 or later). Eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on. A follow-up examination with CT scanning, performed 1 to 3 years after the SAH (mean 1.4 years), revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups. However, nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia (p = 0.01) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by CT scanning in the whole population (p = 0.05), especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission CT scan (p = 0.03). 
Stiffman syndrome: a rare paraneoplastic disorder? An unusual case of the stiffman syndrome, associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus, is reported. Pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders. This suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic. 
Transcranial stab wounds: morbidity and medicolegal awareness. In this series of eight patients with transcranial stab wounds, the importance of classifications of such wounds as a separate traumatic entity is stressed. The mechanisms of neuronal and vascular damage in these wounds are discussed and are found to be specific from other head injuries. Cerebral injury by stabbing is largely restricted to the wound tract. Frontal stabs (two cases) are accompanied by the least morbidity and mortality, while temporal stabs (four cases) are more commonly fatal. In transorbital stabs (two cases) carotid-cavernous fistulae resulted. Early recognition, administration of antitetanus serum and antibiotics, and debridement may minimize complications. 
Development and reversal of contingent inefficacy and tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of carbamazepine. The relationship of the timing of drug administration to anticonvulsant efficacy against amygdala kindled seizures was studied. During kindling development, rats received carbamazepine (CBZ, 15mg/kg) before (CBZ-before) or after each amygdala stimulation (CBZ-after). After kindling to full seizures, when all animals were given CBZ before the stimulation, only the CBZ-after group showed a good anticonvulsant response. The rats that had received CBZ before (during development of kindled seizures) remained unresponsive to CBZ treatment (contingent inefficacy). When drug-naive or CBZ-after animals repeatedly received CBZ before electrical stimulation, they developed tolerance to its anticonvulsant effects (contingent tolerance). The tolerance could be reversed by a period of treatment with CBZ-after or by kindling the animal drug-free, but not by CBZ administration alone or by time off from both drug and seizures. These findings suggest that inefficacy and tolerance to CBZ may be affected by the temporal contingencies of drug administration and that responsiveness can be reinstated by altering these contingencies. 
Stroke rehabilitation: Australian patient profile and functional outcome. A prospective, multi-institutional, population based study identified 1274 non-surgical stroke admissions to all hospitals in a major Australian city during 1984. The demographic and diagnostic profile and the nature of functional recovery of all 258 first stroke survivors who were referred for inpatient rehabilitation are presented. The median duration of rehabilitation stay was 49 days. The mean functional independence score, as measured on a modified Barthel Index at admission was 44, compared with 78 on discharge, a mean improvement of 34. Stair climbing had the lowest mean value on admission (12), while bowel control had the lowest residual deficit on discharge (95). The stroke study group was representative of the unimpaired aged population in all respects except ethnicity, where differences are attributed to age. The variables identified as significant are; side and severity of paralysis, age and sex, marital status and ethnicity. Stroke rehabilitation outcome was not influenced by etiology, site of lesion, arterial distribution, occupation or education. 
Cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea following acoustic neurinoma surgery. Technical note. The authors describe a method of preventing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea following surgery for acoustic neurinoma. Mastoid air cells exposed during craniectomy are skeletonized and packed with bone dust, then covered with Surgicel soaked with Tisseel fibrin glue. The use of this technique has reduced the number of acoustic neurinoma cases requiring secondary mastoidectomy for CSF leakage from 16% to 5%. 
Accidental death from a black-powder rifle breech plug. Authentic black-powder muzzle-loader weapons and replicas are used today primarily for hunting game such as deer and hogs. The following is a case presentation of accidental death from cerebral trauma caused by a .45-caliber black-powder-rifle breech plug implanting in the victim's brain. 
The use of obstetric analgesia in Sweden 1983-1986 The use of obstetric analgesia was investigated in a Swedish population-based prospective study of 335,207 births, which represents almost all women who had vaginal deliveries in Sweden between 1983 and 1986. Lumbar epidural analgesia (EDA) was used in 16%, paracervical block (PCB) in 12%, pethidine or morphine in 49% and pudendal block in 62%. All four types of analgesia were much more commonly used by nulliparae than multiparae. Variables such as maternal age, smoking, nationality, relationship with the infant's father and gestational age had only moderate influence on the rates of different types of analgesia. EDA and PCB were more frequently used in larger than in smaller hospitals and in the daytime than at night. No such differences were found for pethidine or morphine, or pudendal block, which were administered routinely by midwives. 
Multiple cranial nerve deficits after ethylene glycol poisoning. We report the cases of two patients who developed cranial nerve palsies after drinking ethylene glycol. A 33-year-old man developed multiple cranial nerve deficits nine days after the ingestion of ethylene glycol in a suicide attempt. Clinical findings included profound bilateral cranial nerve VII palsies and severe dysfunction of cranial nerves IX and X. The neuropathy occurred despite treatment with hemodialysis. The dysphagia completely cleared within two weeks, but at six months a severe bilateral cranial nerve VII dysfunction persisted. A 22-year-old man undergoing hemodialysis for ethylene glycol-induced renal failure developed bilateral cranial nerve VII dysfunction 14 days after ingestion. At a three-month follow-up, the patient demonstrated only moderate functional recovery. The etiology of the cranial nerve deficits is unknown but may be related to oxalate crystal deposition of ethylene glycol-induced pyridoxine dysfunction. 
Traumatic hyphaema: a retrospective study of 314 cases. A retrospective study was made of 314 consecutive cases of traumatic hyphaema in a mixed urban and rural Scottish population. Secondary haemorrhage occurred in 4.1% of cases and was not associated with a worsening of final visual acuity. There were no identifiable risk factors for secondary haemorrhage. Poor visual outcome was in most cases attributable to retinal pathology. The use of antifibrinolytic agents does not appear to be necessary in such a population, and the importance of detecting associated retinal detachment is emphasised. 
Substance abuse and cerebral blood flow. OBJECTIVE AND METHOD: This paper reviews acute and chronic effects of drugs of abuse on cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolism and their clinical significance. The most important source of information for the review is human research reports published in refereed journals. A few animal studies, book chapters, and abstracts that are especially relevant are also included. RESULTS: In humans, ethanol in small doses produces cerebral vasodilation; higher doses induce cerebral vasoconstriction. Chronic alcoholism is associated with reduced CBF and cerebral metabolism. Sedatives and antianxiety drugs lead to global reduction in CBF and cerebral metabolism. Caffeine, even in small doses, is a potent cerebral vasoconstrictor. Cerebral vasodilation is seen immediately after cigarette smoking, but chronic smokers show global reduction in CBF. Changes in CBF after marijuana smoking are variable; both increases and decreases are seen. Chronic marijuana smoking, however, seems to reduce CBF. Most inhalants and solvents are vasodilators; chronic abuse is accompanied by a decrease in CBF. A number of drugs of abuse, including ethanol, amphetamines, cocaine, nicotine, and caffeine-phenylpropanolamine combinations, increase the risk for stroke. Reduction in CBF associated with chronic use of ethanol, nicotine, inhalants, and solvents is at least partially reversible upon abstinence. CONCLUSIONS: Topics for future research include regional brain function, which mediates drug-induced mood changes (euphoria); CBF concomitants of psychological and physiological characteristics that increase addiction potential; changes in CBF that accompany withdrawal syndromes; mechanisms responsible for drug-induced stroke; and effects of functional and organic complications on CBF. 
Tay-Sachs disease in Moroccan Jews: deletion of a phenylalanine in the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase. Tay-Sachs disease is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder caused by defects in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha-subunit gene. The carrier frequency for Tay-Sachs disease is significantly elevated in both the Ashkenazi Jewish and Moroccan Jewish populations but not in other Jewish groups. We have found that the mutations underlying Tay-Sachs disease in Ashkenazi and Moroccan Jews are different. Analysis of a Moroccan Jewish Tay-Sachs patient had revealed an in-frame deletion (delta F) of one of the two adjacent phenylalanine codons that are present at positions 304 and 305 in the alpha-subunit sequence. The mutation impairs the subunit assembly of beta-hexosaminidase A, resulting in an absence of enzyme activity. The Moroccan patient was found also to carry, in the other alpha-subunit allele, a different, and as yet unidentified, mutation which causes a deficit of mRNA. Analysis of obligate carriers from six unrelated Moroccan Jewish families showed that three harbor the delta F mutation, raising the possibility that this defect may be a prevalent mutation in this ethnic group. 
Substantia nigra: a site of action of muscle relaxant drugs. Sites of action of centrally active muscle relaxant drugs are not well defined. Clinical experience with such drugs suggests that the spinal cord may be one of the important regions from which pathologically increased muscle tone may be relieved. Supraspinal centers that may also be involved in the expression of muscle relaxant action have not yet been defined. We report here that microinjections of therapeutically relevant muscle relaxants into the midbrain tegmentum of genetically spastic rats decrease muscle tone. The substantia nigra is the region from which midazolam, baclofen, and tizanidine (drugs used clinically in the treatment of spasticity), or gamma-vinyl-GABA, (-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate, and [D-pro2-D-phe7-D-trp9]-substance P (experimental drugs active in animal models of spasticity), reduce muscle tone in genetically spastic rats and Hoffmann reflexes in normal rats. The effects of muscle relaxant drugs are topographically restricted to the substantia nigra pars reticulata and are receptor specific. These observations disclose a previously unknown function of the substantia nigra in mediating muscle relaxation. 
Significance of magnetic resonance imaging in acute head injury. One hundred seventy-seven patients who had incurred head trauma were studied with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patients varied from those with mild injury without any focal neurological deficit to those with severe injury with post-traumatic coma. Altogether, 177 lesions were demonstrated by MRI in 123 of 177 patients within 3 days of injury using T2-weighted (SE2000/40,2000/111) and T1-weighted (IR1500/500/40) multislice sequences. In contrast, computerized tomography (CT) demonstrated 103 lesions in 90 patients. MRI was superior to CT in the diagnosis of nonhemorrhagic contusions demonstrated as a high-intensity area on T2-weighted imaging. MRI provided some information to evaluate the severity of diffuse axonal injury or to predict delayed traumatic intracerebral hematoma (DTICH). 
Familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease without periodic EEG activity. Four members of a kindred with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease are reported, in whom myoclonus did not develop and in whom serial electroencephalograms performed late in their illness failed to show periodic sharp wave complexes. Otherwise, the patients' disease duration, clinical features, and neuropathological findings were similar to those described in sporadic cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Our findings and those reported by others suggest that periodic electroencephalographic activity may be rare in familial forms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, as it is in other slow transmissible encephalopathies. 
Occult, bilateral anterior sacral and intrasacral meningeal and perineurial cysts: case report and review of the literature. None of the more than 180 cases of anterior sacral meningocele reported in the past 150 years has been bilateral, and only two have been associated with occult intrasacral meningocele. We report a unique case of bilateral anterior sacral cysts, communicating with the subarachnoid space, associated with occult intrasacral meningeal and perineurial (Tarlov's) cysts, in an asymptomatic woman. The pertinent clinical and diagnostic imaging literature is reviewed. 
Intrathecal morphine 0.2 mg versus epidural bupivacaine 0.125% or their combination: effects on parturients. To compare the efficacy and side effects of 0.2 mg intrathecal (IT) morphine with 0.125% epidural bupivacaine, 62 women in labor were studied. They were randomly divided into three groups: group 1 (n = 20) received IT morphine; group 2 (n = 22) received epidural bupivacaine; and group 3 (n = 20) received a combination of both using a combined spinal-epidural (CSE) technique. According to a visual analogue scale for assessing analgesia, neither IT 0.2 mg morphine nor 10 ml 0.125% epidural bupivacaine was effective in producing adequate pain relief in labor, whereas the combination produced excellent analgesia. The use of IT morphine significantly reduced the dosage requirement of epidural bupivacaine. The incidence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus was significantly higher when IT morphine had been administered, whereas that of urinary retention did not differ. No serious respiratory depression occurred in any of the patients. When the course of labor was studied, the prior use of IT morphine significantly prolonged the duration of the first stage of labor and the total duration of labor. We conclude that the administration of 0.2 mg IT morphine in combination with epidural administration of 0.125% bupivacaine provides better analgesia than the administration of either drug alone. 
The electrodiagnostic findings in polyneuropathies associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathies. Electrodiagnostic studies were analyzed in patients with neuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal proteins, 7 with anti-myelin associated glycoprotein reactivity (MAG) and 7 nonreactive to MAG. The findings were distinctly different in the two groups. The electrodiagnostic studies of all the MAG-reactive patients had demyelinating features with slowing of conduction and prolonged distal latencies while only one of the MAG-nonreactive patients had a demyelinating pattern. In fact, the MAG-nonreactive patients were a heterogeneous group, both electrodiagnostically and clinically. This study supports the concept that MAG-reactive polyneuropathy is demyelinating in type, and is caused by the activity of the IgM M-protein directed at an antigen in the myelin sheath. 
Role of diabetologist in evaluating diabetic retinopathy. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the ability of diabetologists to screen diabetic patients for diabetic retinopathy. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Comparison of eye examination performed by diabetologists with direct ophthalmoscopy through an undilated pupil and by ophthalmologists through a dilated pupil with seven-field stereoscopic fundus photography (gold standard). The study consisted of 67 insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic outpatients attending a diabetes clinic. RESULTS: On the basis of fundus photography, patients were classified as having no or insignificant (30%), minimal (31%), moderate (24%), or severe (15%) retinopathy. The diabetologists and ophthalmologists performed similarly in their ability to classify severity of diabetic retinopathy accurately. When no or insignificant retinopathy (isolated microaneurysms only) was detected by examination, clinically significant retinopathy detected by fundus photography was highly unlikely (less than 5%). On the other hand, if more than isolated microaneurysms were seen on examination, all examiners missed more severe lesions detected by fundus photography. Patients with corrected visual acuity worse than 20/30 had a high likelihood (100%) of moderate or severe retinopathy. CONCLUSIONS: Motivated well-trained diabetologists can screen for diabetic retinopathy. The absence of detectable lesions by direct ophthalmoscopy indicates that automatic referral to an ophthalmologist is not necessary. However, if any level of retinopathy is detected or corrected acuity is worse than 20/30, referral to an ophthalmologist is required. In this setting, fundus photography is advised because it is the most sensitive means of detecting clinically significant retinopathy. If other nonophthalmologists can be trained to achieve similar results, current recommendations for ophthalmologic referral that require annual ophthalmologic examinations for most diabetic patients may need to be reconsidered. 
Salmeterol in nocturnal asthma: a double blind, placebo controlled trial of a long acting inhaled beta 2 agonist OBJECTIVE--To determine whether inhaled salmeterol, a new long acting inhaled beta adrenergic agonist, reduces nocturnal bronchoconstriction and improves sleep quality in patients with nocturnal asthma. DESIGN--Randomised, double blind, placebo controlled crossover study. SETTING--Hospital outpatient clinics in Edinburgh. SUBJECTS--Twenty clinically stable patients (13 women, seven men) with nocturnal asthma, median age 39 (range 18-60) years. INTERVENTIONS--Salmeterol 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms and placebo taken each morning and evening by metered dose inhaler. Rescue salbutamol inhalers were provided throughout the run in and study periods. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Improvement in nocturnal asthma as measured by peak expiratory flow rates and change in sleep quality as measured by electroencephalography. RESULTS--Salmeterol improved the lowest overnight peak flow rate at both 50 micrograms (difference in median values (95% confidence interval for difference in medians) 69 (18 to 88) l/min) and 100 micrograms (72 (23 to 61) l/min) doses twice daily. While taking salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily patients had an objective improvement in sleep quality, spending less time awake or in light sleep (-9 (-4 to -44) min) and more time in stage 4 sleep (26 (6-34) min). CONCLUSIONS--Salmeterol is an effective long acting inhaled bronchodilator for patients with nocturnal asthma and at a dose of 50 micrograms twice daily improves objective sleep quality. 
Symptoms and disease associations in idiopathic intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri): a case-control study. To identify the symptoms and coexisting medical conditions associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), we administered an 83-item questionnaire at the time of diagnosis to 50 IIH patients and 100 aged-matched controls. Ninety percent of the IIH patients were women; the mean age was 33. Obesity and recent weight gain were much more common among patients than controls. Symptoms most commonly reported by IIH patients were headache (94%), transient visual obscurations (TVO) (68%), and intracranial noises (ICN) (58%). Daily occurrence of these symptoms was much more common among patients than controls. Controls also reported these and other IIH symptoms, but at lower frequencies. Several conditions previously associated with IIH were no more common in patients than controls including iron deficiency anemia, thyroid disease, pregnancy, antibiotic intake, and use of oral contraceptives. We conclude that previous studies of IIH, mostly uncontrolled and retrospective, have underestimated the frequency of symptoms in IIH patients and reported chance and spurious associations with common medical conditions and medications. The profile of a young obese woman with headaches and either TVO or ICN should alert the clinician to the diagnosis of IIH, especially when the symptoms occur daily. 
Common headaches: type, duration, frequency and implications. Questionnaires completed by 327 preclinical medical and dental students showed that 97.9% had experienced headaches, most frequently attributed to insufficient sleep (38.8%), mental stress (38.8%), alcohol (38.5%), excess heat (36.7%), reading (31.5%), excess noise (29.9%) or light (27.7%), and sleeping too long (23.5%). The frequency and duration of these and other headaches are listed. 8% of the headache group had consulted a doctor. Only 2.1% of all students had never experienced a headache. Two hypotheses are examined: (1) can headaches be normal?--delineated by their disappearing soon after the noxious stimulus has ceased; (2) can pain in the head, as elsewhere in the body, act as a warning and therefore have protective, even survival value?. 
Haemostatic changes in the loin pain and haematuria syndrome: secondary to renal vasospasm? Twenty-five patients (seven male, 18 female) were diagnosed as having the loin pain and haematuria syndrome. Presenting symptoms were either loin pain alone or pain associated with macroscopic or microscopic haematuria, and were longstanding, having been present for mean of 9.3 years in males, and 10 years in females. Ten patients described symptoms of passing gravel or renal stones but these were only demonstrated radiologically in two patients. Investigation of all patients showed anatomically normal renal tracts, normal renal function, and no significant proteinuria. Phase-contrast microscopy during episodes of haematuria revealed dysmorphic red cells in all 10 patients studied. Renal biopsies were performed in 20 patients and showed no glomerular pathology, but arteriolar and arterial hyalinosis was seen in 13 of 20 (65 per cent), fibro-elastosis in larger vessels in eight of 20 (40 per cent) and red blood cells in tubules in 13 of 20 (65 per cent) patients. The histological appearance in vessels was similar to that seen in cyclosporin A nephrotoxicity and would be consistent with the hypothesis that regional vasospasm occurs in the cortical circulation. Haematological studies in 22 patients, when compared with age and sex matched controls, showed the presence of circulating platelet aggregates, elevation of plasma beta-thromboglobulin (p less than 0.001), and increased platelet aggregation in response to serotonin and ADP (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.03, respectively). Plasma concentrations of D dimer (p less than 0.02) and C-reactive protein (p less than 0.03) were also significantly elevated in the patient group. There was no deterioration of renal function during a mean observation period of 3.7 years and no patients developed proteinuria. Treatment was largely supportive; seven patients with intractable loin pain underwent surgical denervation with the relief of pain in four. 
Nonfearful panic disorder in neurology patients validated by lactate challenge. OBJECTIVE: Nonfearful panic disorder meets the DSM-III-R criteria for panic disorder but is not associated with subjective fear and anxiety. The authors determined its prevalence in a group of neurology patients and assessed its diagnostic validity as a panic disorder subtype by evaluating the response of the patients with nonfearful panic disorder to sodium lactate and antipanic pharmacotherapy. METHOD: The subjects were all neurology patients referred over 1 year to a university hospital's psychiatric consultation service because of negative medical workups for their symptoms (N = 48). Patients who met the DSM-III-R criteria for panic disorder but did not report subjective anxiety or fear during panic episodes were diagnosed as having nonfearful panic disorder. Afterward, each of those patients received a sodium lactate infusion and, 5 hours later, a sodium chloride infusion. They were then treated with antipanic medication and followed for at least 6 months. RESULTS: Of the 48 neurology patients referred for psychiatric evaluation, 11 (23%) met the criteria for panic disorder, and all 11 met the criteria for nonfearful panic disorder. All 11 responded positively to lactate but not to placebo, and they each experienced an at least 75% reduction in symptoms during the 6-month follow-up period. Detailed case reports of three of these patients are presented. CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the construct and predictive diagnostic validity of nonfearful panic disorder as a subtype of panic disorder and suggest that a lack of attention to this group leads to both the underestimation of the prevalence of panic disorder and to the withholding of potentially successful treatments for this group. 
Clinical dysautonomia in patients with bronchial asthma. Study with seven autonomic function tests. Fifty asthmatic patients and 20 healthy control subjects, carefully age- and sex-matched, were subjected to seven standardized tests to evaluate their autonomic status. Due care was taken to remove factors which could interfere with results. Of the tests concerned with the parasympathetic system, the intravenous atropine test (p greater than 0.10) and heart rate response to standing (p greater than 0.01) which measured the basal parasympathetic tone, did not show a significant difference. Tests requiring stimulation of the parasympathetic system, ie, deep breathing test (p less than 0.001), Valsalva maneuver (p less than 0.001), and carotid sinus massage (p less than 0.001) showed significantly heightened response. Postural fall of blood pressure (p greater than 0.10) and sustained hand grip test (p greater than 0.10), chiefly concerned with the sympathetic system, did not show a significant difference. Of the 50 asthmatic patients, nine were atopic and 41 nonatopic. When the results were compared in the two groups separately, we found that there was no alteration in the measurements except the intravenous atropine test which showed heightened response with atopic subjects (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that hyperresponsiveness of the parasympathetic system is an important factor in producing bronchial spasm in asthmatic patients, and atopic and nonatopic subjects do not differ much in their autonomic status. 
Physiologic and psychobehavioral research in oncology. A major thrust in research in psychosocial oncology is the study of the interaction of psychologic and physiologic variables. This discussion reviews the current status and future directions of such research. Areas addressed include pain, nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy, sexuality, effects of cancer on psychologic and neuropsychologic function, impact of psychologic factors on cancer and its treatment, and psychoneuroimmunology. In addition, specific recommendations for strategies to facilitate research in these areas of psychosocial oncology are proposed. 
Immunological differentiation between neuroborreliosis and multiple sclerosis. Neuroborreliosis, a tick-borne spirochaetosis of the central nervous system, is diagnosed by the presence of intrathecally synthesized Borrelia burgdorferi-specific antibodies. Multiple sclerosis and neuroborreliosis can show similarities in clinical symptoms as well as lymphocytic cell reactions and oligoclonal bands in the isoelectric focusing of cerebrospinal fluid. To differentiate between multiple sclerosis and neuroborreliosis we tested intrathecally synthesized IgM and virus antibodies. The IgM indices were higher for most of the neuroborreliosis patients studied than for those with multiple sclerosis, and cell counts were also significantly higher in the acute stage of the disease. In 84% of multiple sclerosis patients we were able to demonstrate intrathecal antibody production against measles, rubella or mumps virus. Neuroborreliosis patients had no intrathecal virus antibody synthesis. The specification of oligoclonal bands resulting from isoelectric focusing of cerebrospinal fluid with an ELISA for B. burgdorferi can further substantiate the diagnosis of neuroborreliosis or help to rule it out in multiple sclerosis patients with positive borrelia-specific serology. 
Prognostic significance of multimodality evoked response testing in high-risk newborns. Exposure to hypoxic-ischemic events in fetal or neonatal life may lead to permanent brain damage and subsequent neurodevelopmental deficits. Clinical and diagnostic tools have been somewhat helpful in identifying an at-risk group, particularly those patients sustaining significant neurologic sequelae. In this prospective study, the prognostic significance of multimodality evoked responses in high-risk newborns was examined. A group of 44 high-risk newborns, as well as 14 healthy newborns, were tested during the newborn period with auditory brainstem responses and somatosensory evoked responses; these tests were repeated at 2 and 6 months corrected age. A neonatal neurologic examination, the Einstein Neonatal Neurobehavioral Assessment Scale, was also conducted. At 1 year corrected age, both groups were assessed in a blind fashion by a pediatric neurologist and a psychologist to determine neurodevelopmental outcome. Results indicated that somatosensory evoked response abnormalities in particular predict an abnormal neurologic status at 1 year of age. Abnormalities that persisted or worsened correlated with severe neurologic impairment, whereas an abnormal somatosensory evoked response that improved or normalized in infancy was associated with mild to moderate neurologic sequelae. Increased brainstem conduction in the auditory brainstem responses was also associated with neurologic sequelae. Normal findings from auditory brainstem responses and somatosensory evoked responses predicted normal developmental scores in all areas, as well as a normal neurologic outcome at 1 year with negative predictive powers ranging from 85-100%. Evoked response testing appears to be an important adjunct to the neurologic investigation of high-risk newborns. 
Trial of brief intermittent neuroleptic prophylaxis for selected schizophrenic outpatients: clinical and social outcome at two years. OBJECTIVE--To evaluate a novel approach to the prophylaxis of schizophrenic relapse characterised by administration of brief courses of neuroleptic for the earliest non-psychotic signs of relapse (prodromal symptoms). DESIGN--Two year follow up of subjects randomised, double blind, to receive either active (control group) or placebo (intermittent group) depot neuroleptic medication. Both groups received brief courses of oral neuroleptic when prodromal symptoms or relapse occurred. SETTING--Psychiatric outpatient department, Charing Cross Hospital, London. SUBJECTS--54 Stable patients in remission who met the American Psychiatric Association's DSM-III criteria for schizophrenia on the basis of case notes. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Survival without relapse, survival without hospitalisation, point prevalence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia, structured assessment of social functioning (social adjustment scale II), and frequency of prodromal symptoms. RESULTS--Of 19 relapses recorded over two years, 10 (53%) were preceded by non-psychotic prodromal signs. Survival rates for both relapse and hospitalisation were worse with intermittent treatment than continuous treatment over the two year follow up: 92% of controls and only 54% of patients given intermittent treatment survived the two year period without hospitalisation. Prolonged or frequent relapses as well as episodes of prodromal symptoms were more frequent with intermittent treatment. Lower scores for extrapyramidal side effects were recorded in the intermittent treatment group, but periodic assessments of social functioning failed to show any social advantages from this. CONCLUSION--The findings are at variance with a previous report of one year follow up in this cohort and attest to the superiority of continuous depot neuroleptic prophylaxis in preventing both psychotic and neurotic or dysphoric morbidity in schizophrenia. 
Candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic C5 quadriplegia: diagnosis and management. We present the first reported case of Candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient. In addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics, the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient's susceptibility to fungal disease. A 50-year-old patient with C5 motor functional quadriplegia developed Candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation. The patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization. He continued to have a hectic fever curve, leukocytosis with increased band forms, lethargy, and progressive uremia during rehabilitation. Successful investigation of the patient's condition included assessment of serologic tests for Candida precipitin antigen; multiple blood and urine cultures; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever; abdominal computerized tomogram, which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins; and a retrograde pyelogram, which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects. Cystoscopically placed ureteral stents, which relieved the genitourinary obstruction, drained gross pus from which Candida albicans was cultured; the patient was treated with amphotericin B and showed clinical improvement. Pathogenesis, presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of Candida pyelonephritis are reviewed. 
Motor unit discharge characteristics and short term synchrony in paraplegic humans. Frequency of firing and regularity of discharge of human motor units, and short term synchrony between pairs of motor units, have been assessed in extensor digitorum communis (EDC) and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles in control subjects and in clinically complete paraplegic subjects. The discharge pattern of TA motor units in paraplegia ranged from extremely regular to very irregular for different motor units whereas in the control population, and in EDC of both groups, there was a narrow, but intermediate, range of regularity. There was little difference in the incidence and degree of short term synchrony (STS) in EDC between paraplegic and normal subjects. In contrast, virtually no STS of motor units was observed in the TA muscles of the paraplegic group whereas control subjects exhibited approximately the same amount of STS in their TA and EDC muscles. It is concluded that the extra burden placed on arm muscles in paraplegia does not change the amount of synchronisation between motor units. Furthermore, section of the spinal cord does not increase STS as predicted from lesions of the reticulospinal tract in cats. This may reflect the coincidental removal of supraspinal synchronising inputs of motoneurons or the reorganisation of synaptic inputs in chronic paraplegia. 
Maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein screening: further consideration of low-volume testing. Unrecognized assay drift that may occur during low-volume (fewer than 500 specimens per week) maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein testing could result in either underestimation or overestimation of the number of pregnant women who are at increased risk of fetal malformations and genetic anomalies. Quality control software programs that incorporate the use of a multirule Shewhart chart are designed to detect assay drift. Careful selection of quality control sera for inclusion in analytic assays and appropriate application of a multirule quality control procedure to values that are obtained on these control materials should detect assay drift, regardless of the volume of patients' specimens in the run. 
Visual dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease: relation to normal aging [published erratum appears in Ann Neurol 1991 Mar;29(3):271] In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), compared with age-matched and young healthy control subjects, visual deficits in the following functions were observed: color, stereoacuity, contrast sensitivity, and backward masking (homogeneous and pattern). Critical flicker fusion thresholds were normal, relative to age-matched healthy subjects. For color, the majority of the errors were tritanomalous (blue axis). Color and stereoacuity deficits were unrelated to severity of dementia, in accordance with models of vision that describe these functions as modular rather than diffuse for cortical localization. Although contrast sensitivity was depressed throughout the frequency range in AD, more patients were impaired at low than at high spatial frequencies, contrasting with the observed normal aging pattern of high-frequency loss. Healthy elderly subjects showed depressed critical flicker fusion thresholds and reduced contrast sensitivity at high frequencies, relative to the young group; differences between these groups were not found for the other vision tests. A subset of the AD group received detailed neuro-ophthalmological examination, and no abnormalities were found. This finding, taken together with normal thresholds for critical flicker fusion, suggests that the widespread visual dysfunction reported here is more likely to be related to known pathological changes in primary visual and association cortex in AD than to changes in the retina or optic nerve. 
Management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis. Sixty-three first, second, or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis. Forty-five of the patients were female and six were male. The average age was 30.2 years. The indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain (twenty-five repairs), progression of the curve (sixteen), both pain and progression of the curve (twelve), and radiographic changes only (ten). Failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures. The pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses. Sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation. During the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses, the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses, by a mean of 10 degrees. Harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation (twenty-six [41 per cent] of the sixty-three procedures), and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft (thirty-three [52 per cent] of the procedures). 
Increased MEPP frequency as an early sign of experimental immune-mediated motoneuron disease. Intracellular recordings of miniature end-plate potentials were performed in extensor digitorum longus muscles from guinea pigs with experimental immune-mediated motoneuron destruction. In the early stages of the disease, the miniature end-plate potential frequency was elevated compared to that in control and normal animals. The amplitude and time course of the miniature end-plate potentials as well as the resting potential of the muscle fibers were not altered, which implies integrity of the postjunctional membrane. The increase in frequency of miniature end-plate potential reflects an increase of basal acetylcholine release and documents dysfunction of the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction. The increased frequency was associated with high levels of antimotoneuronal IgG in the blood and the presence of IgG at motor end-plates. These data suggest that the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction may be involved in the immune attack in animal models of motoneuron degeneration. 
Graves orbitopathy: correlation of CT and clinical findings. The clinical and high-resolution computed tomographic (CT) findings in 71 patients (142 orbits) with Graves orbitopathy and 20 healthy patients (40 orbits) were retrospectively reviewed. The orbits with orbitopathy were subgrouped at clinical examination into those with (n = 18) and those without (n = 124) optic neuropathy. Mean extraocular muscle diameters and the calculated muscle diameter index were significantly increased in all orbits with ophthalmopathy, particularly in those with optic neuropathy. Graves orbitopathy affected the superior muscle group (63.4%) more than the medial (61.3%) or inferior (57%) recti. The most common pattern of muscle involvement involved all five measured extraocular muscles. Solitary muscle involvement most frequently involved the superior muscle group (6.3%). Significant enlargements of the retrobulbar optic nerve sheath and superior ophthalmic vein were noted only in orbits with optic neuropathy. Anterior displacement of the lacrimal gland at CT correlated with clinical palpability and occurred more frequently in patients with optic neuropathy. Severe apical crowding was the most sensitive indication of optic neuropathy at CT. 
Response to suxamethonium in a myasthenic patient during remission. A cumulative dose followed by an infusion was used to determine the dose response to suxamethonium in a patient with diagnosed myasthenia gravis who was in true remission (asymptomatic while receiving no therapy). The ED50 and ED90 values for suxamethonium were 0.08 mg/kg and 0.20 mg/kg, and an infusion rate of 3.2 mg/kg/hour was required to maintain a 90-95% depression of the single twitch response as monitored by integrated electromyography. These values are within the range for normal patients, and we conclude that myasthenic patients during a true remission may not demonstrate resistance to suxamethonium. 
Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in Leigh disease. An infant with Leigh disease, who was the younger sister of a similarly affected infant, had been examined before the onset of the disease. Ultrasonography revealed hyperechoic lesions in the putamen and caudate nucleus during the preclinical stage. At onset, these changes extended into the cerebral cortex and medulla. These lesions were also detected by T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as areas of increased signal intensity. Her brother demonstrated the same ultrasonographic results; cranial computed tomography disclosed low-density areas in the basal ganglia which were detected as hyperechoic lesions by ultrasonography. These findings suggest that ultrasonography is useful in detecting early intracranial lesions in Leigh disease. 
Synchronous Hodgkin's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. Our patient had stage IIIAI Hodgkin's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia. A slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease, spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia. It is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy. Our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to Hodgkin's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history. 
Time of rehabilitation admission and severity of trauma: effect on brain injury outcome. Outcome after traumatic brain injury, defined by the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) and length of stay in acute rehabilitation, was measured in 59 patients admitted to an intensive rehabilitation program to examine the effects of severity of the initial brain injury, severity of multiple trauma, and length of stay in the acute care hospital. Severity of initial brain injury, best measured by length of coma, was the most significant predictor of GOS outcome. Length of acute hospitalization was a small, but significant, predictor of GOS. Severity of initial brain injury, length of acute hospitalization, and gender emerged as predictors of length of rehabilitation hospital stay. Although length of acute hospitalization is apparently affected by severity of brain injury, it adds significantly--more than severity of brain injury--to the prediction of length of rehabilitation. 
Prevalence and characteristics of multiple analgesic drug use in an elderly study group. With few exceptions, use of multiple analgesic drugs achieves dubious increases in analgesia while placing elders at increased risk of the many potential adverse effects of analgesic drugs. The potential for duplication of analgesic therapy among the elderly is great due to prevalent painful chronic conditions and the variety of prescription and nonprescription analgesic remedies available. The prevalence of multiple analgesic product use and patterns of concurrent use of different analgesic categories was investigated in a geographically defined population of persons 65 years of age and older. The demographic characteristics of users of multiple analgesic drug products were examined, as were their smoking status, alcohol use, lifetime history rates of major illnesses, physical functioning, pain experiences, memory performance, and depressive symptoms. A substantial proportion of analgesic users reported taking multiple products in the preceding 2 weeks (14.4% of female and 10.5% of male analgesic users). Men who reported pain in the preceding year were more likely to use multiple analgesic products. Women who experienced pain or limited physical functioning, or who had higher depressive symptom scores or a life-time history of ulcers were most likely to use multiple analgesic products. Thus, although some users of multiple analgesic products reported significant pain, several other factors were shown to be related to the phenomenon of multiple use. 
The painful shoulder: Part I. Extrinsic disorders. Shoulder disorders are most commonly manifested by pain and limited function. Careful history and examination help the physician localize the problem to the shoulder joint, the surrounding tissues or adjacent sites that can cause referred pain to the shoulder. Common extrinsic causes of shoulder pain include postural problems and cervical spine disorders. 
Effects of the calcium antagonist nilvadipine on focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats. We studied the efficacy of preischemic and postischemic systemic treatment with a new calcium antagonist nilvadipine in a permanent focal cerebral ischemia model of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Rats that underwent microsurgical middle cerebral artery occlusion were blindly assigned to a single intraperitoneal injection of nilvadipine (0.32 mg/kg) or the same amount of polyethylene glycol either 15 minutes before, immediately after, 1 hour after, or 3 hours after occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. Neurologic conditions of rats were closely examined, and rats were killed 24 hours later. Removed brains were sliced coronally, stained with triphenyltetrazolium chloride, and the size of infarct was determined. Although no neurologic improvements were observed in the treated rats, the area of infarcts was significantly reduced in the groups treated before, immediately after, and 1 hour after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Treatment started 3 hours after occlusion was ineffective. 
The effectiveness of different methods of defining traumatic brain injury in predicting postdischarge adjustment in a spinal cord injury population. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can occur concomitantly with spinal cord injury (SCI). Much of the initial work in this area has focused on identifying coincidence rates and risk factors; less has focused on possible long-term implications of TBI when it occurs with SCI. In this study, SCI/TBI and neurologically matched SCI-only groups were formed on the basis of clinicians' ratings of neuropsychologic test scores. SCI/TBI and SCI-only groups were also formed using Halstead Category cutoff scores, presence/absence of loss of consciousness, and clinicians' ratings of severity of TBI. Dependent measures assessed an average of two years postinjury measured personal, social, and family adjustment of the individual with SCI and that of a significant other. Loss of consciousness and nonconsensus clinical ratings of presence/absence of TBI predicted postdischarge adjustment poorly. Severity ratings in the moderate to severe range, and Category cutoff scores did have some predictive value, with patients defined as impaired being more likely to report adjustment difficulties or being described as having adjustment difficulties by a significant other. The difficulty of making unequivocal diagnoses of TBI in this population is discussed and implications for future research delineated. 
The nature and course of olfactory deficits in Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the specific nature and course of olfactory deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies had noted impaired odor identification, but there was no unanimity about the presence of odor detection deficits. METHOD: Odor identification was tested in 55 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 57 elderly control subjects by using the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test. Odor detection was assessed in 46 subjects with Alzheimer's disease and 40 control subjects by using a forced-choice threshold test with geraniol as the odorant. RESULTS: Significant deficits in olfactory identification were present in subjects who were in the earliest stages of cognitive impairment, and these deficits increased as Alzheimer's disease progressed. There was some overlap in individual smell identification test scores between cognitively impaired patients and normal elderly subjects. On the other hand, odor detection deficits did not appear until Alzheimer's disease was relatively advanced. Smell identification test scores were correlated with Mini-Mental State scores, but geraniol detection was not. CONCLUSIONS: Odor identification is impaired early in Alzheimer's disease and may be more influenced by cognitive status than is acuity of odor detection, which is not altered until later in the disorder. The pattern of hyposmia in Alzheimer's disease suggests that the disorder may not "begin in the nose," as has been theorized previously. Further refinement of olfactory testing may be useful in the diagnostic evaluation of early dementia. 
A follow-up study of intractable seizures in childhood. One hundred forty-five children with seizures that were refractory to medical therapy for at least 2 years were followed 5 to 20 years after onset. The majority of children with uncontrollable seizures (61%) were mentally retarded, and most of these (73%) had onset of seizures at younger than 2 years of age. Age of onset was significantly later (mean 5.0 +/- 0.5 yr [SEM]) in the group of children with borderline to normal intelligence. Follow-up data showed remission of seizures in a significant proportion of children with borderline or normal intelligence, with a linear decrease of the percentage with persistent seizures at a rate of about 4% per year. Remission of seizures was much less frequent (1.5%/yr) in the group with mental retardation. Seizure type had some effects on outcome. Children with focal atrophic brain lesions did no worse than those without definable pathology on brain-imaging studies. 
Chronic pain. Understanding of the etiology of chronic pain is growing rapidly as researchers seek to integrate physiologic and psychosocial mechanisms. When nurses assess clients with chronic pain, they should make their assessments using both verbal and nonverbal methods and realize that no one instrument is comprehensive enough to be used alone. The key to successful treatment of these difficult clients lies in the use of a comprehensive approach that takes the client seriously and integrates both physiologic and psychosocial approaches. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in neurological disorders. To investigate the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in neurological disorders, 115 children were studied in two groups. Group A (78 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography and MRI cranial scans. Group B (37 patients) was studied by paired computed tomography assisted myelography (CTM) and MRI spinal scans. In group A, the scans were generally equivalent for supratentorial tumours and for investigating fits, hydrocephalus, benign intracranial hypertension, and cerebral atrophies, but MRI scanning was superior for posterior fossa tumours and cysts. In group B, MRI scans were superior for intramedullary spinal tumours, spinal dysraphic problems with tethering or syrinx, and were complementary to CTM in diastematomyelia. 
Cosmetic, functional, independent: self-help aids. Self-help orthotics have been developed to assist functional activities for high-level spinal cord injured patients. The goal of rehabilitation has been to do this with as little intrusion on independence and cosmesis as possible. This paper describes devices to help a patient with C6 quadriplegia independently place his own utensils and eat with an almost normal appearance. The new self-help aids are made from standard silverware, a rivet, and two one-eighth-inch Kydex loops. The loops are riveted centrally on the utensil, allowing for free rotation. The device was evaluated on a patient with C6, complete quadriplegia. The subject demonstrated independence in donning and doffing the device and in eating with an almost normal appearance. 
Pupillary and electroretinographic abnormalities in a family with neuronal intranuclear hyaline inclusion disease. Abnormal pupillary function and a severely depressed electroretinogram were found in four members of a family with neuronal intranuclear hyaline inclusion disease, an idiopathic degenerative disorder that involves the central and peripheral nervous systems. Symptoms were limited to the gastrointestinal system and consisted principally of abdominal pain, constipation, and severe weight loss. The discovery of light-fixed pupils in the propositus led to the first antemortem diagnosis by rectal biopsy in two generations of this family. Abnormalities of gastrointestinal motility and pupillary reactions constituted the only objective evidence of autonomic dysfunction; the abnormal electroretinogram was the only evidence of central nervous system dysfunction. 
Transient entrapment neuropathy of the posterior interosseous nerve in violin players. Eleven white male right handed violin players complained of transient muscular deficit of the extensor compartment of the left forearm during and after prolonged playing. This was associated with paraesthesiae and pain. Relief was achieved keeping the wrist and the elbow flexed, with the supinated forearm held by the contralateral hand. An anatomical study showed changes of the relationship of the posterior interosseous nerve with its surrounding structures with pronation and supination of the forearm. On the basis of the clinical features, the anatomical studies and the response to a simple physiotherapeutic regime, it is suggested that prolonged pronation of the forearm may cause transient entrapment of the nerve. 
Paraplegia after a routine lumbar laminectomy: report of a rare complication and successful management. Arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal are relatively common lesions that may be either intra- or extradural. These cysts are usually asymptomatic but may produce symptoms by compressing the spinal cord or nerve roots. We report a case in which an intradural thoracic arachnoid cyst became symptomatic after a routine decompressive lumbar laminectomy for spinal stenosis. Myelography revealed no abnormality, although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography demonstrated a mass within the posterior aspect of the thoracic spinal canal associated with anterior displacement and compression of the spinal cord. A change in the flow dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid probably allowed the development of spinal cord compression due to one of the following: expansion of the cyst, decreased cerebrospinal fluid buffer between the cord and the cyst, or epidural venous engorgement. A concomitant and more cephalad lesion such as an arachnoid cyst should be considered when myelopathic complications arise after lumbar surgery. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography are useful to demonstrate the additional pathological processes. 
Headaches and multiple sclerosis: a clinical study and review of the literature. Whether multiple sclerosis (MS) can cause headaches is controversial. To clarify the association between headaches and MS we prospectively analyzed 104 consecutive MS patients using detailed headache evaluations. Fifty-four patients (52%) reported headaches, compared with 5 of 35 (14%) patients initially suspected to have MS but subsequently proven to have other disorders, and 18 of 100 (18%) matched general neurology patients. The MS patients had tension headaches or vascular headaches of the migraine type; there was no distinctive "MS headache." Seven of these patients had headaches with their first MS symptoms, but in only one did headaches recur with disease activity. Headaches did not correlate with any clinical features of MS. We conclude that an association between headaches and MS may exist. 
Stroke after heavy marijuana smoking. I examined two young men who developed cerebral infarction associated with heavy marijuana smoking. Both were light tobacco smokers, but they did not drink alcohol or use other street drugs. Diagnostic work-up for nonatherosclerotic causes of stroke was unremarkable. I postulate that marijuana-associated alterations in systemic blood pressure resulted in vasospasm, leading to strokes in these patients. 
Spinal cord injuries. Clinical, functional, and emotional status. Ninety-eight patients with traumatic spinal cord injury, at a median age of 33.5 years (range, 16-72 years), with nonremarkable distributions of neurologic characteristics were investigated at a median of 2.3 years (range, 0.1-23 years) after injury. Functioning, mood disturbances, and overall quality of life were recorded with established self-assessment instruments. Physical dysfunction levels were moderate, being proportionate to neurologic impairment. Psychosocial functions, mood states, and quality-of-life perceptions did not differ from those of a control population sample. Psychosocial function and mood disturbances varied greatly during the first 4 years after injury, but patients' later recordings expressed predominantly a balanced emotional state and a rewarding social life. Progress in this direction consisted of clearly lessened physical dysfunction 1 year after injury and better psychosocial function and well-being after 2 years, whereas patterns of social activities and contacts became gradually less inhibited during a 4-year period after injury. Analysis of complications in patients' histories that affected function and mood showed severe pain to be the only complication that related to lower quality-of-life scores. Urinary incontinence and infection and autonomous dysreflexia related to inhibited self-care performance; spasticity related to impaired ambulation and feeding skills. Gainful employment was the only demographic factor linked to high quality-of-life scores. 
Attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias. Effect of midazolam and vecuronium. We studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone, N2O, isoflurane anaesthesia. Four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline (group 1), tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg (group 2), vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg (group 3), or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg (group 4), followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg. Group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant (no suxamethonium). Fasciculations were graded, and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days. In groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95, 15, 25, 95 and 0%; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70, 45, 65, 75 and 60%, and on the third day after operation 20, 5, 20, 20, and 5%, respectively. We conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium, but not midazolam, decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium (p less than 0.05) and that in this patient population, postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium. 
Fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Fifteen of 51 (29%) patients with HIV infection met criteria for fibromyalgia, based on the presence of 10 tender (of 14) "fibrositic" points. Similar results were observed among patients with PsA (24%). The prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with RA (57%). Patients with HIV and PsA were less tender than patients with RA. Fibromyalgia in patients with HIV was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia, but not with age, duration of HIV infection, stage of HIV disease, or zidovudine therapy. 
Hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma. We have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma. Our patient's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury. 
Gaze-evoked visual seizures in nonketotic hyperglycemia. Focal motor seizures are commonly a symptom of nonketotic hyperglycemia (NKH). Posture-induced motor seizures are less common but have been reported in some patients with this disorder. We report the first case of gaze-evoked sensory (visual) seizures in nonketotic hyperglycemia. Both seizures and ictal EEG findings disappeared shortly after hyperglycemia was corrected. 
An evaluation of sensory changes and pain relief in trigeminal neuralgia following intracranial microvascular decompression and/or trigeminal glycerol rhizotomy. Nineteen patients with trigeminal neuralgia were treated with either trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis or glycerolysis and intracranial microvascular decompression. All had a good degree of pain relief. Of those receiving glycerol alone (group A), 50% subjectively reported a mild reduction of fine tactile sensation. A similar response was reported by those treated with both glycerol and decompression (group B). The degree of sensory loss was so mild that thermal testing was useless as a discriminatory tool. The degree of sensory loss was not greater when both surgical procedures were performed than when the less-invasive trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis alone was used. 
The bone marrow in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related disease. Morphology and clinical correlation. To determine the true incidence of abnormalities in bone marrow specimens from patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the clinical significance of these abnormalities regarding their cause and their role in the production of hematologic complications, 216 bone marrow biopsies, aspirates, and/or imprint preparations from 178 patients who either were seropositive for HIV infection or met the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) criteria for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were studied. Detailed morphologic review was performed in a blind fashion as to clinical status. Extensive clinical, therapeutic, and laboratory data were collected for each patient. Statistical analysis was performed to detect significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical/therapeutic/laboratory features. Among the most common bone marrow findings were hypercellularity (53% of specimens), myelodysplasia (69%), evidence of reticuloendothelial (RE) iron blockade (65%), megaloblastic hematopoiesis (38%), fibrosis (20%), plasmacytosis (25%), lymphocytic aggregates (36%), and granulomas (13%). A number of statistically significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical features were noted. No significant association was detected between any morphologic finding and therapy with a variety of drugs. In 7 of 14 (50%) patients found to have marrow involvement by malignant neoplasm, the bone marrow represented the initial site of diagnosis of the neoplasm. Most of the bone marrow abnormalities associated with HIV infection appear to be related directly to the infection or its complications and not to therapeutic intervention. In certain clinical situations, bone marrow examination continues to be useful in the management of patients infected with HIV. 
Experimental alcoholic skeletal muscle myopathy is characterised by a rapid and sustained decrease in muscle RNA content. An investigation was made into the effects of ethanol feeding (36% of total calories) on skeletal muscle. From 7 to 42 days, muscle weights and protein and DNA contents of alcohol-treated rats were significantly lower (10-23%) than pair-fed controls (with glucose as 36% of total calories). Ethanol feeding markedly reduced muscle RNA content by 22-34%, when compared to controls. Muscle RNA content of ethanol-fed rats at 7, 14, 28 and 42 days of treatment was significantly lower than initial values (i.e. at 3 days) by 22-38%. Thus, ethanol feeding caused an initial net loss and thereafter a reduction in the rate of accretion of RNA. The marked and sustained loss in the muscle protein synthetic apparatus may be a precipitating event in the development of experimental skeletal muscle myopathy. 
Enveloping the bladder with displacement of flap of the rectus abdominis muscle for the treatment of neurogenic bladder. Neurogenic bladder is a frequent occurrence. A new surgical technique has been designed and was used successfully in 18 patients with ideal results. The key point of the operation is to turn over a flap of rectus abdominis muscle to envelop the bladder. Contraction of the muscle flap and the abdominal muscles would enhance voiding ability. In the meantime, the bladder is displaced forward and the resultant change in the bladder-posterior urethral angle also favors voiding. Since the bladder is near the anterior abdominal wall manual compression during voiding is made easier. All of these advantages greatly facilitate voiding. 
Poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker. Phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals. Its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer, safer drugs. We report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache. He developed grand mal seizures, coma, hypotension, respiratory and renal failure, and hepatic injury. Serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/mL. The patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis. 
Midazolam-induced benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome A case history of a patient who developed severe anxiety and agitation on two occasions after discontinuation of a midazolam infusion is presented. The withdrawal symptoms interfered with effective mechanical ventilation and the patient required the reintroduction of a long-acting benzodiazepine to treat the withdrawal state and to facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation. 
Carotid endarterectomy for elderly patients: predicting complications OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the complication or death rate from carotid endarterectomy can be predicted from hospital and physician structural variables, such as the hospital's teaching status or the number of endarterectomies done by the surgeon per year. DESIGN: Survey of medical records. After controlling for the severity of the patient's condition on the basis of data in the medical record at the time of the endarterectomy, regression analyses were used to predict the postoperative stroke, heart attack, and 30-day death rate as a function of patient, physician, and hospital characteristics. SETTING: Three geographic areas (states or large parts of states; average population, 3 million) in the United States. PATIENTS: Random sample of 1302 patients 65 years of age or older having carotid endarterectomy in 1981. INTERVENTION: Carotid endarterectomy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of 1302 patients, 11.3% had a postoperative stroke or heart attack or died within 30 days of the operation. Patient age, race, income, and gender; physician volume, board certification status, and age; and hospital size, for-profit status, ownership, and teaching status were not significantly related to the postoperative complication or death rate. If the surgeon was a graduate of a foreign, but not a Western European or Canadian, medical school, however, the average complication or death rate rose from 10.4% to 19.6% (P less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: The effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy depends heavily on its complication rate. Because complications after surgery cannot, in general, be predicted from structural variables, referring physicians cannot rely solely on the surgeon's experience and qualifications when recommending a carotid endarterectomy. The surgeon's and the hospital's actual postoperative complication and death rate should be considered. 
Rehabilitation in brain disorders. 1. Basic sciences. This learning module highlights the basic sciences of brain disorders and their relevance to the rehabilitation process. It is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. The chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. This article contains essential information on the hierarchy and integration of cerebral neural processes, functional anatomy, and neurochemistry. It also highlights newer advances in brain plasticity and response to injury, at a cellular level and with reference to acute and secondary processes, which will likely be at the forefront of medical management and functional "damage control" in the near future. The learner is directed to articles 2, 3, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information. 
Use of intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate in patients with prostatic carcinoma refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation. The patient presenting with severe bone pain after primary hormonal therapy, with vertebral collapse, or with uremia resulting from ureteric obstruction should be considered for intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate therapy. The urologist can expect early marked improvement in the patients' mobility and pain, with a reduction in analgesic requirements, from a single 7-day course of treatment. In addition, the drug is inexpensive and free of the side effects commonly associated with cytotoxic therapy. Accurate monitoring of the response is possible with serum prostate-specific antigen measurements, which also enable further therapy to be planned efficiently. 
Selected neurologic complications of pregnancy. Many neurologic disorders, such as eclampsia, pseudotumor cerebri, stroke, obstetric nerve palsies, subarachnoid hemorrhage, pituitary tumors, and choriocarcinoma, can develop in the pregnant patient. Maternal mortality from eclampsia, which ranges from 0 to 14%, can be due to intracerebral hemorrhage, pulmonary edema, disseminated intravascular coagulation, abruptio placentae, or failure of the liver or kidneys. Associated fetal mortality ranges from 10 to 28% and is directly related to decreased placental perfusion. Pseudotumor cerebri can be associated with serious visual complications; thus, the therapeutic goal is to prevent loss of vision. The risk of stroke in the pregnant patient is 13 times the risk in the nonpregnant patient of the same age. The major causes of stroke in pregnant patients are arterial occlusion and cerebral venous thrombosis. Lumbar disk prolapse is common in pregnant patients, and lumbosacral plexus injuries can occur during labor or delivery. In addition, peripheral nerve compression or entrapment syndromes are thought to be caused by the retention of fluid during pregnancy. The incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage during pregnancy is 1 in every 10,000 patients, a rate 5 times higher than in nonpregnant women. Because of a proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells, the pituitary gland can enlarge dramatically during pregnancy, a change that can disclose a previously unknown tumor or cause a known pituitary tumor to become symptomatic. The incidence of choriocarcinoma is 1 in 50,000 full-term pregnancies but 1 in 30 molar pregnancies. This malignant tumor has a high rate of cerebral metastatic lesions. In addition to these disorders that develop during pregnancy, the pregnant state can affect numerous preexisting neurologic conditions, including epilepsy, headaches, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, spinal cord injury, and brain tumors. We discuss advice for patients with such conditions who wish to become pregnant, recommendations for medical and surgical management, and surgical considerations for neurologic complications during pregnancy. 
The role of pain in the last year of life of older persons. A random sample of 200 decreased older community residents was studied with a focus on the role of pain in the last year of life. Interviews with a surviving close person elicited retrospective reports. Pain increased over the final year; one month before death 66% felt pain frequently or all of the time, substantially higher than a matched comparison group of living persons (24%). For both groups across the year, pain was associated with most measures of behavioral competence, perceived quality of life, and psychological well-being. Hierarchical multiple regressions indicated that background and health variables explained 28% to 32% of the variance of pain over the year. Controlling for background variables and health, pain contributed significantly to lowered happiness and to depression, but had no independent impact on hope and interest in the world. After controlling for physical health, the older old were judged to have less pain than the younger old. 
Intravenous administration of phosphorylated acid alpha-glucosidase leads to uptake of enzyme in heart and skeletal muscle of mice. The lysosomal storage disorder glycogenosis type II is caused by acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency. In this study we have investigated the possible applicability of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy to correct the enzyme deficiency in the most affected tissues. Bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase containing phosphorylated mannose residues was intravenously administered to mice and found to be taken up by heart (70% increase of activity) and skeletal muscle (43% increase); the major target organs. The uptake of nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase by heart and skeletal muscle appeared to be significantly less efficient, whereas uptake of dephosphorylated bovine testes enzyme was not detectable. The phosphorylated bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase remained present in mouse skeletal muscle up to 9-15 d after administration, with a half-life of 2-4 d. Besides being measured in skeletal muscle and heart, uptake of phosphorylated bovine testes and nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase was measured in several other organs, but not in brain. The increase of acid alpha-glucosidase activity was highest in liver and spleen. We concluded that application of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy may offer new perspectives for treatment of glycogenesis type II. 
Epidermoid tumors of the 4th ventricle: report of seven cases. Epidermoid tumors occur very rarely in the 4th ventricle. We discuss the history, clinical course, and the surgical results for seven patients. One patient had a remittal of symptoms, probably due to the emergence of the tumor from the 4th ventricle into the cisterna magna. Total removal of the capsule was possible only in the youngest patient. At present, four patients (mean follow-up, 6 years) enjoy good general and neurological health. 
Electrophysiology and colour perimetry in dominant infantile optic atrophy. A typical finding in dominant infantile optic atrophy (DIOA) is the variation of the phenotypic expression of the DIOA gene even within one family. It is of special interest for genetic consultation to evaluate an examination method for detecting subclinically involved patients. Seven patients of two families were examined. Three of them had the typical symptoms of DIOA: reduced visual acuity, tritan defect, temporal pallor of both optic discs, and a relative central scotoma for white test spots. In visual evoked cortical potentials (VECP) the amplitudes were reduced, and in one patient the latencies were slightly delayed and two patients considerably so. The amplitude of the negative component of the PERG was markedly reduced, while the positive component was normal. In the remaining four family members normal retinal and cortical responses were recorded under standard conditions and visual fields and colour vision (FM 100 hue) were also normal. However, static perimetry with blue test spots showed in two family members enlarged central scotomas, thus proving that they had subclinical DIOA. 
One-year outcome after cerebral infarction in whites, blacks, and Hispanics. Little is known about outcome after cerebral infarction for different ethnic groups. Of 590 stroke patients hospitalized from 1983 to 1986 at the Neurological Institute, cerebral infarction over age 39 years occurred in 135 whites, 177 blacks, and 82 Hispanics. Outcome after cerebral infarction differed by ethnicity. The 1-month mortality rate was similar in whites and blacks and least in Hispanics. Whites had a slightly greater risk of recurrent stroke or death than blacks or Hispanics until 6 months after infarction, when their risk stabilized, while the risk in blacks and Hispanics continued to rise for the entire year of follow-up. By 1 year, the rate of recurrent stroke or death was 34.8 +/- 4.2% in whites, 31.1 +/- 3.6% in blacks, and 21.4 +/- 4.8% in Hispanics (p = 0.04). Differences were found in the distribution of various stroke risk factors in the three ethnic groups. A Cox proportional hazards model demonstrated that the ethnic differences in stroke risk factors and infarct subtype were responsible for the ethnic differences in outcome. An abnormal first electrocardiogram was a risk factor for stroke recurrence or death in all three ethnic groups, while a nonlacunar infarct subtype and a history of diabetes were significant only in Hispanics. Understanding the associations of stroke determinants with ethnicity may lead to more focused secondary prevention of recurrent stroke. 
A comparison of midazolam with and without nalbuphine for intravenous sedation. The introduction of nalbuphine to intravenous sedation with midazolam added little to the quality of sedation for short operative procedures. There was a greater tendency for patients who received nalbuphine and midazolam to sleep in the afternoon after treatment compared with those who received only midazolam. Significantly more patients had nausea and vomiting in the midazolam/nalbuphine group than did patients in the midazolam-only group. 
Evoked potentials in assessment and follow-up of patients with Wilson's disease. Treatment of 9 patients with Wilson's disease was prospectively studied with evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Oral penicillamine therapy led to a decrease in auditory brainstem (ABP) and somatosensory (SEP) conduction times in 6 and 4 neurologically symptomatic patients, respectively. ABP and SEP were normal in 3 other symptom-free patients. MRI showed cerebral lesions in 4 of 7 patients. Quantified indices of brain atrophy were unaffected by treatment. ABP and SEP may reveal a reversible component of the disease that cannot be detected by MRI, and may be a more sensitive measure of treatment efficacy. 
Central nervous system involvement in patients with facial palsy due to borrelial infection. Patients with a peripheral facial palsy due to an underlying Ixodes-borne borreliosis often have cerebrospinal fluid findings indicating meningeal involvement. The aim of the present study was to identify signs of CNS involvement by means of brain-stem evoked response audiometry (BSER) in patients with a facial palsy due to borreliosis, as well as in patients with a facial palsy of unknown aetiology. Bell's palsy. Abnormalities in BSER were found to be significantly more common along the borrelial patients. Furthermore, a reversal of these abnormalities following treatment with benzyl-penicillin was found in the majority of patients with borreliosis. The results of the present study emphasize the importance of diagnosing and treating an underlying borreliosis in patients with a peripheral facial palsy. 
Spectral electroretinography in thioridazine toxicity. In three patients with thioridazine toxicity, the electroretinogram (ERG) to red light was found to be below the average normal range. A significant increase in its amplitude appeared with cessation of therapy in two cases. A further deterioration of the ERG amplitude to all stimulus conditions (white, blue, and red lights) occurred when the dose of the medication was increased in the third patient. 
Functional evaluation of quadriplegic patients using a hand neuroprosthesis. The objective of this retrospective study was to compare the abilities of quadriplegic patients to complete activities of daily living with and without the use of a portable hand neuroprosthesis. The neuroprosthesis provided synthetic hand grasp through functional neuromuscular stimulation of paralyzed forearm and hand muscles. Data were obtained from telephone interviews, patient records, and videotapes. Twenty-two quadriplegic patients were included in the study; 15 were functional at a C5 spinal cord injury level and seven at a C6 level. The median success rate (ie, the percentage of patients who could complete each activity) across the ten activities was 89% with the hand neuroprosthesis but was only 49% without the hand neuroprosthesis. All patients could perform more tasks when the neuroprosthesis was used, although the relative improvement of C5 patients was larger than that of C6 patients. 
Codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. A randomised, double-blind, multi-centre study. This randomized, double-blind, multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. A total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study. Eighty-three patients (mean age 66 years) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily, and 75 patients (mean age 67 years) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily. Ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication. Due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions, the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered. Over weeks 1-4, 87%, 64%, 61% and 52% of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group, and 38%, 31%, 22% and 29% of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions. Significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks. Nausea, dizziness, vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group. During the first week of treatment, 30 patients (36%) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 (12%) in the paracetamol group dropped out. As evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment, the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group. Moreover, during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently. In conclusion, when evaluated after 7 days of treatment, the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint. However, several adverse drug reactions, mainly of the gastrointestinal tract, and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine cannot be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients. 
Learning disabilities in epilepsy: neurophysiological aspects. Subclinical generalized spike-wave discharges are often accompanied by transitory cognitive impairment, demonstrable by psychological testing during EEG recording. Transitory cognitive impairment is demonstrated most readily by difficult tasks and during generalized regular spike-wave bursts lasting for more than 3 s, but can also be found during briefer and even focal discharges. That this is not simply a consequence of global inattention is shown by the fact that focal discharges exhibit some specificity: left-sided focal spiking is more likely to produce errors on verbal tasks, for instance, whereas right-sided discharges are more often accompanied by impairment in handling nonverbal material. Both learning difficulties in general and specific abnormal patterns of cognitive functioning are well documented in children with epilepsy and are most pronounced in those with frequent interictal discharges. However, there is now evidence that intermittent cognitive impairment due to the discharges themselves contributes significantly to such neurophysiological abnormalities. The significance of transitory cognitive impairment accompanying subclinical EEG discharges for everyday functioning is uncertain, but there is experimental evidence that subclinical discharges may be accompanied by disruption of educational skills in children or by impairment of driving performance in motorists. In some individuals, suppression of discharges by antiepileptic drugs has demonstrably improved psychological function, but further work is required to determine the indications for such treatment. 
Functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma: analysis of 25 cases. The facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas, either intentionally to ensure complete removal, or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification. In such cases we have, if possible, sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically, either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft. We analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987. The first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months, and there was continued improvement for several years. Recovery was graded from 1 to 6. The anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves, in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored (Grade 5 or higher). In 11 of the 25 cases, facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good (Grade 2 or 3). A Grade 1 result, with no perceivable facial dysfunction, was never achieved. Typically, oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least. Facial appearance was better at rest than with movement, which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis. Closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary. When the facial nerve is severed, intraoperative suture is recommended, because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance. 
Motor units in incomplete spinal cord injury: electrical activity, contractile properties and the effects of biofeedback. The electrical and contractile properties of hand muscles in a selected population of quadriplegic subjects were studied intensively before and after EMG biofeedback. Spontaneously active motor units and units that could only be slowly and weakly activated were observed in these subjects, in addition to units that were voluntarily activated normally. This suggests a considerable overlap of surviving motor neurons to a single muscle that are below, near or above the level of a lesion. Despite the common occurrence of polyphasic potentials and other signs of neuromuscular reinnervation, the average twitch tension of single motor units in hand muscles of quadriplegic subjects was not significantly different from that in control subjects. Nor did it increase after biofeedback training that typically increased the peak surface EMG by a factor of 2-5 times. The percentage of spontaneously active units was also constant. The surface EMG may be increased during biofeedback by using higher firing rates in motor units that can already be activated, rather than by recruiting previously unavailable motor units. 
Cells secreting antibodies to myelin basic protein in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis. An autoimmune response to myelin basic protein (MBP) has been proposed to participate in the development of the chronic neurologic manifestations that may accompany Borrelia burgdorferi-induced Lyme disease. Using an immunospot assay, we counted cells secreting antibodies to MBP. Anti-MBP IgG antibody-secreting cells were detected in CSF from eight of 13 consecutive patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis irrespective of stage of disease. The numbers were between 1/370 and 1/5,000 CSF cells (mean, 1/1,250 in the 13 patients). The highest numbers were encountered in two patients with severe signs of CNS involvement. The numbers decreased in parallel with clinical improvement after treatment. Anti-MBP IgG antibody-secreting cells were also observed in the CSF from patients with a variety of other inflammatory diseases of the nervous system, and their role in the development of tissue damage remains unsettled. Anti-MBP IgG antibody-secreting cells were not detected in the patients' blood, reflecting accumulation of this autoantibody response to CSF. 
Wrist flexion as an adjunct to the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome. The effects of five minutes of wrist flexion on median motor and sensory evoked potential latencies in 87 individuals were studied. Nineteen subjects had carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) as diagnosed by increased median nerve latencies across the wrist, and 68 had values in the normal range and were assigned to the control group. A slight prolongation of up to 0.5m sec of evoked potential latencies was observed in both groups after flexion, but the differences between the two groups were not significant to establish the value of adding wrist flexion to conventional screening methods. 
Emergency department approach to managing seizures in pregnancy. Seizures in pregnancy pose risks for both the mother and the fetus and must be managed aggressively. Antiepileptic drugs have some teratogenic potential, but the risks are not as profound as reported in earlier literature. There is definitely less risk to the fetus from anticonvulsant exposure than from uncontrolled seizures. The evaluation of a pregnant woman with new-onset seizures is the same as for the nonpregnant patient, including head computed tomography with appropriate abdominal shielding. Status epilepticus management is based on IV benzodiazepines, phenytoin, or phenobarbital. Good fetal outcome is dependent on rapid seizure control. Management of eclampsia is controversial. There is little evidence that magnesium sulfate has anticonvulsant properties, and its use as such will probably decline steadily in the future. At present, it is reasonable to manage eclamptic seizures in the same way that status epilepticus is managed. 
Flow cytometric DNA content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland. Correlation of histologic features and prognosis. Flow cytometric analysis of nuclear DNA content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived, paraffin-embedded tissues. The DNA content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course. Ten carcinomas (38%) were aneuploid and 16 (62%) diploid. Aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture, lymph node metastases, and advanced clinical stage, as compared with diploid carcinomas. Other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal DNA content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension. Our data suggest that DNA content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma. 
A videofluoroscopy chair for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with severe neuromotor disease. Due to the difficulties encountered in positioning severely neurologically impaired individuals for videofluoroscopic studies, the Rehab Tech Video FluoroChair was developed. The purpose of the chair is to provide the severely disabled patient with safe, stable postural support in an upright position for videofluoroscopic studies, with anterior-posterior, lateral, and rotational views easily performed. The chair features a removable headrest, a full back support, armrests, lateral truncal supports, and a patented base which is clamped to the footboard of the radiology table and allows for 200 degrees rotation of the patient. Two case studies illustrate the practical use and versatility of the Rehab Tech Video FluoroChair. 
Modifying the translabyrinthine approach to preserve hearing during acoustic tumour surgery. Removing an acoustic schwannoma using the translabyrinthine approach has previously been considered incompatible with hearing preservation. By modifying the approach and preventing the loss of endolymph, we have successfully removed an intracanalicular acoustic schwannoma, which originated from the inferior vestibular nerve, and preserved hearing in the operated ear. This report represents the preliminary findings using this particular technique in the management of an intracanalicular acoustic tumour. 
Hospital admissions from the Surgical Day Care Centre of Vancouver General Hospital 1977-1987. The admissions to Vancouver General Hospital from its Surgical Day Care Centre were reviewed for the period 1977 to 1987. The overall mean rate of admission for the period was 0.28 per cent, for surgically-related admissions 0.22 per cent and for anaesthesia-related admissions 0.07 per cent. The principal reasons for surgery-related admissions were postoperative bleeding, complications, the need for further surgery, the requirement for prolonged postoperative care, and pain. Urology had a particularly high percentage of admissions compared with its workload, because of the diagnostic nature of much of the work. Anaesthesia-related admissions included "syncope," lack of an accompanying adult, aspiration pneumonitis and coincident acute disease. Twelve of the 14 patients admitted with syncope had surgery in the afternoon and had received less than ideal amounts of intravenous fluid. Seven of the 12 ASA physical status II patients admitted had an admission diagnosis related to the coincident disease. 
Radiation-induced optic neuropathy: a magnetic resonance imaging study. Optic neuropathy induced by radiation is an infrequent cause of delayed visual loss that may at times be difficult to differentiate from compression of the visual pathways by recurrent neoplasm. The authors describe six patients with this disorder who experienced loss of vision 6 to 36 months after neurological surgery and radiation therapy. Of the six patients in the series, two had a pituitary adenoma and one each had a metastatic melanoma, multiple myeloma, craniopharyngioma, and lymphoepithelioma. Visual acuity in the affected eyes ranged from 20/25 to no light perception. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed sellar and parasellar recurrence of both pituitary adenomas, but the intrinsic lesions of the optic nerves and optic chiasm induced by radiation were enhanced after gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid (DTPA) administration and were clearly distinguishable from the suprasellar compression of tumor. Repeated MR imaging showed spontaneous resolution of gadolinium-DTPA enhancement of the optic nerve in a patient who was initially suspected of harboring recurrence of a metastatic malignant melanoma as the cause of visual loss. The authors found the presumptive diagnosis of radiation-induced optic neuropathy facilitated by MR imaging with gadolinium-DTPA. This neuro-imaging procedure may help avert exploratory surgery in some patients with recurrent neoplasm in whom the etiology of visual loss is uncertain. 
Neuroanatomic differences between dyslexic and normal readers on magnetic resonance imaging scans. The areas of six bilateral brain segments in the right and left hemispheres, on a horizontal brain section, and the area of subdivisions of the corpus callosum, on a midsagittal brain section, were measured on magnetic resonance images obtained from 21 dyslexic and 29 control subjects. In the entire group, the frontal half of the horizontal brain section showed asymmetry, with the right side being larger, whereas posteriorly only the occipital polar segment was asymmetrical, with the left side being larger. Dyslexic subjects exhibited asymmetry, with the right side greater than the left side, in contrast to the relatively symmetrical pattern that is normally observed in the midposterior segment that corresponds to the angular gyrus. In the corpus callosum, dyslexic subjects were found to have a larger splenium than nondyslexic subjects, and dyslexic female subjects were found to have a larger splenium than dyslexic male subjects. Because transcallosal pathways connecting the left and right angular gyrus regions traverse through the splenium of the corpus callosum, the above findings in dyslexic subjects suggest an anatomic abnormality in the angular gyrus region. 
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan: muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients. Muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas. There was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients. In the 2 sickest patients, there was profound muscle atrophy, affecting both muscle fiber types. 
Continuous papaveretum infusion for the control of pain in painful sickling crisis. We describe our experience of using continuous papaveretum infusions to control pain in 24 children admitted on 45 occasions with painful sickling crisis. The children were aged from 1.7 to 14.3 years. Infusion duration ranged from one to nine days (median three days), total dose from 0.3 to 21 mg/kg (median 2.4 mg/kg), with a pronounced tendency for dosage to increase with increasing age. No respiratory depression was observed. One infusion was discontinued because of cerebral toxicity. 
Brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors: a possible late effect of therapy. Three children with malignant primary CNS tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor. Radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma, gliosis, and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two. No tumor was found. All 3 patients remain in long-term (greater than 10 years) continuous remission. 
Tongue atrophy in mixed connective tissue disease. A case is reported of tongue atrophy in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) and major myositic involvement. The case highlights oropharyngeal aspects of MCTD, including inability to wear dentures, dysarthria, and dysphagia. To our knowledge this is the first report of major tongue involvement in myositis as part of MCTD. 
Postoperative complications in patients with disabling psychiatric illnesses or intellectual handicaps. A case-controlled, retrospective analysis. The purpose of this study was to quantitate the operative risk and costs encountered in the surgical treatment of institutionalized patients. Operative complications and duration of hospitalization for 200 institutionalized patients were compared with those in a control group of patients matched for age, sex, and type of operation drawn from the general hospital population. Postoperative complications occurred in 53 (26.5%) of the patients in the study group compared with 15 (7.5%) of the patients in the control group. Elective laparotomy was followed by a complication in 48% of institutionalized patients compared with 11.6% of matched controls. Emergency celiotomy carried a 75% complication rate in the study group. Atelectasis and pneumonia accounted for 50% of the postoperative complications and occurred with greatest frequency following intra-abdominal procedures. The median hospital stay for all institutionalized patients was 3 days more than for matched controls. A strategy for postoperative treatment is presented, with particular emphasis on prevention of pulmonary complications. 
Carbamazepine dose requirements during stiripentol therapy: influence of cytochrome P-450 inhibition by stiripentol. The inhibitory effect of stiripentol (STP) on disposition of carbamazepine (CBZ) and carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (CBZE) was quantitated to establish CBZ dosage reduction guidelines for future clinical add-on efficacy trials of STP. In seven epileptic patients, STP (1,500-3,000 mg/day for 2 weeks) inhibited CBZ clearance by 50 +/- 16% (p = 0.001) and reduced the CBZE/CBZ plasma ratio by 45 +/- 14% (p = 0.0005). The inhibitory effect was gradually manifested over a period of 7-10 days after initiation of STP therapy. In contrast to inhibition of CBZE formation, STP had no effect (p greater than 0.05) on elimination clearance or half-life (t1/2) of CBZE in six healthy volunteers. STP most likely exerts inhibitory effects through inhibition of cytochrome P-450. This hypothesis was confirmed in the present study by the finding that a therapeutic concentration of STP (7 micrograms/mL) inhibited 10,11-epoxidation of CBZ in human liver microsomes by 40-50%. On the basis of results from this study, we propose that (a) CBZ dosage should be reduced in steps over a period of 7-10 days after initiation of STP, and (b) a CBZ dosage of 4.3 to 8.7 mg/kg/day will maintain therapeutic CBZ plasma levels of 5-10 micrograms/mL. 
Anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease. Anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined, incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects. Six patients had a high spinal lesion, 11 had a low spinal lesion, and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions. Patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation. Unlike normal subjects, there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes. The external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced, and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon. Patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, blunted rectal sensation, and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures. Most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers. Sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions. Patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures, impaired rectal sensation, and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure. Leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions. 
Traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child. A case report. A seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine. Evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula. Surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula. Traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare. The diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest. 
Spatial dispersion of magnetic stimulation in peripheral nerves. To assess the longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil, collision experiments were performed in seven normal ulnar nerves. A supramaximal electrical stimulus S1 was delivered at the wrist, and followed by a supramaximal stimulus S2 in the upper arm, which was either electrical (electrical collision studies), or magnetic (magnetic collision studies). The interstimulus interval was varied by 0.2 msec increments from the time of complete cancellation of the S2 evoked motor response onwards, to include the entire span of recovery of that compound motor action potential. Collision curves were obtained for both magnetic and electrical stimuli by plotting the amplitude of the motor response elicited by S2 as a function of the interstimulus interval. In all seven normal ulnar nerves, comparison of the collision curves showed that the S2 evoked motor response is restored significantly more slowly when magnetic stimulation is used. This finding is best explained by longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil relative to conventional electrical stimulation, the large fibers being stimulated further away from the coil than the small ones. This interpretation is confirmed by the findings obtained with the same method in two cases of ulnar neuropathy, and by comparison of different intensities of magnetic stimulation. 
Effects of vagal stimulation on experimentally induced seizures in rats. Repetitive stimulation of the vagus nerve inhibits chemically induced seizures in dogs. We report here the results and conclusions from studies designed to answer some of the immediate questions raised by this finding. (1) Maximal stimulation of vagal C fibers at frequencies greater than 4 Hz prevents or reduces chemically and electrically induced seizures in young male rats. (2) Antiepileptic potency is directly related to the fraction of vagal C fibers stimulated. (3) Vagal stimulation shortens but does not shut down a chemical seizure once it has begun. (4) In rats, optimal stimulus frequency is approximately 10-20 Hz; duration of stimulus, 0.5-1 ms; and stimulus strength, 0.2-0.5 mA/mm2 of nerve cross-section. These results, when taken together with similar results obtained from dogs, monkeys, and humans, strongly suggest that periodic stimulation of the vagus nerve using appropriate stimulation parameters is a powerful method for preventing seizures. The data from the literature suggest that the antiepileptic actions of vagal stimulation are largely mediated by widespread release of GABA and glycine in the brainstem and cerebral cortex. The probable pathway is via projections from the nucleus of the solitary tract to the reticular formation and thence by diffuse projections to the cortex and other areas. Intermittent vagal stimulation has the potentiality of reducing the number and/or the intensity of seizures in patients with intractable epilepsy. These results indicate that feasibility studies in humans should be continued and expanded. 
Percutaneous thecoperitoneal shunt for syringomyelia. Report of three cases. Between January and April, 1990, three consecutive cases of syringomyelia were treated by percutaneous placement of thecoperitoneal shunts. Two of these patients had undergone craniovertebral decompression earlier at other centers and the third was treated primarily by a thecoperitoneal shunt. In each case, the syrinx was associated with Chiari I malformation, although the clinical presentation was due to a myelopathy. All three patients obtained unequivocal benefit from this simple procedure. Postoperative magnetic resonance images showed considerable shrinkage of the cysts corresponding with clinical improvement. 
Strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation. A custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface (SONI) is described. It was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation (IPPV) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency. This interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of IPPV. Eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day. The ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases. Although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing (free time) supine, all slept supine on SONI IPPV. The 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3% +/- 1.7% and acceptable end-tidal pCO2 (30 to 45 mmHg). These 13 patients have used SONI IPPV for an average of 22 months (range = 3 to 63 months). Impediments to successful long-term use of a SONI include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions. When combined with mouth IPPV, glossopharyngeal breathing, the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator, or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use, SONI IPPV is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means. 
Acquired childhood aphasia. Outcome 1 year after onset. The effects of the variables age at onset, cause, severity and bilaterality of lesion, and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children. Analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia. The severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans. Most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset. Recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories. Complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases. 
Cervico-ocular function in patients with spasmodic torticollis. The cervico-ocular (COR) and active and passive vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VOR) were measured in seven patients with spasmodic torticollis (ST) and six normal controls. The COR was found to be weak or absent in both groups. The VOR gain was similar in the two groups but five patients had a significant asymmetry of the response. There was no evidence of abnormal cervico-vestibular interaction during active head rotation. The study suggests that the VOR asymmetry frequently found in ST cannot be explained on the basis of an abnormal cervical input. 
The headache-specific locus of control scale: adaptation to recurrent headaches. This paper describes the development, psychometric properties, and construct and incremental validity of a Headache-Specific Locus of Control Scale (HSLC). The HSLC is a 33 item scale designed specifically for recurrent headache sufferers. It assesses the individual's perceptions that headache problems and headache relief are determined primarily by: the individual's behavior (Internal factors), Health Care Professionals, or Chance factors. The psychometric properties of the HSLC were satisfactory. Among our findings were that: (1) the belief that headache problems and relief are determined by chance factors was associated with higher levels of depression, physical complaints, reliance on maladaptive pain coping strategies (p less than .001), and greater headache-related disability (p less than .01); (2) the belief that headache problems and relief are influenced primarily by the ministrations of health care professionals was associated with higher levels of medication use (p less than .01) and preference for medical treatment (p less than .001); and (3) the belief that headache problems are determined by the individual's responses and behaviors was associated with a preference for self-regulation treatment (p less than .01). These findings suggest adaptation to headache problems is influenced not only by the frequency and severity of the headache episodes, but by locus of control beliefs. The assessment of locus of control beliefs may provide useful information not typically obtained from standard medical evaluations. 
Endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus using the Nd:YAG laser: initial experience and proposal for management. Although most patients with hydrocephalus are treated effectively with ventriculoperitoneal shunts, a small group fails to respond to diversion procedures. In some patients within this group, hydrocephalus may be caused in part by the overproduction of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In other patients, previous shunt infections may limit the ability of the peritoneum to absorb fluid, and patient response to a ventriculoperitoneal shunt may be improved by reducing CSF production. We discuss a case of a 29-month-old hydrocephalic infant with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt who had ascites. Computed tomography showed bilateral symmetrical enlargement of the choroid plexus. Repeated cultures of the CSF and shunt tubing were sterile, and the daily production of the CSF exceeded 1000 ml. Therapy with acetazolamide decreased the CSF output temporarily, but it was discontinued after serious electrolyte abnormalities occurred. The endoscopic coagulation of the choroid plexus with a neodymium:YAG laser transmitted through a flexible quartz fiber decreased CSF production effectively. This procedure may be useful in a variety of clinical conditions associated with hydrocephalus or with other intraventricular lesions. 
Task-dependent variations in parkinsonian motor impairments. Studies of visually-guided arm movements in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have suggested a relationship between slowness of movement and a reduction in the ratio of movement amplitude and peak velocity. Recent studies indicate, however, that PD impairments may be different for well-learned, natural movements performed without visual guidance, or movements associated with sequential motor behaviours such as speech. To address this issue, PD subjects and age/sex-matched controls were compared on the performance of three tasks, all of which required lowering the jaw: (1) single, rapid, visually-guided movements; (2) equivalent movements associated with a single speech syllable (inherently without visual guidance), and (3) well-learned speech movements produced in a natural sequence. PD subjects manifested similar deficits for visually-guided jaw lowering as those previously reported for arm movements, namely reduced velocity/amplitude ratios and increased movement durations. By contrast, analogous jaw movements during the sequential speech tasks were unimpaired on these measures. These results suggest that PD motor impairments are influenced by a variety of factors, including the degree to which tasks are familiar and natural, and the availability of visual information. 
Diurnal differences in response to oral levodopa. Diurnal differences in duration and quality of motor response to levodopa are frequently described by patients. The quality and duration of motor responses were objectively assessed to morning and afternoon oral levodopa doses in five patients with Parkinsonian motor fluctuations who complained of diurnal variation in response to their normal levodopa medication. Results suggest that under controlled conditions which eliminated the effects of diet and overlapping levodopa effects the response to levodopa remained unchanged throughout the day, and that the duration of response could be predicted by plasma levodopa levels. 
Rehabilitation in brain disorders. 2. Clinical manifestations and medical issues. This self-directed learning module highlights advances in clinical manifestations of brain disorders. It is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in brain disorders for the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. This chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. This article covers medical complications, neurobehavioral aspects, and cognitive deficits seen in patients with brain disorders, specifically seizures, hydrocephalus, heterotopic ossification, and cardiovascular/pulmonary, neuroendocrine, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, communication, motoric, and visual/spatial/sensory disorders. Advances that are covered in this section are neuroendocrine complications, seizure prophylaxis, and coma treatment. The learner is directed to articles 1, 3, and 4 in this chapter for supporting information. 
Brain-stem auditory evoked responses in 56 patients with acoustic neurinoma. The brain-stem auditory evoked responses (BAER's) recorded from 56 patients with acoustic neurinomas were analyzed. Ten of the patients had intracanalicular tumors and 46 had extracanalicular tumors. It was possible to obtain BAER's following stimulation of the affected side in 28 patients and after stimulation of the unaffected side in all 56. Five patients (11%) had normal BAER's following stimulation of both sides; three of these patients had intracanalicular tumors. Among BAER's obtained following stimulation of the affected ear, the mean interpeak latency (IPL) for peaks I to III associated with extracanalicular tumors was significantly prolonged relative to controls (p less than 0.001), and linear regression analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between tumor size and IPL of peaks I to III (p less than 0.05). Analysis of the 56 BAER's recorded after stimulation of the unaffected side revealed a significant positive correlation between the IPL's of peaks III to V and tumor size (p less than 0.001). This correlation was not strengthened when accounting for the degree of brain-stem compression. Finally, evidence of preserved function within the auditory pathway, even in the presence of partial hearing loss, is presented. This finding suggests that more patients might benefit from surgical procedures that spare the eighth cranial nerve. 
Methsuximide for intractable childhood seizures. Methsuximide was added to the therapeutic regimens of 25 children with intractable epilepsy. In 15 patients the drug was well tolerated and resulted in a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency. No serious or irreversible adverse effects were seen. Methsuximide is frequently overlooked and may be an effective adjunctive antiepileptic for children with intractable seizures. 
The large striatocapsular infarct. A clinical and pathophysiological entity. We examined 29 patients with strictly subcortical large striatocapsular infarctions. Eight of them had aphasia or neglect. All patients underwent transcranial Doppler ultrasonography or selective carotid angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single photon emission tomography for assessment of cerebral blood flow, blood volume, and cerebral perfusion reserve. The signs were compatible with cortical territorial infarctions rather than lacunes. On both magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic scans, the lesions corresponded to the territories of the medial and lateral group of the lenticulostriate arteries, Heubner's artery, or the anterior choroidal artery. The infarctions were either due to cerebral embolization into the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery or due to stenosis at the same site, ie, lesions that acutely and simultaneously occluded the orifices of the lenticulostriate or neighboring arteries. Persistent occlusion of the middle cerebral arteries and a decrease of cortical regional cerebral blood flow were only found in patients with aphasia or neglect. All patients without aphasia or neglect showed a rapid recanalization of the middle cerebral artery occlusion or a stenosis of the M1 segment and no cortical regional cerebral blood flow decrease. Large striatocapsular infarctions occur due to occlusive disease of the middle cerebral artery (large-vessel disease) and not due to a disseminated in situ occlusion of the long penetrating arteries (small-vessel disease), as in lacunes. Neuropsychological deficits can be explained by decreased cortical blood flow due to a persistent occlusive lesion of the middle cerebral artery. 
7th nerve palsy after extradural blood patch. We describe a patient who developed a 7th cranial nerve palsy following an extradural blood patch; full recovery followed. The likely aetiology is discussed. 
Brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. We compared brain magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychologic performance in 20 neurologically asymptomatic patients suffering from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (mean age 41 [range 18-49] years) and 20 age-matched controls (mean age 38 [range 28-49] years). Patients exhibited a significantly higher rate of cerebral infarcts (20% versus 0%, p less than 0.05) and cortical (50% versus 5%, p less than 0.01) and ventricular (55% versus 15%, p less than 0.02) atrophy than controls. Accordingly, semiquantitative volumetric measurements yielded a significantly increased ventricular-to-intracranial cavity ratio in the patients (6.2 +/- 2.9% versus 4.1 +/- 1.3%, p less than 0.01). This ratio and the cortical atrophy ratings correlated positively with disease duration (r = 0.63 and 0.54, p less than 0.05). Cognitive test performance was significantly worse in patients than in controls and was most impaired in those patients with morphologic cerebral abnormalities. 
Impact of day care on dementia patients--costs, well-being and relatives' views. Forty-seven patients in psychogeriatric day centre were analysed regarding use of resources, costs and well-being. The level of well-being was based on interviews with staff and relatives and related to the economic outcome--a cost utility analysis. A 6 month period prior to day care was compared with the first 6 months in such care. The use of resources at home increased by 20% while the use of institutional care was reduced by 22%. Fifty-three percent of the patients improved in their well-being after participation in day care. When the cost of utility analysis was applied, the cost for a well-year was 4293 pounds. 
Treatment of patients with aortic dissection presenting with peripheral vascular complications. The incidence of peripheral vascular complications in 272 patients with aortic dissection during a 25-year span was determined, as was outcome after a uniform, aggressive surgical approach directed at repair of the thoracic aorta. One hundred twenty-eight patients (47%) presented with acute type A dissection, 70 (26%) with chronic type A, 40 (15%) with acute type B, and 34 (12%) with chronic type B dissections. Eighty-five patients (31%) sustained one or more peripheral vascular complications: Seven (3%) had a stroke, nine (3%) had paraplegia, 66 (24%) sustained loss of a peripheral pulse, 22 (8%) had impaired renal perfusion, and 14 patients (5%) had compromised visceral perfusion. Following repair of the thoracic aorta, local peripheral vascular procedures were unnecessary in 92% of patients who presented with absence of a peripheral pulse. The operative mortality rate for all patients was 25% +/- 3% (68 of 272 patients). For the subsets of individuals with paraplegia, loss of renal perfusion, and compromised visceral perfusion, the operative mortality rates (+/- 70% confidence limits) were high: 44% +/- 17% (4 of 9 patients), 50% +/- 11% (11 of 22 patients), and 43% +/- 14% (6 of 14 patients), respectively. The mortality rates were lower for patients presenting with stroke (14% +/- 14% [1 of 7 patients]) or loss of peripheral pulse (27% +/- 6% [18 of 66 patients]). Multivariate analysis revealed that impaired renal perfusion was the only peripheral vascular complication that was a significant independent predictor of increased operative mortality risk (p = 0.024); earlier surgical referral (replacement of the appropriate section of the thoracic aorta) or more expeditious diagnosis followed by surgical renal artery revascularization after a thoracic procedure may represent the only way to improve outcome in this high-risk patient subset. Early, aggressive thoracic aortic repair (followed by aortic fenestration and/or abdominal exploration with or without direct visceral or renal vascular reconstruction when necessary) can save some patients with compromised visceral perfusion; however, once visceral infarction develops the prognosis is also poor. Increased awareness of these devastating complications of aortic dissection and the availability of better diagnostic tools today may improve the survival rate for these patients in the future. The initial surgical procedure should include repair of the thoracic aorta in most patients. 
Anaesthetic management of the brain dead for organ donation. An increasing number of anaesthetists is being called upon to manage organ donors during organ retrieval procedures. We briefly describe the technical aspects of the surgical procedure together with a guide to the anaesthetic management. The aims of the latter may be summarized as the "Rule of 100": systolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmHg, urine output greater than 100 ml.hr-1, PaO2 greater than 100 mmHg, haemoglobin concentration greater than 100 g.L-1. Common management problems (hypotension, arrhythmias, diabetes insipidus, oliguria, and coagulopathy) are discussed in detail. The intraoperative management of the brain-dead organ donor provides the anaesthetist with the challenge of a major surgical procedure in a subject with important physiological derangements. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome: life-threatening complication of neuroleptic treatment in adolescents with affective disorder. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is an uncommon, potentially fatal side effect of neuroleptic treatment characterized by hyperthermia, rigidity, rhabdomyolysis, and delirium. In recent clinical studies of adults it was suggested that affective disorder is a risk factor for the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The cases of two adolescents with neuroleptic malignant syndrome who were treated with neuroleptic therapy because of psychotic symptoms in association with primary affective disorders are reported. The occurrence of these cases, as well as the observations in adults, suggests that attention to the primary psychiatric diagnosis is important in neuroleptic usage and that physicians should be vigilant to the occurrence of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the pediatric population. 
Haemophilus influenzae meningitis with prolonged hospital course. A retrospective evaluation of Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis observed over a 2-year period documented 86 cases. Eight of these patients demonstrated an unusual clinical course characterized by persistent fever (duration: greater than 10 days), cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, profound meningeal enhancement on computed tomography, significant morbidity, and a prolonged hospital course. The mean age of these 8 patients was 6 months, in contrast to a mean age of 14 months for the entire group. Two patients had clinical evidence of relapse. Four of the 8 patients tested for latex particle agglutination in the cerebrospinal fluid remained positive after 10 days. All patients received antimicrobial therapy until they were afebrile for a minimum of 5 days. Subsequent neurologic examination revealed a persistent seizure disorder in 5 patients (62.5%), moderate-to-profound hearing loss in 2 (25%), mild ataxia in 1 (12.5%), and developmental delay with hydrocephalus which required shunting in 1 (12.5%). One patient had no sequelae. 
Quantitative assessment of extradural bupivacaine analgesia. Bupivacaine (0.5%) 20 ml was administered extradurally to six healthy volunteers. It was found that simultaneous application of 10 needles to the skin could evoke pain when analgesia was obtained to one needle stimulation. In addition, a laser beam was used as a quantitative technique to activate simultaneously many cutaneous nociceptors. For 7 h, thresholds (sensory and pain) and pain-evoked brain potentials (amplitude and latency) to laser stimulation were monitored and used for quantitative assessment of onset, efficacy and duration of analgesia at various dermatomes (C7, T8, T10, T12, L1, L3, S1). The onset time of analgesia was shortest and conduction delay longest at the dermatome related to the site of injection (L3). Full analgesia was obtained at L1, L3 and S1, although the peak efficacy at S1 was delayed for 120-180 min after injection. A minor effect was found at dermatome C7 approximately 60 min after injection. 
Chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis. The influence of the torn and detached acetabular labrum. We assessed the results of Chiari pelvic osteotomy in 64 hips with early osteoarthritis in terms of acetabular labral detachment detected pre-operatively by arthrography. At an average follow-up of four years, assessment by the Merle d'Aubigne score showed 83% excellent or good results. These satisfactory results were achieved in only half the cases with a detached labrum, but in nearly all cases with normal or torn acetabular labra. Other factors such as the acetabular index, the level and angle of osteotomy, and the displacement following osteotomy did not affect the results. Chiari pelvic osteotomy is a worthwhile procedure for early osteoarthritis in selected cases, but a detached acetabular labrum increases the risk of clinical failure. 
Cerebrospinal norepinephrine concentrations and the duration of epidural analgesia This study was performed to determine whether the addition of norepinephrine to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia in man. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were measured. In the first part of the study, epidural catheters were inserted in 14 patients before herniotomy. Mepivacaine, 1.5 per cent (0.35 ml.kg-1), was administered and norepinephrine (5 micrograms.ml-1) was added in seven patients. The duration of anaesthesia was prolonged from 54 +/- 11 min to 83 +/- 12 min (P less than 0.05) and CSF NE concentrations increased from 68 +/- 12 pg.ml-1 to 336 +/- 85 pg.ml-1 in the NE group (P less than 0.01). In the second part, eight patients with herpetic neuralgia received epidural analgesia at the fourth to eighth thoracic interspace, using bupivacaine 0.25 per cent, with and without NE. The CSF NE concentrations in this group were greater than in the surgical patients before operation and increased from 254 +/- 58 to 406 +/- 58 pg.ml-1 30 min after administration of bupivacaine with NE. The duration of pain relief was prolonged with NE. These results suggest that adding NE to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia. Moreover, NE concentrations in surgical patients increased to levels similar to those found in patients suffering from herpetic analgesia. This suggests that the increase of CSF NE in chronic pain states has an antinociceptive effect. 
Epidemiology of epilepsy in Guaymi Indians from Bocas del Toro Province, Republic of Panama. This cross-sectional study was conducted to describe the epidemiology of epilepsy in Guaymi Indians residing in Changuinola, a small town on Panama's Caribbean coast near Costa Rica. We randomly selected households and attempted to enroll all residents aged less than or equal to 1 year; 337 eligible subjects agreed to participate (93% response rate). We administered a standard neurologic disease screening examination to all subjects and, if any abnormality was found, we administered a standard neurologic evaluation. We detected 19 cases of active epilepsy; the mean age at onset was 12 years, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were the most common diagnosis (10 of 19, 53%). The prevalence of active epilepsy among Caribbean coastal Guaymi (57/1000) is considerably greater than that in lower class Panama City populations (22/1000) or in other parts of the world. To identify risk factors for epilepsy, we collected epidemiologic data and serum (for Cysticercus antibody) from subjects with active epilepsy and from 44 age/sex-matched controls. Significantly more cases (47%) than controls (6%) had other family members with epilepsy (relative risk, RR = 14); 44% of cases and 13% of controls reported a history of febrile seizures during childhood (RR = 6). 
Cerebral malaria in children Cerebral malaria is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with up to 50% mortality. A cardinal feature is the massing of red cells containing mature Plasmodium falciparum within the cerebral capillaries. Adhesion of these parasitised red cells to endothelium, an event which may initiate cerebral malaria, is being studied at the molecular level. However, the relevance of these studies to the pathophysiology and treatment of human cerebral malaria is uncertain. Although chloroquine is still widely used to treat falciparum malaria, resistance has spread to most of the endemic zone. Quinine is emerging as the only effective treatment for cerebral malaria, though resistance to this drug threatens to become a problem. Alternative drugs are urgently needed. 
Panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular problems: results from a community survey. Follow-up studies of psychiatric patients with panic disorder have shown an abnormally high mortality rate in men due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. The authors report that in the New Haven portion of the Epidemiologic Catchment Area program the risk for stroke in persons with lifetime diagnoses of panic disorder was over twice that in persons with other psychiatric disorders or no psychiatric disorder. After adjustments for demographic differences between groups, the risk was even higher. While the results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small sample and absence of medical examinations, these findings are consistent with clinical studies showing an association between panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events. 
Lyme disease: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment The incidence and the endemic range of Lyme disease in the United States have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in Lyme, Connecticut, in 1975. Because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods, diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate. The antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly. They show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results. The clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of Lyme disease are reviewed. The reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness. 
Sudden death and sleeping history among Finnish men. An autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35- to 76-year-old men. The closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed. Snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews. In 86 cases there was a history of 'habitual' (almost always or always) snoring, and 88 men snored 'often'. The mean age of subjects was 55.4 years. The mean body mass index (BMI) was 26.3 kg m-2. Among the obese snorers (n = 82), apnoeas had been observed 'occasionally', 'often', or 'habitually' in 49 cases. Death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 (40.4%) cases. Cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never (P less than 0.05). 'Habitual' snorers died more often while sleeping (P less than 0.05). Habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death (P less than 0.01). The possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer. 
Platelet monoamine oxidase activity in female migraine patients. Platelet monoamine oxidase activity (MAO) in a group (n = 17) of white, female migraineurs during an acute migraine attack was similar to both the values obtained for the same group of patients two to three weeks after the headache episode (pain-free period) and to the results obtained for a group (n = 18) of sex and race-matched, age-comparable, drug-free healthy volunteers (blind study; substrate p-tyramine, 38.7 +/- 5.7, 41.9 +/- 8.8 and 43.0 +/- 3.4 or p-methoxybenzylamine, 178.9 +/- 11.3, 177.2 +/- 6.9 and 181.0 +/- 9.7 nmole/hr/10(9) platelets +/- SD respectively). With each patient serving as its own control, MAO activity during the migraine episode and when pain-free failed to show a significant trend. Neither a number of other medical conditions nor the use of several medications appeared to significantly influence our results. The present work, while dealing only with a small but well defined patient population, argues against the possible usefulness of platelet MAO activity as a biological marker for migraine headaches. 
Antivenom therapy in Russell's viper bite. Bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated Russell's viper bite victims. This study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients. Early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in Russell's viper envenomation. 
Risk factors for metastases in patients with retinoblastoma. The study is based upon a review of data from 583 consecutive patients with retinoblastoma over the years 1956 to 1986. Mean follow-up was 8 years, and median was 5.5 years. In 41 patients, metastases developed within 5 years. The influence of clinical and histopathologic risk factors on the occurrence of metastases was first analyzed by univariate tests. Significant variables were then reevaluated using the Cox proportional hazards method. Four factors were found to be independently associated with the development of metastases: optic nerve invasion with and without involvement of the resection line, choroidal invasion and enucleation of an affected eye more than 120 days after initial diagnosis. The 5-year metastatic risks associated with these factors were 67%, 13%, 8%, and 4%, respectively. The relative risk estimate, calculated from the Cox model, was used for a score classification with groups of low, medium, and high metastatic risk. The 5-year incidence of metastases was 4%, 43%, and 68%, respectively. 
Correlation of abnormalities of interictal n-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine single-photon emission tomography with focus of seizure onset in complex partial seizure disorders. Single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) scanning with n-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) was performed on 23 patients with complex partial seizures undergoing long-term video electroencephalographic (EEG) seizure monitoring. Twenty-one of the 23 patients had abnormalities on SPECT scanning consisting of areas of decreased activity reflecting diminished cerebral blood flow. In 15 of these 21 patients, there was good correlation between the site of the abnormality on SPECT scan and the site of origin of seizures monitored by EEG. Of the six remaining patients, four had multifocal SPECT abnormalities, with one of the abnormal areas corresponding with an ictal site. The two remaining patients had SPECT abnormalities and major ictal EEG foci in entirely different areas. In contrast to the high proportion of abnormal SPECT scans, only 10 of 23 focal abnormalities were discovered on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Three patients who had seizures within 2 h of an initial scan were rescanned 4-5 h after injection. Focal areas of increased blood flow were noted on all three scans, although not always at the ictal site. The SPECT scan appears to be useful in interictal localization of seizure foci. Postictal scans may also be useful, although our numbers are too small to draw conclusions. 
Study of verbal description in neuropathic pain. The aim of this paper is to study the quality of verbal description and its diagnostic value in neuropathic pain. The verbal description of pain as assessed by a French adjective list questionnaire (QDSA) is compared between a group of 100 patients with neuropathic pain and a mixed group of 97 chronic benign and cancer non-neuropathic pain patients. Seventeen descriptors of the 61 QDSA descriptors have a significant intergroup frequency difference. By principal component analysis and Varimax rotation of the intercorrelation matrix of descriptors in the neuropathic group. 7 factors accounting for 66.0% of the total variance are derived. Six factors reflect purely sensory or affective aspects of the pain experience. Seven descriptors from the discriminant analysis function correctly assign 77% of neuropathic pain patients and 81% of the non-neuropathic pain patients. In a second neuropathic pain group of 32 patients, the discriminant function coefficient permits correct diagnostic categorization in 66% of the cases. Implications for clinical practice and trials are discussed. 
Feasibility and safety of vagal stimulation in monkey model. The feasibility, safety, and preliminary effects of chronic vagal stimulation were studied in an aluminagel monkey model. Pilot studies to perfect the equipment, determine stimulation thresholds, and insure the comfort and safety of the animals preceded this study. Four monkeys were equipped with an indwelling, 2-electrode cuff (titanium bands spaced 7 mm apart; silicone encased; 1.5 cm total length) in contact around the right vagus nerve; avoidance of the cardiac branch was confirmed by electrocardiograms. After postsurgical recovery, the intact and awake animals received constant-current stimulation (5 mA; 83 Hz, 143 Hz, or 50-250 Hz randomly; 0.5-ms pulse width) at the onset of every spontaneous seizure for the duration of the seizure or every 3 h for 40 s if stimulation had not occurred in the preceding hour. Stimulation periods of 2-6 weeks, with differing levels of stimulation, were preceded and followed by at least a 2-week baseline period of no stimulation. During the stimulation periods, the seizure rate decreased to zero in two monkeys and the interseizure intervals became invariable in the remaining two monkeys. These effects carried over temporarily into the poststimulation baseline periods. Vagal stimulation had no consistent effects on seizure severity or EEG interictal spikes. Histological studies of six vagus nerves were unable to separate electrode cuff damage from any direct effects stimulation may have had on the nerves. Although it appears that chronic vagal stimulation is feasible and that epileptogenic processes are influenced, the safety and efficacy of the procedure are still in question. 
Differentiation in embryonal neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system. Ninety-six embryonal neuroectodermal tumors were studied histologically and immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies including glial, neuronal, epithelial, mesodermal, and myelin markers. In 71 tumors there was glial and neuronal differentiation and expression both of an S (photoreceptor) antigen and vimentin. In five tumors there was only glial differentiation and in 20 tumors only neuronal differentiation. No reactivity for myelin and epithelial markers was found. Histologic and immunohistologic findings identified various degrees of differentiation in different tumors, which was bipolar (glial and neuronal) in most tumors and unipolar in the remainder. The authors suggest that their findings may be the result of normal or aberrant oncogenic differentiation, agreeing with the nomenclature of the World Health Organization classification for these tumors with and the inclusion of a category for ependymoblastoma. 
Ataxia in myxoedema: a neurophysiological reassessment. In a long-standing case of myxoedema with ataxia and dysarthria, neurophysiological investigations were carried out to assess how much of the ataxic dysbasic syndrome depended on the slowness of mechanical contraction and how much resulted from primary cerebellar involvement. It was observed that the Achilles reflexogram showed a marked prolongation of contraction and relaxation time and that in both quadriceps and triceps surae mechanical percussion induced a marked myxoedema and prolonged relaxation time. The EMG of these muscles during voluntary contraction and stopping reaction detected an excessive recruitment of the antagonistic muscles, starting without any abnormal delay, a finding at variance with a typical cerebellar pattern. Post-urographic analysis gave a pattern of oscillations still within the normal range. These findings suggest that the gait alterations of our patient depended on the increase in muscle contraction time and the consequent excessive recruitment of the antagonists. 
Functional outcomes following selective posterior rhizotomy in children with cerebral palsy. The recent increase in popularity of selective posterior rhizotomy demands objective documentation of surgical outcome. For this reason, the authors have analyzed the status of 25 children with spastic cerebral palsy before and after rhizotomy to determine the effects of this therapy on muscle tone, range of movement, and motor function. Postoperative tests showed a reduction in muscle tone compared with preoperative assessments. Range of motion in the lower extremities was significantly increased and improvements in functional gross motor skills were noted. An increase in range of motion in the knees and thighs during gait was detected in 18 ambulatory patients studied with computerized two-dimensional motion analysis. Preliminary findings indicate that selective posterior rhizotomy reduced spasticity, thereby increasing range of motion and contributing to improvements in active functional mobility. 
Effects of anticonvulsant treatment and low levels of folate and thiamine on amine metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid. A total of 157 epileptic patients were studied with respect to (1) biogenic amine precursors and metabolites in the CSF, (2) levels of folate and thiamine in the blood and CSF, (3) length of treatment with phenytoin (PHT), (4) PHT intoxication, (5) CNS atrophy. Alterations in CSF amine metabolite levels were related primarily to PHT intoxication, and low CSF folate and thiamine levels, but not to length of treatment or CNS atrophy. PHT intoxication increased CSF 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Low folate levels were associated with decreased CSF 5HIAA and homovanillic acid, while low thiamine levels were associated with decreased CSF 5HIAA and 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol. It remains to be seen to what extent these alterations in biogenic amine metabolism, mediated by low CNS vitamin levels, also lead to deficits in cerebral function. 
The Woolley and Roe case. A reassessment. In 1953, two patients, Cecil Roe and Albert Woolley, sued their anaesthetist for alleged negligence because they had developed painful spastic paraparesis after spinal anaesthesia. The court found that phenol, which was used to sterilise the outside of the ampoules of local anaesthetic, had percolated the glass through invisible cracks, contaminating the solution, but that the anaesthetist could not have been aware of this risk. The case was important, despite the fact that judgement was in favour of the anaesthetist, because of the fears that it generated over the incidence of paralysis after spinal anaesthesia. The 'invisible crack' theory has been the subject of much scepticism. New information has been obtained, and the case re-examined objectively. The most probable source of contamination, which led to paralysis in the two patients, and in a third who received spinal anaesthesia on the same day, has been identified. A similar explanation may lie behind a number of other episodes of paralysis associated with spinal anaesthesia. 
Anti-GM1 IgM antibodies in motor neuron disease and neuropathy. We found anti-GM1 IgM antibodies in 23% of 56 patients with motor neuron disease (MND), in 19% of 69 patients with neuropathy, and in 7% of 107 controls with other neurologic and nonneurologic diseases. Most of these patients had anti-GM1 IgM antibody titers of 1:80 or less; slightly higher antibody titers (up to 1:640) were found in 3 patients, 1 with MND and 2 with neuropathy, and very high titers (1:20,480) in a patient with MND and an IgM kappa M protein that reacted with GM1, GD1b, and asialo GM1. Six other patients with anti-GM1 IgM that also bound to GD1b. Reactivity with GD1b did not correlate with anti-GM1 titers but was only present in patients with MND or neuropathy. Anti-GM1 IgM antibodies may be a normal constituent of the human antibody repertoire but their frequency and, in some cases, their levels are higher in patients with MND and neuropathy. The origin and the pathogenetic role of these antibodies in neural impairment remain to be established. 
An open trial of high-dosage antioxidants in early Parkinson's disease. High dosages of tocopherol and ascorbate were administered to patients with early Parkinson's disease as a preliminary open-labeled trial for the eventual controlled double-blind study evaluating antioxidants as a test of the endogenous toxin hypothesis of the etiology of Parkinson's disease. The primary endpoint of the trial was the need to treat patients with levodopa. The time when levodopa became necessary in the treated patients was compared with another group of patients followed elsewhere and not taking antioxidants. The time when levodopa became necessary was extended by 2.5 y in the group taking antioxidants. The results of this pilot study suggest that the progression of Parkinson's disease may be slowed by the administration of these antioxidants. A large multicenter, controlled clinical trial currently underway in North America evaluating tocopherol and deprenyl has the potential to confirm these results. 
The effect of omental pedicle graft transfer on spinal microcirculation and laminectomy membrane formation. The properties of the omentum and its effect on spinal neurologic disease was investigated. Omental pedicle grafts were transferred to the laminectomized lumbar spines of nine neurologically normal dogs. Grafts were placed on either the dura or the spinal cord. Interruption of the graft's circulation was examined. To study the effect, the artery of the graft was injected with contrast and the graft-dura interface studied histologically. All injected specimens demonstrated vascular connections from the graft to the neural elements. The graft was found to decrease postoperative perineural scarring. The omentum appears to possess properties that could be applied to improve outcomes in spinal surgery. 
Night waking during infancy: role of parental presence at bedtime. Night waking occurs commonly in infants and young children. The goal of this study is to determine whether parents who report being present when their infant falls asleep at bedtime are more likely to report increased frequency of night waking by the infant. Mothers were consecutively recruited when they brought their infants to the clinic for their 9-month well-child visit. A total of 122 mothers agreed to participate and completed a questionnaire consisting of closed-ended, forced choice questions about their infant's feeding and sleeping behavior, and demographic and psychosocial characteristics. For 33% of the mothers, a parent was routinely present when the infant went to sleep. The entire sample of infants averaged 4.1 night wakings during the week prior to questionnaire completion. Infants whose parents were present at bedtime were significantly more likely to wake at night than infants whose parents were not present (6.2 vs 3.1, P = .01). Frequent night waking (seven or more wakings in the prior week) occurred in 28% of the sample. More of the infants whose parents were present experienced frequent night waking compared with infants whose parents were not present (40% vs 22%, P less than .04). When potential confounding variables were controlled by multivariate analysis, parents being present when the child went to sleep was independently associated with night waking (P less than .03). The association of parental presence at bedtime and night waking has implications for preventing and managing disruptive night waking in infancy. 
Glucosephosphate isomerase as a CSF marker for leptomeningeal metastasis. Glucosephosphate isomerase (GPI), also known as phosphohexoisomerase, is a glycolytic enzyme whose activity is elevated in serum and CSF of patients with primary and metastatic CNS tumors. To improve the diagnostic accuracy of leptomeningeal metastasis (LM), we measured GPI levels in CSF of 66 patients with CNS or systemic malignancies with suspected LM. We determined GPI kinetically using a coupled enzyme reaction assay. There were 31 males and 35 females, aged 1 to seventy-six. Thirty-one had primary brain tumors, and 35 had systemic cancer with suspected CNS metastasis. We analyzed 95 samples; GPI values ranged from 0.85 to 329.0 U/l (normal, less than 20 U/l). Compared with positive CSF cytology and myelography, GPI sensitivity was 53.5% and specificity 92.1% for the group as a whole. There was a highly significant association between elevated CSF GPI (greater than 20 U/l) and LM. The results were similar for both primary CNS and systemic malignancies. Although not very sensitive, an elevated CSF GPI strongly suggests LM and may aid in early diagnosis of this serious complication of cancer. 
Massive increases in extracellular potassium and the indiscriminate release of glutamate following concussive brain injury. An increase in extracellular K+ concentration ([K+]c) of the rat hippocampus following fluid-percussion concussive brain injury was demonstrated with microdialysis. The role of neuronal discharge was examined with in situ administration of 0.1 mM tetrodotoxin, a potent depressant of neuronal discharges, and of 0.5 to 20 mM cobalt, a blocker of Ca++ channels. While a small short-lasting [K+]c increase (1.40- to 2.15-fold) was observed after a mild insult, a more pronounced longer-lasting increase (4.28- to 5.90-fold) was induced without overt morphological damage as the severity of injury rose above a certain threshold (unconscious for 200 to 250 seconds). The small short-lasting increase was reduced with prior administration of tetrodotoxin but not with cobalt, indicating that neuronal discharges are the source of this increase. In contrast, the larger longer-lasting increase was resistant to tetrodotoxin and partially dependent on Ca++, suggesting that neurotransmitter release is involved. In order to test the hypothesis that the release of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate mediates this increase in [K+]c, the extracellular concentration of glutamate ([Glu]c) was measured along with [K+]c. The results indicate that a relatively specific increase in [Glu]c (as compared with other amino acids) was induced concomitantly with the increase in [K+]c. Furthermore, the in situ administration of 1 to 25 mM kynurenic acid, an excitatory amino acid antagonist, effectively attenuated the increase in [K+]c. A dose-response curve suggested that a maximum effect of kynurenic acid is obtained at a concentration that substantially blocks all receptor subtypes of excitatory amino acids. These data suggest that concussive brain injury causes a massive K+ flux which is likely to be related to an indiscriminate release of excitatory amino acids occurring immediately after brain injury. 
Effects of vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl GABA) on neurotransmission-related amino acids and on GABA and benzodiazepine receptor binding in rats. The effect of 12-day intraperitoneal i.p. administration of vigabatrin (GVG, gamma-vinyl GABA) to rats on the neurotransmission-related amino acids in various brain regions (cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord), cisternal fluid (CSF) and blood was studied. Results showed that GVG administration increased the levels of GABA in cortical and subcortical regions of the brain and CSF without affecting GABA and benzodiazepine receptors in the cortex. In addition, a dose-dependent decrease was noted in the concentration of glutamate in the hippocampus and in the concentrations of aspartate and glutamine in the cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. The changes in the levels of amino acids in the brain, except for that of GABA, were not reflected in the CSF, however, and the levels of amino acids in discrete brain regions did not show any correlation with those in the serum or in the CSF. The results suggest that GVG administration might suppress development and spread of seizures not only by elevating the level of the inhibitory amino acid GABA, but also by decreasing the levels of excitatory amino acids in the brain. 
Endocrine function and morphological findings in patients with disorders of the hypothalamo-pituitary area: a study with magnetic resonance. Evaluation of the sellar area was performed with magnetic resonance imaging in 101 patients (age range 0.8-27 years) with hypopituitarism, isolated diabetes insipidus, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and central precocious puberty. The hypopituitary patients (n = 70) included multiple pituitary deficiency (n = 23), pituitary deficiency with diabetes insipidus (n = 5), and isolated growth hormone deficiency (n = 42). The patients with multiple pituitary deficiency showed pathological morphological findings in all cases, with stalk and posterior lobe always involved. The group with associated diabetes insipidus had abnormal stalk in four of five cases and posterior lobe not visible in all cases. Only five of 42 (12%) patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency had abnormalities of the sellar area. In two out of four patients with isolated diabetes insipidus posterior lobe was not seen. All patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (three with Kallmann's syndrome, one Prader-Willi syndrome, and two idiopathic hypogonadism) appeared normal. In precocious puberty (n = 21) the three patients with onset of symptoms before age 2 years exhibited a hypothalamic hamartoma, whereas in the others with onset of puberty between age 2 and 7 the magnetic resonance image was normal in 17 of 18 patients. The probability of finding a pathological magnetic resonance image was considerably high in our patients with multiple pituitary deficiency, isolated diabetes insipidus, and precocious puberty with very early onset of symptoms. On the contrary, purely functional abnormality is suggested in most patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency, hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism, and precocious puberty with later onset of symptoms. 
The treatment of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy. A patient with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy. 
Oxidation reactions in Parkinson's disease. Free radicals generated from oxidation reactions may contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Free radicals are capable of reacting almost instantaneously with membrane lipids and causing lipid peroxidation, membrane injury, and cell death. Dopamine is metabolized by oxidation reactions capable of generating free radicals. Recent evidence indicates that the substantia nigra of patients with PD contains increased iron, which enhances oxidation, and decreased glutathione, which protects against the formation of free radicals. Further, the end products of lipid peroxidation are increased in the substantia nigra of patients with PD, supporting the notions that free radicals are being generated and may contribute to dopamine neuronal death. This hypothesis suggests that antioxidant therapies may slow the rate of progression of PD and raises concern that metabolites of levodopa therapy may accelerate the rate of neuronal degeneration. 
Left alien hand sign and mirror writing after left anterior cerebral artery infarction. A 43-year-old, right-handed man was admitted complaining of peculiar movements of his left hand. Computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging showed an infarct area in the territory of the left anterior cerebral artery. The abnormal movements of the left hand were diagnosed as so-called alien hand sign. This patient also exhibited mirror writing with his left hand. The clinical manifestations and neuroradiological findings of this case are described in detail, and the possible mechanisms of these extremely rare combinations of alien hand sign and mirror writing are discussed. 
99TCm-HMPAO SPECT studies in traumatic intracerebral haematoma. Traumatic intracerebral haematomas are a common neurosurgical emergency. Their management, particularly the role of surgical removal, is controversial. Deterioration often occurs late, and is unpredictable. Eight patients with traumatic intracerebral haematomas were admitted to the neurosurgical unit to monitor their clinical state. All were studied within 48 hours of admission with single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT), using the recently introduced radionuclide 99Technetiumm-Hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (99Tcm-HMPAO). At the time of the SPECT study, all the patients had been clinically stable. Three patients remained so; in the other five, the conscious level deteriorated, necessitating craniotomy and evacuation of the haematoma. In all the patients, the SPECT studies demonstrated perfusion defects that corresponded to the location of the haematoma, as demonstrated by computerised tomography (CT). However, in the five patients who subsequently deteriorated, the perfusion defects seen on the SPECT scan appeared larger than the haematoma, as seen on the CT scan. In addition, there was widespread poor retention of 99Tcm-HMPAO in the ipsilateral hemisphere. These differences were quantifiable. Interestingly, these differences were present at a time when the patients were clinically stable, before their deterioration. It is concluded that SPECT studies with 99Tcm-HMPAO are of possible use as predictors of late deterioration in the management of traumatic intracerebral haematomas. 
Recombinant human interleukin-1 induces meningitis and blood-brain barrier injury in the rat. Characterization and comparison with tumor necrosis factor. The diversity of infectious agents capable of inducing meningitis and blood-brain barrier (BBB) injury suggests the potential for a common host mediator. The inflammatory polypeptides, IL-1 and TNF, were tested in an experimental rat model as candidate mediators for induction of meningitis and BBB injury. Intracisternal challenge of rIL-1 beta into rats induced neutrophil emigration into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and significantly increased BBB permeability to systemically administered 125I-BSA as early as 3 h later (P less than 0.05). This injury was reversible, dose dependent and significantly inhibited by prior induction of systemic neutropenia (via intraperitoneal cyclophosphamide) or preincubation of the rIL-1 beta inoculum (50 U) with an IgG monoclonal antibody to rIL-1 beta. Similar kinetics and reversibility of CSF inflammation and BSA permeability were observed using equivalent dose inocula of rIL-1 alpha. rTNF-alpha was less effective as an independent inducer of meningitis or BBB injury over an inoculum range of 10(1) U (0.0016 micrograms/kg)-10(6) U (160 micrograms/kg) when injected intracisternally, but inoculum combinations of low concentrations of rTNF alpha (10(3) U) and rIL-1 beta (0.0005-5.0 U) were synergistic in inducing both meningitis and BBB permeability to systemic 125I-BSA. These data suggest that in situ generation of interleukin-1 within CSF (with or without TNF) is capable of mediating both meningeal inflammation and BBB injury seen in various central nervous system infections. 
Meta-analysis of sulfasalazine in ankylosing spondylitis. At present there is no widely accepted therapy for ankylosing spondylitis (AS), a progressive debilitating disease. The effectiveness of sulfasalazine in AS still lacks strong evidence, as well, the magnitude of its benefit is unknown. A meta-analysis was carried out to assess the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in AS. A search of the literature was done using Medline, Index Medicus, the reference lists of articles located and contacting content experts to reveal unpublished studies. Five randomized controlled trials (RCT) comparing sulfasalazine to placebo were located and assessed methodologically. The methodologic quality of all 5 RCT was considered satisfactory and consequently these studies were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled estimate of clinical benefit (and its 95% confidence interval) favoring sulfasalazine, over and above that observed in the placebo group was as follows: Duration of morning stiffness -28.2% (-54.6 to -1.8%); severity of morning stiffness -30.6% (-52.5 to -8.7%); severity of pain -26.7% (-44.3 to -9.1%); general well being -7.1% (-24.3 to 10.0%); erythrocyte sedimentation rate -9.2% (-24.8 to 6.4%); and IgA -11.7% (-18.8 to -4.7%). Adverse effects, mostly mild, were more frequently observed in the sulfasalazine group (odds ratio [OR] = 1.5746, p = 0.1082). The occurrence of dropouts (OR = 1.1554, p = 0.6119) was similar in both groups. Sulfasalazine is a safe and effective drug in the short term treatment of AS. 
Genetic mapping of new DNA probes at Xq27 defines a strategy for DNA studies in the fragile X syndrome. The fragile X syndrome is the most common cause of familial mental retardation and is characterized by a fragile site at the end of the long arm of the X chromosome. The unusual genetics and cytogenetics of this X-linked condition make genetic counseling difficult. DNA studies were of limited value in genetic counseling, because the nearest polymorphic DNA loci had recombination fractions of 12% or more with the fragile X mutation, FRAXA. Five polymorphic loci have recently been described in this region of the X chromosome. The positions of these loci in relation to FRAXA were defined in a genetic linkage study of 112 affected families. The five loci--DXS369, DXS297, DXS296, IDS, and DXS304--had recombination fractions of 4% or less with FRAXA. The closest locus, DXS296, was distal to FRAXA and had a recombination fraction of 2%. The polymorphisms at these loci can be detected in DNA enzymatically digested with a limited number of restriction endonucleases. A strategy for DNA studies which is based on three restriction endonucleases and on five probes will detect one or more of these polymorphisms in 94% of women. This strategy greatly increases the utility of DNA studies in providing genetic advice to families with the fragile X syndrome. 
Concurrent and construct validity of the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory. The purpose of this study was to determine the validity of the Development Edition (pilot version) of the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory (PEDI) in groups of disabled and nondisabled children. The PEDI is a new functional assessment instrument for the evaluation of disabled children aged 6 months to 7 years. The PEDI has been developed to identify functional status and change along three dimensions: 1) functional skill level, 2) caregiver assistance, and 3) modifications or adaptive equipment used. The PEDIs were administered as a parental-report questionnaire, and the results were compared with data obtained by the Battelle Developmental Inventory Screening Test (BDIST). The BDIST is a standardized assessment with developmental and adaptive content. Subjects were 20 children between the ages of 2 and 8 years with arthritic conditions and spina bifida and 20 nondisabled children matched for age and sex. All subjects' scores on the BDIST cognitive domain were no greater than 1.50 standard deviations below the mean for their age group. Concurrent validity was supported by moderately high Pearson product-moment correlations between BDIST and PEDI summary scores (r = .70-.80). Construct validity was supported by significant differences between the disabled and nondisabled groups' PEDI scores and by discriminant analysis identifying the PEDI scores as better group discriminators than the BDIST scores. Results validate the Developmental Edition of the PEDI and support the further development and standardization of the final version. Use of the PEDI in clinical pediatric physical therapy practice is discussed. 
Drug-induced headache. Headache induced by medications used for nonheadache conditions, and more importantly, headache perpetuated by symptomatic medications used for primary headache disorders are discussed in detail in this article. The clinical features and mechanisms of drug-induced headaches are reviewed. Ergotamine and analgesic rebound phenomena are described. Management strategies for drug-induced headaches are outlined. 
Hypoglycemia, hypotonia, and cardiomyopathy: the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation, which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade, are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity have been reported. An infant with documented long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile, long-term clinical follow-up, and response to treatment. This patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation, more subtle late manifestations of the disease, and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. This report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation. 
Tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats. The efficacy of U-74006F and U-78517F in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats. U-74006F is a 21-aminosteroid and U-78517F is a 2-methylamino chroman. Rats with stereotactically implanted Walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone, U-74006F, U-78517F, or vehicle (0.05 N HCl) on Days 6 through 10 following implantation. Neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on Day 10. Methylprednisolone and U-74006F were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group (p less than 0.01); U-78517F was slightly less effective than U-74006F and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction. Delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability (p less than 0.006) while U-74006F and U-78517F had no effect on permeability. This suggests that U-74006F and U-78517F prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries, and that U-74006F or U-78517F could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors. 
Nerve growth factor prevents toxic neuropathy in mice. Taxol is a promising new antitumor drug with therapeutic use that is limited by a toxic sensory neuropathy. Taxol is also cytotoxic to dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro, but this effect is prevented by cotreatment with the trophic protein, nerve growth factor. We sought to develop an animal model and then to determine whether nerve growth factor can prevent taxol neuropathy in vivo. Administration of taxol to mice resulted in a profound sensory neuropathy characterized by decreases in dorsal root ganglion content of the peptide neurotransmitter, substance P, elevated threshold to thermally induced pain, and diminished amplitude of the compound action potential in the caudal nerve. Coadministration of nerve growth factor prevented all of these signs of neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that administration of nerve growth factor may prevent certain toxic sensory neuropathies. 
The relationship of antibody levels to the clinical spectrum of human neurocysticercosis. One hundred proven cases of cerebral cysticercosis were studied with an enzyme linked immunoassay (ELISA) employing cyst fluid as antigen, with a view to detecting specific antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Antibody levels were correlated with the clinical presentation of the patients, the type and number of cysts detected on their brain scans, the anatomical position of these cysts and the presence of lymphocytes in the CSF. Patients could be divided into two distinct categories, one with low levels of antibody in the serum and absent antibody in the CSF, and the other with high levels in both the serum and the CSF. This differentiation matched the clinical presentation of a benign and a malignant group. Antibody levels could not be related to the type of cysts as observed on the brain scan, but depended on the anatomical position of the cyst, being lower if the cysts were confined to the cerebral cortex. A correlation of antibody levels with the number of cysts was only found in the benign group. 
Use of CT and MR imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in AIDS patients To explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system (CNS) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 AIDS patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal CNS lesions. Of these patients, 74 (50%) had Toxoplasma abscesses, 45 (30%) had primary CNS lymphoma, and 30 patients (20%) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography (CT) in detecting lesions, especially in cases of PML. Whereas CT was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma, 71% of the solitary lesions seen on MR images were lymphomas. These results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis, the most common initial treatment for AIDS patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions, is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on MR images. Rather, early biopsy is advisable. If the presence of lymphoma is confirmed, the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival. 
Interstitial cystitis: successful management by increasing urinary voiding intervals. A variant of the interstitial cystitis (IC) syndrome, minimal or no pain or significant pain that has been lessened by another therapy, can be clinically improved by retraining of the individual's voiding pattern. Patients with greater pain but capable of completing this protocol also may be helped. While this group of patients fills the diagnostic criteria of IC and has many of the classic changes, many differ in that they have minimal or no pain, while simultaneously they have a dysfunctional bladder as expected from long-term low-volume voiding. All patients were placed on a protocol which focused on progressively increasing intervals between voids. Fifteen to thirty minutes initially were added to their present voiding time. The same increase was added to the voiding pattern every three or four weeks until an interval of three to four hours between voids was achieved. Twenty-one patients fit the criteria to be entered into this study. Overall 71 percent (15/21) had successful management of their symptoms and reported a 50 percent decrease in their symptoms of urinary urgency, frequency, and nocturia. Nineteen percent (4/21) reported 25 percent decrease in symptoms and 10 percent had no change. Presence of significant pain adversely affects outcome, 3/7 (with pain) improvements versus 12/14 (without pain). For all patients there was a significant increase in bladder capacity (92 mL average before study and 179 mL after) and average daily voids (13.2/day prestudy and 7.4 post-therapy). These differences in voided profiles were statistically significant (p value less than 0.01). 
A new challenge--robotics in the rehabilitation of the neurologically motor impaired. Rehabilitation robotics is a research area, originating in engineering, that has emerged in the last decade. Its broad aim is to use robot technology to assist people with movement dysfunction. The neurologically impaired population might gain considerably from the provision of robots as "assistants" or "therapy aides," but the interface with the machine must match both the physical and intellectual abilities of the user. We therefore consider a multidisciplinary approach, encompassing both behavioral and engineering perspectives, to be essential in achieving this aim. However, to date, published reports have been largely restricted to engineering journals or conference reports, and relatively little has appeared in the therapy literature. This article seeks to introduce physical therapists to robotics, describe possible applications to the rehabilitation of neurologically impaired patients, and suggest issues deserving further investigation. 
Analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma The prognostic value of four clinical variables (age and sex of patients, association with myasthenia gravis, and clinical stage) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma, histologically classified as cortical, medullary, and mixed. Age, sex, and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors; clinical stage and histological type, on the contrary, had a highly significant prognostic value (p less than 0.001). A model of clinicopathological staging, based on both clinical stage and histological type, in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed. The degree of significance of this model is higher (p less than 0.0001) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the Cox regression model (p = 0.0001). We think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma. 
Movement analysis--an aid to early diagnosis of cerebral palsy. The purpose of this article is to review research related to the use of clinical analysis of movement as an aid to the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy. A historical perspective of clinical techniques used by physicians and physical therapists in the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy will be presented first, including recent research findings on clinical signs that were most predictive of this movement disorder. Predictive neuromotor behaviors common across several recent studies will be highlighted. Future trends in the use of movement analysis, including digitized kinematic analysis of term and preterm infants and fetal ultrasound techniques, will be discussed as well. 
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial of progabide as add-on therapy in epileptic patients. In a double-blind, cross-over trial, progabide (PGB) and placebo were compared as add-on therapy in 59 patients with moderate to severe epilepsy. Eight patients did not complete the study, 4 because of adverse drug reactions (elevation of liver transaminases, 2; gastritis, 1; and acute psychosis, 1) and 4 because of administrative reasons. Among the remaining 51 patients, seizure frequency was reduced greater than 50% in 18 patients with PGB treatment and in 8 patients with placebo (p less than 0.05). The number of days with seizures was significantly (p = 0.034) reduced during PGB treatment. Both patients' and physicians' preferences at the end of the trial were in favor (p less than 0.01) of PGB. Mild clinical side effects were present in 54.7% of the patients treated with PGB and in 37.7% with placebo. Increase in liver transaminases was observed in 2 patients during the double-blind study and in 1 during the follow-up period. Our data show that PGB, as previously reported, is useful in 30-40% of patients who are not responding completely to other antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The compound is well tolerated, but liver function must be monitored. 
Neuropsychological deficits in fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effects. A clinical sample of 19 school-aged native children diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) or fetal alcohol effects (FAE) was compared with age- and sex-matched normal controls. Results on a battery of intellectual and neuropsychological tests indicated large and significant differences between alcohol-affected children and controls. FAS differed significantly from controls on measures of intellectual abilities, while FAE did not; FAS mean scores on these measures were significantly lower than FAE means. For neuropsychological measures, FAS were significantly poorer than controls on most measures, while FAE showed deficits compared with controls only on grip strength. The results suggest that neuropsychological measures would be a valuable supplement to intellectual measures for the purpose of assessing alcohol effects because they are less vulnerable than intellectual measures to the influence of cultural and educational experiences. 
Crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion: a case of blunt trauma. A case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented. While driving an all terrain vehicle (ATV), a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles. Initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury; 48 hours later, however, a dense left hemiplegia became manifest. A CT scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct, and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery. Intractable cerebral oedema developed, and the patient died five days after the initial insult. Such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury, and if suspected, angiography is warranted. 
Dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole. Therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci. Treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective. However, it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel, thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy. We measured plasma levels of albendazole, another strong cysticidal drug, when dexamethasone was given simultaneously. We found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50% (P less than 0.002); hence, it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug. 
Headaches in dementia. We investigated 288 elderly subjects with various degree of dementia, focusing on headaches. Seventy-three of 288 elderly subjects (25.3%) complained of some headaches. The most common type was the tension-type headache, from which 43 of the 73 subjects with headaches (58.9%) suffered. The degree of cognitive disturbances, evaluated by Hasegawa's intelligence scale, significantly correlated to the prevalence of headaches, and indicated that patients with dementia appeared to have less headaches. The methodological issues and views on headache research in dementia were assessed, and it is concluded that the field is a difficult one, with potential for error. 
Development of language in six hemispherectomized patients. The development of language skills in the isolated right hemisphere was investigated by comparing the performance of 3 left hemispherectomized with that of the 3 right hemispherectomized patients and three groups of control subjects on baseline clinical measures of language and on production and judgement of morphological markers. The initial brain insult in the hemispherectomy patients of each group had occurred either during early, middle or late childhood. The left hemispherectomy patients were severely impaired in language processing across all three stages of language development. The consequences of a right hemisphere insult on language development were more restricted, with deleterious effects being apparent only in the case in which the lesion was acquired during early childhood. 
Autonomic dysfunction and Guillain-Barre syndrome. The use of esmolol in its management. A 17-year-old girl with Guillain-Barre syndrome and autonomic dysfunction was treated successfully with esmolol. Esmolol may be an appropriate drug for the rapid assessment and control of tachyarrhythmias in critically ill patients. 
A self-administered hand symptom diagram for the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of carpal tunnel syndrome. Noninvasive tests for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) are of limited diagnostic value. A self-administered hand symptom diagram has been developed for use in the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of CTS. Diagrams are rated classic CTS, probable, possible or unlikely. Diagram ratings were compared with nerve conduction diagnoses in 110 patients with upper extremity complaints. A hand diagram rating of classic or probable CTS had sensitivity of 0.64, specificity of 0.73 and positive predictive value of 0.58. The negative predictive value of an unlikely diagram was 0.91. We conclude that the diagram is a useful diagnostic tool and may be valuable for occupational and population screening. 
Urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis: a clinical and neurophysiological study. We report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention. Neurophysiological testing, including bulbocavernosus reflex, pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography, was performed. Parasympathetic pelvic nerves, pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder. 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in pituitary growth hormone recipients in the United States. To assess the magnitude of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) occurrence among recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone (HGH), we conducted an epidemiologic follow-up of 6284 recipients of HGH distributed through the National Hormone and Pituitary Program. Seven neuropathologically confirmed cases of CJD have occurred in this population to date: six patients with clinical CJD presented with ataxia and imbalance, rather than with altered mentation, which is the most common initial manifestation in sporadic CJD, and one patient died in the preclinical incubation state of the disease. All seven cases occurred among the nearly 700 HGH recipients who started therapy before 1970. Since only 10% of the cohort has been followed up for the 15-year average incubation interval from midpoint of HGH treatment to onset of symptoms, the great majority of potentially exposed patients have not yet attained the requisite incubation period for expression of CJD. The median duration of HGH therapy of 100 months in the CJD cases was significantly longer than 41 months for all patients starting treatment before 1970; thus, the duration of pituitary HGH therapy is a major risk factor for CJD. 
Open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography: a case report. A case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic (CT) scan is presented. The fracture was seen on a CT generated lateral scout film, and after repositioning the gantry, further CT images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury. The authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head CT have either a CT generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull, an area poorly visualized on standard axial images. 
Anticardiolipin antibodies: a study of frequency in TIA and stroke. We undertook a prospective study of consecutive patients to determine the frequency of elevated IgG and IgM anticardiolipin antibodies in transient ischemic attack and ischemic stroke and found elevated IgG antibodies in 8.2% (9 of 110) and IgM in 9.1% (10 of 110), only the former being significantly greater than in a healthy control population. We suggest that anticardiolipin screening be concentrated on the young. 
An objective method for the assessment of psychosocial problems in adolescents with epilepsy. Psychosocial problems in adolescents with epilepsy have been of concern for many years, but have been difficult to assess. This article presents the multicenter development of the Adolescent Psychosocial Seizure Inventory (APSI), an empirically based self-report test patterned after the Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory, which is used to evaluate psychosocial problems in adults. After pilot work, 120 adolescents with epilepsy from five centers in North America took the APSI and were interviewed by professionals with respect to adequacy of adjustment in eight psychosocial areas. At least one parent or guardian was also interviewed. Interrater reliability of professional ratings in each area was established. Using an item-by-item, empirically based technique, eight psychosocial scales were developed as well as three validity scales. Reliability of the scales was established by both internal consistency and test-retest procedures. Results for each adolescent are presented in profile form. These results give a visual display of the types and extent of problems that likely would be identified in a detailed professional assessment. It is anticipated that the APSI will be of value in a variety of treatment and research contexts. 
Bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome. Fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist. In this study, we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease (DJD) and 46 normal controls. Ninety (73%) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 (37%) DJD patients and none of the normal controls (P less than 0.001). Ninety-nine patients (81%) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern, and 77 (63%) had alternating diarrhea and constipation. In contrast, only 24 (44%) of DJD patients and six (13%) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 (22%) of the DJD patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea (P less than 0.01). Other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas (59%), nausea (21%), diarrhea (9%), and constipation (12%). Seventy-nine (64%) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47% of the time. Laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group (19%) and absent in the other two groups. Fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients, compared to 28% of DJD patients, felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease (P less than 0.05). In conclusion, patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed. If the diagnosis of IBS is confirmed, appropriate treatment may improve patients' symptoms, although this approach requires further study. 
Cat-scratch disease: an unusual cause of combative behavior. Acute encephalitis is an unusual manifestation of cat-scratch disease. The authors present the case of a 27-year-old man who exhibited the acute onset of encephalitis manifested by violent behavior and confusion. The diagnosis of drug abuse was presumed initially, but a careful examination revealed the true cause to be cat-scratch disease. Emergency physicians are frequently faced with the challenging task of evaluating confused and combative patients. This case demonstrates the importance of a complete physical examination and a thorough laboratory evaluation. 
Adult phosphorylase b kinase deficiency. Phosphorylase b kinase deficiency affecting muscle has been observed infrequently in children with weakness and hepatomegaly, and in 2 adults with cramps on exertion. We observed 2 additional adults with phosphorylase b kinase deficiency: Patient 1, aged 58, had progressive, predominantly distal weakness since age 46 but no cramps on exertion; Patient 2, aged 26, had cramps on exertion since age 6 but no weakness. Lactate production on ischemic exercise was impaired only in Patient 1. The serum creatine kinase level was elevated in both. Muscle specimens showed focal glycogen excess in both, and a necrotizing myopathy and mild denervation atrophy in Patient 1. Muscle phosphorylase b kinase activity was 0.5% and 8.9% of the lowest control value in Patients 1 and 2, respectively; erythrocyte phosphorylase b kinase activity was normal in both; liver phosphorylase b kinase activity, measured in Patient 1, was also normal. Other glycolytic enzymes in muscle were preserved in both. 
Intraoperative dexamethasone irrigation in lumbar microdiskectomy. In 45 lumbar hemilaminectomy/microdiskectomy patients, a control group of 23 patients had the standard operative procedure. The remaining 22 patients were treated with intraoperative irrigation of long-acting dexamethasone before incision closure. Age, weight, gender ratio, mean postoperative hospital stay, mean in-hospital narcotics usage, and incidence of perioperative complications among the two groups were compared. Age and gender ratios were comparable, although the control group was significantly heavier in body weight than the steroid-irrigated group. The steroid-irrigated group had a significant reduction in hospitalization and a marked reduction in narcotics usage compared with the control group. Postoperative fever occurred in one patient in the steroid group. The control group had three postoperative complications. These preliminary observations suggest that dexamethasone irrigation during lumbar diskectomy is a safe and effective adjunct to surgical management. 
Mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy. We examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls (group C, n = 11), diabetic patients (group D, n = 8), and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy (group DN, n = 6) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states. By use of a 3 MHz duplex scanner, peak systolic velocity, peak diastolic forward velocity, end-diastolic forward velocity, and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal. The vessels' diameters in centimeters were also measured. After the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients. The average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery (0.7 cm) and celiac artery (0.8 cm) did not change. Flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal. In the control group, peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38%, peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66%, and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70%. In the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15%, 98%, and 100%, respectively. These changes were statistically significant (p less than 0.01). On the other hand, the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities. Moreover, this alteration in blood flow velocity, although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina, did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and B-mode scanning. 
Rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders. 2. Anatomy, pathogenesis, and research for neurologic recovery. This self-directed learning module highlights advances in this topic area. It is part of the chapter on rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders in the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. This article contains learning objectives on the anatomy of the spine and spinal cord, pathogenesis of spinal cord trauma, mechanisms of spinal fractures and dislocations, causes of nontraumatic spinal cord disorders, and research on neurologic recovery. Advances that are covered in this section include various experimental animal models for producing spinal cord injury and new approaches to limit damage in acute injury and to promote recovery in chronic injury. 
Aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media. After observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic IV contrast material, an observation rarely described in the literature, we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation. There was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 Hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 +/- 29% to 55 +/- 27% following the IV administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans. IV calcium partially reversed this aggravation. Caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media. 
Ischemic optic neuropathy. ION typically affects the older population with a sudden decrease in vision, altitudinal visual field loss, and a swollen optic nervehead. Systemic hypertension and diabetes mellitus are the most commonly associated medical problems. Occlusion of the posterior ciliary arterial blood supply to the retrolaminar optic nerve leads to axoplasmic stasis and further compromise of vessels in the nerve substance, which causes the typical funduscopic appearance. Although there is no recognized medical treatment that can reverse the visual loss, a recent report suggests optic nerve sheath decompression for a select group of patients with a gradual decline in vision due to ION may be beneficial. When ION occurs in persons less than 50 years of age, such etiologies as juvenile diabetes mellitus, antiphospholipid antibody-associated clotting disorders, collagen-vascular disease, and migraines should be considered. Rarely, complications of intraocular surgery or acute blood loss may cause an ischemic event in the optic nerve. 
Intrathecal anaesthesia for day-care surgery. A retrospective study of 160 cases using 25- and 26-gauge spinal needles. The records of 160 day-care surgical patients who received intrathecal anaesthesia were reviewed. No major complications were recorded. The incidence of postspinal headache after puncture with a 25-gauge spinal needle was nearly four times more frequent compared to a 26-gauge needle. The occurrence of postspinal headache in patients over the age of 45 years was significantly less frequent (p less than 0.05) than in younger patients. Intrathecal anaesthesia was acceptable to 91% of outpatients in this group. 
Health status in patients with tension headache treated with acupuncture or physiotherapy. Sixty-two female patients with chronic tension headache were randomly divided into two treatment groups--acupuncture and physiotherapy. Their overall function (Sickness Impact Profile), and mental well-being (Mood Adjective Check List) and the intensity and frequency of headache were assessed before and after treatment. Before treatment the patients showed significantly more dysfunction and less positive mental well-being than a general population sample. Both treatment groups improved in overall function, the physiotherapy group somewhat more. The mental well-being increased only in the physiotherapy group. The intensity and frequency of headache was significantly reduced in both the physiotherapy group and the acupuncture group. The intensity of headache was significantly more improved in the physiotherapy group. The improvement of headache intensity persisted unchanged 7-12 months after treatment. 
Racial differences in cerebrovascular disease hospitalizations. We studied the relationship of race to incidence of hospitalization for cerebrovascular disease among 74,096 white and 33,041 black persons who took health examinations in a prepaid health care program. Analyses were controlled for age, sex, body mass index, coffee use, smoking, alcohol use, systolic blood pressure, and baseline disease. Blacks were at higher hospitalization risk than whites for hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease (relative risk = 2.4, 95% confidence interval = 1.3-5.8), cerebral thrombosis (relative risk = 1.9, 95% confidence interval = 1.2-2.9), and nonspecific cerebrovascular disease (relative risk = 1.6, 95% confidence interval = 1.2-2.2) but at lower hospitalization risk for extracranial occlusive disease (relative risk = 0.4, 95% confidence interval = 0.2-0.7). Blood pressure had a similar relation to all types of cerebrovascular disease in both races, but there were disparities in the relations of other atherosclerosis risk factors to different types of cerebrovascular disease. Educational attainment had little relation to hospitalization for extracranial occlusive disease, a finding that reduces the likelihood that selection bias explains the racial disparity. These data show unexplained racial differences in the type and location of cerebrovascular disease. The differences are important in understanding the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular disease and have practical clinical implications. 
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with L-tryptophan ingestion. The association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and L-tryptophan is now well established. We describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids. When massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy, surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness. A discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented. 
Unusually late onset of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after head trauma. Two cases of acute meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, in which the head trauma responsible occurred 10 and 30 years before, are presented. Intraoperatively, the brain parenchyma was found to be plugged into the fractured anterior fossa. By debridement and duraplasty from an intradural approach, both patients were cured. Several precipitating factors could be responsible for this unusually late reopening of the fistula. The possible accidental causes could be coughing or undetected microtraumas, but in the long run, atrophy of tissues and consequent changes in brain compliance with aging may play a role. 
Experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy: new insights from the study of kindling and synaptic reorganization. Temporal lobe epilepsy is a common localization-related epileptic syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures, ictal and interictal epileptic discharges arising from limbic structures of the temporal lobe, and association with hippocampal sclerosis. Temporal lobe epilepsy may follow perinatal injury and febrile convulsions, may be progressive, and frequently becomes refractory to standard antiepileptic therapy. The neurobiology that underlies these features of temporal lobe epilepsy is not known. Recent studies in experimental models have provided new insights that may help clarify the relationship of seizures, hippocampal sclerosis, and temporal lobe epilepsy. Observations from the study of the hippocampus with kainic acid-induced lesions, the kindling model, and other experimental models of epilepsy have demonstrated that seizures induce structural and electrophysiologic alterations in hippocampal pathways that may lead to increased excitability and could play a role in the development and progression of temporal lobe epilepsy. These alterations include mossy fiber synaptic reorganization, induction of NMDA-mediated synaptic transmission, and progressive hippocampal neuronal loss induced by brief kindled seizures. Some of the structural alterations induced by kindling have also been observed in the human epileptic temporal lobe, raising the possibility that mechanisms operative in kindling may play a role in the pathogenesis of hippocampal sclerosis and in the syndrome of human temporal lobe epilepsy. 
Verbal memory impairment correlates with hippocampal pyramidal cell density. Thirty-five patients with medically refractory epilepsy localized to the temporal lobe (18 left, 17 right) completed the verbal Selective Reminding Test before surgery. Verbal memory impairments existed before surgery regardless of the lateralization of the seizure focus, but patients with left temporal seizure foci were significantly more impaired. After surgical removal of the mesial temporal lobe structures, 2 blinded observers established volumetric cell densities for hippocampal subfields CA1, CA2, CA3, the hilar area, and the granule cell layer of the area dentata. Statistically significant correlations existed between presurgical memory impairment and cell counts (in CA3 and the hilar area, only) for patients with left temporal seizure foci. These findings support the hippocampal model of memory and complement prior research documenting the memory impairments present after surgical removal of the mesial temporal structures. 
Surgical management of oculomotor nerve palsy We treated seven patients with unilateral oculomotor nerve palsy by transposition of the insertion of the superior oblique tendon to a point anterior and medial to the insertion of the superior rectus muscle without trochleotomy (Scott procedure). Additionally, large recessions of the lateral rectus muscle of involved eyes and, occasionally, recess/resect procedures of horizontal recti muscles of non-involved eyes were performed. All patients were followed up between one and eight years. Orthophoria in the primary position was achieved and maintained with one operation in four patients. A fifth patient had only a small residual exotropia. In two patients who had aberrant regeneration of the oculomotor nerve, surgery on horizontal recti muscles of the noninvolved eye improved the eyelid position of the involved eye after three operations. 
Effect of parenterally administered gold therapy on the course of adult rheumatoid arthritis OBJECTIVE: To describe the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years in adults and to evaluate the effect of parenterally administered gold salts on that course. DESIGN: A prospective observational study of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. Data derived from annual interviews with patients from 1983 to 1988 and from physician surveys in 1983 and 1987. SETTING: Rheumatology practices in the community. PATIENTS: The study began in 1982 with 822 adults who had rheumatoid arthritis and were under the care of rheumatologists. INTERVENTIONS: Those selected by rheumatologists in the management of their patients. MEASUREMENTS: Information describing sociodemographic and clinical characteristics, course, and therapy was collected from patients and verified by physician reports. Functional status, measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire, and the number of painful joints were used as outcome variables. Outcome variables were adjusted for age, sex, disease duration, baseline values of the outcome variable, and the use of four disease-remittive agents other than gold. MAIN RESULTS: Multivariate repeated-measures analysis of variance showed no change in the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years. The use of parenteral gold for at least 2 consecutive years at the start of the observation period produced, on average, no change in the course over 5 years in the two outcome variables. CONCLUSION: In our study of a community-based population of adults with rheumatoid arthritis who were under the care of community rheumatologists, we found that there was, on average, no statistically significant change in function or number of painful joints between 1983 and 1988. Patients receiving parenteral gold therapy for at least 2 consecutive years did not show a statistically significant difference in outcome when compared with those not receiving such therapy. 
Paratope- and framework-related cross-reactive idiotopes on anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Cross-reactive idiotopes are a possible target for therapeutical interventions in autoimmune diseases. To investigate their role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) we analyzed the Id of rat anti-AChR mAb 6, 35, 61, 65 and a control myeloma protein IR27. Anti-Id 6, 35, 61, 65 bound in a direct binding assay with various affinity to all rat anti-AChR mAb that were tested. Anti-Id IR27 recognized none of the anti-AChR mAb. The specificity of these crossreactions was confirmed by inhibition studies with anti-AChR mAb and two control rat myeloma proteins (IR27 and IR241). In addition, the Id expression on mAb D6, a mouse anti-human AChR mAb was recognized by anti-Id 6, 35, and 65. Anti-Id, except anti-Id IR27, bound to affinity purified IgG from the sera of rats with EAMG, but not to preimmune Lewis IgG. These results suggest extensive sharing of idiotopes among anti-AChR mAb, which are also present in EAMG serum. Anti-AChR mAb against the main immunogenic region (6, 35, 65) from different rat strains, shared at least one paratope-related cross-reactive idiotopes. In the view of the fact that anti-main immunogenic region antibodies might form a predominant fraction of the polyclonal response against AChR, it is conceivable that an anti-Id recognizing these antibodies could have therapeutical applications as for example a selective immune absorbent or in immunotoxin therapy. 
Basilar artery occlusion in rats. The basilar artery is one of the three major sources of blood supply to the circle of Willis. To investigate the effects of basilar artery occlusion, we surgically exposed and coagulated the basilar artery in 25 rats. Basilar artery occlusion at any single point between the foramen magnum and the circle of Willis in 11 rats did not produce histologically detectable infarcts in the brain at 12-24 hours. Two-point occlusions of the basilar artery in 12 rats produced variable infarcts between the occlusion sites but no ischemic lesions elsewhere. After either single- or double-point occlusions, the proximal basilar artery refilled within 2-3 minutes. When the basilar artery was occluded above and below the origins of the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries, the artery segments between the occlusion points initially collapsed but refilled within 2-3 minutes in two rats. Basilar artery occlusions invariably suppressed cortical somatosensory evoked potentials by greater than 50%. Regardless of whether a brain stem infarct developed, somatosensory evoked potential amplitudes recovered to greater than baseline levels by 4 hours in seven of 17 rats and returned to baseline levels by 24 hours in every rat tested. We conclude that the occluded basilar artery receives extensive retrograde collateral blood flow and that somatosensory evoked potentials are exquisitely sensitive to basilar artery occlusion but are insensitive to whether brain stem infarcts develop. 
Deteriorating ischemic stroke: risk factors and prognosis. To determine a risk profile of deterioration in cerebral infarction of less than 8 hours' duration, we studied prospectively a series of clinical and radiologic data in 98 patients. We evaluated the Canadian Neurological Scale Score and Barthel index during a follow-up period of 3 months. There was deterioration in the 1st 48 hours in 40.8% of the patients. High systolic blood pressure, elevated blood sugar concentration at admission, and carotid territory involvement were independently related with deterioration in the logistic regression analysis. Death occurred in 35% of the patients with deteriorating infarcts and in 8.6% of those with stable infarcts. At the end of the study, functional capacity was lower in those with deteriorating infarcts, but the 2 groups improved in parallel from the 4th day onward. 
HMPAO-SPECT imaging resembling Alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions (resembling Alzheimer type dementia) and in the right parietal lobe. 
Relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. Stagnara wake-up tests, blood flow measures, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs), and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (NMEPs) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at L3-L4. Overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of NMEPs. Results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia. Blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally. Finally, NMEPs were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than SEPs. NMEPs should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than SEPs. Because NMEPs and SEPs provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts, the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery. 
Uniparental paternal disomy in Angelman's syndrome. Angelman's syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome are both causes of mental retardation with recognisable, but quite different, clinical phenotypes. Both are associated with deletions of chromosome 15q11-13, of maternal origin in Angelman's and paternal in Prader-Willi. Prader-Willi can arise by inheritance of two chromosomes 15 from the mother and none from the father (uniparental maternal disomy). In 2 patients with Angelman's syndrome we found evidence of uniparental paternal disomy. The phenotypic effects of maternal and paternal disomy of chromosome 15 are very different and inheritance of two normal 15s from one parent does not lead to normal development--strong evidence in man for genomic imprinting, in which the same gene has different effects dependent upon its parental origin. 
Babbling in the manual mode: evidence for the ontogeny of language. Infant vocal babbling has been assumed to be a speech-based phenomenon that reflects the maturation of the articulatory apparatus responsible for spoken language production. Manual babbling has now been reported to occur in deaf children exposed to signed languages from birth. The similarities between manual and vocal babbling suggest that babbling is a product of an amodal, brain-based language capacity under maturational control, in which phonetic and syllabic units are produced by the infant as a first step toward building a mature linguistic system. Contrary to prevailing accounts of the neurological basis of babbling in language ontogeny, the speech modality is not critical in babbling. Rather, babbling is tied to the abstract linguistic structure of language and to an expressive capacity capable of processing different types of signals (signed or spoken). 
Clinical features and associations of 560 cases of motor neuron disease. In 560 cases of motor neuron disease, studied retrospectively from their case notes in three teaching centres, the age at onset ranged from 13 to 87 years (mean 56 years), and the mean duration of illness until death was 2.6 years. In the subgroup of the disease presenting with progressive bulbar palsy presenting after age 59 years, there was a previously unrecognised excess of females sufficient to equalize the sex ratio of incidence of the disease in this age group. No potentially causative clinical associations emerged; no relation was noted between occupational exposure to leather products, trauma or surgical procedures and the disease. There was a trend for patients with motor neuron disease to give a history of abstention from alcohol. 
Cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors. We retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (carcinoid, 24; islet cell, 13). Seventeen resections were curative (no gross residual tumor); nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. Eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months (mean, 26 months). Six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months (mean, 14 months). One symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid. Twenty resections were palliative (gross residual tumor); 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor. Eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief; five are alive at 2 to 30 months (mean, 11 months), with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months (3 to 12 months). All four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months. Our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery, despite the short duration of complete relief, should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy. 
Routine and quantitative EEG analysis in Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (GdlT) is a neurobehavioral disorder, with a reportedly high frequency of EEG abnormalities. We performed EEGs on 48 consecutive patients with GdlT, and frequency analysis in 26 patients (17 males), and compared the results with those from age- and sex-matched normal controls. Routine 18-channel EEG revealed minimal diffuse nonspecific slowing in only 3 of 48 patients (6%) and in 2 of 26 controls (7.7%). The frequency analysis of the EEG of the 26 GdlT patients and their normal controls showed similar brain activity. We conclude that no significant differences exist between the EEG activity in GdlT patients as compared with that in sex- and age-matched controls in routine as well as in quantitative EEG. 
NMDA antagonists potentiate antiparkinsonian actions of L-dopa in monoamine-depleted rats. Systemically administered N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, MK-801 ((+)5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate) and CPP (3-[(+-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate), potentiate the ability of L-dopa (L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) to reverse akinesia and to alleviate muscular rigidity in monoamine-depleted rats. On the basis of these findings, it is proposed that NMDA antagonists may be beneficial as adjunctive treatment in the therapy of Parkinson's disease. CPP locally injected into the subthalamic nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus--the rat homologue of the internal pallidal segment--or substantia nigra pars reticulata of monoamine-depleted rats stimulates locomotor activity and alleviates rigidity, whereas local microinjection of CPP into the neostriatum is ineffective. These results make it unlikely that the neostriatum is the site of the antiparkinsonian action of NMDA antagonists in monoamine-depleted rats, whereas the subthalamic nucleus, internal pallidal segment, and substantia nigra pars reticulata appear to be important for the effects of NMDA antagonists. 
The concept of migraine as a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability. This article explores the hypothesis that migraine with aura is associated with a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability. The authors propose that this central neuronal hyperexcitability involves overactivity of the excitatory amino acids, glutamate, and possibly aspartate. Stimuli that activate the migraine attack evoke neuronal depolarization, slow depolarization shifts, and spreading suppression of spontaneous neuronal activity possible by glutamate and K+ dependent mechanisms. A low brain Mg2+ and consequent reduced gating of glutamatergic receptors may provide the link between the physiologic threshold for a migraine attack and the mechanisms of the attack itself by promoting glutamate hyperactivity, neuronal hyperexcitability, and susceptibility to glutamate-dependent spreading depression. 
Psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome. The relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome (FS) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with FS, 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 28 pain-free normal controls. FS showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily "hassles" than did RA or controls. However, on a measure of major life stress, they reported lower levels. No differences were found between groups with regard to daily "uplifts" or social support. Correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scale showed that the Hassles Scale was significantly related to the AIMS Psychological component. 
Neurological and ophthalmological phenomena after aortic conduit surgery. Transient neurological and visual signs have been observed in some patients after valved conduit replacement of the aortic valve and ascending aorta. Twenty-seven patients having valved conduit replacement between February 1982 and October 1988 were compared with 21 patients having combined aortic valve replacement (AVR) and ascending aorta (AA) graft replacement. Follow-up in 100% of both groups was obtained for 0.3-6.6 years (mean, 2.6 +/- 0.3 years). Among 20 surviving valved conduit patients, 10 (50.0%) experienced repetitive neurological and visual signs, including scotomata (seven), transient motor ischemic attacks (two), amaurosis fugax (four), and recurring attention lapses suggesting petit mal seizures (one). No patient with AVR + AA graft experienced any events (p = 0.004). All valved conduit and seven (53.8%) of AVR + AA graft patients were on warfarin (p = 0.0016). These events retained the same pattern although they diminished in frequency after 12 months in seven patients (70.0%) and after initiation of dipyridamole in two patients. Rehabilitation was similar in both groups: 18 of 20 (90.0%) valved conduit and 12 of 16 (75.0%) AVR + AA graft patients (p = NS). Transient, repetitive, nonprogressive neurological and ophthalmological phenomena are frequent after valved conduit replacement. The pathophysiological mechanism is unclear, but antiplatelet therapy may provide symptomatic control. 
Rehabilitation of the pediatric patient with a neuromuscular disease. A rehabilitation program for a patient with a neuromuscular disease can be developed only after an accurate diagnosis has been established. The diagnosis and its ramifications should suggest a natural course of disease which, it is hoped, can be improved upon with a rational and realistic program. The program is best developed by an interdisciplinary team, including a pediatric neurologist, who should have the greatest understanding of the patient's problem and should ultimately be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the program. A child with cerebral palsy commonly requires the services of physical and occupational therapists as well as knowledgeable orthopedists. Is the program appropriate? Does it consider the child's potential as well as his limitations? A child with a traumatic brain injury requires, in addition to the above, psychological intervention and an intensive educational program. Will the child and family need help from mental health professionals? A child with a motor unit disease such as Duchenne's muscular dystrophy requires, in addition to the above services, a "philosophy" of care. Will the child ever ambulate independently? If so, at what cost? What will be necessary for the child to reach this potential, including items such as orthoses and adaptive equipment? Will respirator care become necessary? What issues must be addressed for this form of care to be established? There is no one program for all children. The programs must be individualized to meet the needs of the patient and the family. This point cannot be overemphasized. 
Heart rate changes as an autonomic component of the pain response. Autonomic variables have been recommended as measures of the affective-motivational component of the pain response in objective algesimetry. In the present study components of heart rate responses to painful heat stimuli and their relation to stimulus and sensation variables were analyzed. Twelve healthy subjects served. Sixty phasic stimuli of varying temperatures above and below pain threshold were delivered through a Marstock thermode in 1 session. Heart rate, respiration, and subjective stimulus ratings were recorded simultaneously. Phasic heat stimulation above and below pain threshold induced a tonic increase of the heart rate lasting up to more than 20 sec. High intensity stimulation generated steeper rises and greater mean increase than low intensity stimulation. In general, heart rate responses were more closely related to subjective sensation than to stimulus intensity. However, differential temporal analysis demonstrates that, until about 3 sec after stimulation, the autonomic response is determined solely by stimulus temperature, whereas, after approximately 6 sec, it is related only to subjective judgement. Accordingly, the heart rate responses reflect both a brief nocifensive reflex induced by the sensory component and, subsequently, a longer-lasting response which seems to be related to affective and/or cognitive evaluation. This separation of different stages of pain-processing by an autonomic indicator may be useful in clinical algesimetry. 
Experimental nerve root compression. A model of acute, graded compression of the porcine cauda equina and an analysis of neural and vascular anatomy. Nerve root compression has been suggested as one important pathogenetic factor in low-back pain syndromes and sciatica. The underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms are, however, incompletely known, partly because of the lack of experimental data on this topic. In the present study, a model for experimental compression of the porcine sacrococcygeal cauda equina is presented. The model consists of surgical exposure of the cauda equina and compression of the cauda equina toward the ventral aspect of the spinal canal by an inflatable balloon fixed to the spine. This compression system was shown to have a high accuracy in pressure transmission from the balloon to the cauda equina. The gross and microscopic neural anatomy and the vascular anatomy of the porcine cauda equina were analyzed with light microscopic and ink-perfusion techniques. The porcine cauda equina showed a close anatomic resemblance to the human lumbosacral cauda equina. The presented model offers unique possibilities for experimental studies on nerve root compression injury because of the easy surgical exposure and the sufficient length of the nerve roots. In separate studies, this model, along with investigations of solute transport to the nerve tissue and of impulse propagation, has been used to analyze the effects of acute, graded compression on blood flow and edema formation in the cauda equina. The porcine cauda equina would also be particularly suitable for chronic compression studies because any neurologic deficit acquired would be restricted to the tail. 
The role of antihistamine therapy in vascular headaches. Migraine (vascular) headache is a complex syndrome that involves vascular hyperreactivity. The functions of systemic mediators in migraine are not fully understood. It is unclear which mediators provoke this probably atopic disorder and which represent an attempt to correct an imbalance. However, it has been demonstrated fairly conclusively that increased histamine levels correlate with migraine attacks in susceptible persons. Recent studies showing that histamine seems to have many different receptors and to adopt different conformations for different receptors may serve as a useful guide to future scientific investigation. Further impetus may come from ongoing studies of H3 histamine receptors, which indicate that H3 agonists offer promise as prophylactic agents for people who suffer from vascular headaches. 
Choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects During a 4-year period, 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit. Abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses, including trisomy 18 (n = 16), trisomy 13 (n = 1), triploidy (n = 1) and translocation Down's syndrome (n = 2). All fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts. 
Reference values for the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) in octo- and nonagenarians The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was used in a population survey of all inhabitants of Leiden, the Netherlands, over 85 years (n = 1258). In this paper we report on 532 subjects without neurological or psychiatric disease. Results show that the median score and lowest quartile cut-off score remain high until the tenth decade (median score = 28, lowest quartile cut-off score = 26). Thus age, in itself, is not a major limitation in using the MMSE. In this study a comparatively low level of education (the majority had 6 to 7 years of education) did not affect the results on the MMSE in a negative way, nor did we find an association with the use of psychoactive drugs. 
Changes in intracochlear and intracanalicular nerves after acoustic neurinoma excision confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings related to the vestibulocochlear and facial nerves within the internal auditory canal were analyzed in acoustic neurinomas. T1- and proton-weighted magnetic resonance images showed that the vestibulocochlear nerves distal to the internal auditory meatus increased in signal intensity after surgical intervention. These nerves were conspicuously enhanced after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid. The preserved facial nerves were also markedly enhanced postoperatively. As a possible cause of these findings, we suggest operative disruption of the blood-nerve barrier with ensuing nerve edema, although the operative procedures were carefully carried out using a surgical microscope. The clinical significance of traumatic disruption of the blood-nerve barrier and subsequent nerve edema are discussed from the standpoint of preservation of cochlear nerve function. 
Quinine-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation. Recurrent disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in 3 women after ingestion of quinine tablets for cramp. All had circulating quinine-dependent antibodies to platelets and in 2 there was initial evidence of antibody consumption, with low titres that rose steeply over the next few days and remained high for many months. 
Diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity Diclofenac sodium, a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) recently released in the United States, was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients, with one associated death. Signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug. The only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities. In one patient, fatal, fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug. Review of the European literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy. It is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Careful patient monitoring is advised, and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop. 
Surgical management of exophytic chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of childhood. Sixteen children underwent 18 operations for radical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors. The clinical presentation correlated with age: infants under 1 year of age presented with macrocephaly, failure to thrive, and severe visual failure; children aged 1 to 5 years predominantly had precocious puberty with mild visual deficits; and older children (greater than 5 years old) had slowly progressive loss of vision. All three infants had biologically aggressive tumors in spite of low-grade histology, and died from progressive tumor growth. Eleven of the 13 children aged 1 year or over are alive and well, without clinical or radiographic evidence of disease progression, 4 months to 4 1/2 years following surgery. Six of these patients, with a follow-up period of 10 months to 4 1/2 years (mean 27 months), have had no adjuvant therapy following radical surgical resection. The authors conclude that: 1) radical surgical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors can be performed with minimal morbidity; 2) radical resection may delay the time to disease progression in older children and postpone the need for irradiation; 3) resection of postirradiation recurrent tumors may provide neurological improvement and long-lasting clinical remission; and 4) chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of infancy are aggressive neoplasms that require multimodality therapy. 
Class II-restricted T cell responses in Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus-induced demyelinating disease. IV. Identification of an immunodominant T cell determinant on the N-terminal end of the VP2 capsid protein in susceptible SJL/J mice. Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced demyelinating disease serves as a relevant animal model of human multiple sclerosis. Myelin damage induced by TMEV infection appears to be immune mediated. Disease susceptibility correlates best with the temporal development of chronic, high levels of TMEV-specific, MHC class II-restricted delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses. We have proposed a model wherein these responses result in CNS demyelination via a macrophage-mediated terminal nonspecific bystander response. As virus-specific DTH responses appear to be intimately involved in the pathogenicity of CNS demyelination, it is critical to determine the specificity of these responses so that effector T cells specific for potential pathogenic epitopes can be targeted to serve as the focus of specific immunoregulatory processes. In the current study, the capsid protein specificity of the TMEV-susceptible SJL/J and TMEV-resistant C57BL/6 mouse strains was examined. DTH and Tprlf responses in both infected and immunized SJL/J mice were found to be predominantly directed toward the VP2 capsid protein, specifically to an epitope(s) contained within the N-terminal 150 amino acids of VP2. This same epitope was also found to be dominant in priming SJL/J mice for responses to challenge with intact virions. In contrast, the T cell-mediated responses of TMEV-resistant C57BL/6 mice did not show preferential reactivity towards VP2, because all three major capsid proteins (VP1, VP2, and VP3) elicited responses with essentially equal potency. The relationship of the restricted VP2 T cell epitope to predicted neutralizing antibody sites on the VP2 protein is discussed as is the potential use of this epitope for prevention and/or treatment of TMEV-induced demyelinating disease via the induction of epitope-specific tolerance. 
The relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia. A statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus. A review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies. A significant predominance of men, with mean age at onset of 50 years, was observed. Pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms, whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms. Lymphoreticular malignancies, especially Kaposi's sarcoma, are most frequently observed. The majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection. The majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus. In some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated. Overall, 37 of the 60 patients, or 61%, had a neoplasm of the immune system. 
The patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing. One hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years. Eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis. Graded according to the knee-rating system of the Hospital for Special Surgery, there were eighteen excellent, fifty-three good, eighteen fair, and eleven poor results. At the most recent follow-up, twenty-nine knees (29 per cent), nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis, were still painful in the patellofemoral area. The height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively. Small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain, regardless of sex, age, or level of activity. It seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain, are more than 160 centimeters tall, weigh more than sixty kilograms, and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation. 
Sleepwalking precipitated by treatment of sleep apnea with nasal CPAP. A 33-year-old man with a long history of snoring, observed apneic episodes, and excessive daytime sleepiness, underwent all-night polysomnography, which demonstrated severe obstructive sleep apnea. During the nasal CPAP trial, two episodes of sleepwalking were observed during a period of delta sleep rebound. 
Impairment of vertical motion detection and downgaze palsy due to rostral midbrain infarction. We present two cases with acute onset of vertical gaze palsy, mainly consisting of impaired downgaze and apraxia of downward head movements, together with neuropsychological deficits (hypersomnia, impaired attention and disorders of memory and affective control). CT and MRI revealed bilateral post-ischaemic lesions in the dorsomedial thalamus and the mesodiencephalic junction, dorsomedial to the red nucleus, thus being restricted to the territory of the posterior thalamosubthalamic paramedian artery, which includes the region of the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle as the main premotor nucleus for the generation of vertical saccades. In our patients, oculographic examination with electro-oculography and magnetic search coil recording showed severe impairment of downward more than upward saccades and only minor deficits of vertical pursuit and the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Visual functions were normal, with one exception: a psychophysical test of motion perception revealed a significant deficit in the detection of vertical movements. This could be due to a central adaptive mechanism which, in order to minimize oscillopsia, might elevate thresholds for vertical motion perception in cases of vertical gaze palsy. As an alternative explanation, lesions within the midbrain tegmentum could have damaged subcortical visual pathways involved in motion perception. 
Effects of discontinuation of phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproate on concomitant antiepileptic medication. We report a prospective, controlled study of the effects of the reduction and discontinuation of phenytoin (PHT) (22 patients), carbamazepine (CBZ) (23 patients), and valproate (VPA) (25 patients) with concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The principal changes in the serum concentrations of concomitant AEDs were (a) phenobarbital (PB) concentrations decreased by a mean of 30% on discontinuation of PHT; (b) total CBZ concentrations increased by a mean of 48% and free CBZ concentrations increased by a mean of 30% on discontinuation of PHT, with no change in CBZ-10, 11-epoxide (CBZ-E) concentrations; (c) VPA concentrations increased by a mean of 19% on discontinuation of PHT; (d) VPA concentrations increased by a mean of 42% on discontinuation of CBZ; (e) ethosuximide (ESM) concentrations increased by a mean of 48% on discontinuation of CBZ; (f) PHT concentrations decreased by a mean of 26% on discontinuation of CBZ; (g) PHT free fraction decreased from a mean of 0.11 to 0.07 on discontinuation of VPA; and (h) the mean concentrations of total and free CBZ increased by a mean of 10 and 16%, respectively, on VPA discontinuation, with a concomitant mean 24% decrease in total CBZ-E and a 22% decrease in free CBZ-E. Apart from the decrease in PB concentrations on PHT discontinuation, all significant changes had occurred by 1 week after the end of AED discontinuation. The implication for clinical practice is that a serum AED concentration at this time reflects the new steady state. Free concentrations did not add any clinically useful information to that gained from analysis of total serum concentrations. 
The use of ultrasound in evaluating neurologic diseases of childhood. Real-time cranial sonography, intracranial Doppler, and neuromuscular sonography are the sonographic techniques that are applicable to the neurologic evaluation of infants and children. Although limited by age, specificity, and operator skill and experience, the advantages of real-time cranial and intracranial Doppler sonography make them useful techniques in the evaluation of the young infant, particularly in the serial assessment of ventricular size and in the study of the critically ill infant. The use of neuromuscular sonography in the assessment of the floppy infant and in the guidance of biopsy makes this an increasingly valuable tool. 
A study of the seasonal variation of migraine. Available evidence supports the contention that migraine involves a disturbance in serotonin function. Several parameters of serotonin function in humans have been found to vary seasonally and may underlie the seasonal fluctuations observed in many clinical neuropsychiatric phenomena that are thought to involve serotonin dysfunction. We therefore postulated that migraine headaches might also vary seasonally and examined the admissions to our hospital over a 20-year period with a primary diagnosis of migraine. Peak admissions were found to occur most frequently in the spring for females in comparison to males (p less than or equal to 0.04, chi-square). The implications of these findings are discussed. 
Clinical and positron emission tomographic studies in the 'extrapyramidal syndrome' of dementia of the Alzheimer type. Extrapyramidal signs, particularly rigidity and tremor, have been reported in a proportion of patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. To test the hypothesis that these extrapyramidal signs are similar clinically and neurochemically to the extrapyramidal signs of Parkinson's disease, a group of 20 patients satisfying clinical criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease were studied and assessed clinically for the presence of rigidity, tremor, and bradykinesia. In those patients with extrapyramidal signs, qualitative differences were observed between the signs in these patients and in subjects with Parkinson's disease. Fifteen of 20 patients underwent fluoro-18-dopa scans, which showed no significant difference in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the caudate and putamen between normal subjects and the rigid and nonrigid patients with Alzheimer's disease, in contrast to the marked reduction in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the putamen that is observed in Parkinson's disease. This provides clinical and in vivo neurochemical support for the hypothesis that extranigral factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of rigidity in Alzheimer's disease. 
Unconsciousness associated with midazolam and erythromycin. An 8-yr-old boy suffering from an asymptomatic ventricular septal defect was given erythromycin for antibiotic prophylaxis before adenoidectomy. Sixty minutes after premedication with oral midazolam 0.5 mg kg-1 and oral atropine 0.03 mg kg-1, an infusion of erythromycin 400 mg was started. When 200 mg of erythromycin had been infused, the patient lost consciousness, but other vital functions remained normal. After 45 min, he awakened spontaneously. At the time the plasma concentration of midazolam was 134 ng ml-1. In order to investigate possible interactions between midazolam and erythromycin, we studied the pharmacokinetics of midazolam in six children of the same age undergoing minor otolaryngological surgery. The plasma concentration of midazolam in the patient who lost consciousness was significantly greater than in six other children without concomitant administration of erythromycin. The altered pharmacokinetics of midazolam may result from reduced hepatic clearance of midazolam caused by an enzyme inhibiting drug, erythromycin. 
Costs of operating a supported work program for traumatically brain-injured individuals. This paper presents a preliminary analysis of costs associated with a return-to-work program emphasizing a supported employment approach for persons who had sustained severe traumatic brain injuries. This analysis spans almost three years. Results indicated that a mean of 237.8 hours of staff intervention time was required to achieve job stabilization, at a cost of +6896. Ongoing follow-along and support services averaged 1.64 hours per week at a cost of +47.56. Over 68% of total staff time and costs were expended in job-site training and advocacy efforts. Application of these findings to state-level and agency-level policies should be weighed against individual characteristics and needs of clients, program design, and outcomes which clients achieve as a result of services. 
Treatment of chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy by cyclosporin A and plasma exchange. A case report. A patient with chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was successfully treated with plasma exchanges and cyclosporin A (CsA). Dynamometric measurements of hand force during the time of CsA treatment showed a highly significant correlation between hand force and CsA blood levels. The largest influence of CsA on hand force occurred 11-13 days after CsA uptake. 
Failure of nine-month phenobarbital administration to reverse amygdaloid-kindled seizure susceptibility in cats. Upon completion of left amygdaloid kindling, 4 cats underwent long-term phenobarbital administration during the subsequent 5- to 9-month rest period. Plasma phenobarbital levels were maintained above 15 to 20 micrograms/ml and were restimulated following plasma phenobarbital washout. Three cats served as nonmedicated controls. All 7 cats were subjected to repeated 6-hour sleep monitoring for observation of interictal discharges, which were observed most often in the immediate postictal period. Their frequency decreased gradually throughout the experiment in both the medicated and control animals, but they never completely disappeared except from the contralateral amygdala in 1 medicated animal. Upon primary site restimulation, all of the medicated animals responded with a generalized convulsion once the afterdischarge was induced. When these animals underwent secondary-site amygdaloid kindling, 3 showed a positive transfer effect. The findings suggest that although phenobarbital is a potent anticonvulsant, it has little effect on the acquired seizure susceptibility of previously amygdaloid kindled cats. 
Controlling stability of a complex movement system. Human movement systems have frequently been treated as one-dimensional, single-axis, rigid bodies in order to simplify the gathering, analysis, and interpretation of data. The problem with this approach is that the results of such assumptions often lead to conclusions about the production and control of movement that do not relate to the control demands placed on the central nervous system. In order to truly understand how the central nervous system plans and produces movements to match environmental demands, we must take into account the many variations available within the body. The purpose of this article is to examine two movement systems that have the potential to act in multiple spatial dimensions with variable muscle action patterns when performing a stabilizing task. Methods of analyzing how the systems operate under differing task constraints and results of the experiments will be presented. Hypothetical models that have been proposed to explain how complex movement systems operate will also be discussed. 
Scales for rating motor impairment in Parkinson's disease: studies of reliability and convergent validity. Study 1 examined the reliability of the ratings assigned to the performance of five sign-and-symptom items drawn from tests of motor impairment in Parkinson's disease. Patients with Parkinson's disease of varying severity performed gait, rising from chair, and hand function items. Video recordings of these performances were rated by a large sample of experienced and inexperienced neurologists and by psychology undergraduates, using a four point scale. Inter-rater reliability was moderately high, being higher for gait than hand function items. Clinical experience proved to have no systematic effect on ratings or their reliability. The idiosyncrasy of particular performances was a major source of unreliable ratings. Study 2 examined the intercorrelation of several standard rating scales, comprised of sign-and-symptom items as well as activities of daily living. The correlation between scales was high, ranging from 0.70 to 0.83, despite considerable differences in item composition. Inter-item correlations showed that the internal cohesion of the tests was high, especially for the self-care scale. Regression analysis showed that the relationship between the scales could be efficiently captured by a small selection of test items, allowing the construction of a much briefer test. 
The nature of opioid responsiveness and its implications for neuropathic pain: new hypotheses derived from studies of opioid infusions. In recent years, the observation that the response of patients to opioid drugs may be influenced by properties inherent in the pain or pain syndrome, such as its pathophysiology, has evolved into the belief that certain types of pain, e.g., neuropathic pains, may be unresponsive to these drugs. This concept has important implications for both clinical practice and basic understanding of opioid mechanisms. We critically evaluate opioid responsiveness, particularly as it relates to neuropathic pain, and propose a clinically relevant definition and a paradigm for its investigation. The paradigm is illustrated by analgesic responses to opioid infusion in 28 patients with neuropathic pains and by a detailed presentation of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationships in one of these patients, whose central pain responded promptly to an infusion of hydromorphone. From this analysis, we hypothesize that (1) opioid responsiveness in man can be defined by the degree of analgesia achieved during dose escalation to either intolerable side effects or the occurrence of 'complete' or 'adequate' analgesia; (2) opioid responsiveness is a continuum, rather than a quantal phenomenon; (3) opioid responsiveness is determined by a diverse group of patient characteristics and pain-related factors, as well as drug-selective effects; and (4) a neuropathic mechanism may reduce opioid responsiveness, but does not result in an inherent resistance to these drugs. Given the complexity of factors contributing to opioid responsiveness and the observation that outcome cannot be reliably predicted, opioids should not be withheld on the assumption that pain mechanism, or any other factor, precludes a favorable response. Both the clinical use of opioids and paradigms to investigate opioid responsiveness should include dose escalation to maximally tolerated levels and repeated monitoring of analgesia and other effects. 
Advances in cluster headache. The physician may have to combine the art and science of medicine in the management of this most fascinating of human ailments. The choice of drugs and the length of treatment prescribed are greatly influenced by the individual physician's experience, convictions, and reasoning. Needless to say, chronic use of narcotics should be avoided. The author's own regimen is to use combinations of ergotamine prophylaxis with either verapamil or prednisone in episodic cluster headache and with lithium for chronic cluster headache. Management of the treatment-resistant patient remains problematic, but a carefully performed trigeminal radiofrequency thermocoagulation procedure may be worthwhile. 
Botulinum toxin treatment in spasmodic torticollis. Botulinum toxin A was administered to 19 patients in a double-blind placebo controlled trial. Toxin was more effective than placebo for improving both head position and pain which was measured by an objective rating scale and videofilm assessments. Following the controlled trial, treatment with botulinum toxin was continued in an open fashion. A total of 60 patients with torticollis received toxin in a total of 117 treatment periods. The mean follow up period was 8.4 months. In 39 patients with pain there was benefit in 77% of treatment periods. Some improvement in neck posture occurred in 83% of the treatment periods with a mean duration of 12 weeks. Side effects were frequent with dysphagia being the most common (28% of treatment periods). Botulinum toxin is an effective treatment for toticollis but treatment should be initiated with doses at the lower end of the range used in this study (400-600 mouse units). 
Neurotologic findings in basilar migraine. Treatment of a patient with otologic symptoms and associated migraine-like headache presents the otolaryngologist with formidable problems. Although clinical practice and scientific publications recognize their frequent association, relationships have yet to be well defined. This study seeks to add order to disarray by delineating symptoms and signs of a clearly identified group of migraine patients. Fifty patients with well-defined basilar migraine underwent a thorough neurotologic examination, as well as comprehensive auditory and vestibular testing. Patients were selected from 5880 patients seen over a 2-year period and were prospectively entered into the study after detailed questionnaires and testing were completed for each patient. The most common symptoms found were dysequilibrium, phonophobia, and head pressure. The most common signs were positional nystagmus, low-frequency hearing loss, abnormal loudness discomfort level, and an abnormality on caloric examination. Advanced vestibular testing showed abnormal amplitude scaling, abnormal toes-down pertubation, and an abnormal sway (condition 6) on dynamic posturography. There was frequently an asymmetry on computerized rotation. The author concludes that the majority of patients have subtle findings on testing, but a few have severe peripheral injury due to the basilar migraine. Findings are consistent with the theory that basilar migraine is a central nervous system maladaptation syndrome which creates otoneurologic symptoms and, in a small percentage of cases, may injure the peripheral end-organ. 
Thrombosis in a congenitally bifurcated superior sagittal sinus. A 26-year-old woman had a peripartum venous thrombotic stroke involving the right parietal lobe. The initial thrombus was present only in the right channel of a congenitally bifurcated superior sagittal sinus. This diagnosis and subsequent thrombus extension were readily shown by magnetic resonance imaging in contrast to equivocal angiography. A subsequent, prospective review of 100 patients undergoing cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed the presence of similarly bifurcated superior sagittal sinuses in two. The patient stabilized after therapy with intravenous heparin, but switching her medication to oral warfarin sodium was followed by clinical deterioration and propagation of the thrombus, necessitating resumption of intravenous heparin. No coagulopathy was identified. 
L-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states. The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid L-tryptophan. We describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental L-tryptophan. Exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints, and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the L-tryptophan supplements. The mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed. 
P300 brain activity in seizure patients preceding temporal lobectomy. Event-related potentials were recorded over occipital and parietal scalp from 20 patients suffering from intractable partial complex seizures prior to undergoing a temporal lobectomy. Subjects were presented with language and nonlanguage visual stimuli using a divided-field, "odd-ball" paradigm. Although behavioral performance (button-press accuracy, reaction time, and running counts) was comparable across all groups (although accuracy was worse for those in the left temporal group), patients showed tremendous variability in both the amplitude and latency of the P300 response. Particularly notable was the observation that more slow wave activity was present among the patients than among the control subjects, and those scheduled for a left temporal resection evinced more amplitude reduction than those scheduled for a right temporal resection. In addition, a number of patients appeared not to show a P300 response at all. These results are discussed in the context of the utility of using noninvasive event-related potential measures to examine both memory impairment and the integrity of the neural structures that mediate memory functioning in certain patient populations. 
Familial autosomal recessive rigid spine syndrome with neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. Two sisters and a first cousin presented with rigid spine and facio-scapulo-peroneal muscle atrophy. The patients belonged to a family with two first-cousin marriages. Electromyography, muscle and nerve biopsy showed neurogenic muscle atrophy without peripheral nerve involvement. Follow up did not show progression of the disease. This is the first observation of an association of neurogenic facio-scapulo-peroneal and rigid spine syndrome. The double first-cousin marriage suggests autosomal recessive inheritance. 
Reversible myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse: serial electrophysiological studies. Detailed electrophysiological studies were performed in 4 patients with myeloneuropathy induced by abuse of nitrous oxide for 1 to 4 years. All presented with paresthesias, weakness, and Lhermitte's phenomena, and exhibited signs of sensorimotor polyneuropathy, ataxia, and arreflexia. Two had subnormal serum vitamin B12 levels. Baseline electrophysiologic testing revealed reduced motor unit potentials, prolonged F wave latencies, absent H reflexes, denervation potentials, and delays in motor and sensory conduction. Three had peripheral and nuchal delay after median nerve stimulation. All were reevaluated after 3 to 12 months' abstinence and treatment with vitamin B12, and all showed substantial clinical improvement. Parallel improvement in electrophysiologic findings occurred, but residual minor conduction delays, loss of H reflexes, electromyographic evidence of denervation, or abnormalities of posterior tibial SEP were noted. These findings confirm the reversibility of myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse and describe the profile of electrophysiologic recovery in subjects who abstain from further neurotoxic exposure. 
Clinical characteristics of migraine and episodic tension-type headache in relation to old and new diagnostic criteria. Eighty-one patients were diagnosed as having migraine, tension headache or both according to previously used criteria. Then we performed a standardized interview to determine the frequency and severity of headache characteristics used in the new operational diagnostic criteria of the International Headache Society (IHS). In every patient the original diagnosis fulfilled also the IHS criteria, but in 9 patients the criteria were only fulfilled in half or less of the attacks, and applying the IHS criteria they also achieved an additional diagnosis. In one patient these attacks did not fulfill the pain criteria and in 8 (4 migraine, 4 tension headache) they did not fulfill the criteria for accompanying symptoms. Overall the IHS criteria are sensitive and specific, but they may possibly be improved with regard to accompanying symptoms. The present study suggests that recording of frequency and graded severity of characteristics using a headache diary may further improve the distinction between the different types of headache. 
Central nervous system involvement in Von Hippel-Lindau disease. Fifty individuals with Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) were studied with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the frequency and distribution of CNS lesions. The associated clinical features were also reviewed. Thirty-six (72%) of the 50 had 1 or more CNS tumors. The most frequently affected sites in the CNS excluding the retina were the cerebellum (52%), spinal cord (44%), and brainstem (18%). New regional predilections for the craniocervical junction and conus medullaris were demonstrated by this study. Forty-one percent of all VHL patients with CNS tumors were neurologically asymptomatic: cerebellar tumors (50%), spinal cord tumors (50%), and brainstem tumors (44%) were often without clinical signs or symptoms. Multiple lesions were common. The mean age of all VHL patients (34.5 years) was similar to the mean age of all CNS VHL patients (34.4 years), suggesting a lack of age association. CNS lesions commonly occurred in the 2nd decade of life. All patients at risk for VHL should be evaluated using gadolinium-enhanced MRI after 10 years of age, although ophthalmic examination should be initiated within the 1st 2 years of life. Enhanced MRI is particularly useful in the detection of CNS tumors in patients with the VHL gene. 
Unusual blink reflex with four components in a patient with periodic ataxia. Characteristic findings in blink reflex are reported in a 55-year-old female with periodic ataxia. The blink reflexes on the side ipsilateral to the stimulation consisted of four components with latencies of 11, 21, 35 and 47 ms, instead of the usual two components seen in normal subjects. On the contralateral side, the last three components were also present. The second component was different from the normal R2 response in that its latency was shorter than normal and it did not habituate by stimulation at a rate of 10 Hz. In addition, it was more affected by diazepam than the third or fourth components. It is considered that R2 may have consisted of three components and that a shorter latency of the second component could be explained by facilitation. 
Congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in Iraqi and Iranian Jews. A new genetic syndrome. Fourteen Jewish patients from 10 families of either Iraqi or Iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face, mandibular prognathism with class III malocclusion and a high-arched palate. Other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis, weakness of facial and masticatory muscles, and fatigable speech; mild and nonprogressive course; response to cholinesterase inhibitors; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 Hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus. This newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. The facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated. Further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome. 
Central adenosinergic system involvement in ethanol-induced motor incoordination in mice. To clarify if the behavioral interaction between ethanol and adenosine reported previously occur centrally or due to a peripheral hemodynamic change, the effect of i.c.v. adenosine agonists, N6-(R-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (R-PIA), N6-(S-phenylisopropyl)adenosine, 5'-(N-cyclopropyl)-carboxamidoadenosine, antagonists, theophylline and 8-p-(sulfophenyl)theophylline as well as enprofylline on ethanol-(i.p.)-induced motor incoordination was evaluated by rotorod. Adenosine agonists and antagonists dose dependently accentuated and attenuated, respectively, ethanol-induced motor incoordination, thereby suggesting a central mechanism of adenosine modulation of this effect of ethanol and confirmed our previous reports in which adenosine agonists and antagonists were given i.p. Enprofylline, a weak adenosine antagonist but potent inhibitor of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase, did not alter ethanol's motor incoordination, further supporting involvement of brain adenosine receptor mechanism(s) in ethanol-adenosine interactions. Results from R-PIA and N6-(S-phenylisopropyl)adenosine experiments showed nearly a 40-fold greater potency of R-vs. S-diastereoisomer, suggesting predominance of adenosine A1 subtype. However, 5'-(N-cyclopropyl)-carboxamidoadenosine data indicate complexity of the mechanism(s) and point toward an additional involvement of a yet unknown subtype of adenosine A2. No effect of ethanol on blood or brain levels of [3H]R-PIA was noted and sufficient amount of the latter entered the brain to suggest adenosine receptor activation adequate to produce behavioral interaction with ethanol. There was no escape of i.c.v.-administered [3H]R-PIA from brain to the peripheral circulation ruling out a peripheral and supporting a central mechanism of ethanol-adenosine interaction. 
Fluctuation in timing of upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscle activity in obstructive sleep apnea. An imbalance in the amplitude of electrical activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles is associated with both collapse and reopening of the upper airway in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The purpose of this study was to examine whether timing of the phasic activity of these inspiratory muscles also was associated with changes in upper airway caliber in OSA. We hypothesized that activation of upper airway muscle phasic electrical activity before activation of the chest wall pump muscles would help preserve upper airway patency. In contrast, we anticipated that the reversal of this pattern with delayed activation of upper airway inspiratory muscles would be associated with upper airway narrowing or collapse. Therefore the timing and amplitude of midline transmandibular and costal margin moving time average (MTA) electromyogram (EMG) signals were analyzed from 58 apnea cycles in stage 2 sleep in six OSA patients. In 86% of the postapnea breaths analyzed the upper airway MTA peak activity preceded the chest wall peak activity. In 86% of the obstructed respiratory efforts the upper airway MTA peak activity followed the chest wall peak activity. The onset of phasic electrical activity followed this same pattern. During inspiratory efforts when phasic inspiratory EMG amplitude did not change from preapnea to apnea, the timing changes noted above occurred. Even within breaths the relative timing of the upper airway and chest wall electrical activities was closely associated with changes in the pressure-flow relationship. We conclude that the relative timing of inspiratory activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles fluctuates during sleep in OSA. 
Physician practices in the diagnosis of dementing disorders. Because there are both treatable and untreatable causes of dementia, the physician's ability to conduct (or refer a patient for) a differential diagnosis could have a profound effect on health outcomes for patients and on health care costs. This study was undertaken to assess physician practices with regard to the diagnosis of dementing disorders. Data from 53 physicians (a response rate of 48%) in several specialties were obtained from a self-administered mail questionnaire. Results indicate that the majority of physicians provided history taking, physical examination, and neurological examination. Physicians were more likely to refer patients for psychiatric and neuropsychological examinations than to provide these services themselves. The results also point to deficiencies in two key areas: the use of formal, published diagnostic criteria, and the use of mental status and cognitive function tests. Over 75% of physicians surveyed did not use either DSM-III or NINCDS-ADRDA diagnostic criteria, and 42% of physicians did not provide any mental status tests themselves. The need for continuing education to close knowledge gaps is emphasized. 
Alcohol-dependent unilateral vestibular impairment persisting after a closed head injury. A 20-year-old man suffered a closed head injury followed by symptoms of right-sided labyrinthine concussion with complete clinical recovery within 3 weeks. Episodic vertigo and ataxic gait occurred after the ingestion of small amounts of alcohol over the next 2 years. Electro-oculography revealed a right-sided peripheral type vestibular lesion, only after taking alcohol. This was interpreted as an alcohol-induced impairment of central compensation following an incomplete recovery from right-sided labyrinthine trauma. 
Gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. A retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine. These composed 31% of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988. Surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients. Neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments. The authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury. Complications were seen in 93% of the patients. Most complications were thromboembolic, pulmonary, and urinary tract infections. No cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound. No deaths occurred in this series. Two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed. The authors' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions. Surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended. 
Neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproic acid: implications for use in traumatic brain injury. Due to the risk of posttraumatic epilepsy, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and valproic acid are often prescribed for patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this review the literature is examined for evidence of neurobehavioral impairment due to carbamazepine, phenytoin, and valproic acid. No comparative studies have been performed in the TBI population, making if difficult to determine if one of these medications is preferable. Direct inference from studies on epilepsy patients to TBI patients is hazardous due to underlying differences in the two populations. Reported findings for epilepsy patients are subtle and not consistent across studies. All three drugs appear to exert some effect on cognitive and motor functions in epileptic patients, and these impairments worsen at increasing serum levels. The varied length of experience with each drug makes it difficult to assign relative weight to the evidence for or against each. A comparative assessment of cognitive and behavioral effects of anticonvulsants should be done in the TBI population. 
Organ procurement in patients with fatal head injuries. The fate of the potential donor. A 46-month, retrospective review of all victims of fatal head injury at a level 1 trauma center was undertaken to estimate donor organ availability, determine causes of procurement failure, and analyze the functional results of organs transplanted from this group of donors. Causes of procurement failure in 126 patients who died principally from their head injuries included failure of initial resuscitation (14%), ineligibility (28%), failure of physiologic support (14%), and denial of consent (20%). Of 73 eligible donors, 29 (41%) were able to donate one or more vascular organs (heart, liver, kidney). In only one instance was an eligible donor not appropriately identified as such. Failure of physiologic support to prevent early death (25%), and denial of consent (34%) were found to be the two major, potentially remediable causes of procurement failure in this series. Based on this data, an estimated 29 patients/million population/year will survive initially and meet all eligibility requirements for organ donation. Data on 47 kidneys transplanted from the donor group demonstrated a 77% overall graft survival rate at a follow-up period averaging 23 months. Prolonged donor hypotension, but not the use of high-dose vasopressors, adversely affected allograft survival. The current limitations of organ procurement in victims of fatal head injury stem from a limited ability to maintain cardiopulmonary function long enough for the procurement process to be completed and a high overall rate (46%) of denial of consent for organ harvest by next of kin. 
Evidence against leukotrienes as mediators of brain edema. Leukotrienes are powerful metabolites of arachidonic acid which are known to increase the permeability of peripheral blood vessels. These substances are found in brain tissue in association with cerebral ischemia, and in brain tumors. Therefore, it has been proposed that leukotrienes have a mediator function in brain edema. This hypothesis was subjected to further experimental analysis in this study, in which the authors investigated whether: 1) superfusion of the exposed brain surface with leukotrienes increases the permeability of extraparenchymal blood vessels in vivo; 2) intraparenchymal infusion of leukotrienes induces brain edema; and 3) pharmacological inhibition of leukotriene formation by BW755C, an inhibitor of leukotriene synthesis, reduces formation of brain edema from a standardized traumatic insult. The pial vessels of the parietal cortex of cats were examined by fluorescence microscopy during cerebral superfusion with the leukotrienes C4 (LTC4), D4 (LTD4), or E4 (LTE4) by using an open cranial window preparation. Intravenous Na(+)-fluorescein served as an in vivo blood-brain barrier (BBB) indicator. Superfusion of the pia with leukotrienes (up to 2 microM) did not open the barrier to fluorescein, but was associated with a significant constriction (up to 25%) of arterial and venous vessels. In experiments with slow infusion of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) or LTC4 into the white matter of feline brain, the tissue water content was subsequently determined in serial brain slices using the specific gravity method. Tissue water profiles obtained after a 15-microM infusion of either LTB4 or LTC4 were virtually identical with those of control animals infused with mock cerebrospinal fluid. Thus, neither LTB4 nor LTC4 led to an augmentation of infusion-induced brain edema. In a final series, a cold lesion of the left parietal cortex was induced in rabbits. Twenty-four hours later, swelling of the exposed hemisphere was quantified by gravimetrical comparison of its weight with that of the contralateral nontraumatized hemisphere. Eight animals received BW755C intravenously prior to and after trauma to inhibit formation of leukotrienes. Seven rabbits were infused with an equivalent volume of saline as a control study. The resulting hemispheric swelling was 7.7% +/- 0.6% (mean +/- standard error of the mean) 24 hours later in animals receiving BW755C and 7.8% +/- 1.2% in the control group, indicating that inhibition of leukotrienes was ineffective in preventing formation of vasogenic brain edema. The findings demonstrate that leukotrienes administered to the brain in concentrations occurring under pathological conditions do not open the BBB nor do they induce brain edema.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Florid refractory schizophrenias that turn out to be treatable variants of HLA-associated narcolepsy. Narcolepsy in which the hallucinatory component is unusually prominent may lead to the development of an illness indistinguishable from the schizophrenic syndrome. Psychotic symptoms dominate the symptomatology, so that the primary illness is obscured. Five patients are described for whom conventional antipsychotic drugs were ineffectual, but for whom treatment with stimulants produced substantial improvement. The diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by Human Leukocyte Antigen typing and sleep laboratory testing. These results support the "REM intrusion" hypothesis of the causation of schizophrenia in as many as 7% of a series of schizophrenic patients. Implications for diagnosis and treatment are discussed. 
Age at onset of Alzheimer's disease. Relation to language dysfunction. A later age at onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) was found to be related to diminished language performance in 86 patients with probable AD. A hierarchical linear model was constructed to assess effects of age at onset and disease duration on the performance of patients with AD on four language tasks (naming, reading, auditory comprehension, and writing to dictation) after controlling for disease severity. Results of univariate analysis, in which the dependent variable was the averaged language task performances, revealed a significant effect for age at onset of AD, but not for disease duration. To assess the possibility that the relationship between the age at onset of AD and language performance reflects effects of normal aging, the language tasks were given to 33 normal subjects of similar ages who scored perfectly on dementia severity measures. A convincing relationship was not found between test score and age. 
Geographic patterns of parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam. 1956 through 1985. Average annual age-adjusted incidence rates of parkinsonism-dementia complex were obtained for the 19 election districts of Guam from 1956 through 1985. The highest rates were found in the southern and central districts, and the lowest rates were found in the northern and western districts. Geographic and temporal patterns of incidence were associated with socioeconomic status but not with geochemical factors. The risk of parkinsonism-dementia complex in susceptible sibships was much higher than that in the general population--even in districts with the highest incidence rates, but especially in districts with the lowest incidence rates. Our evidence tends to support the hypothesis that multiple factors linked to cycad use play an important role in the cause of PDC. Hypotheses related to metal exposure and simple genetic factors were unsatisfactory explanations for the epidemiologic patterns observed. 
Successful treatment of neonatal Citrobacter freundii meningitis with ceftriaxone. Citrobacter meningitis is an uncommon enteric gram-negative infection that afflicts neonates and young children. Approximately 30 percent of children treated or untreated die from the infection. We report a case of C. freundii meningitis that was resistant to ampicillin and was successfully treated with ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin. A 13-day-old, full-term baby was admitted to the hospital with a one-day history of fever up to 38.8 degrees C. On admission the infant had a temperature of 39.2 degrees C, pulse of 140 beats/min, and a respiratory rate of 32 breaths/min. Except for a slightly bulging fontanelle, the rest of the physical examination was within normal limits. Complete blood count revealed a white blood cell (WBC) count of 12.5 x 10(9)/L, with 0.66 polymorphonuclear cells, 0.10 bands, 0.18 lymphocytes, and 0.06 monocytes. A stat lumbar puncture showed 10 WBCs per high-power field with gram-negative rods. Empiric therapy with ampicillin 225 mg q12h and gentamicin 11 mg q8h was started. Both antibiotics were discontinued after culture and sensitivity results were positive for C. freundii in the blood and spinal fluid. The patient was successfully treated with nine days of ceftriaxone 250 mg q12h. 
Discordant nephron function. A pathogenic factor in hypertension and its vascular complications of stroke and heart attack. Morphologic evidence from patients with essential hypertension and Goldblatt-type hypertension reveals a subpopulation of narrowed afferent arterioles to ischemic nephrons. These ischemic nephrons, responding individually to their perception of underperfusion, secrete renin. In response, the normal nephrons are in adaptive natriuresis and have appropriately shut off their renin production. Nevertheless, they are affected adversely by the discordant renin-angiotensin II arising from the ischemic nephrons' presence, which exerts an unwanted sodium-retaining effect on the proximal tubules of the adapting nephrons. The end result is elevated blood pressure from too much sodium retention for the level of renin activity, that is, an abnormal renin-sodium product. Thus, "normal" renin levels in a hypertensive individual are abnormal because healthy kidneys shut off renin production entirely when blood pressure rises. This construction explains why angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition often corrects "normal" renin hypertension. Although such hypertension may be partly sodium-mediated as a consequence of inappropriate sodium retention by the normal and ischemic nephrons, the source of the problem lies in the renin production from ischemic nephrons. The correct treatment, then, is an antirenin therapy designed to block renin synthesis or secretion or angiotensin II formation or action. In view of modern studies suggesting that renin excesses also correlate with an increased risk of heart attack and stroke, the role of antirenin and antiangiotensin agents in treatment assumes additional relevance. 
Visual evoked potentials and visual prognosis following perinatal asphyxia. Twenty-five children born at term with perinatal asphyxia were studied at age 2.5 to 4.5 years to evaluate visual function and to determine the prognostic value of postnatal assessments of visual outcome. Postnatal assessments included several visual evoked potentials and electroretinograms in the first week of life. Follow-up assessments included flash and pattern visual evoked potentials, visual evoked potential threshold measurements, and clinical eye examinations. Nineteen children had normal visual function, three were visually impaired, and three remained blind. A strong association was found between normal, abnormal, or absent visual evoked potentials in the early postnatal period and long-term visual outcome (P less than .0001). Other perinatal indicators of asphyxia, including neurologic status, Apgar scores, and arterial pH values, were poor predictors of visual outcome. The risk of visual impairment was limited to those survivors with neurodevelopmental deficits. 
A review of techniques employed to estimate the number of motor units in a muscle. Being the smallest functional units under neural control, motor units play an integral role in muscle physiology. However, at the present time, there does not exist any widely accepted technique for quantifying or estimating the number of motor units in a muscle. Specifically, the existing techniques are the increment-counting technique, a technique based on spike-triggered averaging, and a macro-EMG based technique which vary in invasiveness from noninvasive to highly invasive, respectively. We discuss each of these techniques, along with their associated shortcomings, in detail. 
Spinal man after declaration of brain death Complex spinal automatism in a patient who was declared brain dead is described. These movements tend to appear once cerebrospinal shock has abated. We postulate that these manifestations are a reflection of the physiological potential of the isolated spinal cord. These spinal movements should be included in the revised guidelines for the determination of cerebral death. 
HTLV-I viral-associated myelopathy after blood transfusion in a multiple trauma patient. This may be the first documented case in the United States and in the orthopedic literature of transfusion-transmitted human T-cell leukemia virus Type I (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy (HAM). Progressive myelopathy occurred in a 58-year-old white man with serologic and molecular evidence of HTLV-I infection after multiple trauma and subsequent transfusion with multiple units of banked blood products. Symptoms of myelopathy occurred 15 months after the transfusions. Myelopathy from HTLV-I infection simulates a disorder of orthopedic interest. Physicians should be aware of the symptoms of HAM and unexplained myelopathy. 
Alcoholic blackouts: legal implications. Alcoholic blackouts are defined as the temporary, complete inability to form long-term memory as the result of a high blood alcohol level. This means that a neuron-to-neuron system has been blocked. Since that is the case, such central nervous dysfunction should have legal implications, both from the blackout itself and also from the fact that this degree of neural interference in one system is at least suggestive that other dysfunction may be present. The subject of blackouts is updated with recent developments in neuroscience. The legal significance of the blackout is examined in enough depth to allow for further discussion and exploration. 
Effects of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty on sleep architecture and patterns of obstructed breathing. In this retrospective study, 72 obstructive sleep apnea patients with polysomnograms taken before and after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty were evaluated. Postoperatively, there was a significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices. In addition, a second group of 17 patients also had position recordings with their polysomnograms. Time spent in supine and lateral sleep positions changed postoperatively. There was significant decrease of the apnea plus hypopnea index in the lateral position. This study indicates that there is significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices in the majority of patients after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, particularly in the lateral sleep position. 
Driving in Parkinson's disease. Altered motor or mental skills in Parkinson's disease (PD) could adversely affect driving ability. We interviewed 150 patients regarding their driving habits and compared them with 100 controls. Thirty patients had stopped driving because of PD. PD patients had no more lifetime accidents than controls. With increased disability, however, there was a smaller percentage of patients still driving with fewer miles traveled and with proportionately more accidents occurring. Though disability scores did not correlate well with driving ability, there were significantly more accidents in subjects with more severe PD. The presence of cognitive impairment was associated with an increased accident rate. We conclude that driving in PD may be a public health problem and that some PD patients should not drive. 
Receptor changes in the spinal cord of sheep associated with exposure to chronic pain. There is evidence that post-injury hypersensitivity is partly due to changes in the central nervous system. Sheep with foot rot were used to investigate the effect of chronic pain on some receptors thought to be involved in spinal nociceptive processing systems (alpha 2 adrenoceptor and mu and delta opioid receptors). Saturation binding studies showed a variable distribution of [3H] clonidine (alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist) in the spinal cord of normal sheep. The number of receptors (Bmax) present in areas thought to be involved in nociceptive processing, laminae I and II and lamina X, increased to 131% and 169% of control sheep values respectively in animals exposed to chronic pain. The affinity of the receptors (KD), however, remained unchanged at approximately 2 nM. There was less [3H]DAGO (mu opioid agonist) and [3H]DPDPE (delta opioid agonist) binding in the sheep spinal cord. Both opioid receptor types being mainly located in the superficial dorsal horn. The [3H]DPDPE binding was unchanged in the sheep with foot rot, whilst the number (Bmax), but not the affinity, of the [3H]DAGO binding sites increased in laminae I and II in lame animals to 130% of the control sheep values. Hence, in animals in chronic pain, the number of alpha 2 adrenoceptors and mu opioid receptors increased mainly in areas of the sheep spinal cord associated with nociception. 
Comparison of functional and structural brain disturbances in Wilson's disease. We assessed the functional and structural brain disturbances in Wilson's disease (WD) by evoked potentials (EPs) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). All the 25 neurologically symptomatic and 44% of the 16 asymptomatic patients, assessed by both EPs (n = 48) and imaging (n = 41), had at least 1 abnormality of either prolonged EP conduction times, imaging-outlined presence of cerebral lesions, or brain atrophy. Our findings indicate that EPs and MRI are sensitive techniques for the evaluation of brain involvement in WD. 
Neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis. Human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever, headache, myalgias, anorexia, and occasionally rash. In our patient, changes in mental status, upper motor neuron signs, cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system. Intraleukocytic inclusions, although observed in our case, have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis. 
Early development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias and response fluctuations in young-onset Parkinson's disease. We evaluated whether patients with young-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) (onset between 21 and 40 years) develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor response fluctuations more frequently and earlier than patients with older-onset PD (onset after 40 years) by determining the period from levodopa introduction to development of dyskinesias or fluctuations in 25 young-onset (mean age at onset, 33.54 years) and in 25 matched older-onset PD patients (mean age at onset, 55.76 years). Young-onset PD patients had significantly higher frequency for both dyskinesias and fluctuations after both 3 and 5 years of levodopa. Young-onset PD patients also developed both levodopa-induced dyskinesias and fluctuations earlier than older-onset PD patients. We suggest that the introduction of levodopa therapy in patients with young onset PD should be postponed as long as possible. 
Atelectasis affects the rate of arterial desaturation during obstructive apnea. Chronic hemodynamic disturbances are more profound in patients with obstructive sleep apnea when underlying lung disease with abnormal gas exchange (low arterial PO2) is present. Previous studies suggest that pulmonary gas exchange could influence the rate of fall of arterial oxygen saturation (dSaO2/dt) in obstructive sleep apnea. We postulated that abnormal gas exchange in the form of atelectasis would steepen dSaO2/dt and thereby lower nadir arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation (SaO2) for the same duration of apnea. Apneas were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end expiration in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons. Apneas of the same duration were then repeated during temporary endobronchial occlusion of one lobe of the lung. SaO2 and mixed venous O2 saturation were continuously monitored, and cardiac output was calculated. Worsening of pulmonary gas exchange during atelectasis was documented by an increase in calculated venous admixture from 10.5 +/- 0.8 to 25.0 +/- 0.7% (P less than 0.001). The dSaO2/dt was independent of apnea duration at 30, 45, and 60 s. During endobronchial occlusion, apnea dSaO2/dt increased 20%, and nadir SaO2 was significantly lower. Possible mechanisms for steepening of dSaO2/dt during atelectasis are discussed. 
Retrovirus-induced spongiform myeloencephalopathy in mice: regional distribution of infected target cells and neuronal loss occurring in the absence of viral expression in neurons. The Cas-Br-E murine leukemia virus (MuLV) induces a spongiform myeloencephalopathy resulting in a progressive hindlimb paralysis. We have used in situ hybridization with a Cas-Br-E MuLV-specific probe to study viral expression in the central nervous system. Infected cells were concentrated in regions where spongiform lesions and gliosis are detected (lumbosacral spinal cord, brainstem, deep cerebellar regions), suggesting a causative link between the level of virus expression and the degree of pathological changes in this disease. However, viral expression was not in itself sufficient to cause disease, since significant viral expression was observed in regions that did not exhibit pathological changes (cerebellar cortex, hippocampus, corpus callosum, peripheral nervous system). In both diseased and nondiseased regions, endothelial and glial cells were identified as the main target cells. Neurons in diseased regions did not show viral expression. The regional distribution of the spongiform changes appears to be laid down very early following infection, since expression could be detected at 10 days postinfection in regions that become diseased. These results indicate that nonneuronal cells have distinct properties in various regions of the central nervous system and suggest an indirect mechanism of neuronal loss consequent to viral expression in nonneuronal cells. 
Diabetic amyotrophy without pain. A puzzling clinical picture. A patient with weight loss and weakness presents a diagnostic challenge. Drs Moeser and Kent describe an unusual case of diabetic amyotrophy that required extensive workup to arrive at the diagnosis and rule out more serious disease. Symptoms were dramatic, and recovery was spontaneous following conservative treatment. 
Multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy: possible similar genetic susceptibility. We have studied 2 patients with multiple sclerosis and narcolepsy. In both patients, the DR 2 histocompatibility antigen was positive. In each of the patients, the diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by polygraphic testing. 
Quantitative evaluation of sway as an indicator of functional balance in post-traumatic brain injury. The test of sway, using different conditions of stance with measurements of the average radial deviation of the center of pressure and its path length of sway per unit of time, has been shown to be a useful clinical tool in determining balance problems in traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients. Normative values were established to determine if an individual patient's sway values fell within the normal range (mean +/- 2SD). The tests have shown good test-retest reliability for TBI patients. In addition, it has been shown that the sensitivity of the test is sufficient to identify changes in patients' performances as their clinical conditions change. It has been demonstrated that the different stance conditions of the battery of tests become progressively more difficult to perform (from comfortable stance, eyes open and eyes closed, through narrow stance, eyes open and eyes closed, to tandem stance with right or left foot forward, eyes open and eyes closed). By using these subtests, it is easy to distinguish between the performances of able-bodied patients and TBI patients with very mild balance problems. The validity of the measure has been documented by correlating the sway performance with clinical functional performance tests. The test performance also correlates with the patient's own assessment of his or her gait difficulties. The limited data available suggest that the test of sway relates difficulties in static balance to the frequency of falls. Finally, subtests permit identification of specific problems in maintaining balance as a basis for therapeutic intervention. 
Neglected factors in chronic pain treatment outcome studies--referral patterns, failure to enter treatment, and attrition. An increasing number of chronic pain treatment outcome studies have appeared in the literature. In general, these studies support the efficacy of multidisciplinary pain programs, as well as specific treatment modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation. Reviews of this literature have tended to be cautiously optimistic. Some concerns, however, have been raised about the methodological adequacy of these studies, particularly in terms of the lack of control groups, the brief duration of follow-up periods, and the vague criteria used for establishing the success of the therapeutic interventions. Other factors that mitigate conclusions regarding the generalizability of the favorable results reported need to be considered. In this paper 3 rarely discussed topics that are implicit within most treatment outcome studies and that need to be given greater attention are examined. These topics include: (1) referral patterns to pain clinics (who are referred to pain clinics, when, and how representative is the referred sample?); (2) failure to enter treatment (e.g., exclusion criteria, lack of available financial support to cover the cost of treatment, patient's refusal to accept recommendations), and consequently, the representativeness of the treated sample; and (3) patient's attrition. In this paper we discuss each of these factors as they underscore important qualifications that have to be made in evaluating treatment outcome studies. 
Neurologic and psychiatric manifestations of HIV disease. Neuropsychiatric problems have assumed an increasingly prominent role in HIV-infected individuals. Disease occurs at all levels of the central and peripheral nervous systems by a variety of mechanisms. The AIDS dementia complex is the prototypical example of "direct" effects of HIV on the neuraxis, while infections such as toxoplasmosis and cryptococcal meningitis are complications of HIV-induced immunosuppression. Neurologic manifestations vary in frequency depending upon the overall stage of HIV disease; diagnostic difficulties may be encountered because of HIV's effect on cerebrospinal fluid parameters. The uncertainties of management of neurosyphilis in this setting provide and example of these problems. As is the case with other organ systems, the main goal of neurodiagnostic efforts is to find the increasing number of treatable components of neuropsychiatric dysfunction. 
Neurotoxic action of veratridine in rat brain neuronal cultures: mechanism of neuroprotection by Ca++ antagonists nonselective for slow Ca++ channels. The effect of various Ca++ antagonists and local anesthetics on neuronal cell degeneration induced by veratridine was studied in primary rat brain neuronal cultures. Cell death was quantified by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) released in the culture medium. The neuronal cell degeneration was Ca+(+)-dependent because, in the absence of extracellular Ca++, 16 hr of exposure to 30 microM veratridine failed to produce release of LDH. Ca++ antagonists, nonselective for slow Ca++ channels (flunarizine, cinnarizine, lidoflazine, prenylamine and bepridil) inhibited veratridine-induced release of LDH with IC50 values between 0.11 and 0.47 microM. Ca++ antagonists selective for slow Ca++ channels were less potent and inhibited veratridine-induced release of LDH at concentrations in the following order of potency: nicardipine greater than gallopamil and verapamil greater than niludipine greater than nitrendipine greater than nifedipine greater than nimodipine greater than diltiazem. Tested local anesthetics were incomplete inhibitors of veratridine-induced release of LDH. A good correlation was found between the potency of the drugs to inhibit released LDH induced by 30 microM veratridine in neuronal cultures and their binding affinity for the batrachotoxin binding site of Na+ channels in rat cortex synaptosomal preparation. It is concluded that protection against veratridine-induced neurotoxicity can be mediated by blocking a veratridine-sensitive Na+ channel. It is a property of certain nonselective Ca++ antagonists. There is apparently no direct relationship with Ca++ antagonistic activity. The effect is unrelated to local anesthetic activity. 
Dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in cerebrospinal fluid of idiopathic torsion dystonia. Since a postmortem biochemical study and a genetic linkage study of idiopathic torsion dystonia suggested possible involvement of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), we determined CSF DBH activities of Jewish and non-Jewish patients with childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonia and found no differences from a control population. 
Neuro-ophthalmic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection. Both the afferent visual pathways and ocular motor system may be affected by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Coexisting infections and neoplastic processes in the eye and brain create a diagnostic challenge for the clinician. This article discusses neuroophthalmic manifestations associated with HIV and AIDS, with emphasis on clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment. 
The induction dose of propofol in infants 1-6 months of age and in children 10-16 years of age. The propofol dose needed for satisfactory induction of anesthesia was determined in 22 infants 1-6 months of age and 22 children 10-16 yr of age. A single bolus of propofol was given over 10 s. Thirty seconds after injection the lid reflex was tested and the anesthesia mask was applied. The patient was considered to be asleep if there were no gross movements during the next 30 s while the patient breathed O2. The dose required for satisfactory induction in 50% of patients (ED50) (+/- SE) was 3.0 +/- 0.2 mg/kg in infants and 2.4 +/- 0.1 mg/kg in older children (P less than 0.02). Pain on injection occurred in 50% of the infants and 18% of the children. 
Post-traumatic intracerebral pneumatocele: case report. Pneumocephalus occurs in 0.5 to 1.0% of head trauma, but may also occur after neurologic surgery, or as a result of eroding infection or neoplasm. The pathophysiology involves the presence of craniodural fistula allowing ingress of air. A ball-valve mechanism may allow air to enter but not exit the cranium, or CSF leak permits air entrance as fluid leaves the intracranial space. While a "succession splash" is considered diagnostic of pneumocephalus, most patients have nonspecific signs and symptoms such as headache. Therefore, a high index of suspicion in a patient with recent head trauma is necessary. The diagnosis is made radiographically by CT scan. This is generally performed to rule out intracranial hematoma or cerebral contusion in head trauma, but will reveal even very small quantities of air to the unsuspecting physician. Therapy is often noninvasive, allowing the craniodural defect to heal spontaneously. Selected situations require immediate operative repair of the fistula. 
Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis presenting as infertility. Case report. The authors report a nulliparous patient presenting with infertility and hyperprolactinemia. She underwent transsphenoidal surgery after radiological investigation disclosed an enlarged pituitary gland which did not respond to bromocriptine therapy. The removed tissue had histological features consistent with adenohypophysitis including a diffuse lymphocytic infiltrate. The lymphocyte subsets present in the infiltrate were characterized by immunohistochemical methods to establish the contribution of different elements of the cellular immune response. Lymphocytes bearing CD4 antigen (helper-inducer cells) were most prominent and appeared to bear the majority of the interleukin-2 receptor (expressed during lymphocytic activation) present in the pituitary gland. A few B lymphocytes were also observed. The location of the major histocompatibility antigen (classes I and II) and interleukin-2 receptor correlated with the lymphocytes and macrophages rather than with the stromal or parenchymal elements of the pituitary. Lymphocytic adenohypophysitis is an unusual cause of pituitary enlargement which can mimic a pituitary tumor, and is sometimes associated with hyperprolactinemia. In women of child-bearing age, it almost always occurs during pregnancy or the postpartum stage. The autoimmune disorder reported here has not previously been associated with infertility nor has the lymphocytic infiltrate of the pituitary previously been analyzed in detail by modern immunological methods. 
The neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders. Care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery. If the clinical picture cannot logically be explained by the radiologic findings, further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder. Investigations may include electrophysiologic tests, transcranial magnetic stimulation, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined. 
Levels of the human hepatocyte growth factor in serum of patients with various liver diseases determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We have found a hepatotrophic factor in plasma or sera of patients with fulminant hepatic failure and have purified human hepatocyte growth factor from plasma of these patients. In this study we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with high specificity and sensitivity for human hepatocyte growth factor in human serum. This assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor is a sandwich method consisting of three steps. The standard curve for human hepatocyte growth factor appeared to be linear in the range of 0.20 to 12.50 ng purified human hepatocyte growth factor/ml (2.35 to 147 pmol/L). The assay took about 4 hr. Serum human hepatocyte growth factor values in patients with fulminant hepatic failure measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a strong positive correlation with that by bioassay using rat hepatocytes in primary culture. The mean value of serum human hepatocyte growth factor for 30 normal subjects was 0.24 +/- 0.12 (S.D.) ng/ml; that for 23 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was 8.06 +/- 1.76 (S.E.M.) ng/ml- greater than 30 times greater than the mean value for normal subjects. Serum human hepatocyte growth factor levels in patients with acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be slightly higher than those in normal subjects, but only the increase in serum human hepatocyte growth factor of acute hepatitis patients was statistically significant. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor should prove useful for serum human hepatocyte growth factor level measurement in patients with various liver diseases. 
Auditory hallucinations and smaller superior temporal gyral volume in schizophrenia. Recent neuropathologic investigations in schizophrenia report smaller volume of medial temporal lobe structures. These findings are confirmed by preliminary magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Direct stimulation of lateral temporal lobe structures in the region of the superior temporal gyrus provokes hallucinations. The authors' MRI study of young schizophrenic patients demonstrates smaller volume of the superior temporal gyrus (an auditory association area) and of the left amygdala. Smaller size of the left superior temporal gyrus and left amygdala is not accounted for by smaller size of the overall brain or temporal lobe. Shrinkage of the left superior temporal gyrus is strongly and selectively correlated with severity of auditory hallucinations. 
Urologic function after experimental cauda equina compression. Cystometrograms versus cortical-evoked potentials. Twenty female beagle dogs underwent an L6-7 laminectomy and six dogs each had 25, 50 or 75% constriction of the cauda equina and 2 control dogs had laminectomy only. Cystometrograms were performed pre- and post-operatively and three months after constriction. Cortical evoked potentials were monitored pre- and post-operatively and monthly for three months. After three months of constriction, the cauda equina of these dogs in each group was examined histologically and vascular circulation was examined by latex and India ink injection (Spalteholz technique). The control dogs had normal CMGs and CEPs. Twenty-five percent constriction caused no CMG changes and mild CEP changes. Fifty percent constriction caused no statistically significant CMG changes, major CEP changes and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. Seventy-five percent constriction produced severe CMG changes with detrusor areflexia, increased bladder capacity and clinical incontinence. CEPs also had marked deterioration. Vascular analysis revealed severe arterial narrowing at the level of constriction and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia. Blockage of axoplasmic flow and nerve root atrophy was seen in all dogs with 75% constriction. Cortical evoked potentials were the most sensitive predictor of neural compression. CMGs were not sensitive until severe compression was achieved. Bladder dysfunction, i.e., detrusor areflexia, appears to occur with blockage of axoplasmic flow and early sensory changes occur with neurovenous congestion. 
Magnetic motor-evoked potentials in epilepsy: effects of the disease and of anticonvulsant medication. Magnetic motor-evoked potentials were recorded in 53 patients with medically intractable, mainly temporal lobe epilepsy and compared with potentials of 110 healthy volunteers. The motor-evoked potentials were reevaluated in 16 of the 53 patients after substantial reduction of antiepileptic drug doses. The objective was to assess the effect of epilepsy and of anticonvulsant medication on the central motor system. In subjects receiving antiepileptic treatment, cortical threshold intensities were markedly elevated and peripheral latencies were prolonged. Cortical threshold intensities and peripheral latencies decreased to approach control values after anticonvulsant medication was reduced but were increased in patients treated with 2 or 3 anticonvulsant agents instead of 1. Additionally, high levels of interictal epileptiform activity and a high frequency of seizures significantly decreased the central motor conduction time and, in part, threshold intensities. The central motor conduction time was further diminished after reduction of anticonvulsant treatment and increased when several drugs were administered. The duration of epilepsy, the location of the epileptic focus, and the type of the epileptic seizure did not affect motor-evoked potentials. Conclusively, central motor pathways are endogenously facilitated by epileptiform activity even if clinical signs of their involvement are absent. Anticonvulsant medication exerts major reversible effects on magnetic motor-evoked potentials. 
OKT3 encephalopathy. OKT3 therapy for induction immunosuppression in a patient who underwent renal transplantation produced obtundation and quadriparesis associated with computed tomographic scan evidence of brain edema. These findings resolved over 3 days with supportive therapy and OKT3 withdrawal. 
Cervicocephalic kinesthetic sensibility in patients with cervical pain. Head orientation in space makes use of multiple sensory afferents, among which the cervical proprioceptive cues could play a predominant role. To quantify the alteration of neck proprioception in patients with cervical pathology, we proposed a test for the clinical evaluation of the ability to relocate the head on the trunk after an active head movement, for 30 healthy subjects and 30 patients with cervical pain. The data demonstrated that this ability was significantly poorer in the patient group, indicating an alteration in neck proprioception. This test permits a discriminant classification of healthy and sick subjects, justifies proprioceptive rehabilitation programs, and allows a quantitative evaluation of their results. 
Interactions between substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, taurine and excitatory amino acids in the spinal cord. Using in vivo microdialysis in the dorsal spinal cord of the rat, we have previously observed increases in glutamate and aspartate during exposure to a noxious stimulus. The present investigation was designed to determine whether these increases may be mediated by substance P. Infusion of 1 mM of substance P in the dialysis fluid increased the concentrations of glutamate and aspartate, similar to the response seen during noxious stimulation. In addition, substance P also increased the concentrations of the inhibitory amino acids glycine and taurine. Calcitonin gene-related peptide, previously shown to enhance substance P-induced biting and scratching behavior, produced no effect on amino acid release by itself but potentiated the apparent release of taurine by substance P. To assess the importance of substance P-induced amino acid release in sensory processing, we examined the influence of taurine and of excitatory amino acid antagonists on the biting and scratching behavior produced by excitatory amino acids and substance P. Taurine selectively inhibited only substance P-induced biting and scratching while excitatory amino acid antagonists inhibited only excitatory amino acid-induced behavior. To further explore the ability of taurine to inhibit the substance P-induced behavior, 3 tests of nociception were then used. Pretreatment with taurine inhibited the nociceptive-related writhing behavior produced by an intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid in mice but failed to alter the latency of response in the hot plate or tail flick assay. 
Effect of epilepsy and sleep deprivation on the rate of benign epileptiform transients of sleep. Seventy-eight individuals with EEG records containing benign epileptiform transients of sleep (BETS) were identified among 7,400 records reviewed in our laboratory in a 6-year period. The records contained no other abnormality in 51 patients (65%). Genuine epileptiform discharges were found in the records of 19 patients; 14 had a history of epilepsy. Thirty-five patients (45%) had a proven history of epilepsy with antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy. In the records of these patients, the mean number of BETS per unit of time was significantly higher (11.88 +/- 2) than in the record of the rest of the laboratory population with BETS (6.89 +/- 0.9) (p less than 0.02). Among five conventional surface montages, ipsilateral ear referential montage (IERM) showed a significantly higher number of BETS per unit of time than did any other surface montage used in the study. Thirty-nine records (50%) were performed after sleep deprivation (SD). When only IERM was considered, SD records showed a significantly higher number of BETS per unit of time (7.36 +/- 1.1) than did non-SD records (3.89 +/- 0.69) (p less than 0.01). Our findings support the general consensus that individual BETS may be normal variants, but a high occurrence of BETS in the record should raise suspicion of underlying epilepsy. 
Progression of diabetic autonomic neuropathy over a decade in insulin-dependent diabetics. The prognosis for diabetics with autonomic neuropathy is little known. We therefore studied the progress of young insulin-dependent diabetics, first identified as having abnormal autonomic function 10-15 years ago. We have shown that the mortality of diabetics with symptomatic autonomic neuropathy is increased, but is less than previously reported. Mortality in asymptomatic diabetics with an isolated abnormality in autonomic function tests is not increased. The heart rate variability declines at 1.02 +/- 0.47 (SD) per annum in diabetics with an initially normal heart rate variability. While symptoms of autonomic neuropathy do not usually remit even over a decade, they do not commonly progress. Three groups of young insulin-dependent diabetics had heart rate variability tested between 1972 and 1977 and have been reviewed 10-15 years later. Group A (n = 49) had symptomatic autonomic neuropathy and an abnormal heart rate variability (less than 12), Group B (n = 24) were asymptomatic yet had an abnormal heart rate variability and Group C (n = 38) were asymptomatic and had a normal heart rate variability (16-26). The 10-year survival in Group A (73.4 per cent) was less (P less than 0.05) than in Groups B (91.7 per cent) or C (89.5 per cent) which did not differ from each other. The 18 Group A deaths were due predominantly to renal failure (n = 4), myocardial infarction in patients with nephropathy (n = 3) and sudden unexpected death (n = 3). The chief symptoms of autonomic neuropathy--diarrhoea, postural hypotension and gustatory sweating, were very persistent but did not necessarily deteriorate or become disabling in the majority of patients. The development of autonomic symptoms in asymptomatic patients with abnormal heart rate variability was uncommon over a decade. 
Gadolinium-MRI in acute transverse myelopathy. A patient with acute transverse myelopathy (ATM) had serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies before and after administration of gadolinium (Gd-DTPA). Gd-DTPA-MRI was useful in estimating the pathologic extent and residual deficit expected in ATM. 
Single unit analysis of the human ventral thalamic nuclear group. Activity correlated with movement. During neurosurgical operations for the relief of movement disorders, single thalamic neurons (n = 107) were identified with activity which was related to verbally cued active movements (movement-related cells). The activity of each neuron was examined during different contralateral movements in order to determine the movement which was associated with the most consistent and pronounced change in firing rate (the optimal response). The optimal response was determined by analysis of histograms of neuronal activity which were constructed by using the onset of EMG activity to synchronize successive repetitions of the active movement. Movement-related cells exhibited optimal responses associated with such movements as making a fist, extension or flexion of the wrist, flexing or extending the elbow, pointing with the entire upper extremity, extending the tongue and lifting the leg. Most movement-related cells recorded in a single parasagittal plane in an individual patient had optimal responses related to movements involving the same part of the body. Movement-related cells were classified into those that were activated in response to somatosensory stimulation (combined cells, n = 20) and those which were not (voluntary cells, n = 87). Combined cells were activated in advance of EMG activity during active movement and so could be distinguished from cells responding only to sensory stimulation (sensory cells). Movement-related cells (combined and voluntary cell types) were located anterior to sensory cells and tended to show a mediolateral somatotopic organization parallel to that of sensory cells with cutaneous receptive fields. Combined cells responded to somatosensory stimulation of the same part of the body as that involved in the active movement related to the optimal response of the cell. Combined cells responding to passive movements of a joint always had their optimal response during active movement about the same joint. The activity of combined cells during parkinsonian tremor may clarify the role of sensory feedback in tremor. 
Aids for visual impairment. This article provides only a flavour of the type and range of aids available to the visually impaired person. Many other aids for leisure, learning, and daily living are illustrated in the RNIB equipment and games catalogue. 
Pharmacologic treatment of noncognitive behavioral disturbances in elderly demented patients. Fifty-nine elderly residents of long-term care facilities who had DSM-III diagnoses of dementia were studied in an 8-week randomized, double-blind comparison trial of haloperidol, oxazepam, and diphenhydramine to test the efficacy of these agents in the treatment of clinically significant behavioral disturbances in patients with dementia. All three agents demonstrated modest but significant efficacy as measured by clinician ratings of agitated behavior and activities of daily living. The absolute magnitude of improvement was greater for haloperidol and diphenhydramine than for oxazepam, but differences among groups did not approach statistical significance. Frequencies of acute adverse events during the trial were similar across the drug treatment groups. Although these drugs may differ in terms of long-term safety and efficacy, they appear to be equivalent for short-term management of agitated behavior in severely demented patients. 
Sensory visual testing in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: measures sensitive to change. Management decisions in idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH; pseudotumor cerebri) are based on the presence and change of visual loss. To study this change, we evaluated tests of sensory visual function over time. We used the results of the right eye of 19 patients whose clinical status improved (decrease in papilledema grade), and compared the outcome measures of the initial and final examinations. Contrast sensitivity testing showed significant improvement in the middle and high spatial frequency targets. Snellen acuity and color tests did not change significantly over the same period. Both Goldmann and automated visual field grade significantly improved from the initial to the final visit, while the presence of a defect on confrontation visual fields did not. Numerical analyses of automated perimetry thresholds also showed significant improvement. Generalized loss, most pronounced on the nasal side of the visual field, was present on the initial examination. Generalized improvement followed, least in the central and inferior paracentral areas. Patients with IIH should be followed with contrast sensitivity testing and perimetry using a disease-specific strategy. 
Neonatal monosodium glutamate abolishes corticotropin-releasing factor-induced epileptogenic activity in rats. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of rat corticotropin-releasing factor (rCRF) at doses of 5-20 micrograms in rats induces epileptogenic activity characterized by pacemaker-like spikes localized in the hippocampal leads. Such an effect was still present in rats neonatally treated with saline but was absent in those neonatally treated with monosodium glutamate (MSG), a treatment that caused marked changes in the concentration of several brain neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in hypothalamic nuclei where CRF is highly concentrated and is believed to induce endocrinologic and behavioral effects. The present results suggest the rCRF-induced spiking activity is mediated by activation of neuronal pathways sensitive to MSG neurotoxic effect. 
Febrile status epilepticus As part of a study of status epilepticus in children (Maytal J, Shinnar S, Moshe SL, Alvarez LA. Pediatrics. 1989; 83:323-331); 44 children with febrile convulsions lasting more than 30 minutes were followed for a mean of 28 months (range 4 to 72). Thirty children were followed prospectively. Children with prior afebrile seizures or evidence of acute central nervous system infection were excluded. Nine (20%) children had prior neurological deficits. The duration of the febrile seizure was 0.5 to 1 hour in 41 cases (85%), 1 to 2 hours in 5 (10%), and greater than 2 hours in 2 children (5%). No child died or developed new neurological deficits following the seizures. The risk of recurrent seizures was increased, but only in the group with prior neurological abnormality. Six (66%) of these children had subsequent febrile seizures compared with 12 (34%) of the normal children (P = .08). Three (33%) had recurrent febrile status epilepticus compared with only 1 (3%) normal child (P = .023). The 2 children in the prospective arm of the study with recurrent febrile status epilepticus were both neurologically abnormal (P = .035). All 3 of the children who subsequently had afebrile seizures (2 prospective) were neurologically abnormal (P = .006 overall, P = .035 for prospective only). It is concluded that the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in a neurologically impaired child is a risk factor for subsequent febrile as well as afebrile seizures. The occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in an otherwise normal child does not significantly increase the risk for subsequent febrile (brief or prolonged) or afebrile seizures in the first few years following the episode. 
The community hospital-based stroke programs in North Carolina, Oregon and New York--V. Stroke diagnosis: factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke. Among the 4129 patients of the Community Hospital-based Stroke Program, 30% had an unspecified stroke diagnosis. Since specific diagnosis and, perhaps, eventual treatment, derives in part from diagnostic testing, we examined the effect of clinical condition, geographic and demographic factors on the incidence of certain diagnostic tests after acute stroke. In this multivariable analysis, race, sex, history of hypertension and history of diabetes did not influence the chance of having any test, but older age strongly reduced the chances of receiving extensive evaluation. When CT scanning was available, the utilization of a CT as well as other diagnostic studies including cerebral angiography, radionuclide brain scan, EEG and EKG was increased. The odds of receiving a CT scan increased if the patient was married, and decreased with a history of previous stroke. A history of previous TIA increased the chance of having a cerebral angiogram while a history of cardiac disease decreased the chance. There were striking regional geographic differences in the use of CT, radionuclide brain scanning and cerebral angiography which may, in part, reflect differences between the availability of these technologies in urban and rural hospitals. These results indicate that evaluation of stroke patients remains heterogenous. 
Low-level lead exposure in the prenatal and early preschool periods: language development. Inconsistent results continue to be reported from studies linking low-level lead exposure and child development. This inconsistency is seen for both prenatal exposure and exposure in the preschool years. The primary outcome measures in most reports are indices of cognitive development, including IQ. Verbal skills may be particularly vulnerable to toxic insult. The fact that 2 y of age is both a time of peak exposure and also a time of rapid language development suggests that this may be a critical period for such an effect. The later prenatal and early infancy period, at which time the nervous system is developing rapidly, may also be critical exposure period. We examined the relationship of maternal and cord blood lead (PbB) at birth and venous PbB at 6 mo, 2 y, and 3 y with language measures at 1, 2, and 3 y of age. The sample consisted of disadvantaged urban children. Multivariate analyses revealed no statistically significant relationship of either prenatal PbB or early preschool PbB with language measures after control of cofactors. Supplementary partial correlations revealed a marginal relationship of cord PbB and mean length of utterance (MLU), which describes a child's ability to form meaningful word combinations. Because this analysis was one of a large number of analyses with both positive and negative regression coefficients, the possibility that this was a chance effect was considered. If there is an effect of low-level lead exposure on language development, that effect is not robust. 
Safety, stability, and effectiveness of immunoadsorption under membrane plasmapheresis treatment for myasthenia gravis. Nine patients (five women and four men, average age 50.4 years) with refractory myasthenia gravis (MG) underwent thymectomy and were then treated with immunoadsorption under membrane plasmaphersis (IAP). Thymic histology showed hyperplasia in nine patients. An immunoadsorption column (ASAHI, Med, Co) was made with tryptophan. A Plasouto 1,000 (ASAHI, Med, Co) was used as the machine. The plasma separator was a first filter (ASAHI, Med, Co), and immunoadsorption columns were used for plasma perfusion. IAP treatment was performed three times weekly for a total of six times, after which IAP was done every 3 weeks. The removal rate of anti-Ach-R titer was 54 +/- 12%; IgG, IgA, and IgM levels improved in nine of nine patients after IAP treatment, and improvement of gait disturbances were seen in two of two. Muscle strength improved in all nine patients, whereas speech disturbances improved in two of three. Eye ptosis improved in nine of nine patients. Subjective improvement was reported by nine of nine patients, and none had severe side effects with IAP. In conclusion, IAP is a safe, stable, effective, and clinically useful treatment. for MG. 
Carbamazepine-induced antinuclear antibodies and systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome. A 20-year-old woman developed a systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)-like syndrome and a positive antinuclear antibody (ANA) soon after initiation of carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy. Symptoms and serology became normal after CBZ was discontinued. CBZ-induced SLE is an important but underecognized phenomenon. 
Outpatient sedation: an essential addition to gynecologic care for persons with mental retardation. Routine gynecologic care for persons with mental retardation may be difficult to provide, especially to those women who do not allow a pelvic examination to be performed. Of 275 women referred to a multidisciplinary clinic addressing the reproductive health concerns of mentally retarded women, 61 patients (22%) did not allow a gynecologic examination to be performed. The administration of ketamine alone, midazolam alone, or a combination of midazolam and ketamine allowed for the successful performance of a gynecologic examination in 81% of previously uncooperative women. No adverse effects of the medications were noted. We conclude that sedation of difficult-to-examine, mentally handicapped women can be safely performed in the outpatient setting, thus avoiding the need for general anesthesia and its inherent risks. 
Randomized comparison of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in Lyme neuroborreliosis. In this prospective, randomized, open trial, 33 patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis were assigned to a 10-day treatment with either ceftriaxone, 2 g intravenously (iv) every 24 h (n = 17), or cefotaxime, 2 g iv every 8 h (n = 16). Of the 33 patients, 30 were eligible for analysis of therapeutic efficacy. Neurologic symptoms improved or even subsided in 14 patients of the cefotaxime group and in 12 patients of the ceftriaxone group during the treatment period. At follow-up examinations after a mean of 8.1 months, 17 of 27 patients examined were clinically asymptomatic. In one patient Borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 7.5 months after ceftriaxone therapy. CSF antibiotic concentrations were above the MIC 90 level for B. burgdorferi in nearly all patients examined. Patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis may benefit from a 10-day treatment with ceftriaxone or cefotaxime. However, as 10 patients were symptomatic at follow-up and borreliae persisted in the CSF of one patient, a prolongation of therapy may be necessary. 
Cytosolic free calcium during focal cerebral ischemia and the effects of nimodipine on calcium and histologic damage. The role of calcium as a mediator in neuronal death during ischemia is now quite strong. Evidence supporting this link includes studies in cell cultures and measurements of calcium accumulation in the mitochondria during ischemia, as well as direct measurements of shifts in extracellular calcium using microelectrodes. Since it is dangerously high concentrations of the intracellular free calcium that have been hypothesized to lead to neuronal damage, direct in vivo measurements of this parameter in ischemia are important. A technique for the measurement of intracellular free calcium is described, along with data from studies that dramatically demonstrate the time course of changes in intracellular free calcium induced by focal ischemia. Additional data are also presented that indicate that cellular damage can be attenuated by the use of agents that block calcium channels (nimodipine, which blocks voltage-sensitive calcium channels, and MK-801, which blocks receptor-operated channels) and support the concept that these agents owe their beneficial effects to their ability to reduce the accumulation of intracellular calcium. 
Syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of the resection of a chordoma of the clivus: case report. Syringomyelia has been described frequently in association with various abnormalities of the skull base but rarely with tumors of the skull base. Syringomyelia as a postoperative sequela of surgery of the skull base has not been reported. The authors describe a case of cervical syringomyelia developing after the partial resection of a chordoma and combined conventional and proton beam irradiation. The possible mechanisms causing this abnormality are discussed. 
A single cholesterol measurement underestimates the risk of coronary heart disease. An empirical example from the Lipid Research Clinics Mortality Follow-up Study. In prospective epidemiologic studies of coronary heart disease, a single measurement of cholesterol is made to assess its relationship to the risk of coronary disease. Statistical theory states that if this measurement is subject to within-individual variability, the strength of the relationship will be underestimated. This is empirically shown for the example of plasma cholesterol. For the Lipid Research Clinics Follow-up Study population (comprising 2170 white men over 30 years of age), the age-adjusted coronary heart disease mortality regression coefficient increases from .453 to .496 if the average of two cholesterol measurements is used instead of a single measurement. Since the correlation between the two repeated cholesterol measurements is .815, an increase in the regression coefficient up to .556 would be expected if the true cholesterol values were available. Thus, epidemiologic studies have substantially underestimated the strength of the relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary disease by calculating the relationship on the basis of a single cholesterol determination. 
Delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine. Forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined. Follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years. Postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5% of patients with incomplete injuries. If the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury, neurologic improvement occurred in 68% with an improvement in Frankel grade of 32%. Bladder function improved in 27% of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43%. Conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50% improvement. There was an 83% improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression. Of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity, 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery. 
Embolic stroke after smoking "crack" cocaine. A 39-year-old woman had an embolic upper division middle cerebral artery branch occlusion 3 hours after smoking the free base of cocaine ("crack"). Radionuclide ventriculography demonstrated cardiomyopathy, and echocardiography documented a left atrial thrombus. This case demonstrates that embolism is one mechanism of ischemic stroke after cocaine use, and that cardiomyopathy, possibly cocaine induced, may be the source of embolus. A cardiac source of embolus should be sought in patients with cocaine-associated cerebral infarction. 
Fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia. Fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia, so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients. Although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age, from 5 weeks to 40 years, gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95% of patients by cineradiography or pH monitoring. Panendoscopy was a useful adjunct. Preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting, respiratory infections, and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction. Severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration, dependence on gavage feedings, or poor weight gain and dehydration. Follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years; 55 patients (85%) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment. We had no instances of surgical death. The long-term mortality rate was 14%, primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease. Beyond the first postoperative year, 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration, exacerbation of preexisting lung disease, or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux. Of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively, six had recurrence of reflux. Recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients (12%), and we revised the fundoplication in three patients. The number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients, neither of whom had recurrence of reflux. Because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent, concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia, before the development of severe respiratory disease. Despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients, the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status, decreased vomiting, and decreased respiratory problems. Appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation. The generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia. 
Trends in systolic blood pressure, 24-hour sodium excretion, and stroke mortality in the elderly in Belgium. Data from six surveys of systolic blood pressure conducted in Belgium between 1967 and 1986 were analyzed. The mean ages of the six groups of 3,328 subjects ranged from 70 to 81 years. The prevalence of systolic blood pressure levels above 159 mm Hg decreased between 1967 and 1986 from 51% to 21% in men and 66% to 22% in women; severe hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 220 mm Hg) nearly disappeared. During the same period, body mass index increased 1.1 kg/m2 in men and was unchanged in women; mean systolic blood pressure decreased from 159 to 142 mm Hg in men and from 171 to 147 mm Hg in women; the proportion of subjects receiving treatment for hypertension increased from 10% to 36% in men and from 18% to 41% in women; and the mean standardized 24-hour sodium excretion decreased from 265 to 188 mmol in men and from 208 to 160 mmol in women. Systolic blood pressure levels were significantly and independently related to sodium excretion in the 1967 and 1972 studies. The decrease in systolic blood pressure in Belgium was influenced by the combined effects of more and better treatment for hypertension and a decrease in sodium intake. 
Physical and pharmacologic restraint of nursing home patients with dementia. Impact of specialized units This case-control study of 31 specialized dementia units and 32 traditional units in five states investigated use of physical and pharmacologic restraints among 625 patients with the diagnosis of dementia. Physical restraints were observed in use on 18.1% of dementia unit patients and on 51.6% of comparison unit patients who were out of bed during the day (adjusted odds ratio, 0.283;95% confidence interval, 0.129 to 0.619). Pharmacologic restraints were routinely given to 45.3% of dementia unit patients and 43.4% of comparison unit patients (adjusted odds ratio, 0.950; 95% confidence interval, 0.611 to 1.477). We used multivariate logistic regression to identify residence in a nonspecialized nursing home unit, nonambulatory status, transfer dependency, mental status impairment, hip fracture history, and a high nursing staff-to-patient ratio, which we found to be independent predictors of physical restraint use. Physically abusive behavior, severe mental status impairment, and frequent family visitation were found to be significant predictors of pharmacologic restraint use, while advanced patient age, large nursing home size, and patient nonambulatory status were protective against such use. These results support the conclusion that physical and pharmacologic restraint constitute separate treatment modalities with different risk factors for use, and indicate that specialized dementia units are successful in reducing the use of physical but not pharmacologic restraints. 
Lyme disease: neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations. Lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems. Prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin, heart, joints and nervous system. Many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to Lyme disease, but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae. This review of the contemporary state of knowledge about Lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis. 
Postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery. Cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event. A case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna; its repair is discussed. 
Glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope: long term treatment with permanent pacing and carbamazepine. Glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope developed in a 53 year old man. Symptoms were controlled with temporary and permanent transvenous pacing and carbamazepine. 
Cerebral infarction and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate and the release of thromboxane B2 were studied in 68 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during the second week after the hemorrhage, when delayed ischemic deterioration most often occurs. Follow-up computed tomographic scans were performed later than 1 month after subarachnoid hemorrhage to reveal permanent hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. Occurrence of hypodense lesions on the follow-up computed tomographic scan was significantly associated with the presence of delayed ischemic deterioration (DID) (P less than 0.01). Patients with subcortical or cortical cerebral infarctions due to DID released more platelet thromboxane B2 than those with no evidence of a hypodense lesion on the computed tomographic scan (P less than 0.05). Hypodense areas caused by an intracerebral hematoma or small, deep-seated infarcts due to DID were not associated with significantly elevated release of thromboxane B2, but the lacunar type infarcts were associated with increased aggregation of platelets. The results suggest that augmented platelet function may be involved in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction due to DID. 
Coronary bypass surgery: is the operation different today? Patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years. To document this change, we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 (n = 1586) and 1987 (n = 1513) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass. Between 1981 and 1987, patients were found to be older (greater than or equal to 70 years, 8.7% versus 21.8%, p less than 0.0001), more often diabetic (15% versus 24%, p less than 0.0001), have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease (14.5% versus 46.1%, p less than 0.0001), and have more left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction 0.60 +/- 14 versus 0.54 +/- 13, p less than 0.0001). To facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups, we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987: subgroup I, no prior procedure (n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987); subgroup II, optimal group (n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987, and defined as no prior procedure, ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years); subgroup III, patients having reoperations (n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987). Internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1% in 1987. Major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly: need for intraaortic balloon pumping, 1.4% versus 4.7%, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction 3.5% versus 5.5%, p less than 0.008; stroke, 1.4% versus 2.8%, p less than 0.008; and wound infection, 1.0% versus 3.0%, p less than 0.001. Wound infection (all types) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction (0.7% versus 5%, p less than 0.0001). For young patients with good left ventricular function (subgroup II), there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987. Hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2% to 3.1% (p less than 0.0002), respectively. It was lowest for the patients in optimal condition (subgroup II) in both years, 0.8% versus 1.1%, and highest for reoperative patients, 5.3% versus 4.3%. In 1981, 58% of patients (503/870) were in the optimal group compared with 35% (292/828) in 1987 (p less than 0.0001). The last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older, sicker patients who have more complex disease, with a significant reduction in the best candidate group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection. A review of 77 patients. Through a retrospective review, we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during HIV infection. Patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation: 20 had focal pulmonary disease (Group 1), 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease (Group 2), 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis (Group 3), 9 had meningitis (Group 4), 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement (Group 5), and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection (Group 6). Coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83% of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed. Sera from 39% of patients were positive for TP antibodies while 74% had CF antibodies. Eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease (Group 1 or 2). Serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar, with 26% positive for immunodiffusion TP antibodies and 79% positive for immunodiffusion CF antibodies. For the 77 patients in this study, the CD4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 X 10(9) cells/L in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed, and a low CD4 count was significantly associated with mortality (p less than 0.01). At the time of follow-up, 32 of the 77 patients (42%) had died. There were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease (Group 2) than in other groups (p less than 0.001). Amphotericin B, ketoconazole, fluconazole, and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies. Outcome could not be related to the therapy used. Of note, 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions. 
Onset phase of spinal bupivacaine analgesia assessed quantitatively by laser stimulation. Analgesia was assessed quantitatively at various dermatomes (C7, T8, T10, T12, L1, L3, S1) for the first 30 min after subarachnoid administration of 0.5% bupivacaine 3.5 ml. Stimulation with 10 needles and laser stimulation could evoke pain in dermatomes with adequate analgesia to single needle stimulation. Analgesia was assessed by thresholds (sensory and pain) and by pain-related brain potentials (amplitude and latency) to laser stimulation. Little analgesia was found at T10, but it increased gradually towards caudal segments. The dermatome related to the site of the injection (L3) was not blocked to a greater extent than the surrounding dermatomes. Conduction time (the latency of the evoked brain potential) was increased relatively more from the S1 dermatome compared with L1. 
Clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. OBJECTIVE: To review the clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). DATA SOURCE AND SELECTION: All articles on OSA published in French and English between 1970 and 1990 and indexed in Index Medicus were reviewed. Studies addressing the epidemiologic features and clinical aspects of OSA were selected, and special emphasis was given to articles reporting the effects of treatment on morbidity and mortality rates. MAIN RESULTS: OSA is characterized by episodes of upper airway obstruction during sleep that result in repetitive hypoxemia and sleep disruption. OSA leads to various neuropsychologic and cardiovascular complications, including daytime hypersomnolence, cognitive impairment, systemic and pulmonary hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias. There is suggestive evidence that the death rate among affected people is increased. The true incidence of OSA is unknown, but estimates have varied from 1% upwards among men. The current treatment with the greatest overall effectiveness and acceptability is nasal continuous positive airway pressure. CONCLUSION: This common, readily treatable disorder is associated with serious complications and therefore must be widely recognized by health professionals. 
Causes and consequences of blood pressure alterations in obstructive sleep apnea. The obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome has been considered to be a cause of both transient blood pressure elevations during sleep and sustained hypertension during the awake state. The purpose of this review was to examine critically the existing literature regarding (1) the blood pressure alterations associated with OSA, (2) causal mechanisms relating specific blood pressure alterations to OSA, and (3) potential consequences of the systemic circulatory abnormalities associated with OSA. Particular attention was directed at studies that assessed the prevalence of OSA in patients with hypertension and that examined the effects on blood pressure of treatment of OSA. We conclude that patients with OSA have abnormal sleep blood pressure patterns, manifested most frequently by apnea-associated blood pressure elevations. Confounding factors such as obesity and antihypertensive drug therapy, and conflicting evidence regarding changes in daytime blood pressure after therapy for OSA, make it premature to conclude that OSA and daytime hypertension are directly associated. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the blood pressure alterations that occur during sleep could contribute to the high cardiovascular morbidity in patients with OSA. Further research into the relationship between OSA and hypertension should improve the future care of patients with these conditions and enhance our understanding of cardiopulmonary pathophysiology. 
Impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury. Sixty-four traumatically brain injured patients were divided into three groups. Patients in Group I overestimated their behavioral competencies. Patients in Group II showed behavioral ratings similar to relatives' reports concerning behavioral competencies. Patients in Group III underestimated their behavioral competencies. Group I patients had greater evidence of bilateral and multiple-site lesions than group II and III patients. Speed of left-hand finger tapping was also worse in Group I than groups II and III, but other standard neuropsychologic test findings failed to separate the groups. Specific brain lesion sites were not related to group membership. Impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury may be related to neuropsychologic changes not measured by standard tests. Bilateral impairment of heteromodal cortex may be important to this phenomenon when it exists several months or years postinjury. 
Vasoactive peptide release in the extracerebral circulation of humans during migraine headache. The innervation of the cranial vessels by the trigeminal nerve, the trigeminovascular system, has recently been the subject of study in view of its possible role in the mediation of some aspects of migraine. Since stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion in humans leads to facial pain and flushing and associated release of powerful neuropeptide vasodilator substances, their local release into the extracerebral circulation of humans was determined in patients who had either common or classic migraine. Venous blood was sampled from both the external jugular and cubital fossa ipsilateral to the side of headache. Plasma levels of neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide were determined using sensitive radioimmunoassays for each peptide, and values for the cubital fossa and external jugular and a control population were compared. A substantial elevation of the calcitonin gene-related peptide level in the external jugular but not the cubital fossa blood was seen in both classic and common migraine. The increase seen in classic migraine was greater than that seen with common migraine. The other peptides measured were unaltered. This finding may have importance in the pathophysiology of migraine. 
Steroid anabolic drugs and arterial complications in an athlete--a case history. Serious side effects and complications have been attributed to anabolic and androgenic steroids when used for medical reasons or when taken in sports in hopes of increasing strength and, hence, performance. The author presents a case of an athlete who experienced two metachronous arterial complications after taking these drugs: a cerebrovascular accident caused by a carotid artery thrombus that partially embolized to the brain and, later, a severe ischemic episode in a lower limb caused by a diffused distal arterial thrombosis. This patient represents the first reported case of vascular events in an otherwise healthy athlete taking androgens to increase his skeletal muscle mass. 
MRI, CT, SPECT, PET: their use in diagnosing dementia. The differential diagnosis of the dementia syndrome may pose a difficult clinical problem, since the most common dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), is marked by normal laboratory tests. Neuroimaging has played an important role in evaluating the demented patient, and its uses are growing. Computed tomography (CT) is useful for excluding reversible and treatable causes of dementia, such as subdural hematoma and tumor. More recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved our ability to diagnose vascular disease and may show the presence of cerebral infarcts and white matter disease not visible on CT. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET), techniques that visualize such cerebral functions as glucose metabolism and blood flow, may provide positive evidence supportive of the diagnosis of AD. 
Rediscovering tactile agnosia. Eighty-four patients with damage to various levels of the nervous system, ranging from the peripheral nerves to the cerebral cortex, underwent somesthetic assessment in order to determine the degree to which basic and complex perceptual and motor disorders affect tactile object recognition (TOR) and to determine whether TOR can be impaired in the absence of more basic sensorimotor imperception. The results suggest that (1) basic and intermediate disorders of somesthetic function impair TOR but are commensurately more severe for any given degree of TOR impairment in patients with peripheral lesions than in patients with cortical lesions; (2) neither hemiparesis nor hemianopia alone precludes normal TOR; (3) hemineglect contributes substantially to TOR impairment; (4) impairment of TOR can occur in the absence of more basic somesthetic dysfunction and constitutes tactile agnosia; (5) tactile agnosia is a subtle, nondisabling disorder that should be distinguished from the nonagnosic, severe and disabling disorder, astereognosis; and (6) tactile agnosia results from unilateral damage to parietotemporal cortices, possibly including the second somatosensory cortex, in either hemisphere. 
The association of hydrocephalus with intramedullary spinal cord tumors: a series of 25 patients. 171 patients with intramedullary spinal cord tumors were operated on, of which 25 patients (15%), mostly children, developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. Twenty patients (12%) had malignant tumors, with 13 of the 20 cases (63%) complicated by increased intracranial pressure and ventriculomegaly. Of the remaining 151 patients with benign tumors (89%), only 12 (8%) developed symptomatic hydrocephalus. In an effort to understand the relationship between hydrocephalus and intramedullary spinal cord tumor, the authors analyze the level and histology of the neoplasm, as well as its association with spinal cysts. A review of the neurosurgical literature reveals that 34 similar cases of hydrocephalus associated with intramedullary spinal cord tumors have been reported to date. The authors note that the presence of hydrocephalus in patients with malignant intramedullary astrocytomas is associated with a shorter rate of survival than in those patients with high-grade lesions but without hydrocephalus, apparently due to rapid tumor progression. The ventriculomegaly seen with benign spinal cord gliomas has no statistically significant effect upon long-term prognosis. 
Neuromuscular diseases: evaluation with high-frequency sonography. Forty-four patients with clinically suspected neuromuscular disease and 12 healthy volunteers underwent high-frequency ultrasound examination of the rectus femoris, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and biceps brachii muscles, and the number of perimysial septa was determined. These numbers and muscle/soft-tissue ratios of the lower extremity were compared. Findings were correlated with results of muscle biopsy in all patients with suspected disease. Using the number of perimysial septa in the lower extremity, the authors found significant differences between the muscles of healthy volunteers and those of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophies, other muscular dystrophies, and spinal muscular atrophies: The receiver operating characteristic curve showed that an average of 12 perimysial septa within 1 cm of muscle is the ideal cutoff value to differentiate subjects without morphologic changes from those with pathologic findings. The authors conclude that this measurement is useful for differentiation of neuromuscular diseases and may be a noninvasive, reproducible means with which to evaluate disease progression. 
Semantic deterioration in Alzheimer's: the patterns to expect. Differentiating language changes between the normal aged and those in the early stages of dementia is never simple. Knowing the differences and what to expect can aid in making this diagnosis. 
Definition of the role of contemporary surgical management in cisternal and parenchymatous cysticercosis cerebri. With increasing immigration from endemic regions, the incidence of neurocysticercosis in North America is rising. This retrospective study was undertaken to examine the role of surgery in those cases presenting with large cystic parenchymal and cisternal lesions in the current era of anthelminthic agents administered orally. A total of 237 patients presented with newly diagnosed neurocysticercosis to our institution over a recent 5-year period (mean age, 31.2 years). Among those who presented with cystic mass lesions predominantly affecting the brain parenchyma and cisternal spaces, 20 (8.4%; mean age, 40.2 years) with large cystic lesions subsequently underwent surgical intervention, either because of an emergent presentation or because they were refractory to medical management. Clinical presentation included increased intracranial pressure, focal neurological deficit, and seizure. Radiographic imaging (computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging) demonstrated 12 cases with cisternal lesions, 7 with parenchymal lesions, and 1 involving both compartments. Based on imaging guidelines, 30 operative procedures (excluding shunt revisions) were performed (14 craniotomies, 8 cerebrospinal fluid diversions, 7 stereotactic procedures, and 1 burr hole drainage). Fifteen (75%) showed neurological or symptomatic improvement over a median follow-up period of 36.4 months. There were three surgery-related complications and no deaths. 
Platelet volume, aggregation, and adenosine triphosphate release in cerebral thrombosis. We compared whole blood platelet aggregation, adenosine triphosphate release, platelet count, platelet crit (percentage volume of platelets), and mean platelet volume during the acute, subacute, and chronic periods of cerebral thrombosis in 22 patients with value in 29 controls. During the acute and subacute periods, platelet aggregation, platelet count, platelet crit, and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.05-0.01) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate per volume of platelets was significantly greater (p less than 0.05). During the acute period, infarct size showed a significant positive correlation with platelet aggregation (r = 0.59, p less than 0.01) and adenosine triphosphate release rate (r = 0.70, p less than 0.001) but a negative correlation with platelet count (r = -0.44, p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that platelet aggregation is reduced during the acute period due to the consumption of platelets during thrombogenesis but that the remaining individual platelets are hyperactive. Platelet consumption during the acute period increases with infarct size. During the chronic period, platelet crit and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate was significantly greater (p less than 0.01), suggesting sustained platelet consumption and chronically enhanced secretion of individual platelets. 
Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography The study of blood flow by means of magnetic resonance techniques has led to a noninvasive magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) technique for imaging large cerebral vessels. Ten children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy and a history of acute neurologic syndromes were studied with combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MRA. Six had abnormal MRI findings and MRA-defined luminal lesions in the vascular distribution of these parenchymal infarctions. The three children with previous intraarterial angiography had MRA abnormalities that corresponded with vascular lesions on conventional angiograms. Four had normal MRI and MRA findings. We conclude that a combination of MRI and MRA provides a noninvasive screening test for large-vessel disease in this population. 
Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) of the shoulder: a cause of shoulder pain? Shoulder pain is a common complaint and shoulder hyperostosis a frequent radiological condition. However, little is known about the association between the clinical and radiological findings. To evaluate the clinical relevance of shoulder hyperostosis we performed a controlled, blind study of 99 hospitalized probands with and without thoracospinal hyperostosis on lateral chest X-rays. The study included grading of the shoulder hyperostosis on the basis of three bilateral standard radiographs, assessing shoulder pain in a standardized way by an interviewer and recording extraskeletal causes of shoulder pain. The prevalence of shoulder hyperostosis was doubled in probands with thoracospinal hyperostosis compared to controls (chi 2 = 5.90, P less than 0.025, n = 99). Shoulder hyperostosis, irrespective of thoracospinal hyperostosis, predisposed to shoulder pain (40% versus 18%, chi 2 = 4.06, P less than 0.05, n = 74). Shoulder hyperostosis in combination with thoracospinal hyperostosis (shoulder DISH) predisposed to shoulder pain to an even greater extent (46% versus 12%, chi 2 = 6.64, P less than 0.01, n = 47). We conclude that shoulder hyperostosis is a radiological finding of potential clinical relevance. 
Bladder function in the mentally retarded. A group of 21 mentally retarded patients with severe, long-standing urinary symptoms underwent urodynamical investigation. The most common abnormalities were detrusor areflexia and detrusor hyper-reflexia. Of 11 patients treated surgically, 10 derived marked benefit. Drugs were successful in reducing micturition problems in 3/6 patients. Severely retarded patients with spastic quadriplegia are difficult to investigate and if this is associated with detrusor hyper-reflexia it is impossible to treat them in any way. Severely retarded patients with detrusor areflexia and infrequent voiding can benefit from bladder outlet surgery. Patients with moderate (especially mild) retardation can be investigated and treated in the same way as non-retarded people. 
Hydromyelic hydrocephalus. Correlation of hydromyelia with various stages of hydrocephalus in postshunt isolated compartments. The clinical features and pathophysiology of specific forms of hydromyelia are analyzed in this report together with the chronological changes of associated hydrocephalus. Nine patients were studied; all had hydromyelia with varying degrees of associated hydrocephalus. Clinically applicable classification systems were used to evaluate the progression of hydrocephalus (Stages I to IV) and to define the compartment isolated after shunting in the previously communicating cerebral ventricles (Types I to IV). Four patients had Stage IV disease (holoneural canal dilatation); one had Stage II and four had Stage I disease (both Stages I and II with supratentorial hydrocephalus). All patients were initially treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunting at an average age of 9.9 years. Five patients had progressive spinal symptoms before or after treatment of their hydrocephalus. Two patients had Type III isolation (an isolated rhombencephalic ventricle) with a functioning ventricular shunt; ventriculography confirmed a communication between the fourth ventricle and the hydromyelia, and both patients improved after placement of a shunt in the fourth ventricle. The remaining patients had Type IV isolation (isolated central canal dilatation) with a functioning ventricular shunt. This study indicates that in some cases the pathophysiology of hydromyelia is closely related to associated hydrocephalus. A new concept of the development of an isolated compartment after shunting is proposed to explain the progression of hydromyelia in these cases. 
Aberrant regeneration in a case of syringobulbia: selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves during saccades. A patient suffering from syringobulbia and syringomyelia exhibited a phasic contraction of the ipsilateral facial muscles, mainly the levator labii, whenever he looked to the left or right. Facial muscle twitches occurred exclusively with saccades. The selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves is interpreted as the result of bilateral misrouting of regenerating neurons from the parapontine reticular formation to the facial nerve in the tegmentum pontis. 
Flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome. We report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye. This is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome, suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction. 
Correlation of clinical and computed tomographic findings in stroke patients. We evaluated the correlation between clinical features and computed tomographic findings in a prospective study of 1,191 consecutive patients with acute cerebrovascular disease seen during 1 year. In the 386 patients in whom symptoms and signs initially suggested a cerebrovascular disorder, computed tomography revealed a relevant lesion in 154 (hemorrhagic in 52 [33.8%], ischemic in 102 [66.2%]) and a significant nonstroke abnormality in 14 (3.1%). Among the remaining 805 patients with symptoms and signs suggesting some central nervous system disorder other than stroke, computed tomography revealed a cerebrovascular lesion in 38 (4.7%); 35 of these lesions were ischemic. The computed tomographic findings was compatible with the final clinical diagnosis in 192 (84.2%) of the 228 patients with lesions. In the entire sample of 1,191 patients, a cerebrovascular disorder would have been missed in 38 (3.2%) without computed tomography. On the other hand, computed tomography failed to visualize a cerebrovascular lesion in 40 patients in whom such a lesion was clinically obvious. Our results emphasize that both careful neurologic assessment and a policy of early computed tomography are of crucial importance in the diagnosis of stroke and for therapeutic considerations. 
Relative validity of self-reported snoring as a symptom of sleep apnea in a sleep clinic population The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of responses to three different questions about snoring as indicators for sleep apnea in a population referred to a sleep clinic. Secondary goals were to evaluate the meaning of a "don't know" response to these questions and to examine how the associations between snoring and sleep apnea are influenced by demographics. Results from 1,409 patients in a sleep clinic indicated that nearly all levels of estimated snoring frequency were associated with a greater likelihood of sleep apnea. In addition, a "don't know" response indicated a likelihood of sleep apnea. In the sample from this clinic, sensitivities approximating 90 percent were obtained in men, and specificities approximating 90 percent were obtained in women, but high diagnostic accuracy (high specificity in men; high sensitivity in women) could not be achieved with the three snoring questions used here. Generally, associations between snoring and sleep apnea were independent of age and sex. Single persons, persons living alone, and persons customarily sleeping alone of both sexes all showed associations between self-reported snoring and the presence of sleep apnea. 
Ethyl chloride and venepuncture pain: a comparison with intradermal lidocaine. One hundred and twenty unpremedicated patients undergoing gynaecological surgery were randomly allocated to one of three equal treatment groups to assess the effectiveness of ethyl chloride in producing instant skin anaesthesia to prevent the pain of venepuncture from a 20 G cannula. They received either no anaesthetic, 0.2 ml one per cent lidocaine plain intradermally or a ten-second spray of ethyl chloride at the cannulation site. Ethyl chloride produced skin anaesthesia that significantly reduced the pain of venepuncture. However, it was not as effective as intradermal lidocaine. It had no effect on vein visualisation or ease of cannulation. Ethyl chloride can be recommended as a method of producing instant skin anaesthesia. 
Traumatic retinal detachment. Seventy-seven patients developed retinal breaks following an episode of ocular contusion, and 65 (84.4%) of these developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. Surgical treatment successfully restored or maintained retinal apposition in 74 (96.1%) of the eyes. Thirty-six (46.8%) eyes recovered visual acuity of 6/9 or better. Of the retinal breaks recognised dialysis at the ora serrata was observed in 49 eyes, of which 28 were situated at the lower temporal quadrant. Seventeen eyes had irregular breaks arising within necrotic retina at the site of scleral impact. Twenty-four (31.2%) patients had retinal break or retinal detachment diagnosed within 24 hours of injury and 49 (63.6%) within six weeks. Immediate retinal detachment was a feature of necrotic retinal breaks, while inferior oral dialyses led to a slow accumulation of subretinal fluid. Delayed diagnosis of retinal detachment was due either to opaque media or to failure to examine the retina after injury. Visual prognosis was good when retinal break or detachment were diagnosed within six weeks of injury. However, those patients who escaped initial retinal examination and were lost to follow-up had a less favourable visual outcome. 
HLA class II antigens and DNA restriction fragment length polymorphism in myasthenia gravis in Japan. Human leukocyte phenotypes and genes in the HLA class II regions were studied in 46 Japanese patients with myasthenia gravis. When the HLA phenotypes of the patients with myasthenia gravis were compared with the controls, an increased frequency of HLA-DRw53 was observed in females less than 30 years of age. The genomic DNAs of the HLA-DRw53-positive patients and DRw53-positive controls were analyzed by using four complementary DNA probes for HLA class II genes. With DQB complementary DNA as the probe, a higher incidence of the 6.5-kb or 8.2-kb BamHI fragment was observed in the patients (76.0%) compared with the controls (19.0%). In contrast, no significant difference was observed between patients and controls when complementary DNAs for DRB, DQA, and DPB were used as probes. These results indicate that the genetic background of Japanese females with early-onset myasthenia gravis is different from other patients with myasthenia gravis, and that DQB genes can greatly influence the onset of myasthenia gravis. 
Migraine and vertebrobasilar ischemia. I studied 9 patients with migraine and posterior circulation ischemia. Inclusion criteria were (1) brainstem or cerebellar infarcts or transient ischemic attacks, (2) satisfactory vertebrobasilar angiograms, and (3) migraine. Excluded were patients with only occipital lobe ischemia, known arteriosclerosis, or other nonmigrainous vascular disease. Two women and 7 men, ages 6 to 58 years (mean, 34.7), had transient attacks only (2), single strokes (4), single stroke followed by attacks (1), or multiple strokes (2). Five had antecedent classic, 2 common migraine, and classic migraine began only after the initial ischemic event in the other two. The 7 stroke patients all had CT- or MRI-documented brainstem (4) or cerebellar (6) infarcts. Angiography was normal (3) or demonstrated basilar artery (BA) narrowing (2) or occlusion (4), or branch occlusion (1). In 3 patients the initially occluded BA later reopened. At follow-up (average 4.3 years, range 1 to 9 years), 5 were normal and 4 had important clinical deficits. I conclude that (1) "basilar migraine" is not always benign; it affects both sexes and a wide age range; (2) the pattern of headaches, attacks, and strokes varies; (3) migraine may appear only after ischemia; (4) some patients have BA occlusion or diffuse narrowing; and (5) BA occlusion can be temporary. 
Late effects of paralytic poliomyelitis in Olmsted County, Minnesota. We identified a cohort of 300 individuals who had paralytic polio between 1935 and 1955. All lived in Olmsted County, Minnesota. From the 247 survivors, we selected 50 subjects for detailed historical, functional, psychological, clinical, and electrophysiologic evaluation. Sixty-four percent of these 50 survivors complained of new symptoms of muscle pain, fatigue, and weakness after a period of prolonged stability. This led to changes in lifestyle or activity in only 18%. The likelihood of expressing new complaints was not related to present age or interval since polio, and electrophysiologic testing did not distinguish between those with or without new problems. The development of new difficulties in a limb was most strongly predicted by significant paralysis of that limb at the time of the acute illness. Patients with leg weakness were twice as likely to complain of new problems compared to those with arm weakness. Elevated creatine kinase levels were present only in those with new complaints. 
Reversible nerve conduction block in patients with polyneuropathy after ultrasound thermotherapy at therapeutic dosage. This study investigated the effect of ultrasound on nerve conduction in patients with polyneuropathy. Eight able-bodied controls (Group C) and 16 patients with clinical and physiologic evidence of polyneuropathy were tested. Eight patients (Group NP) had no aching pain symptoms; eight patients (Group P) had severe aching pain, burning sensation, unpleasant tingling, and/or hyperesthesia in the lower extremities. For two minutes, therapeutic ultrasound in doses of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5W/cm2 were applied over the anterior surface of the leg along the pathway of the deep peroneal nerve. Peroneal nerve conduction studies were performed before, during, and after ultrasound treatment. The compound muscle action potential (CMAP) was recorded from the extensor digitorum brevis muscle. Nerve conduction studies on all eight patients in Group P revealed a significant decrease (41.4% and 44% reduced for doses of 1.0W/cm2 and 1.5W/cm2, respectively; p less than .05) in amplitude of CMAP (from baseline to the first negative peak), and an increase (6.4% and 6.7% increased for doses of 1.0W/cm2 and 1.5W/cm2, respectively; p less than .05) in proximal latency one minute after ultrasound application with a dose of 1.0 or 1.5W/cm2, but not with a dose of 0.5W/cm2 (p greater than 0.1). Changes returned to pretreatment values within five minutes of cessation of ultrasound therapy. In Groups C and NP, there were no significant changes in amplitudes of CMAP or proximal latency before, during, or after ultrasound therapy at a dose of 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5W/cm2. It was concluded that ultrasonic therapy with therapeutic dosage may cause a reversible conduction block on patients with painful polyneuropathy. 
Examination by logistic regression modelling of the variables which increase the relative risk of elderly women falling compared to elderly men. In a community based, prospective study to determine risk factors for falls, 465 women and 296 men 70 years and over were followed for 1 year and 507 falls were documented. A greater proportion of women (32.7%) than men (23.0%) experienced at least one fall in which there was no or minimal external contribution. Using unconditional logistic regression models we investigated the effect of physical and sociological variables on the sex difference in fall rate. Controlling for the variables age, use of psychotropic drugs, inability to rise from a chair without using arms, going outdoors less than daily and living alone decreased the relative risk of women falling compared to men from 2.02 (95% CI, 1.40-2.92) to 1.55 (95% CI 1.04-2.31). Some of the increased risk of falling associated with being a women was able to be explained and is potentially correctable. But even after controlling for the physical and social variables which we had assessed, women compared to men still had a significantly increased relative risk of falling. 
Rehabilitation of quadriparesis secondary to spinal cord sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disorder that rarely involves the spinal cord. This report describes the presentation and rehabilitative course of a 31-yr-old man with quadriparesis secondary to spinal cord sarcoidosis. The patient had insidious, progressive weakness in his arms and legs for six weeks before evaluation. Examination revealed a C4 incomplete spinal cord injury. Computed tomography demonstrated an intrinsic cord lesion from the brainstem to approximately T8. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) suggested the lesion was granulomatous and cervical laminectomy confirmed noncaseating granulomas. The patient was started on high dose steroids, subsequently gained strength in the distal upper extremities, and was sent for spinal cord rehabilitation. Examination revealed 3 to 4+/5 strength in the upper extremities, 2- to 3-/5 in the lower extremities. The right side was slightly stronger than the left, with proximal musculature stronger than distal. Sensory examination was intact except in the C-8 to T-2 dermatomes. The patient was dependent in self-care and mobility except for feeding. Initial progress was inhibited by severe spasticity requiring medication, but by discharge he was independent at the wheelchair level with 4/5 strength in all four extremities except for his hands, which had 3/5 strength. Sensory exam did not change. Follow-up MRI studies revealed reduction of the lesion. Review of previous cases revealed that myelopathy is the most common presenting complaint and cervical segments are most commonly involved. Survival averaged almost three years and significant gains were made in functional status. Rehabilitative course and special considerations, treatment and follow-up recommendations are discussed. 
Evaluation and treatment of mental disorders in patients with AIDS. Mental symptoms are common in patients with AIDS. Optimal management involves the identification and treatment of underlying mental disorders rather than symptomatic treatment alone. Organic mental disorders are very frequent in AIDS, particularly with seriously ill patients who are medical inpatients. There is a high priori probability that such common symptoms as agitation, irritability, and insomnia will be caused by an organic mental disorder. Psychopharmacology in the patient with AIDS requires considerable caution. Lower doses and careful surveillance for subtle neuropsychiatric side effects are necessary. Routine medical contact with a compassionate physician may be of inestimable value to the patient in coping with the fear and dread that surround the illness. 
Vitamin B12 and folate concentrations in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of neurological patients with special reference to multiple sclerosis and dementia. Vitamin B12 and folate concentrations were measured in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 293 neurological patients. Serum and CSF vitamin B12 concentrations showed a positive correlation. In individual patients CSF B12 concentrations varied considerably for a given serum concentration. The median serum vitamin B12 concentration of the Alzheimer's type dementia group was significantly lower compared with that of a control group. Lower median CSF vitamin B12 concentrations were found in groups of patients with multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's type dementia. Five patients with heterogeneous clinical pictures had unexplained low serum and CSF B12 concentrations without macrocytosis. Two patients had very high serum B12 and low-normal CSF concentrations which could be explained by a blood-brain barrier transport defect. Serum and CSF folate concentrations did not show significant differences between the various groups. 
Codeine increases pain thresholds to copper vapor laser stimuli in extensive but not poor metabolizers of sparteine. The analgesic efficacy and kinetics of a single oral dose of 75 mg codeine was investigated in 12 extensive metabolizers and 12 poor metabolizers of sparteine in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. The cosegregation of the O-demethylation of codeine to morphine with the sparteine oxidation polymorphism was confirmed. Hence morphine could not be detected in the plasma of any of the poor metabolizers, whereas detectable morphine plasma levels were found in 10 of 12 extensive metabolizers. Pain thresholds to laser stimuli were determined before drug intake and 90, 150, and 210 minutes after drug intake. Codeine significantly increased the pricking pain thresholds in the extensive metabolizers (p less than 0.05), whereas there were no significant changes in the poor metabolizers. No change in pain thresholds occurred with placebo in any of the two phenotypes. In the extensive metabolizers there was a significant positive correlation between the increase in pain threshold and plasma concentration of codeine. The study supports the hypothesis that morphine formation is essential for achievement of analgesia during codeine treatment. 
Brain retractor edema during induced hypotension: the effect of the rate of return of blood pressure. This study evaluated the hypothesis that the postoperative formation of cerebral edema may be influenced by the rate of blood pressure return after induced hypotension in a graded brain retractor injury. Nineteen cats underwent unilateral craniotomy, isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean of 50 mm Hg, and application of a brain retractor at 20 mm Hg of pressure for 1 hour. Blood pressure was returned to normal either within 3 minutes or over 20 minutes. The degree of cerebral edema formation was determined by Evans blue dye and coronal magnetic resonance imaging. All animals showed extravasation of Evans blue dye in the retracted hemisphere that was most marked at the periphery of the retractor. T1 relaxation times were significantly prolonged in the retracted hemispheres of both the fast return and slow return groups (18.8% and 17.8%, respectively) and more so at the Evans blue sites (42.8% and 40.8%), although not so strikingly beneath the retractor itself (6.3% and 7.8%). T2 relaxation times were similarly prolonged but to approximately half the degree of the T1 times. In the nonretracted hemisphere, drug-induced hypotension alone did not result in significant acute cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier alteration. There was no significant difference between the fast and slow groups in Evans blue extravasation or magnetic resonance changes. Thus, in a retractor-induced brain injury, restoration of arterial pressure to normal either gradually or rapidly did not influence the degree or extent of edema formation. 
Syphilitic meningomyelitis. A 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and CSF findings. His course was complicated by chorioretinitis, extensive skin lesions, and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis. MRI of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal. 
Tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion. We studied 4 patients with tonic contraversive ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral, paramedian, mesodiencephalic lesions. This is in contrast to the only 2 previously reported patients with ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral mesodiencephalic lesions, each of whom had a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction. This new finding is considered in the context of previous clinical and experimental data on the various types of ocular tilt reactions that follow stimulation or destruction of the peripheral and central vestibular system. Otolithic inputs to the interstitial nucleus of Cajal from the contralateral vestibular nucleus and motor outputs from the interstitial nucleus of Cajal to cervical and ocular motoneurons could be involved in the ocular tilt reaction. We propose that in patients with unilateral meso-diencephalic lesions, a tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to persistently decreased resting activity of ipsilateral interstitial nucleus neurons, whereas a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to transiently increased activity of the same interstitial nucleus neurons. Cases of ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion point to the existence of a crossed graviceptive pathway between the vestibular nucleus and the contralateral interstitial nucleus of Cajal. 
Anisocoria in unilateral ophthalmic disease. Pupillary diameters in the affected and unaffected eyes of 327 patients with uniocular red eye were assessed during fixation of a distant target. The mean pupillary diameters were similar in the unaffected eyes in each of eight diagnostic groups, but were significantly different (F = 3.84, p less than 0.001) in the diseased eyes. With corneal abrasions (p less than 0.001), marginal keratitis (p less than 0.05), and acute anterior uveitis (p less than 0.001) the mean pupillary diameter for the affected eye was significantly smaller than that of the unaffected eye. The observed differences of pupillary diameter probably reflect the role of neuronal and autocoid mechanisms in the unilateral control of pupillary size. 
Blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia associated with a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma. Blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia is characterized by the presence of spasms of the orbicularis oculi (blepharospasm) and of the lower facial or oromandibular muscles. A patient with this syndrome is presented in which a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma appeared to act as a triggering mechanism for the development of this disorder. On the basis of this report, we recommend that physicians search for this tumor in patients with this disorder. 
Drug induced refractory headache--clinical features and management. Two hundred patients who were taking daily symptomatic or immediate relief medications, often in excessive quantities, yet suffering from daily or near daily severe headaches were studied. One hundred and sixteen (58%) of them were also taking concomitant prophylactic medications and they were ineffective. Low tyramine, low caffeine dietary instructions and biofeedback training were given to all patients. The effect of continuing symptomatic medications, discontinuing symptomatic medications, and adding or changing prophylactic medications were studied in the various treatment groups. It is concluded that; 1.) Daily use of symptomatic or immediate relief medications result in chronic daily headache. 2.) Discontinuing daily symptomatic medications itself result in improvement of headache. 3.) Concomitant use of symptomatic medications nullifies the effect of prophylactic medications. 4.) Discontinuing daily symptomatic medications enhances the beneficial effect of prophylactic medications. 
Factors predicting satisfactory home care after stroke. This study prospectively investigated factors predicting optimal poststroke home care. One hundred and thirty-five first occurrence stroke patients and their primary support persons were evaluated during the initial hospitalization after stroke and again one year poststroke. Discriminant function analysis was used to identify two groups from the baseline data: home care situations which were rated optimal and those which were not. Group membership was predicted and validated with 72.6% accuracy. Patients at risk for less than optimal home care had caregivers who were (1) more likely to be depressed, (2) less likely to be married to the patient, (3) below average in knowledge about stroke care, and (4) reporting more family dysfunction. Our findings suggest that caregiver-related problems can have a collective effect on rehabilitation outcome and that treatment should reduce caregiver depression, minimize family dysfunction, and increase the family's knowledge about stroke care. 
Hemiparkinsonism as a complication of an Ommaya reservoir. Case report. The authors describe the case of a 28-year-old woman who developed the following symptoms in her right hand: a lasting resting tremor, transient focal rigidity, and paresthesia. These deficits occurred following treatment with intrathecal methotrexate via an Ommaya reservoir which was placed too deeply, resulting in trauma to the contralateral mesencephalon. 
Localization of stereotactic targets by microrecordings of thalamic somatosensory evoked potentials. To improve the localization of stereotactic targets, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were recorded from the thalamus and subthalamic area using a specially designed semimicroelectrode in 61 patients and a conventional "macroelectrode" in 17 patients. By means of the semimicroelectrode, median nerve stimulation evoked two distinct SEPs, consisting of a diphasic wave with a huge positivity restricted to the nucleus ventrocaudalis (Vc) and a triphasic wave of lower amplitude with a major negativity in the ventral part of the nucleus ventrointermedius (Vim) and nucleus ventrooralis posterior (Vop) as well as the subthalamic lemniscal pathway. The Vim-Vc junction could thus be clearly delineated by an abrupt transition of SEPs from one type to the other with a precision of 1 mm. The parvicellular part of the Vc (Vcpc), situated in its basal region, was distinguishable from the Vc proper by a significant reduction of the positivity elicited by stimulation of the median nerve and by a rapid growth of a diphasic SEPs to stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve. In the other thalamic nuclei, stimulation of the median nerve elicited triphasic SEPs of a very small amplitude, suggesting a volume conduction current from the lemniscal pathway. With the macroelectrode, the positivity in the Vc was sensitive to electrode manipulation and the thalamic nuclei could not be distinctly outlined. SEP monitoring using the semimicroelectrode significantly improved the precision of target localization, which allowed minimizing of the volume of the therapeutic lesion without losing surgical effectiveness, while avoiding complications associated with increased penetration of the coagulating electrode. It is suggested that recording serial thalamic SEPs with the semimicroelectrode is a practical method to refine stereotactic targets in the thalamus. 
Cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism. A previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting. No evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified. Death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy. 
Efficacy of methylphenidate among mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Twelve children with IQ scores of 50 to 74 (educable mental retardation) who met rigorous diagnostic criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder participated in a double-blind crossover study of the efficacy of two doses of methylphenidate compared with placebo. Dependent measures included behavioral ratings, classroom work output, laboratory measures of attention and learning, and direct observations of social behavior. Improvement with medication on the Conners Hyperactivity Index was observed in 75% of subjects. Significant increases in work output, on-task behavior, and attentional skills were associated with methylphenidate. However, gains in measures of attention were not associated with improvement in learning, as measured by a paired associate learning task. Additionally, no significant increases in appropriate social interactions during free play were associated with methylphenidate. The results suggest that mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder respond to methylphenidate at similar rates and in similar domains to that of the nonretarded population. 
Ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age. The eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years. Twenty-one children were normal. The remaining 29 children (59%) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity. The need to examine children at risk is stressed. 
Angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma (malignant angioendotheliomatosis): report of a case and review of the literature. We present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder. This is the first report of gadolinium-DTPA imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages, as well as striking meningeal enhancement. Angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin, liver, renal, meningeal, or brain biopsy. Single modality treatment, using either radiation therapy or steroids, has been ineffective, and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated. 
Centrifugal intensity and duration as countermeasures to soleus muscle atrophy. Mechanical acceleration is a countermeasure that may be employed to prevent atrophy of slow-twitch muscle during non-weight bearing. In the present study, daily centrifugation of rats for different durations (1 or 2 h) and at different gravitational intensities (1.5 or 2.6 G) was used to test whether mechanical acceleration could ameliorate the atrophy of the soleus muscle induced by non-weight bearing (tail-traction model). The soleus muscle atrophied 32% during 7 days of non-weight bearing without countermeasures. Centrifugation treatment did not completely prevent atrophy relative to precontrol wet weight of the soleus muscle. Non-weight-bearing groups receiving 2-h daily treatments of 1, 1.5, or 2.6 G had 48, 56, and 65%, respectively, of the atrophy observed in the non-weight-bearing-only group compared with the precontrol group. No evidence was obtained that centrifugation at 2.6 G was more effective than exposure to 1 or 1.5 G as a countermeasure to non-weight-bearing-induced atrophy of the soleus muscle. 
The Children's Orientation and Amnesia Test: relationship to severity of acute head injury and to recovery of memory. The Children's Orientation and Amnesia Test (COAT) was developed to assess cognition serially during the early stage of recovery from traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents. The norms for the COAT, which is composed of 16 items evaluating general orientation, temporal orientation, and memory, were defined from data obtained from 146 children aged 3 to 15 years. In 37 patients with head injuries, the duration of posttraumatic amnesia, as indicated by the number of days COAT scores were in the impaired range, was significantly related to both verbal and nonverbal memory at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after injury. COAT scores were a better predictor of verbal and nonverbal memory performance than the Glasgow Coma Scale score at 6 and 12 months after the injury. This study shows that the COAT has adequate reliability and validity as a measure of the duration of posttraumatic amnesia in children and adolescents. 
Serious migraine: a study of some epidemiological aspects. Data are scant concerning some epidemiological aspects of those severe headaches which cause serious personal and economic morbidity. Our purpose was to study the incidence and other epidemiological features of patients suffering from severe migraine exacerbations, in an unselected population. The 64 patients who suffered from severe migraine bouts represented 10.5% of all the new walk-in neurological consultations in the area covered in this study. 70% of these patients were between 10 and 39 years old. Although females clearly predominated in all ages after fifteen, below this age there was a slight male predominance. The calculated incidence of serious migraine exacerbations was 90 per 100,000 people per year, the corrected incidence for females being 143/100,000 and for males 37/100,000. The highest incidence for females was in 15-19 year-olds (377/100,000) and for males in 10-14 year-olds (166/100,000). Our data seem to confirm the periodic nature of this condition since in 80% of patients the migraine bouts (ie: groups of attacks) lasted between two and nine months. Also they support the reported existence of genetic and hormonal factors in the susceptibility to migraine exacerbations. Our results may help in planning the public health aspect of migraine and add some light to the natural history of this common condition. 
Validation of a surveillance case definition of carpal tunnel syndrome The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has proposed a surveillance case definition for work-related carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The case definition requires the presence of median nerve symptoms; one or more occupational risk factors; and objective evidence of CTS including one of three physical examination findings or nerve conduction tests diagnostic of CTS. We evaluated the performance of the NIOSH case definition, restricting our analysis to cases in which physical examination findings served as the objective criterion. Nerve conduction studies were used as the gold standard. Seventy-eight workers were studied; 38 percent had CTS. The NIOSH case definition had sensitivity of 0.67 (95% CI = 0.57, 0.77), specificity of 0.58 (95% CI = 0.47, 0.69), and positive and negative predictive values of 0.50 (95% CI = 0.39, 0.61) and 0.74 (95% CI = 0.64, 0.84), respectively. Overall 38 percent of subjects were classified incorrectly. In a sample with a prevalence of 15 percent, as might be encountered in high risk workplaces, the positive predictive value would be 0.22. In conclusion, when physical examination findings serve as the objective criterion the performance of the case definition is modest reflecting the limited diagnostic value of its component tests and indicating that effective screening for CTS awaits improved diagnostic techniques. 
Evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring: a case study approach. Three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2) monitoring in critical care nursing practice. Examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how SvO2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization. In the first case, the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery. Continuous SvO2 data aided nurses in guiding, adjusting, and assessing therapy. The second case demonstrates how SvO2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication. The final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization. In all the cases, continuous SvO2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization. 
Improving outcomes of analgesic treatment: is education enough? Frequent undertreatment of analgesic-responsive acute pain and chronic cancer pain persists, despite intensive efforts to provide clinicians with information about analgesics. A set of background factors must be addressed in interventions to improve pain treatment: Traditional patterns of clinician and patient interaction on the ward, quality assurance, and drug regulatory practices do not support prompt recognition and treatment of pain. Possible interventions to modify these patterns of daily practice include monitoring and displaying patient pain ratings routinely, making available educational tools to assist optimal drug ordering, encouraging patients to communicate about unrelieved pain, reviewing quality assurance of pain treatment regimens, increasing behavioral research into analgesic prescribing, and selectively modifying narcotics regulatory practices. 
Mutation of the prion protein in Libyan Jews with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. BACKGROUND. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a transmissible neurodegenerative disorder that occurs more than 100 times more frequently among Libyan Jews than in the worldwide population. We examined 11 patients with the disease--10 Libyan Jews from Israel and 1 Libyan Jew from Italy--to determine whether abnormalities of the prion protein could be detected in them. Abnormal forms of this host-encoded protein are the predominant if not sole components of the transmissible agent that causes the disease. METHODS. The prion-protein open-reading frame in peripheral-leukocyte DNA from the Italian patient was amplified with the polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. Allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization was used to assess a prion-protein codon 200 lysine mutation in the 10 Israeli patients and 37 control subjects. RESULTS. The prion-protein sequence in DNA from the Italian patient revealed a single nucleotide change (G----A) at the first position of codon 200 that resulted in a substitution of lysine for glutamate. This substitution was detected in all 10 Israeli patients, 8 of whom had a positive family history of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. One patient was homozygous for the lysine mutation, and her clinical course did not differ from that of the patients heterozygous for the mutation. The lysine mutation was not found in one Moroccan Jew from Israel with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. CONCLUSIONS. The codon 200 lysine mutation of the prion-protein gene is consistently present among Libyan Jews with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, strongly supporting a genetic pathogenesis of their illness. The similarity of the clinical courses of the patient homozygous for this mutation and the patients heterozygous for it argues that familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a true dominant disorder. 
Differential memory and executive functions in demented patients with Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Selected aspects of verbal memory and executive function were compared in 11 demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 11 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with equally severe dementia, with 11 healthy controls matched for age and education. Semantic and episodic memory were impared in all patients compared with controls, but to a relatively greater degree in AD patients than in those with PD. In contrast, demented PD patients were relatively more compromised on executive tasks. These findings, taken in the context of the neuropathological and neurochemical overlap between demented PD and AD patients, suggest that differences in neurobehavioural patterns in patients with these diseases are relative, rather than absolute. 
Rigid fixation of internal orbital fractures. When large portions of the internal orbit are destroyed (two to four walls), standard bone-grafting techniques for immediate and late orbital reconstruction may not yield predictable eye position. Critical bone support is most often deficient inferomedially. CT analysis of orbital volume in cases where eye position was unsatisfactory reveals that displacement of bone grafts is one mechanism of the unsatisfactory result. Other mechanisms include undercorrection and bone-graft resorption. In order to minimize postoperative bone-graft displacement, titanium implants were used to span large defects in the internal orbit to provide a platform for bone-graft support. Twenty-six implants were placed in immediate and 12 were placed in late orbital reconstructions. More reliable bone-graft position resulted. Two late infections have occurred resulting in implant removal in a 3-year period. 
Preventing stroke by the modification of risk factors. Epidemiologic research has revealed the major risk factors in cerebrovascular disease. This review will concentrate on three important risk factors: elevated blood pressure, the most common and important, since it is responsible for up to 70% of all strokes; raised cholesterol; and smoking. These factors are important not only because they increase the risk of stroke, but also because they are amenable to modification by drugs, diet, or other interventions. Strategies to avoid stroke can either 1) try to produce substantial reductions, usually with drugs, in the level of the risk factor in the few individuals in the population with high levels (the "high-risk" approach), or 2) try to produce modest reductions in the level of the risk factor in every individual in the population, usually not with drugs but with lifestyle modification (the "mass" approach). The prevention of stroke could best be achieved through continuing medical efforts to deal with high-risk individuals and through political strategies to encourage a healthier lifestyle in the population as a whole. 
Intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia resulting from compound heterozygosity of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase mutations. Four subjects with thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) were discovered among 16 "obligate" heterozygotes for severe MTHFR deficiency and their family members. All four subjects had less than 25% of normal mean MTHFR specific activity in lymphocyte extracts. Three of them with normal serum folate and cyanocobalamin had intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia, and one with high serum folate and cyanocobalamin had no excessive accumulation of serum homocysteine. The biochemical features in these four subjects are distinguishable from subjects homozygous for the thermolabile MTHFR, whose specific activity is approximately 50% of the normal mean, and from heterozygotes for severe MTHFR deficiency, in whom the enzyme is thermostable and has a specific activity of about 50% of the normal mean. We propose that these four subjects are genetic compounds of the allele for the severe mutation and the allele for thermolabile mutation of the MTHFR gene. It is postulated that subjects with this genetic compound are more susceptible to the development of intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia despite normal folate and B12 levels. Nonetheless, hyperhomocysteinemia due to this compound heterozygosity is correctable by oral folic acid therapy. 
Hyperprolactinemia increases and hypoprolactinemia decreases tyrosine hydroxylase messenger ribonucleic acid levels in the arcuate nuclei, but not the substantia nigra or zona incerta. The effects of experimentally produced hypoprolactinemia and hyperprolactinemia on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA signal levels were examined in dopaminergic neurons ovariectomized rats. TH mRNA signal levels and relative TH quantity in the arcuate nuclei, zona incerta, and substantia nigra were evaluated by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, respectively. The catalytic activity of TH in the stalk-median eminence (SME) was determined from the in vitro rate of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation after inhibiting DOPA decarboxylase with brocresine. Chronic administration of bromocriptine (BROMO), a dopamine (DA) agonist, for 3 days reduced circulating rat PRL (rPRL) levels compared to those in the vehicle-treated controls. BROMO treatment decreased TH mRNA signal levels in the arcuate nuclei, the intensity of TH immunostaining in the arcuate-median eminence area, and the rate of DOPA accumulation in the SME. Concomitant administration of ovine PRL (oPRL) reversed the effects of BROMO on TH, resulting in markedly increased TH mRNA signal levels, intensity of TH immunostaining, and rate of DOPA accumulation. Treatment with oPRL by itself for 3 days increased TH mRNA signal levels in the arcuate nuclei and TH activity in the SME, compared to vehicle. Chronic treatment with haloperidol, a DA antagonist, increased circulating levels of endogenous rPRL and increased TH activity in the SME to values similar to those after oPRL treatment. However, in contrast to oPRL, mRNA levels in the arcuate nuclei of haloperidol-treated rats were similar to levels in vehicle-treated animals. To evaluate whether the effect of PRL on TH was species specific, oPRL or rPRL was continuously infused into the jugular vein using an osmotic minipump. TH mRNA levels in the arcuate nuclei were elevated above control levels by either oPRL or rPRL administration. TH mRNA levels in the DA perikarya located in the zona incerta and substantia nigra were not altered by treatment with a DA agonist, a DA antagonist, or PRL. These results indicate that hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia can selectively reduce or augment, respectively, TH mRNA levels in the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons. The alterations in TH mRNA content probably contribute to the decrease or increase in TH activity associated with hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia, respectively. 
Microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of L-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989. We describe our pathologic study of skin, fascial, and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy, histochemistry, and electron microscopy. A perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis, fascia, and skeletal muscle. Lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen. Ultrastructurally, capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present. This microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome. 
Modern pharmacotherapy of migraine. Rectal ergotamine and naproxen are the major candidates for the ad hoc treatment of migraine attacks; for particularly dramatic episodes, intravenous DHE with prochlorperazine is the author's preference. For long-term stabilization, after simpler measures fail, valproate appears to be a major addition to migraine therapy. 
Observations on the pathophysiology of Nelson's syndrome: a report of three cases. Nelson's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for Cushing's disease. It is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation, considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, and an enlarged sella turcica. In this report, we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for Cushing's disease. In two of these cases, remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration. A microadenomectomy was performed in one case and, in the other, no microadenoma was found. In both, Nelson's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy. A second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth. In another case, transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an ACTH-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years, but recurrent Cushing's disease necessitated adrenalectomy, and again Nelson's syndrome occurred. The documentation of a pre-existing ACTH-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy, as seen in two of our cases, has not been previously reported, and these observations of "non-classical" courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of Nelson's syndrome. 
The opposite pupil in herniation. I serially examined the pupil opposite the one already enlarged from transtentorial herniation in 13 patients. The main abnormalities, stereotyped in most patients, were an initially diminished light reaction with a 2.5- to 4-mm-diameter pupil, followed by slight reduction in size, and then reenlargement to greater than original size, all with preserved roundness. Subsequent deterioration varied among patients, but a transitional oval shape was infrequent and oculomotor function was preserved until both pupils were enlarged and fixed. Once the pupil on the side of a mass enlarges, heralding herniation, subsequent deterioration can be appreciated through changes in reactivity and size of the opposite pupil. 
Magnetic and electrical stimulation of cervical motor roots: technique, site and mechanisms of excitation. Cervical motor roots and the brachial plexus were excited transcutaneously with magnetic (MagStim) and electrical stimulation (ElStim) applied dorsally over the spine and over the supraclavicular fossa (Erb's point). The compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) from the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and the biceps muscles (BICEPS) could be evoked with either stimulating technique in all 52 subjects tested. With MagStim over the spinous process C7, greater CMAPs were obtained from ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001, paired t test) and BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.005) when the inducing current in the coil as viewed from behind was clockwise for the right arm and vice versa. ElStim with the cathode over C7/T1 and the anode directed cranially provided greater CMAPs from the ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001) and smaller CMAPs from the BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.01) than with the inverse polarity. MagStim of the cervical roots provided CMAPs which were smaller from ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001), and greater from BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.0001), than ElStim (cathode C7/T1), whereas latencies did not differ significantly (p less than or equal to 0.3). When comparing ElStim and MagStim applied over Erb's point, the former yielded greater CMAPs and 0.5 ms longer latencies from both the ADM and BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.001). From these data and additional studies in four patients, including direct intraoperative root stimulation in one of them, it is concluded that ElStim and MagStim over the spine excite the motor roots at a similar site, that is, within a few cm outside the intervertebral foramina. 
Depressive symptoms following stroke. OBJECTIVE: The primary purpose of this study was to assess the relation of lesion location to mood and vegetative disturbance following stroke. METHOD: Fifty-two inpatients and outpatients who had had single, unilateral strokes were included. Patients with past CNS or psychiatric disorders were excluded. A modified Visual Analogue Dysphoria Scale was used to allow the inclusion of all but the most impaired aphasic patients. Sleep and eating disturbances were measured by using both self-report and nursing assessments. Location of lesions was determined by CT scan and classified according to three dimensions: right-left, dorsal-ventral, and frontal-nonfrontal. RESULTS: On measures of dysphoric mood and sleep disturbance, results indicated significant three-way interactions among the three lesion dimensions. No differences were found with regard to eating disturbance. Greater dysphoria and sleep disturbance were found in subjects with left parietal/occipital, left inferior frontal, right superior frontal, and right temporal lesions than in subjects with lesions in other locations. Depressive symptoms were not associated with functional impairment as measured by activities of daily living, motor strength, or severity of aphasia. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the hypothesis that lesion location is a valid and significant factor in the mixture of influences which may result in a dysphoric mood state following stroke. The relation between the site of the lesion and subsequent depressive symptoms, however, may be more complex than has been reported previously. 
Identification of pre- and postcentral gyri on CT and MR images on the basis of the medullary pattern of cerebral white matter. The authors illustrate a new method to identify the pre- and postcentral gyri on computed tomographic (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) images of the brain on the basis of the pattern of the medullary branches of the cerebral white matter. The most commonly used method to identify the gyri depends on recognition of the central sulcus by surface arrangement of the sulci. The two methods were compared by analysis of CT images of 104 subjects who had normal findings (age range, newborn to 60 years; 57 males and 47 females). The usefulness of the new method was also determined in angiographic studies of nine patients with space-occupying lesions. The method is especially helpful for identification of gyri on the lower level of the centrum semiovale and if space-occupying lesions are present that may result in a blurred depiction of sulci. Since MR imaging depicts the medullary branches more clearly than does CT, this new method should facilitate identification of the gyri with either modality. 
Type I hypersensitivity to rubber. Seven patients with type I hypersensitivity reactions to rubber are reported. Radioallergosorbent testing with crude latex antigen was positive in 6/7 patients. Five patients had coexisting spina bifida, and all had undergone surgery before the development of rubber allergy. Rubber allergy is a new phenomenon that should be in the differential diagnosis of idiopathic anaphylaxis and urticaria. 
Modulation of the stretch reflex during volitional sinusoidal tracking in Parkinson's disease. Sinusoidal visually-guided wrist tracking, in normal and parkinsonian subjects, was perturbed by torque transients every 90 degrees throughout the movement. Long-latency stretch reflex and volitional EMG amplitude modulations were assessed as functions of the tracking phase. Reflex modulation during tracking, both in wrist flexor and extensor muscles, was found to differ significantly between parkinsonian and normal subjects. In the parkinsonian group, the abnormality consisted of an increased reflex activity during tracking phases in which the muscle was lengthening. At these phases the reflex generated torque is opposite in direction to the volitionally generated torque and the tracking movement. No differences in the unperturbed volitional EMG modulation were observed between groups for this error constrained tracking paradigm. Significant correlations were found between ratings of bradykinesia and the amount of abnormal reflex modulation in the wrist flexor. These data suggest that a component of bradykinesia results from a defective coordination of supraspinal reflex and volitional control systems. 
Chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in Angelman syndrome. Genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders--Angelman syndrome (AS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). This hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence. First, while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in AS and PWS patients are the same, the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes. In AS, the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15, while in PWS the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15. The second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in PWS patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion. These patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 (maternal uniparental disomy) instead of one copy from each parent. By qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific DNA markers, we have now examined DNA samples from 10 AS patients (at least seven of which are familial cases) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13. Inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family, suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the AS phenotype in these patients. 
Phenotypic and functional characterization of T cells from patients with myasthenia gravis. A study of cell surface phenotypes of PBL of myasthenia gravis (MG) patients showed that their T cells had a significantly higher percentage of 4B4+ T cells (the helper/inducer subset) than age- and sex-matched controls. The PBL of MG patients proliferated significantly higher than those of normal subjects (NS) in response to the purified alpha chain of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Anti-AChR antibody was present in sera of 88% of MG and none of the NS. The PBL B cells from MG only, when cultured with autologous T cells and stimulated with either pokeweed mitogen (69%), or AChR-alpha chain (38%), secreted antibody to AChR-alpha chain, whereas T and B cells alone secreted no antibody. T cells from PBL of MG patients were more readily cloned than T cells of NS, by limiting dilution, in the presence of recombinant IL-2 and in the absence of AChR-alpha chain. About 50% of T cell clones from MG patients, compared to none from NS, proliferated to AChR-alpha chain. This response was HLA-DR restricted. MG T cell clones did not display significant cytotoxic activity, as compared to control T cell clones. Our results indicate that in MG, 4B4+ regulatory T cells play their role in the pathogenesis of MG, not by cytotoxicity, but more likely by their ability to stimulate specific antibody production by B cells. 
Hip pain in late pregnancy. Hip pain in late pregnancy is quite common, and its etiology is rarely established unless acute demineralization occurs. We measured the bone mineral content of both hips in 26 women within 48 hours of delivery. Twelve of 36 densities (33%) were decreased in a group with severe pain when compared to 12 of 120 decreased densities (10%) in the remaining patients (P less than .05). Those data suggest that severe hip pain may be related to a decrease in bone mineral content. 
Gait analysis in the treatment of the ambulatory child with cerebral palsy. Surgical treatment of children with cerebral palsy has changed from staged, single joint procedures to comprehensive simultaneous bony and soft-tissue corrections. This regimen of treating multiple joint levels and planes of abnormality is subject to error when based solely on the clinical examination. A more scientific evaluation can be provided by the use of clinical gait analysis. Both preoperative and postoperative analyses provide the clinician with information from which neurologic patterns can be determined and surgical protocols can be judged. 
Effect of cardiac output reduction on rate of desaturation in obstructive apnea. The nadir of SaO2 during an obstructive apnea is dependent upon the apnea's duration and the rate of fall of saturation (dSaO2/dt). We postulated that a low Q, such as in patients with congestive heart failure with sleep apnea, or a reduction in Q, as seen in some humans during obstructive sleep apnea, might steepen dSaO2/dt. The mechanism postulated was lowering of SvO2 with increased pulmonary capillary blood oxygen uptake and faster depletion of alveolar oxygen. This study examines dSaO2/dt following the onset of apnea in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons. Nonrepetitive obstructive apneas (30, 45, and 60 seconds) were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at the end of expiration. Following baseline measurements, the animals were given a bolus of a rapid-acting beta-adrenergic blocker followed by continuous infusion to reduce cardiac output and to limit the cardiovascular response to obstructive asphyxia. Fiberoptic catheters were used for continuous monitoring of SaO2, SvO2, and cardiac output. Esophageal pressure and relative thoracic gas volume (Respitrace) were monitored to insure equivalence of lung volume at the onset of apnea. Beta-adrenergic blockade reduced resting Q by a mean of 25 percent. The blocked vs unblocked dSaO2/dt was 0.73 vs 0.72 percent/s, 0.76 vs 0.73 percent/s, and 0.70 vs 0.71 percent/s for 30-second, 45-second, and 60-second apneas, respectively. Thus, mean dSaO2/dt for all durations of apneas was unaffected by beta-adrenergic blockade. We concluded that dSaO2/dt is not influenced by limited Q preceding or induced by obstructive asphyxia. 
Multiple representations of pain in human cerebral cortex. The representation of pain in the cerebral cortex is less well understood than that of any other sensory system. However, with the use of magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography in humans, it has now been demonstrated that painful heat causes significant activation of the contralateral anterior cingulate, secondary somatosensory, and primary somatosensory cortices. This contrasts with the predominant activation of primary somatosensory cortex caused by vibrotactile stimuli in similar experiments. Furthermore, the unilateral cingulate activation indicates that this forebrain area, thought to regulate emotions, contains an unexpectedly specific representation of pain. 
Chronic Lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle. Expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with Lyme disease. We report a patient with verified Borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle. Rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus. Surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis. The histological examination showed inflammatory, nonspecific granulation tissue. The origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the B. burgdorferi infection. Signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection. The clinical, radiological, and biochemical course is documented. This is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of Lyme disease. 
Plasticity of integrin expression by nerve-derived connective tissue cells. Human Schwann cells, perineurial cells, and fibroblasts express markedly different patterns of beta 1 integrins during nerve development, neoplasia, and in vitro. Strikingly selective expression patterns of beta 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, and alpha 5 integrin subunits were revealed in endoneurium, perineurium, and epineurium of fetal and adult human peripheral nerve by immunostaining with specific antibodies. The alpha 2 subunit was expressed only on Schwann cells both in fetal and adult nerve, whereas the alpha 3 epitopes were expressed exclusively in the adult tissue and were primarily present on perineurial cells. The alpha 5 epitopes were expressed only on the innermost cell layer of perineurium of fetal and adult nerve. The tumor cells within schwannomas and cutaneous neurofibromas expressed both alpha 2 and alpha 3 subunits, indicating that Schwann cells have the potential to express also the alpha 3 subunit in vivo. Cell cultures established from human fetal nerve and neurofibromas revealed expression of the alpha 2 and alpha 5 epitopes on Schwann cells, perineurial cells, and fibroblasts, whereas only Schwann cells contained the alpha 3 epitopes which were occasionally concentrated on the adjacent Schwann cells at cell-cell contacts. Our findings emphasize that nerve connective tissue cells change their profiles for expression of extracellular matrix receptors under conditions which have different regulatory control signals exerted by, for example, axons, humoral factors, or the extracellular matrix of the peripheral nerve. This plasticity may play an important role during nerve development and in neoplastic processes affecting the connective tissue compartments of peripheral nerve. 
Miller-Fisher syndrome and pontine abnormalities on MRI: a case report. The authors report a patient with Miller-Fisher syndrome in whom MRI of the brain stem showed increased signal density on T2 sequence anterior to the fourth ventricle, on the right and the left. The authors discuss the relation between these MRI abnormalities and some clinical features of the syndrome. The authors believe that the cardinal features of Miller-Fisher syndrome are due to peripheral nervous system dysfunction, but that this does not preclude a possible central nervous system involvement. 
Bone scans in the diagnosis of bone crisis in patients who have Gaucher disease [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Jun;73(5):791] Of thirty-four occurrences of bone pain in seventeen children and young adults who had type-I Gaucher disease, twenty-five were finally diagnosed as bone crises. On the basis of a bone scan with technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate, a correct diagnosis of bone crisis was made for twenty-three occurrences, with a sensitivity of 0.92. At the onset of a crisis, the bone scan typically showed decreased uptake of radionuclide at the involved site. After six weeks, a repeat bone scan of the long bones showed a ring of increased uptake surrounding an area of decreased uptake. At six months, the appearance of the bones on the radionuclide scan was normal. 
Interictal spiking during wakefulness and sleep and the localization of foci in temporal lobe epilepsy. We examined variations in interictal spiking during sleep and wakefulness to assess differences in reliability for localizing epileptic foci. Forty patients were studied prospectively. Spikes were assessed for rates, field, and appearance of new foci. Final localization was determined by surgery, electrocorticography, and seizure onset. Comparison of interictal EEG foci with final localization was made. In 39 patients, slow-wave sleep activated spiking compared with wakefulness. Most patients showed maximal spiking in sleep stages 3 or 4. Restriction of field in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and wakefulness, and extension of field in slow-wave sleep occurred. New foci appeared in non-rapid eye movement sleep in 53% of patients. Similar but not identical spiking rates, foci, and field distributions were seen in wakefulness and REM sleep. All REM foci were unilateral. Our findings suggest that localization of the primary epileptogenic area is more reliable in REM sleep than in wakefulness, and in wakefulness more than in slow-wave sleep. 
Pathomechanism, pathogenesis, and results of treatment in cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis. In this study, the pathomechanism and pathogenesis of dynamic canal stenosis caused by cervical instability in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and the validity of the concept of instability are clarified by analyzing the results of treatment in 53 cases. In cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis, the authors found that the posterior slide of the vertebral body occurs as a result of degeneration in the cervical spine due to aging changes, and that the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal decreases with an increase of the degree of posterior slide. This is followed by gradual aggravation of the clinical symptoms. Continuous cervical traction was found to be the first choice of treatment. Surgical treatment is indicated in cases in which the traction was ineffective, or even when it was effective, in cases in which the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score remained low or when there was a tendency toward rapid aggravation of symptoms. It was demonstrated that the shorter the duration of the myelopathy, the better the results of treatment obtained. A limit of the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal of 12 mm was considered as valid. 
Early gastric cancer. Twenty-eight-year experience. A retrospective study of early gastric cancer (60 patients) was performed to evaluate its diagnosis and treatment. Ninety-five per cent of patients presented with nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms and 53.3% had been treated for presumed benign disease for up to 48 months before diagnosis. Fiberoptic endoscopy detected these lesions more accurately than radiologic examination. The disease-free 5-year survival rate after resection was 76.4%. Survival showed no significant correlation with sex, tumor site, macroscopic appearance, extent of gastric resection, or histopathologic type. Tumors larger than 1.5 cm in diameter, invasion of submucosa, or lymph node metastasis resulted in significantly lower survival rates. Three of eight patients with nodal metastasis survived 5 or more years, including one who had second-echelon deposits. A high index of suspicion may permit more frequent detection. Extended lymphadenectomy (R2) is recommended to achieve the highest possible cure rate. 
Innervation territories for touch and pain afferents of single fascicles of the human ulnar nerve. Mapping through intraneural microrecording and microstimulation. The peripheral distribution of the fibre content of individual ulnar nerve fascicles supplying skin and muscles of the hand in human volunteers was indirectly mapped by tracing the fields of projected sensation evoked by intraneural electrical microstimulation (INMS) and by tracing receptive fields delineated through intraneural recording of afferent impulse activity elicited by natural stimulation of end organs. Moderate intensity suprathreshold INMS, delivered in cutaneous fascicles, induced nonpainful sensations projecting to stereotyped and coherent areas of skin, the fascicular projected fields (FPFs). Fascicular receptive fields (FRFs) were mapped during microneurographic recording by determining the area of skin which, when activated by light tactile stimuli, elicited afferent neural discharges recorded intraneurally. It was found that at a given electrode position in a skin nerve fascicle, moderate intensity INMS induced nonpainful sensations projecting to a cutaneous field (FPF) that coincides with the FRF, while high intensity INMS induced painful sensations projecting within the cutaneous field of nonpainful sensations. Pain induced by INMS in muscle nerve fascicles was projected to the muscles innervated by that fascicle and, in most instances, to areas beyond the muscular receptive field. The study demonstrates that individual ulnar nerve fascicles, at wrist levels, subserve well-defined cutaneous territories in the hand, and that the area of skin covered by the sum of all ulnar fascicular receptive or projected fields matches the maximal possible cutaneous distribution of the ulnar nerve. Insights of practical relevance regarding clinical expression of fascicular nerve injuries are also brought up by this study. 
Differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury. A differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of Reading Vocabulary, Literal Reading Comprehension and Inferential Reading Comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital. Inferential Reading Comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate. Subtle cognitive deficits in Inferential Reading Comprehension were detected when Reading Vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level. Maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma, with most occurring in the first 3 months. The reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature. 
Patellar resurfacing in total knee arthroplasty. Technical errors in patellar resurfacing at the time of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are responsible for many of the complications that affect the patellofemoral joint. Instability, patellar fracture, and wear of metal-backed patellar implants are significantly affected by errors of patellar resurfacing. A review of 50 TKAs using a condylar prosthesis and a standardized technique for patellar resurfacing was performed to evaluate the accuracy of the technique. The patients were evaluated at a mean of 2.5 years (range, two to five years) after surgery. The Hospital for Special Surgery Knee Score improved from a preoperative mean of 56 to 92 at the last evaluation. The Hospital for Special Surgery Knee Scores were excellent in 92% and good in 8%. The Knee Society Knee Score improved from a preoperative mean of 28 for pain and 49 for function to a last evaluation mean of 96 for pain and 85 for function. None of the patients had symptoms referable to the patellofemoral joint. There were no patellar fractures, dislocations, or instances of implant loosening of the patella. Roentgenograms revealed nine asymmetrically resurfaced patellae and five tilted patellae. There were no patellar subluxations. Patellar thickness was maintained at the preoperative level of 21 mm. Joint-line height was elevated 1 mm. The patellar height was decreased 2 mm from the preoperative height. Using a standard technique, satisfactory clinical results can be achieved, but minor errors in resurfacing and alignment will still occur. 
Postnatal epilepsy after EEG-confirmed neonatal seizures. We examined infants whose neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal EEG tracings to determine the types and frequency of postnatal epilepsy (PNE)--unprovoked, recurring postnatal seizures. Perinatal and postnatal clinical and EEG variables were also examined for their relevance to PNE. Forty infants with EEG-documented neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies were studied. The 27 survivors were followed for a mean of 31 months. PNE developed in 56% (15 of 27) of the cohort. The first seizure appeared at a mean-corrected age of 12.7 months and occurred despite ongoing antiepileptic medication in 60% (9 of 15) of the group. Seizures were classified as infantile spasms or minor motor (7 patients), complex partial (4 patients), or generalized tonic-clonic (4 patients). Perinatal variables that significantly correlated with PNE included the presence of coma but not the age at seizure onset, the estimated gestational age, or Apgar scores. PNE occurred in 68% (13 of 19) of patients with moderately or markedly abnormal EEG backgrounds but in only 25% (2 of 8) without (p = 0.035). There was a strong trend for PNE to develop in patients with greater than 10 electrographic seizures per hour but in only 45% (9 of 20) of infants with fewer seizures (p = 0.058). Several postnatal variables were significantly related to PNE--the presence of cerebral palsy (CP), mental retardation (MR), CP with MR, and follow-up EEGs. PNE occurred in only 27% (3 of 11) of patients without spikes or sharp waves on postnatal EEGs performed at age 3 months but in 100% (3 of 3) of patients with spikes or sharp waves (p = 0.022). 
Carbon monoxide-induced delayed amnesia, delayed neuronal death and change in acetylcholine concentration in mice. We investigated the interrelationship of delayed amnesia, delayed neuronal death and changes in acetylcholine concentration induced by carbon monoxide (CO)-exposure in mice. In the test for retention of the passive avoidance task, amnesia was observed 5 and 7 days after CO-exposure when the mice were exposed to CO 1 day after training; in the case when the mice were exposed to CO 5 and 7 days before training, amnesia was also observed in a retention test given 1 day after training. The number of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1 subfield was lower than that of the control 3, 5 and 7 days after CO-exposure. But the neurodegeneration in the parietal cortex, area 1, was not observed until 7 days after CO-exposure. The findings indicated that the amnesia and the neuronal death were produced after a delay when the mice were exposed to CO. In addition, the delayed amnesia was closely related to the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 subfield. Moreover, [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine binding sites did not change after CO-exposure but, 7 days after CO-exposure, the concentration of acetylcholine and the binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate in the frontal cortex and the striatum were found to have significantly changed, but those in the hippocampus did not show significant change. Therefore, we suggest that delayed amnesia induced by CO-exposure may result from delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 subfield and dysfunction in the acetylcholinergic neurons, in the frontal cortex, the striatum and/or the hippocampus. 
Fractures of the clivus: classification and clinical features. Fractures of the clival complex were diagnosed in a series of 17 patients admitted to the Maryland Institute for Emergency Medical Services System and the University of Maryland Medical System over a 30-month period. These fractures were divided pathologically into three types based upon their appearance on computed tomography: longitudinal, transverse, and oblique. The mechanisms of injury were similar in all groups, and the Glasgow Coma Scale scores at admission were comparable, regardless of fracture type, in survivors and nonsurvivors. Longitudinal fractures were associated with severe injury to the central nervous system and with brain stem infarction, and 4 of 6 (67%) of these patients died. Transverse fractures of the clival complex were found in 6 patients, 3 of whom (50%) died. All of these patients had fractures of the petrous ridge; 2 of the 3 survivors had multiple cranial nerve deficits, and one patient developed a carotid-cavernous fistula. Of the 5 patients with oblique clival fractures, 2 survived (40%), both of whom had multiple cranial nerve palsies; in addition, one of these patients developed a carotid-cavernous fistula. Using the present generation of computed tomographic scanners, fractures of the clival complex can be reliably diagnosed; they are probably more common than previously believed and can be separated into three groups based on the characteristics on computed tomographic scans and clinical findings. 
Otolaryngologic management of patients with subdural empyema. From 1979 to 1988, 17 patients presented to Duke University Medical Center for treatment of subdural empyema. Empyemas were caused by sinusitis in 53% of the patients and by otitis media in 12%. None of those with otologic causes required mastoid drainage, while all patients with sinus infections required sinus drainage. External frontoethmoidectomies were associated with a lower incidence of frontoethmoid re-exploration (P = 0.048), and antrostomies with a lower incidence of maxillary re-exploration (P = 0.111), than were more limited drainage procedures. Sinus drainage performed simultaneously with neurosurgical drainage reduced the incidence of sinus re-exploration (P = 0.167), neurosurgical reexploration (P = 0.048), and length of hospitalization (P = 0.020). 
Spirochetal infection of the central nervous system. Four spirochetal diseases frequently involve the central nervous system: syphilis, leptospirosis, relapsing fever, and Lyme borreliosis. In particular, syphilis and Lyme borreliosis are increasing problems. During the spirochetemic phase there is seeding of the nervous system. After a quiescent latent period, there may be late disease flareups producing a variety of neurologic syndromes. Cerebrospinal fluid examination is very helpful in these infections. 
Bacterial meningitis in neonates and children. A high index of suspicion of meningitis is needed when evaluating neonates and young infants because clinical findings can be minimal and are often subtle and nonspecific. Analysis of the CSF constitutes the most effective method to document meningeal bacterial infection, although overlap with normal CSF values can occur, especially in newborns and very young infants. The introduction of highly active third-generation cephalosporins (ceftriaxone, cefotaxime) and their safety and efficacy in treating a broad array of bacterial pathogens that cause meningitis in all age groups has simplified selection of initial antibiotic therapy. In neonates, however, conventional antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside is appropriate because of its proven record of safety and efficacy, and because routine use of cephalosporins in the hospital nursery could lead to selection of resistant strains among gram-negative enteric bacilli. Despite the availability of modern intensive care management of infants and children with bacterial meningitis and the advent of potent antibiotics, case fatality rates and morbidity remain high. Because of this, recent research has focused on the complex interaction between bacteria and the host and on means to attenuate the meningeal inflammatory response. The clinical benefits demonstrated recently with the use of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis underscore the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy to reduce audiologic and neurologic sequelae. Future studies of new methods to modulate meningeal inflammation such as the use of monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or of agents that interfere with leukocyte-endothelial interactions are indicated. The implication of routine H. influenzae type b immunization in young infants with the conjugated vaccines and optimal intrapartum prophylaxis against group B streptococcal disease in newborns will have an important impact on the incidence of meningitis in infants and children. 
Concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis. A young Mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the United States. A solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery, but, instead of the expected finding of clear fluid, the cyst contained pus from which Brucella melitensis was cultured. Although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis, agglutination studies revealed IgM and IgG antibodies consistent with active brucellosis. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the United States are endemic. 
Laparoscopic ventrosuspensions. A review of 72 cases. Laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy. Serious postoperative complication is unlikely. However, patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus. The success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6% to 46.5%. The prior use of a Hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension. 
Intracranial hypertension in relation to memory functioning during the first year after severe head injury. The relationship between intracranial hypertension and residual memory deficit after closed head injury was evaluated using the 6-month and 1-year neurobehavioral outcome data obtained by the Traumatic Coma Data Bank. Intracranial pressure was analyzed using the percentage of time that it exceeded 20 mm Hg and the maximum value recorded during the first 72 hours after injury. Memory measures included recall of word lists, prose recall, and visual memory for designs that were obtained 6 months (n = 149) and 1 year (n = 132) after injury. Intracranial hypertension occurred in more than half of the Traumatic Coma Data Bank cohort who met the criteria for the neurobehavioral follow-up study. Linear regression analysis disclosed an effect of elevated intracranial pressure on some, but not all, measures of memory at 6 months, whereas the results were negative for the 1-year follow-up examination. We conclude that the elevation of intracranial pressure exerts little if any effect on later memory functioning, and that any effect it does have diminishes over 1 year in survivors of severe head injury. 
Xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas. We compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic (CT) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow (CBF) on xenon-enhanced CT scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas. Five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a CT scan. The other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a CT scan. The mean hemispheric CBF decreased about 7% in patients with headache and about 35% in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance. It decreased also on the side without the hematoma. The CBF reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex. On the contrary, the cortex CBF was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients. We speculate that CBF reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus, and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress. Central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex. 
Refractory hypoglycemia secondary to topical salicylate intoxication. We describe a case of severe refractory hypoglycemia secondary to topical salicylate intoxication. A 72-year-old man with psoriasis and end-stage renal disease was treated with a topical cream containing 10% salicylic acid. The patient presented with encephalopathy and subsequently developed hypoglycemia refractory to infusions of large amounts of glucose. A serum salicylate concentration was elevated at 3.2 mmol/L. Emergent hemodialysis was accompanied by rapid lowering of serum salicylate concentration and resolution of refractory hypoglycemia. Salicylate is well absorbed across normal and diseased skin. Salicylate markedly impairs gluconeogenesis and increases glucose utilization, resulting in hypoglycemia. To our knowledge, this is the first article on hypoglycemia due to the application of topical salicylate. 
Relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome. Based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases, this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury. The study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices. The head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with Glasgow Coma Scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices (Abbreviated Injury Scale and time to follow commands). Neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity, but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries. Psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently. When evaluating trauma outcome, it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries. 
Acute subdural hematoma: morbidity, mortality, and operative timing. Traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries. Since 1981, it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30% with functional survival rates as high as 65%. Data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients (Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores 3 to 7) treated at a Level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma. Standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures, rapid operative intervention, and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure (ICP). The overall mortality rate was 66%, and 19% had functional recovery. The following variables statistically correlated (p less than 0.05) with outcome; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury, age over 65 years, admission GCS score of 3 or 4, and postoperative ICP greater than 45 mm Hg. The time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome. The findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that, in acute subdural hematoma, the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome; therefore, the ability to control ICP is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal. 
Early-onset dementia and extrapyramidal disease: clinicopathological variant of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker or Alzheimer's disease? A case of progressive dementia and extrapyramidal signs beginning at age 29, with a ten year course until death, is presented. Necropsy examination showed an assortment of plaque types (including striatal plaques), neurofibrillary tangles, granulovacuolar degeneration, and depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. This case had pathological features found in both Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease and in Alzheimer's disease. While somewhat similar to several other cases with features of both diseases, it differs in the presence of dystonia and striatal plaques. Although such cases may be difficult to categorize at present, they must be considered in the differential diagnosis of early onset dementia. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine: effective for the clinician or the patient? OBJECTIVES--To test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients. DESIGN--Survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later. SETTING--Regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit. SUBJECTS--100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Changes in clinicians' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses; changes in intended management plans; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient; changes in patients' quality of life. RESULTS--Magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 (21%) cases. The clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 (54%). There was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 (62%). The clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 (73%) patients. Overall, the patients' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment. CONCLUSIONS--Magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians' diagnoses and management plans, but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged. 
Cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. We evaluated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of neopterin, a putative marker of activated macrophages, in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications. The highest CSF neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections, primary central nervous systems lymphoma, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) dementia complex. In general, the CSF concentration of neopterin was independent of CSF cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin. In the patients with AIDS dementia complex, CSF neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine. These results suggest that CSF neopterin, although not disease-specific, may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of AIDS dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy. 
Magnetic resonance imaging for ineffectual tarsal tunnel surgical treatment. Tarsal tunnel syndrome (TTS) is an entrapment neuropathy caused by compression of the posterior tibial nerve beneath the ankle flexor retinaculum. Treatment of TTS consists of surgical release of the retinaculum. The failure rate is 10%-20%. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was used to evaluate a patient with an unsatisfactory response. MR imaging demonstrated incompleteness of the surgical release of the flexor retinaculum. 
Differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria by DNA-mediated gene transfer in primary fibroblasts. Methylmalonic aciduria can be caused by mutations in the gene encoding the methylmalonyl coenzyme A mutase apoenzyme (mut) or genes required for the provision of cofactor B12 (cbl). The mut and cbl forms are classically differentiated by somatic cell complementation. We describe a novel method for differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria using DNA-mediated gene transfer of a methylmalonyl CoA mutase cDNA clone. Gene transfer of a functional methylmalonyl CoA mutase cDNA clone into mut fibroblasts reconstitutes holoenzyme activity measured by metabolism of [14C]-propionate in culture. Identical gene transfers into cbl fibroblasts have no effect. This method is used for the differential diagnosis of mut and cbl genotypes in cells from patients with a clinical diagnosis of methylmalonic aciduria and is shown to be a facile, sensitive, and specific method for genetic diagnosis. This work establishes the principle of using DNA-mediated gene transfer to identify the genotype of diseases which can result from mutations at several different genetic loci. This type of differential genotypic diagnosis will be particularly important for establishing the applicability of somatic gene therapy in individual patients. 
Maxillofacial surgery and nasal CPAP. A comparison of treatment for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the primary therapy for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Recent reports have indicated, however, that there is a small but significant number of failures related to patient compliance. Primary surgical treatment, which has been uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP), has declined because of poor results. A reviewed of UPPP failures has shown that while UPPP eliminated palatal obstruction, it failed to eliminate base of tongue obstruction. Maxillofacial surgery has been reported as treatment of OSAS by correcting base of tongue obstruction. Thirty patients with severe OSAS were evaluated to compare nasal CPAP and maxillofacial surgery. The goal was to determine if our surgical protocol was as effective as nasal CPAP. All patients initially underwent baseline diagnostic polysomnography to document OSAS. A nasal CPAP study was performed to determine the appropriate positive end-expiratory pressure. The patients in this study were using nasal CPAP, but they found it unacceptable as long-term treatment and elected surgery. Maxillofacial surgery consisted of maxillary, mandibular, and hyoid advancement. Polysomnography was performed six months following surgery and compared with the night 2 CPAP results. The parameters included in the investigation were the respiratory disturbance index (RDI), lowest SaO2, number of SaO2 falls below 90 percent, total sleep time (TST), REM sleep percent, stage 3-4 sleep percent, and wake after sleep onset. The mean RDI before treatment was 72.0 (SD 25.7). After completing therapy, the RDI from surgery and CPAP was 8.8 (SD 6.0) and 8.6 (SD 4.1), respectively. The mean low SaO2 prior to treatment was 61.0 (SD 13.5), and the CPAP results and postsurgical results were 86.2 (SD 5.5) and 86.1 (SD 4.2), respectively. An analysis of variance was used to examine the results, and there was no statistical difference between nasal CPAP and surgery for all respiratory variables. 
Detecting lower motor neuron dysfunction of the pharynx and larynx with electromyography. This study assessed the utility of clinical electromyography (EMG) for detecting lower motor neuron (LMN) or upper motor neuron (UMN) dysfunction affecting the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx. Twenty-nine subjects were examined; their clinical diagnoses included perioperative nerve injury, cerebral infarction, and lateral medullary infarction. Resting activity, motor unit action potential (MUAP) morphology, and MUAP recruitment were evaluated in every case. Medical records (excluding EMG data) were analyzed for clinical evidence of LMN or UMN dysfunction in the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx. The diagnosis of LMN dysfunction rested on clinical data consistent with cranial nerve injury, poliomyelitis, Wallenberg syndrome, or unilateral bulbar palsy. Criteria for UMN dysfunction included previous cerebral (not brainstem) infarction or mass lesion or the presence of hemiparesis. Electromyographic abnormalities were significantly associated with LMN dysfunction (p less than .05), but they were not significantly associated with UMN dysfunction. Of the parameters tested, MUAP recruitment was the most sensitive (82%) and specific (92%). 
The deja vu experience: remembrance of things past? The deja vu experience is a common phenomenon, occurring in pathological as well as nonpathological conditions. It has been defined as any subjectively inappropriate impression of familiarity of a present experience with an undefined past. The authors discuss the epidemiologic data, clinical features, and etiology of the phenomenon of deja vu. They also review the different hypotheses on the psychopathogenesis of the deja vu experience and introduce an explanation based on the hologram as a mnestic model. 
Effects of head trauma from motor vehicle accidents on Parkinson's disease. During 1 year we monitored changes in clinical disability scores in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who sustained head trauma from motor vehicle accidents. Disability significantly increased immediately after trauma, but returned to baseline levels in subsequent weeks. These patients' signs deteriorated over the subsequent year, but this decline was equivalent to that of a matched control group with PD who did not have a motor vehicle accident or trauma. Based on these data, we conclude that trauma or stress caused by motor vehicle accidents can transiently exacerbate parkinsonian dysfunction without causing persistent increased disability or an alteration in disease course. 
32-gauge spinal catheters through 26-gauge needles Small diameter intrathecal catheters potentially combine the certainty of intrathecal injection and the advantage of repeatability, without the risk of a high incidence of headache after dural puncture. We report problems placing such catheters. 
A novel treatment for ischemic intracranial hypertension in cats. There is no accepted efficacious treatment for ischemic cerebral edema. We show in a cat model of focal cerebral ischemia that infarct volume can be reduced (p less than 0.05) by ventriculocisternal perfusion with an oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion (bis-perfluorobutylethylene). An accompanying effect of such ventriculocisternal perfusion is a reduction in intracranial pressure. At 18 hours following the start of the perfusion, there was a significant (p less than 0.05) difference in intracranial pressure between nonperfused controls (mean 11.4 [range 2.3-23.0] torr, n = 6) and cats perfused with an oxygenated nutrient solution not containing fluorochemical (mean 11.3 [range 3.0-29.0] torr, n = 8) or animals perfused with the oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion (mean 2.21 [range 0-3.5] torr, n = 7). Perfusion with this oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion warrants further study as a treatment for elevated intracranial pressure. 
Brain stem tuberculoma in adult patients: diagnosis and treatment. A consecutive series of six adult patients ranging in age from 29 to 53 years is presented. The clinical and radiological features in each patient are described. Attention is drawn to the features demonstrated on computed axial tomography. In only one patient, the first encountered, was surgical excision undertaken and histological verification obtained. One patient died before any form of treatment could be instituted. The remaining four patients were treated with antituberculous chemotherapy alone and their progress monitored by sequential computed tomography. The excellent response and good outcome in this conservatively treated group are documented. 
Myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus. Case report. The case of a myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus is presented. The clinical course is reported, and the frequency of the lesion, diagnostic workup, histopathology, and surgical therapy are discussed. 
Neurologic complications of the tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. A case of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia, central nervous system complications, and multiple white matter lesions by magnetic resonance imaging is presented. Eosinophilia regardless of its cause should be included within the differential of patients exhibiting periventricular white matter lesions. 
ACTH therapy in infantile spasms: relationship between dose of ACTH and initial effect or long-term prognosis. The relationship between the dose of ACTH and the initial effect was investigated in 41 children with infantile spasms. More than 0.015 mg (0.6 IU)/kg/day of ACTH was needed for a good initial response of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities. The relationship between the dose of ACTH and long-term prognosis was investigated in 29 patients. There was no relationship between the daily or total ACTH dosage, provided the dose was greater than 0.015 mg (0.6 IU)/kg/day, and the outcome of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities; however, ACTH 0.04-0.06 mg (1.6-2.4 IU)/kg/day and a total ACTH dose of 1.1-1.5 mg (44-60 IU)/kg resulted in better mental development than smaller doses of ACTH. Side effects of ACTH increased with dosage. Too small or too large a dose of ACTH does not lead to better mental development. The proper dose of ACTH should be used with careful attention to potential side effects. 
Bronchial mucus hypersecretion in acute quadriplegia. Macromolecular yields and glycoconjugate composition. In acute quadriplegia we have noted that about one in five patients develops unexplained production of markedly excessive and tenacious bronchial mucus. Spontaneous recovery from mucus hypersecretion usually occurs within weeks to months. Mucus samples collected from 12 patients have been found to be abnormal. Macromolecular contents of single aspirates yielded as much as 500 mg. Analytical ultracentrifuge analysis showed the mucus to contain considerable epithelial glycoprotein (GP) of typical buoyant density; its amino acid and carbohydrate compositions were characteristic of the GP from hypersecretory bronchial mucus such as in chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis. In five patients studied after recovery from hypersecretion, there tended to be relatively less GP. The mucus samples contained a high density glycoconjugate (GC): this had sugars of GP but also reacted positively with a monoclonal antibody to keratan sulfate. Its amino acid composition was different from that of GP: threonine was lower and glycine was higher than in GP. In mucus from one patient who died, chondroitin sulfate ABC and hyaluronic acid were identified as well. This suggests proteoglycans are involved in the pathophysiology of mucus hypersecretion. The sudden onset and spontaneous recovery of hypersecretion suggests that it is not due to gland hypertrophy. We speculate that in acute quadriplegia it is due to disturbed neuronal control of bronchial mucus gland secretion, perhaps related to initial disappearance and later reappearance of peripheral sympathetic nervous system tone. 
Neurodevelopmental outcome of children with evidence of periventricular leukomalacia on late MRI. Fifteen children, 8 months of age or older, from a neonatal follow-up program underwent magnetic resonance imaging and neurologic, cognitive, and language evaluations. Magnetic resonance imaging findings in all children included increased white matter signal on T2-weighted images and ventricular enlargement adjacent to regions of abnormal white matter. The extent of degree of abnormal white matter signal and the degree of sulcal prominence were variable. Twelve children had cerebral palsy; 5 children, 4 of whom had cerebral palsy, manifested significant sensory impairments. The median score on cognitive testing was 89; only 2 children exhibited severe-to-profound cognitive disability. Cognitive scores were stable on retesting. The degree of motor disability was correlated with the extent of white matter signal abnormality; however, cognitive outcome was not related to the extent and degree of white matter signal abnormality or to the degree of sulcal prominence. Despite the association of a major handicapping condition and periventricular leukomalacia, cognitive and language functioning may be relatively spared. 
Pseudospasticity in Guillain-Barre syndrome. We report a woman with Guillain-Barre syndrome who developed a flexion posture of the right arm and hand resembling upper motor neuron dysfunction. EMG demonstrated that involuntary peripherally generated continuous motor unit discharges caused the posture. 
A placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. California Collaborative Treatment Group. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. In patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high. We conducted a controlled, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole. At entry into the study, all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis. The patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy. The dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase. RESULTS. Of 84 patients initially enrolled, 16 (19 percent) were found to have silent, persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry. Of the remaining 61 patients, 10 of 27 assigned to placebo (37 percent) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole (3 percent) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site (difference in risk, 34 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 15 to 53). Of the 11 recurrent infections, 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage. There were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo, but none in those taking fluconazole (mean duration of follow-up, 164 days) (P = 0.03). In multivariate analyses, the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment (P = 0.02; relative hazard, 13.2), a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer (P = 0.05; relative hazard, 1.2), and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine (P = 0.09; relative hazard, 1.1). Survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups. CONCLUSIONS. In patients with AIDS, silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis. Maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection. 
Stroke recurrence within 2 years after ischemic infarction. We prospectively studied stroke recurrence in 1,273 patients with ischemic stroke who were entered into the Stroke Data Bank. Median follow-up was 13 months. The 2-year cumulative recurrence rate among these patients was 14.1%. Age, sex, race, history of hypertension, atrial fibrillation, or transient ischemic attacks, and stroke location were not associated with a higher risk of stroke recurrence. Patients with an elevated blood pressure, an abnormal initial computed tomogram, or a history of diabetes mellitus were at a higher risk of stroke recurrence. In contrast, patients with an infarct of unknown cause were at a lower risk of stroke recurrence than patients with a defined stroke mechanism, such as lacune, embolism, or atherosclerosis. A multivariate model suggests that patients at the lowest risk for stroke recurrence have a low diastolic blood pressure, no history of stroke, no history of diabetes mellitus, and an infarct of unknown cause. 
Cognitive deficits in children: adaptive behavior and treatment techniques. Impaired cognitive functioning impedes the development of age-appropriate adaptive behavior, thus adding to the burdens of many children with epilepsy. Detailed neuropsychological assessment can identify the underlying ability-related impairments that contribute to the adaptive behavior deficiencies evidenced, particularly in the home and school settings. This information can serve as the basis for a multidisciplinary treatment plan tailored to individual needs. Ideally, the need for such a treatment plan should be perceived early in childhood, so that it can be developed and applied preventively. The same remedial principles also apply in older children and are here set out in detail. 
Epidural haematoma requiring surgical decompression following repeated cervical epidural steroid injections for chronic pain. We report a case of epidural haematoma following a steroid injection into the cervical epidural space. The complication occurred on the seventh such injection over a 2 year period for chronic spinal pain. Surgical decompression over the seventh cervical and the upper 3 thoracic vertebrae was required to alleviate the symptoms of paralysis and anaesthesia. The patient subsequently required skin grafting to the surgical site and two trans-urethral resections of the prostate gland during his 6 week hospital admission. He made a full recovery. 
mtDNA depletion with variable tissue expression: a novel genetic abnormality in mitochondrial diseases. We studied two related infants with a fatal mitochondrial disease, affecting muscle in one and liver in the other. Quantitative analysis revealed a severe depletion of mtDNA in affected tissues. This genetic abnormality was also observed in muscle of an unrelated infant with myopathy and in muscle and kidney of a fourth child with myopathy and nephropathy. Biochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization showed that the depletion of mtDNA in muscle fibers was correlated with a respiratory chain defect and with lack of mitochondrially translated proteins. Although the differential tissue involvement in these infants suggests mtDNA heteroplasmy, sequence analysis of mtDNA replication origins did not reveal any abnormality that could account for the low copy number. 
Distribution of three alpha-chain beta-hexosaminidase A mutations among Tay-Sachs carriers. DNA from 176 carriers of the Tay-Sachs gene was tested for the presence of the three mutations most commonly found among Ashkenazi Jews: the so-called insertion, splice junction, and adult mutations. Among 148 Ashkenazi Jews tested, 108 had the insertion mutation, 26 had the splice junction mutation, five had the adult mutation, and nine had none of the three. Among 28 non-Jewish carriers tested, most of whom were obligate carriers, four had the insertion mutation, one had the adult mutation, and the remaining 23 had none of the three. 
Streptococcus bovis meningitis: report of 2 cases. We describe 2 cases of Streptococcus bovis meningitis and review the 9 cases previously reported. This microorganism is a rare cause of meningitis in which there are no distinctive clinical or laboratory features. The Gram stain of the CSF is usually negative. Ten of the 11 cases had some underlying disease or comorbid condition that predisposed to S bovis infection: gastrointestinal disorder, endocarditis, CSF leak, polymyalgia rheumatica, and mandibular block. Treatment with high-dose penicillin is usually adequate. 
Noradrenergic abnormalities in the central nervous system of seizure-naive genetically epilepsy-prone rats. Norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were measured in 15 discrete areas of the central nervous system of two types of genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPRs) and in nonepileptic controls. Both moderate-seizure (GEPR-3) and severe-seizure (GEPR-9) animals had extensive abnormalities in brain NE concentration. Deficits of equal magnitude in GEPR-3s and GEPR-9s were found in the spinal cord, midbrain minus the inferior colliculus, inferior colliculus, hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, occipital + parietal cortex, frontal cortex, and olfactory septum. Because both types of GEPRs share these deficits and share seizure susceptibility, we hypothesize that these areas are candidates for regulation of seizure susceptibility in GEPRs. In addition, because GEPR-9s have more severe seizures than GEPR-3s and because GEPR-9s had greater NE deficits in several brain areas (cerebellum, pons-medulla, thalamus, and possibly the temporal cortex and olfactory bulbs), we hypothesize that these areas may be important in regulation of seizure severity in GEPRs. All animals used in these experiments had been protected from seizure-provoking stimuli and were naive to seizures. Because the abnormalities in NE concentration were present in seizure-predisposed animals that were protected from seizures, we conclude that these abnormalities are important components of the seizure-predisposition characteristic of GEPRs and do not result from seizure experience. 
Antimigraine treatment for slit ventricle syndrome. Slit ventricle syndrome is characterized by chronic or recurring headaches associated with subnormal ventricular volume in patients who have undergone shunt treatment for hydrocephalus. There appear to be at least three pathophysiological mechanisms that cause this syndrome: 1) intermittent shunt malfunction; 2) intracranial hypotension; and 3) paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure in the presence of normal shunt function. To treat seven patients with slit ventricle syndrome caused by paroxysms of elevated intracranial pressure, we successfully used antimigraine therapy rather than standard calvarial expansion procedures. None of these patients has required shunt revision or calvarial expansion during a mean follow-up period of 2 years. The symptoms of slit ventricle syndrome may be a form of "acquired" migraine in shunt patients. We suggest that, in clinically stable patients with normal shunt function, treatment against migraine may stabilize symptoms resulting from paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure. Such treatment may prevent unnecessary shunt revisions and/or calvarial expansion procedures. 
Missed injuries. The trauma surgeon's nemesis. The multiply injured trauma patient presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge: that of discovering all injuries while simultaneously proceeding with resuscitation and maintaining life. Many factors involved in the initial resuscitation of the multiply injured patient, such as altered level of consciousness, hemodynamic instability, or inexperience and diagnostic oversight, may lead to missed injuries. Injuries may be missed at any stage of the management of the trauma patient, including intraoperatively, and may involve all regions of the body. Established protocols in the initial management of the multiply injured patient, such as the primary and secondary surveys of the Advanced Trauma Life Support Course, will minimize the chance of missing immediately life-threatening injuries in the emergency department. A careful intraoperative approach must be used in all patients, but especially in those with hemodynamic instability, so that all areas are examined for possible injury, rather than concentrating simply on what is known to be injured. Use of the tertiary survey, a careful re-examination of the multiply injured trauma patient, especially when he or she awakes, will help detect injuries missed during the initial evaluation. Injuries will be missed. Rather than dismissing these as occurrences that happen only to the inexperienced or incompetent, one should approach the multiply injured trauma patient with both special alertness and the humility necessary to search for diagnostic oversights. This approach will lead to early discovery of missed injuries and will minimize the consequences. 
Bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase for eyelid anesthesia. A double-masked, randomized clinical trial was conducted to determine if subcutaneous eyelid injections of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture were less painful than unbuffered injections. Twenty-one patients received both buffered (pH = 7.4) and unbuffered (pH = 4.6) injections. After each injection, patients recorded pain on a scale of 0, "no pain," to 10, "severe pain." Mean pain score for buffered injections was 2.0 versus 4.1 for unbuffered injections (P = 0.0003). Seventeen (81%) of 21 patients ranked the buffered injection less painful. Use of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture is effective in making ophthalmic anesthesia less painful. 
Soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders. Soluble interleukin-2 (IL-2R) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were studied in infectious, inflammatory, degenerative, and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated T cells, thus indicating an inflammatory process. CSF from control subjects and patients with stationary, progressive, and treated multiple sclerosis (MS); aseptic meningitis; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system (CNS) tumors; Alzheimer's disease, as well as serum from MS patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble IL-2R. A significant increase in CSF IL-2R levels was observed in patients with MS, meningitis, and lymphoid CNS tumors; the MS group showed the highest values. CSF from individuals with Alzheimer's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values. Serum IL-2R levels were significantly higher in MS patients than in control subjects, but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and CSF IL-2R levels. This study suggests the presence of activated T-lymphocytes in the CNS of patients with MS. 
Evaluation of minor head trauma in children younger than two years. The recent medical literature emphasizes the limitations of skull films in the evaluation of minor head trauma. However, the emergency medicine literature places little emphasis on the particular risks in children younger than 2 years old with blunt head injury. These children have immature bone and unfused sutures that may increase risk of cranial injury and delayed complications. A case is presented to illustrate this point. Unlike severe head trauma, where evaluation is directed toward computed tomography, the literature continues to be controversial regarding the indications for skull radiographs and computed tomography in minor head trauma. The authors recommend a low threshold for radiographic imaging in blunt heat injuries in children younger than 2 years. 
Spinal cord inhibitory mechanisms in Parkinson's disease. We studied two spinal cord inhibitory mechanisms, recurrent (Renshaw) inhibition and reciprocal inhibition, in seven patients with asymmetric Parkinson's disease in order to determine their contribution to the pathogenesis of rigidity. Recurrent inhibition, studied in the leg, did not differ from that found in normal subjects. All three periods of reciprocal inhibition, studied in the forearm, were present but reduced in magnitude compared with those observed in normal subjects. The arms, whether more symptomatic or less symptomatic, gave similar results. The diminution of all three periods of reciprocal inhibition is similar to the findings in patients with dystonia and is apparently indicative of an abnormal supraspinal influence on spinal mechanisms in these two disorders of basal ganglia function. 
Fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration. A case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported. Jaundice, fever, myalgia, and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment. Continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade III encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels. This case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure. 
Impairment of sequences of memory-guided saccades after supplementary motor area lesions. Different paradigms of saccades were recorded electro-oculographically in 2 patients with infarction affecting the left supplementary motor area. Saccades made toward visual targets (visually-guided saccades) or away from them (antisaccades) were normal in both patients. Memory-guided saccades, made to the remembered position of a flash occurring 2 seconds before, were preserved in 1 patient and only slightly impaired in the other. However, sequences of two or three memory-guided saccades were severely impaired in both patients. It has previously been reported that the supplementary motor area plays an important role in programming sequential limb movements. Our data suggest that this area plays a similar role in the control of sequential eye movements. 
The disabled driver: an unmet challenge. A survey was undertaken to determine if driving impairment secondary to a disabling injury is addressed in state licensing laws and training programs. In 35 states drivers submit voluntarily to reevaluation after disabling injuries, but no provision is made for reporting such individuals. Only 15 states authorize physicians to report impaired drivers, and only seven require such reporting. Based on a survey of licensing bureaus in the capital or a major city of every state, clerks (who are likely to be the source of information to injured persons) are generally not aware of reporting requirements and supervisors are only slightly better informed. Of the 100 rehabilitation centers surveyed, only 36 provided on-site training for disabled drivers. Voluntary submission for reevaluation after head injury does not often occur. Despite being asked to do so, none of the 35 head injured patients, followed up to two years post-onset, sought reevaluation, although 21 had resumed regular driving. Two of the 21 were involved in subsequent traffic accidents. Common guidelines need to be established across states to ensure reevaluation of individuals with disabling conditions, delivery of accurate information concerning licensing, and availability of training programs. 
Orocaecal transit time in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Smooth muscle degeneration may occur in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We measured fasting orocaecal transit time in patients with advanced Duchenne muscular dystrophy and other muscular dystrophies and in healthy controls. No significant differences were found. In contrast to reports of gastric hypomotility in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, we found no evidence of impaired small intestinal motility. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy for primary lymphoma of the central nervous system. Ten immunocompetent patients with primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the central nervous system were treated by the neuro-oncology service at the University of California at San Francisco (UCSF). After undergoing surgery for biopsy or removal of their tumors, these patients (group 1) received irradiation with hydroxyurea followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with the combination of procarbazine, lomustine (CCNU), and vincristine. The outcome of treatment in this group was compared with that in three other groups of patients with primary CNS lymphoma: patients treated at the UCSF Cancer Research Institute who underwent surgery and radiation therapy (RT) (group 2); patients described in the literature who had surgery and RT (group 3); or patients described in the literature who had surgery, RT, and chemotherapy (group 4). Median and quartile survival times were greater in patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy (group 1, 30 and 50 months; group 4, 20 and 25 months) than in patients who did not receive chemotherapy after RT (group 2, 13 and 20 months; group 3, 15 and 24 months). These results suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy is useful in the treatment of primary CNS lymphoma. 
An early description of slowly progressive aphasia. Slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia has become an important issue of present-day neuropsychological research. Historically, credit for the first description is usually given to Pick. Another German-speaking author who has published a vivid description of a pertinent cases is Pick's contemporary, Max Rosenfeld. This author has also observed a patient with slowly progressive spatial disorientation and visual recognition deficit, and he has discussed these patients in a remarkably modern way in the context of partial atrophy of the brain. 
A family study of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. Previous studies have demonstrated that Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (TS) is a familial disorder and that chronic tics (CT) and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) appear to be etiologically related to the syndrome. In the present study we report the results from a study of 338 biological relatives of 86 TS probands, 21 biologically unrelated relatives of adopted TS probands, and 22 relatives of normal subjects. The 43 first-degree relatives of the adopted TS and normal probands constituted a control sample. The rates of TS, CT, and OCD in the total sample of biological relatives of TS probands were significantly greater than in the relatives of controls. In addition, the morbid risks of TS, OCD, and CT were not significantly different in families of probands with OCD when compared to relatives of probands without OCD. These findings provide further evidence that OCD is etiologically related to TS. 
A limited diagnostic investigation for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Oximetry and static charge sensitive bed. A simplified sleep apnea investigation consisting of combined oximetry and respiration movement monitoring was compared with conventional polysomnography. These two types of recordings were performed simultaneously during one night in 77 patients with suspected obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). A static charge sensitive bed (SCSB) was used in the simplified recording because it provides a comfortable and reliable means of recording respiration movements. Periods of obstructive apneas gave a diamond-shaped periodic respiration movement pattern in the SCSB, usually accompanied by repetitive oxygen desaturations. The average number of desaturations greater than or equal to 4 percent per sleeping hour was termed the oxygen desaturation index (ODI) and compared with the apnea index (AI). In the whole population they were well correlated (p less than 0.0001, R2 = 0.41), but in individual cases there were considerable discrepancies. Patients with periodic respiration movements less than 18 percent of total sleeping time and ODI less than 2 never had AI greater than or equal to 5, whereas patients with periodic respiration greater than 45 percent and ODI greater than 6 always had AI greater than or equal to 5. Fifty-one of the 77 patients fulfilled these criteria. A bradycardia response to apneas was absent in 29 percent of patients with AI greater than or equal to 5. A combination of respiration movement and oximetry recording thus seems to give sufficient information to confirm or negate a diagnosis of OSAS in a majority of patients with clinical symptoms. In borderline patients, further investigations should be performed. 
Idiopathic intracranial hypertension. A prospective study of 50 patients. Management of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) should be based on the presence and progression of visual loss. To characterize the clinical course of IIH more completely, we monitored the clinical status, especially visual function, in 50 consecutive newly-diagnosed patients over a period of 2 to 39 months (average follow-up 12.4 months). The mean age at onset of symptoms was 31 (range 11-58) yrs; 46 (92%) were women and 47 (94%) were obese (mean weight 90 kg). Common symptoms were headache (92%), transient visual obscurations (72%) and intracranial noises (60%); 13 of the patients (26%) initially had complaints of sustained visual loss. There was visual loss as determined by Goldmann perimetry in 96% and by automated perimetry in 92%. Contrast sensitivity testing was abnormal in 50% and Snellen acuity in 22%. Two patients (4%) became blind in both eyes. The Goldmann visual field grade improved in 60% of patients but visual function deteriorated in 5 (10%). Deterioration of visual field grade was significantly associated only with weight gain during the year before diagnosis. Visual loss in patients with IIH is common and is often reversible. Patients should be evaluated by perimetry using an appropriate strategy and contrast sensitivity testing, along with careful examination of the optic discs. 
Isolation of sequences that span the fragile X and identification of a fragile X-related CpG island [published erratum appears in Science 1991 Apr 26;252(5005):494] Yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) were obtained from a 550-kilobase region that contains three probes previously mapped as very close to the locus of the fragile X syndrome. These YACs spanned the fragile site in Xq27.3 as shown by fluorescent in situ hybridization. An internal 200-kilobase segment contained four chromosomal breakpoints generated by induction of fragile X expression. A single CpG island was identified in the cloned region between markers DXS463 and DXS465 that appears methylated in mentally retarded fragile X males, but not in nonexpressing male carriers of the mutation nor in normal males. This CpG island may indicate the presence of a gene involved in the clinical phenotype of the syndrome. 
Clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy, 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy, and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of MRI for cervical myelopathy. The MRI findings in the T1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord. The degree of compression of the cervical cord on MRI findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy, the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column, and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms (P less than 0.01). Fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative MRI. Of these, the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography (CT). However, 24 (51%) of these 47 patients showed on MRI a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy. The correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on MRI at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels. Twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results, although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities. From these results, it was evident that T1-weighted MRI is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy, in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus, and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results. 
What practicing physicians in North Carolina rate as their most challenging geriatric medicine concerns. We recently surveyed a random sample of 500 physicians in family practice, general practice, and internal medicine in North Carolina, to discover their most challenging geriatric concerns. Using a three-stage survey technique, respondents were asked to answer two open-ended questions about the most challenging geriatric problems they face and what specific geriatric content areas would attract their participation in an educational program. They were then asked to rank 34 topics on which they would like more information. A total of 242 responses were received for a 55% response rate (63 of the 500 were undeliverable). Responses indicated that physicians are more concerned with management than diagnosis and revealed considerable evidence of empathy and concern. The top three topics had to do with the management of dementia, multiple problems, and depression. Approximately 25% of physicians consider problems of financing health care as among the most challenging problems. 
The risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion. In this cross-sectional study, the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) at the Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality. Complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 (97%). National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) patients and Wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups. The prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the CRVO cases when compared with both comparison groups (P less than 0.03, 0.005). The prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in CRVO cases in comparison with the NHIS group (P less than 0.005). The prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups, as was overall mortality. Mortality was not increased in CRVO cases as compared with United States mortality rates. 
Anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome. Between 1975 and 1979, anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders. The procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective. Of the 65 patients in this study, 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis, and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear. These 16 had rotator cuff repairs. Twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision, and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii. The average age of the patients was 50 years (range, 23-75 years). All patients were followed for an average of eight years (range, three to 13 years). At final evaluation, no or slight pain was present in 77% of the shoulders: 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair. Active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees. Ninety-two percent returned to employment, including 18% with some job modification. Eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics, 20% with some modification of activities. Seven patients had additional surgical treatment. The progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented, but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases. 
Selective spatial attention in patients with visual extinction. The present study was designed to verify the attentional performance of patients with parietal lesions in the experimental condition in which they had to pay attention to 3 spatial positions located on the left, on the right and directly above the fixation stimulus (Experiment 1) and to only 1 of the 3 spatial positions at a time (Experiment 2). Twelve patients (6 subjects with right parietal lesions and 6 subjects without neurological deficits) participated in the experiment. The results of Experiment 1 showed that in patients with right parietal lesions the speed and accuracy of response to horizontally aligned stimuli increased gradually from right to left, whereas the control group showed only the effect due to the different retinal eccentricities of the 3 stimuli, that is, responses to central stimuli were faster and more accurate than responses to left and right stimuli. The results of Experiment 2 showed that both the neurological and control groups were faster to respond to central than to left and right stimuli, and that the neurological group was faster to respond to right than left stimuli, whereas no difference in RTs between two visual fields was obtained in the control group. Furthermore, when the patients had to respond to 3 spatial locations aligned horizontally (Experiment 1), the speed and accuracy of response to the right stimulus were the same as when they had to focus attention on it (Experiment 2). These results showed that the focus of attention in patients with visual extinction is on the rightmost stimulus and that the increased attention to the right is accompanied by a decreased attention to the left. 
Antiepileptic drugs, cognitive function, and behavior in children: evidence from recent studies. The effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) on cognitive function and behavior in children are reviewed on the basis of published studies. Individual AEDs have been shown to differ--the deleterious effects of phenytoin generally contrasting with the relatively minimal effects of valproate and carbamazepine. Some of the differences between results may be attributed to the psychological tests used and to age differences. However, there appears to be a dissociation between AEDs that affect higher cognitive function, e.g., phenytoin, and those mainly affecting motor function, e.g., carbamazepine, which appears to increase speed of performance, AEDs should be prescribed with care in children with epilepsy, taking account of their differing effects on cognitive function and behavior. 
Middle cerebral artery strokes causing homonymous hemianopia: positron emission tomography. Eight patients were evaluated with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography between 3 and 30 days after isolated stroke involving the middle cerebral artery territory that caused homonymous hemianopia. Diffuse hypometabolism was present throughout the damaged cerebral hemisphere, even in cortical areas not obviously ischemic by clinical examination or neuro-imaging. Glucose metabolism in primary and association visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere was decreased by more than 47% (p less than 0.01). Metabolism in the undamaged hemisphere was less profoundly affected, but significant decrements were found in calcarine (40%; p less than 0.01) and lateral occipital cortex (35%; p less than 0.05). 
Cervical spine diastematomyelia in adulthood. Adult cervical diastematomyelia is a rare malformation and is usually associated with posterior element anomalies. A case of isolated cervical diastematomyelia, which was initially thought to be a herniated cervical disc, is described. Diagnosis and surgical management are discussed. 
Stroke rehabilitation: a geropsychological perspective. Rehabilitation medicine and geriatric medicine are similar in their concern for functional improvement in the face of chronic medical conditions. Although many patients served by rehabilitation medicine fall within the geriatric age range, a knowledge of normal aging does not necessarily inform clinical decision making or research practices in rehabilitation. Using stroke as an example of a disorder affecting primarily geriatric patients and requiring the technology of rehabilitation, ways in which age might affect assessment of outcome are examined. Three areas dealing with conceptual and methodologic issues--depression, neurochemical interventions, and family--are highlighted. The final section outlines recommendations for research on rehabilitation outcome of geriatric stroke patients. 
Genetic cause of a juvenile form of Tay-Sachs disease in a Lebanese child. Abnormality in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha gene underlying the clinical phenotype of a Lebanese patient with a juvenile form of Tay-Sachs disease has been studied. Clinical features were progressive spasticity, ataxia, and cognitive decline. The protein coding sequence of several beta-hexosaminidase alpha-chain complementary DNAs isolated by polymerase chain reaction was completely normal except for a G-to-A transition at nucleotide position 1511 within exon 13, which resulted in substitution of the normal arginine 504 (CGC) with histidine (CAC). Although the patient was from a first-cousin marriage, she was heterozygous for this mutation. The abnormality in the other allele, which is carried by the father, was not identified, except that it is neither of the two mutations responsible for the infantile Jewish Tay-Sachs disease. Biosynthetic and immunoprecipitation studies in cultured fibroblasts showed synthesis of the alpha-chain precursor, but the mature form of the alpha-subunit was not detected. 
Limited selective posterior rhizotomy for the treatment of spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy: a preliminary report. A limited selective posterior rhizotomy was performed on 30 children suffering from spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy. As opposed to standard techniques that stimulate and divide the dorsal rootlets from L2 to S1, we dissected L4, L5, and S1 dorsal roots through an L5 to S1 laminectomy. Eight to 12 rootlets from each root were electrically stimulated with two unipolar electrodes (pulse width, 50 microseconds; 10-50 V). The muscle responses were observed visually and registered by electromyography. Those rootlets associated with an abnormal motor response as evidenced by sustained muscular contraction or by prolonged electromyographic response were divided. Spasticity was scored from 0 to +. The muscular groups assessed were those involved in the flexion of the shoulder, elbow and wrist in the upper limbs, and those involved in flexion and adduction of the hip, flexion of the leg, and plantar flexion in the lower limbs. The patients were assessed 1 week before and 6 months after the operation. Reduction of spasticity was observed in all the muscular groups, and all the patients presented functional improvement of motor abilities. These preliminary results indicate that a limited procedure that reduces the extension of the laminectomy and the length of the operation could be effective for treating spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy. 
Respiratory muscle involvement in nemaline myopathy. A boy who had experienced generalized muscle weakness and hypotonia since early infancy was diagnosed as having nemaline myopathy on the basis of muscle biopsy at 3 years of age. At 8 years of age, he developed severe respiratory failure and required respiratory support during sleep. Because of recurrent pneumothorax, he underwent thoracic surgery, at which time biopsy specimens were obtained from the respiratory and truncal muscles. The histologic findings of the respiratory muscles included marked variation in fiber size with a notable increase in fibrous tissue, type 2 fiber deficiency, elevated acid phosphatase activity, and a disorganized intermyofibrillar network. The findings from the truncal muscles were similar to those of the biceps brachii muscle: little variation in fiber size, numerous nemaline bodies in all fibers, and type 1 fiber predominance. The preferential damage to the respiratory muscles was probably responsible for the sudden onset of severe respiratory failure. 
Isolation of a complementary DNA clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. We isolated a complementary DNA clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma. The recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient, and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum. The deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues, the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238, and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99. This complementary DNA sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously, and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary DNA or the amino acid sequences in the GenBank, EMBL, or NBRF databases, including the complementary DNA for a 34-kd cerebellar protein (CDR34) that is recognized by an anti-Purkinje cell antibody. Unexpectedly, the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue, the intestine. 
Eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion. A manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Recently, the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, which is characterized by eosinophilia, myalgias, and several less consistently reported findings. We treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms. Twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia, with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88. The remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined. Eight patients complained of myalgias. Other symptoms included arthralgias, pruritus, cutaneous burning, weakness, fever, rashes, malaise, edema, muscle spasms, and alopecia. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested. Our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases. 
Seizures in the alcoholic patient. The First International Symposium on Alcohol and Seizures (September 1988, Washington, DC) convened experts from North America and Europe to discuss the basic and clinical research findings in this field. Most of the observations communicated at this symposium are included in this article. Emergency physicians are familiar with the alcoholic patient who presents during or after a seizure(s). This familiarity must not obscure the fact that a significant minority of these patients will have an underlying process that can cause morbidity or mortality if the unsuspecting physician does not have an organized and methodic approach to the evaluation and management of the seizing alcoholic patient. Status epilepticus should be evaluated and treated in a similar fashion, whether or not the patient is an alcoholic. Otherwise, almost without exception, there are nuances and controversies with respect to the evaluation and management of the alcoholic patient with a seizure(s), from the indications for CT scan, to the proper role of sedatives and anticonvulsants, and the need for admission. The emergency physician must remain a patient advocate. The great majority of alcoholic patients with seizures who require admission can be treated satisfactorily at the hospital of presentation. 
Nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute, multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection, in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks. Multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques. The epidemiology, possible pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnostic imaging, and therapy are reviewed. Early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with "cryptic" myalgia is recommended. 
Causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in Hisayama, a Japanese community. Results from a long-term and autopsy-based study. The causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in Hisayama, Japan, a rural community. We compared 1,621 subjects, aged 40 years or over, recruited in 1961, and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974. Each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years; they had autopsy rates of 82.1% and 86.1% during each 10-year period, respectively. The most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease, malignant neoplasms, and pneumonia. Deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort, but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years. There was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease. Deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women, whereas they decreased in the aged men. Pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts. Deaths due to "senility" were rare, being only 1% of the deceased aged 70 or over. With prolonged lifespan, especially for women, the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent Japanese aged population appears to have increased. 
Neuroanatomy of fragile X syndrome: the posterior fossa. The occurrence and specificity of posterior fossa abnormalities as measured from magnetic resonance images of the brain were investigated in a group of 14 males with fragile X syndrome and comparison groups consisting of 17 males with other causes of developmental disability and 18 males with normal IQs. The size of the posterior cerebellar vermis was significantly decreased and the fourth ventricle significantly increased in the group of males with fragile X syndrome compared with males in both comparison groups. These neuroanatomical abnormalities appeared to be secondary to hypoplasia rather than atrophy. 
Steroids induce acetylcholine receptors on cultured human muscle: implications for myasthenia gravis. Antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), which are diagnostic of the human autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis, block AChR function and increase the rate of AChR degradation leading to impaired neuromuscular transmission. Steroids are frequently used to alleviate symptoms of muscle fatigue and weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis because of their well-documented immunosuppressive effects. We show here that the steroid dexamethasone significantly increases total surface AChRs on cultured human muscle exposed to myasthenia gravis sera. Our results suggest that the clinical improvement observed in myasthenic patients treated with steroids is due not only to an effect on the immune system but also to a direct effect on muscle. We propose that the identification and development of pharmacologic agents that augment receptors and other proteins that are reduced by human genetic or autoimmune disease will have broad therapeutic applications. 
Syncope and presyncope associated with probable adverse drug reactions. The purpose of this study was to determine whether syncope and presyncope were associated with drug therapy in 70 patients referred to a tertiary care ambulatory clinic. Drug use information was obtained, validated, and classified by its potential to cause syncope and presyncope. Utilizing a standardized adverse drug reaction algorithm, nine (13%) of the 70 patients were rated as having probable drug-induced syncope and presyncope events. Overall, 12 medications were implicated. Patients with probable adverse drug reactions were older, and taking more medications, or taking an antihypertensive. Seven of the nine patients with probable adverse drug reactions were previously classified as having syncope of unknown origin after their initial clinic evaluation. Syncope and presyncope are commonly associated with adverse drug reactions, especially in the elderly and those taking multiple medications. 
Cerebral blood flow in progressive aphasia without dementia. Case report, using 133xenon inhalation, technetium 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission computerized tomography. We report a case of progressive aphasia without clinical signs of intellectual or behavioral impairment, satisfying Mesulam's clinical criteria of primary progressive aphasia, as 4 yrs of extensive psychometric testing and radiological imaging, comprising CT and MRI, failed to detect evidence of relevant involvement outside the left perisylvian regions. Cranial CT was normal but MRI showed multiple bilateral lesions in the deep white matter. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) studies by single photon emission computerized tomography, however, showed an initial frontotemporal focus of hypoperfusion that progressively extended to include most of the ipsilateral hemisphere and the contralateral frontal lobe. This suggests that CBF imaging may yet be the most sensitive technique in revealing subclinical injury in the degenerative brain diseases of focal onset. 
Optic nerve gliomas and meningiomas. Optic nerve gliomas are benign astrocytic neoplasms that primarily affect children. The ultimate prognosis for vision is poor. For lesions confined to the optic nerves, long-term survival is excellent, but with involvement of the chiasm and especially of the hypothalamus or third ventricle, prognosis falls significantly. For this group, no form of therapy has proven to be of any benefit. Optic sheath meningiomas are neoplasms arising from arachnoid cap cells. They primarily affect middle-aged adults. Like gliomas, the prognosis for vision is poor, but unlike gliomas, prognosis for life is excellent. 
Temporoparietal cortex in aphasia. Evidence from positron emission tomography. Forty-four aphasic patients were examined with (F18)-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in a resting state to determine whether consistent glucose metabolic abnormalities were present. Ninety-seven percent of subjects showed metabolic abnormalities in the angular gyrus, 89% in the supramarginal gyrus, and 87% in the lateral and transverse superior temporal gyrus. Pearson product moment correlations were calculated between regional metabolic measures and performance on the Western Aphasia Battery. No significant correlations were found between the Western Aphasia Battery scores and right hemisphere metabolic measures. Most left hemisphere regions correlated with more than one score from the Western Aphasia Battery. Temporal but not frontal regions had significant correlations to the comprehension score. The left temporoparietal region was consistently affected in these subjects, suggesting that common features in the aphasias were caused by left temporoparietal dysfunction, while behavioral differences resulted from (1) the extent of temporoparietal changes, and (2) dysfunction elsewhere in the brain, particularly the left frontal and subcortical areas. 
Health care screening for people with mental handicap living in the community OBJECTIVE--To determine what contact people with mental handicap had had with their general practitioner in the previous year; what prescribed drugs they were taking and whether these had been reviewed; when hearing and vision had last been screened; and what medical problems were found on examination. DESIGN--Case series. SETTING-Day centre for adults with mental handicap. SUBJECTS--A balanced sample of 75 of the 150 people attending the day centre. 10 Were excluded because consent was not given. RESULTS--The subjects did not consult their general practitioners more frequently than the general population but were more likely to be taking prescribed drugs, and 57% of these prescriptions had not been reviewed by a doctor. Thirty three people failed vision screening, including 13 who wore glasses. Twenty seven of the 62 who were testable had a hearing impairment. CONCLUSIONS--As only eight out of 65 people examined in the study did not have an appreciable problem brought to light, screening seems to be worth while. Whether such screening needs to be done by a medically qualified person needs further research. 
Use of EMLA cream as an analgesic in the management of painful otitis externa. A new application of EMLA cream is described. Relief of pain in otitis externa is difficult and systemic analgesics for this localized condition are often ineffective. Meticulous cleaning of the external auditory meatus is an essential step in the treatment. EMLA cream is an effective analgesic which can be used to relieve pain and anaesthetize the external auditory meatus to allow cleaning in patients with intact tympanic membranes. 
Idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema. We describe 10 patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension who did not have papilledema. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema, although rarely reported, may well be a clinically important headache syndrome. Historical and demographic features of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema are similar to those of patients with papilledema. Obese women with chronic daily headache and symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, pulsatile tinnitus, history of head trauma or meningitis, an empty sella on imaging studies, or a headache that is unrelieved by standard therapy should have a diagnostic lumbar puncture. Findings from laboratory and neurologic investigations are normal in most patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema. Initial management should include removal of possible inciting agents, weight loss if applicable, and standard headache therapy. Lumbar puncture and diuretic therapy should precede a trial of corticosteroids. Surgery (lumboperitoneal or ventriculoperitoneal shunt or perhaps optic nerve sheath fenestration) may be indicated for prolonged incapacitating headache that is not responsive to medical management or lumbar puncture. 
Spectral analysis of heart rate in diabetic autonomic neuropathy. A comparison with standard tests of autonomic function. Power spectral analysis of the heart rate was compared with standard tests of autonomic function performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with symptoms of autonomic dysfunction. The high-frequency power, low-frequency power, and total power of the heart rate power spectrum measured in the supine position--possible measures of parasympathetic nervous system function--were significant predictors of the expiratory-inspiratory ratio, the beat-to-beat heart rate difference on deep respiration, the standard deviation of the resting heart rate, the 30:15 ratio, and the Valsalva ratio. The change in low-frequency power on moving from the supine to upright position, a possible measure of sympathetic nervous system function, was a modest predictor of the systolic and diastolic blood pressure fall in response to postural change, but a poor predictor of the blood pressure response to isometric exercise and a cold stimulus. This study supports the role of heart rate power spectral analysis as a clinical test of autonomic function in patients with known or suspected autonomic failure. 
Oromandibular disorders and headache. A critical appraisal. Oromandibular disorders are functional disorders and associated pains in the anatomic region of the temporomandibular joint. Their diagnosis and treatment are controversial because of the lack of conformity concerning these disorders among health care providers. This article provides a clear classification of these disorders and critically reviews their evaluation and treatment. 
Threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome. Twelve consecutive patients (17 eyes) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the G1 Octopus program (Interzeag AG, Schlieren, Switzerland). Visual fields were abnormal in all cases. Although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant (P less than .001), it also involved the other three quadrants, thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial. Linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error (P less than .05). However, the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance (P less than .05), indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia, field loss is more homogeneous. With this series of patients, short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields, showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders. 
Recombinant human acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit induces chronic experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. A synthetic gene encoding the 210 N-terminal residues of the alpha-subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of human skeletal muscle was cloned into an inducible expression plasmid to produce a fusion protein in high yield in Escherichia coli. Like native human AChR, the recombinant human alpha 1-210 protein induced AChR-binding, AChR-modulating, and AChR-blocking autoantibodies in rats when injected once intradermally as an emulsion in CFA, with Bordetella pertussis vaccine as supplementary adjuvant. The minimum dose of recombinant protein required to induce biochemical signs of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) with 100% incidence was 2.2 micrograms. With 6.6 to 22 micrograms, serum levels of autoantibodies were persistent, and clinically apparent EAMG lasted more than a month. Clinical, electrophysiological, and biochemical indices of EAMG induced by doses of 66 micrograms or more were more uniformly severe and persistent, with 33% fatality. Rats receiving a control extract of E. coli containing plasmid without the alpha 1-210 codon insert, with adjuvants, did not develop autoantibodies or signs of EAMG. This highly reproducible new model of EAMG induced by a recombinant human autoantigen should be valuable for testing Ag-specific immunotherapeutic strategies that might be applicable to treating acquired myasthenia gravis in humans. 
Repetitive strain injuries. How to deal with 'the epidemic of the 1990s'. Occupational trends, especially the mushrooming of computer use in the United States, have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb. What can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide? In this article, the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry. 
Marked cerebrospinal fluid void: indicator of successful shunt in patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus. The authors blindly reviewed the charts of 20 patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus (a disease of unknown cause characterized radiologically as chronic communicating hydrocephalus and clinically by gait apraxia, dementia, and incontinence) who had undergone creation of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. The initial clinical response to surgery was graded excellent, good, fair, or poor; 5-year follow-up was available in 55% of cases. The magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained in these patients were also blindly reviewed for the magnitude of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow void (graded on the basis of extent rather than degree of signal loss) in the cerebral aqueduct. A significant (P less than .003) correlation existed between good or excellent response to surgery and an increased CSF flow void. The presence of associated deep white matter infarction on MR images did not correlate with a poor response to surgery. On the basis of these findings, it is suggested that patients who fulfill the clinical criteria of NPH and have an increased CSF flow void undergo creation of a shunt. 
Effect of hydrocephalus on prostaglandins and thromboxane B2 in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid. The concentrations of prostaglandin F2 alpha, prostaglandin E2, 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha (prostacyclin metabolite), and thromboxane B2 were assayed in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 28 patients with hydrocephalus (17 obstructive, 11 communicating). Seven patients received dexamethasone or hydrocortisone on the day of sampling. No patient received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory compounds for 48 hours before sampling. The median values did not differ significantly between the two types of hydrocephalus or from the concentrations in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients without intracranial pathology during lumbar myelography for possible lumbar disc disease. Hence, there is no evidence that eicosanoids accumulate in the ventricles in hydrocephalus, and it is unlikely that they have a significant role in its symptomatology. 
Familial trigeminal anesthesia. Familial congenital trigeminal anesthesia as an isolated abnormality is an unusual disorder. To our knowledge, only one family has previously been reported. We report here a family with three affected members demonstrating facial anesthesia, bilateral corneal changes, and nasal septal damage secondary to self-traumatization. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated hypoplasia of gasserian ganglia and trigeminal nerves in the affected father of two affected sons. The pathogenesis of this disorder appears to be congenital hypoplasia of the trigeminal nerves and gasserian ganglia that is inherited in a dominant fashion. 
Chinese-white differences in the distribution of occlusive cerebrovascular disease. The distribution of cerebrovascular lesions is affected by race. Blacks and Japanese have more intracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease, while whites have more extracranial disease. Despite a high incidence of stroke in China, there are few formal studies of the distribution of vascular occlusive disease in Chinese populations. We compared clinical and angiographic features of 24 white and 24 Chinese patients with symptomatic occlusive cerebrovascular disease. In symptomatic vascular territories, whites had more severe (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) extracranial lesions, while Chinese had more severe intracranial lesions. When we counted mild and severe lesions in a symptomatic territory, whites had more extracranial lesions while Chinese had more intracranial lesions. When we combined symptomatic and asymptomatic territories, whites had more extracranial lesions, while Chinese had more intracranial lesions. White patients reported more transient ischemic attacks. The distribution of lesions, however, was not explained by differences in incidence of transient ischemia, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, or ischemic heart disease between the groups. The preponderance of intracranial vascular lesions in Chinese patients is similar to that seen in blacks and Japanese. Racial differences in the occurrence of extracranial and intracranial lesions raise the possibility of a different underlying pathophysiology for the 2 locations. 
Treatment of reflex sympathetic dystrophy with topical capsaicin. Case report. A 31-year-old woman with intractable reflex sympathetic dystrophy experienced nearly complete, though temporary, resolution of pain following 3 weeks of topical capsaicin. We propose that capsaicin may be a useful treatment for reflex sympathetic dystrophy, either by depleting substance P from primary afferent neurons that mediate allodynia, or by modulating sympathetic efferent activity. 
Bacterial meningitis: an update. Antibiotics and improvements in supportive care have greatly reduced the mortality from bacterial meningitis. Nevertheless, the incidence of neurodevelopmental sequelae remains unacceptably high. Ampicillin and chloramphenicol remain the standard for antimicrobial therapy against which other agents must be compared. A number of adjunct therapies are being investigated for their possible effectiveness in reducing hearing loss and other neurologic effects of this disease. There continues to be a need for carefully performed follow-up studies to assess any possible benefit of these agents. A significant percentage of children surviving an episode of bacterial meningitis have obvious or subtle neurodevelopmental deficits. The role of the pediatric neurologist should not end with management of acute problems such as seizures but should be expanded to aid in close developmental monitoring of these high-risk children. 
Local injection treatment of tennis elbow--hydrocortisone, triamcinolone and lignocaine compared. Corticosteroid injections are the mainstay of treating tennis elbow even though their effectiveness has not been well established by controlled studies. A survey of consultant rheumatologists confirmed a widespread preference for this treatment but they varied in their choice of steroid dose and preparation. We examined the value of some practices by comparing local injections of 2 ml 1% lignocaine with either 10 mg triamcinolone or 25 mg hydrocortisone made up to 2 ml with 1% lignocaine (Study 1). The investigation was conducted double blind. Within the first 8 weeks, pain relief was greater for triamcinolone than hydrocortisone although the differences were not statistically significant. The response to both steroid preparations was significantly better than for lignocaine up to this point but at 24 weeks, the degrees of improvement were similar for all three groups and many patients still had pain. Relapse was common. In a separate but similarly designed study, triamcinolone 10 mg was compared with 20 mg of the same agent. Improvements of pain were similar and followed the same time scale. Post-injection worsening of pain occurred in approximately half of all steroid treated patients in both studies and this was sometimes severe and persistent. It was less frequent amongst those given lignocaine alone. Skin atrophy was reported in all groups but was more frequent amongst those given triamcinolone in Study 1. In conclusion, more rapid relief of symptoms was achieved with 10 mg triamcinolone than with 25 mg hydrocortisone or lignocaine alone and there was less needed to repeat injections. Results obtained with 20 mg triamcinolone were similar to those of the smaller dose. 
Maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults: reliability study. Few data are available regarding maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals. No data are available on the reliability of maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals. The purpose of this study was to determine the reliability of graded exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults. The testing was conducted at two geographically different centers. At Center A, 14 mentally retarded adolescents (11 boys, three girls) with Down syndrome, who were educable or trainable, were recruited from a nonresidential school. The subjects completed two Balke-Ware treadmill protocols until exhaustion. The treadmill time and heart rate (HR) were recorded. The time between tests was approximately one week. At Center B, 21 mentally retarded adults (14 women, seven men means IQ = 56) were recruited from local workshops and group homes. These subjects completed a treadmill walking protocol, with metabolic measurements, until exhaustion. The time between tests varied from one to four months. At Center A, the subjects achieved a mean treadmill time of 8.72min on test one and 8.84min on test two (means HR = 174 and 175bpm, respectively). The reliability coefficient between the two tests was .94. At Center B, the subjects achieved a mean V0(2)max of 27.2mL.kg-1.min-1 on test one and 26.9mL.kg-1.min-1 on test two. The reliability coefficient was .93. These data show that maximal exercise testing is reliable for these populations of mentally retarded individuals, exhibiting similar values to their nonretarded peers. 
Special considerations for research with pharmacologic agents. As physical medicine and rehabilitation becomes more and more complicated, the medical rehabilitation research teams are often bewildered by the sweeping changes occurring in the application of therapeutic drugs for rehabilitation. Society, through the instrument of governmental regulations, dictates that all new treatments must be efficacious before "release.". 
Skin conductance and arousal in the newborn. We measured skin conductance continuously from the sole of a foot in babies of different conceptional ages before, during, and for 10 minutes after a 'heel prick' carried out for routine blood sampling. We studied 82 healthy babies whose gestational and postnatal ages ranged from 25-42 weeks, and 1-73 days. The median skin conductance level (preheel prick) in babies of 40-43 weeks' conceptional age was 0.6 microS (microsiemens) and differed significantly between awake babies (1.2 microS) and those who were asleep (0.5 microS). In contrast babies less than 40 weeks had a significantly lower median skin conductive level (0.3 microS) which was identical in awake and asleep babies. In response to the heel prick all babies became aroused and skin conductance rose sharply and immediately in 21 out of 22 (95%) babies 40-43 weeks' conceptional age, and in seven out of 23 (30%) babies 36-39 weeks. The median rise at one minute in babies of 40-43 weeks was significantly higher than those 36-39 weeks (2.7 microS compared with 0.5 microS). No babies less than 36 weeks had a change in their skin conductance after the heel prick. These results are consistent with the notion that 'emotional sweating' is a function of maturity and does not develop until 36 weeks' conceptional age. 
Expression of neural cell adhesion molecule in normal and neoplastic human neuroendocrine tissues. The neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is a group of cell surface glycoproteins involved in direct cell--cell adhesion. N-CAM expression in normal and neoplastic tissues was examined with specific antibodies and oligonucleotide probes by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Most neuroendocrine cells and tumors with secretory granules expressed N-CAM protein and mRNA. Parathyroid adenomas (4) were somewhat unusual, because N-CAM mRNA, but not protein, was detected in some of these benign neoplasms. Most non-neuroendocrine cells and tumors did not express N-CAM, although uterine smooth muscle and an adrenal cortical carcinoma were both positive. Western blots disclosed proteins of 180, 140, and 120 kd in normal adult brain, whereas two pheochromocytomas, a null cell adenoma, and a gastrinoma had proteins of approximately 180 and 140 kd. These results indicate that N-CAM protein and mRNA are widely expressed in neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms. N-CAM oligonucleotide probes as well as antibodies against N-CAM can be used as broad-spectrum neuroendocrine markers. In addition, these molecular probes can be used to examine the role of N-CAM in the development and regulation of neuroendocrine tissues. 
Normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy We hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children's degree of hypovolemia, even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality. A randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma AVP concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours. Plasma AVP concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours. Nineteen children, 2 months to 17 years of age, were studied; 13 had bacterial meningitis (12 with Haemophilus influenzae type b). Ten children (seven with bacterial meningitis) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements, and nine (six with bacterial meningitis) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance. Children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium (mean = 6.3 mEq/kg/24 hr) than children in the fluid-restricted group (mean = 2.0 mEq/kg/24 hr). The two groups were comparable for plasma AVP concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun. The plasma AVP concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction (p = 0.005), and the change in AVP concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given (p less than 0.02). This study supports the hypothesis that serum AVP concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney. Patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. 
Rat soleus muscle ultrastructure after hindlimb suspension. The aim of the present investigation was to determine, by quantitative electron microscopy, the effects of a 5-wk tail-suspension period on rat soleus muscle ultrastructure. A marked decline (-60%) in muscle mass occurred. The mean fiber cross-sectional area decreased to a greater extent (-75%) than the capillary-to-fiber ratio (-37%), leading to a higher capillary density (+148%) after hypokinesia. The total mitochondrial volume density remained unchanged, whereas the volume density of myofibrils was slightly but significantly reduced (-6%). A shift from subsarcolemmal to interfibrillar mitochondria occurred. Interfibrillar mitochondrial volume density was highest near the fiber border and decreased toward the fiber center. An increase in volume density of satellite cells suggested muscle regenerative events. Soleus atrophy with tail suspension greatly decreases the muscular volume but leaves the ultrastructural composition of muscle fibers relatively unaffected. 
Kenneth McKenzie, Harvey Cushing, and the early neurosurgical treatment of spasmodic torticollis. In 1923, Dr. Kenneth McKenzie trained at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital under Dr. Harvey Cushing. At that time, a patient with spasmodic torticollis came to Cushing and was treated with an innovative operation for this disorder with good results. This case sparked an interest in Dr. McKenzie, who published the case 1 year later. In reviewing the surgical histories from the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, we have found the original records of this well-documented case. The record includes postoperative drawings of the intraoperative field by Dr. Cushing, a sketch by Dr. McKenzie illustrating the postoperative sensory examination, and pre- and postoperative photographs of the patient. 
Genetic mapping of "Lubag" (X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism) in a Filipino kindred to the pericentromeric region of the X chromosome. "Lubag" is an X-linked disorder causing dystonia and parkinsonism that has only been described in families from the Philippines, principally from the island of Panay. We have established linkage between the disease phenotype "lubag" and DNA markers which span the Xp11.22-Xq21.3 region by using a large Filipino family with 8 affected men in three generations. These DNA markers define an interval of about 20 centimorgans in the pericentromeric region of the X chromosome as the most likely site of the disease locus XDPD (X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism). XDPD has a maximum multipoint log likelihood ratio score (Zmax) of about 4.6 over the interval from Xq12 to Xq21.31 (DXS159-DXYS1X). The co-occurrence of dystonia and parkinsonism in lubag and in other known disorders suggests there may be a common pathogenetic mechanism. Identification of the genetic defect in this family may provide an important clue toward understanding the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of both dystonia and parkinsonism. 
Visually evoked potentials and electroretinography in neurologic evaluation. Electrophysiologic testing of the visual system requires primarily the ERG and the VEP. The flash electroretinogram provides information about the outer retina only. The pattern electroretinogram is derived from both the outer retina and the innermost retinal layers including the ganglion cell layer. The VEP is based on electrical information recorded from the visual cortex in response to stimulation of the retina. Thus, the integrity of the entire visual pathway can be tested. Localizing ability of the VEP is limited. Since the visual cortex is heavily weighted by representation of the central retina, peripheral lesions, including those producing peripheral visual field abnormalities that do not impinge upon central fixation, may produce relatively little disturbance of the VEP. As with most tests, electrophysiologic studies of the visual system must be placed in context of the entire examination, including the patient's history and neurologic and especially neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation. Electrophysiologic testing has three main uses in neurology. Pattern-reversal VEPs may be useful in detecting hidden visual loss in multiple sclerosis; VEPs and ERGs can distinguish function from organic visual loss; and VEPs and ERGs can be useful in the diagnosis of visual loss in nonverbal patients, especially in children. 
Involvement of the central nervous system in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy: a clinical, electrophysiological and magnetic resonance imaging study. In a consecutive series of 30 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) minor clinical evidence of CNS involvement was found in five. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in 28 and revealed abnormalities consistent with demyelination in nine patients aged less than 50 years and abnormalities in five aged 50 years or over. Measurements of central motor conduction time (CMCT) were obtained in 18 and showed unilateral or bilateral abnormalities in six. It is concluded that subclinical evidence of central nervous system (CNS) involvement is common, at least in patients with CIDP in the United Kingdom, but that clinically evident signs of CNS disease are infrequent. The association of a multiple sclerosis-like syndrome with CIDP is rare. 
The modified superior based pharyngeal flap. Part III. A retrospective study. A retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed. The following were analyzed: age at time of operation, gender, physical status, diagnostic protocol, length of operation (length of total surgery) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap, length of postoperative hospital stay, length of total hospital stay, length of follow-up, speech results, complications, patient care, and medication. The result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age. The mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days, postoperative complications were minimal, and speech results were generally good. 
Localization of technetium-99m-glucarate in zones of acute cerebral injury. The potential structural similarity of technetium-99m-labeled glucaric acid (99mTc-glucarate) to that of fructose suggests that this agent may enter cells by a sugar transport system. Studies with LLC-PK1 cells demonstrated inhibition of 99mTc-glucarate uptake by fructose, confirming this potential relationship. Since anaerobic metabolism can use either glucose or fructose, we hypothesized that 99mTc-glucarate may concentrate in areas of acute ischemic injury. To test this hypothesis, 63 adult rats with middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion followed by reperfusion were injected with 99mTc-glucarate and in vivo and ex vivo images were acquired. Seven animals were also studied with 18FDG and high resolution PET imaging. The radionuclide images were compared to the results of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining and conventional histopathology. Thirty-five rats had significant accumulation of 99mTc-glucarate and no TTC staining (indicating infarction) in the involved hemisphere. Of the remaining 28 rats with TTC staining (suggesting viability) of the involved hemisphere, 16 (57%) had 99mTc-glucarate accumulation. In the seven rats that were studied with both 99mTc-glucarate and 18FDG, 99mTc-glucarate accumulated at the center of the occluded MCA territory while 18FDG activity was decreased in this region. These results suggest that 99mTc-glucarate is a sensitive marker of acute severe cerebral injury, but its mechanism of localization is probably different from that of 18FDG. 
Antiepileptic medication in pregnancy: late effects on the children's central nervous system development. In a follow-up study long-term effects of antenatal exposure to two anticonvulsant drugs, phenobarbital and carbamazepine on central nervous system development were evaluated. Children aged 6 to 13 years of epileptic mothers who used phenobarbital (n = 13), carbamazepine (n = 12), phenobarbital plus carbamazepine (n = 12), or no medication (n = 24) during pregnancy were studied. None of the mothers had seizures during pregnancy. A control group carefully matched for confounding variables was selected of children of nonepileptic mothers (n = 61). Minor and major congenital anomalies appeared to be more related to mother's epilepsy than to maternal medication. There were no neurologic differences between the groups. Exposure to phenobarbital was associated with smaller head circumference. An accompanying negative effect of phenobarbital on cognitive development was suggested. Further research on this intriguing phenomenon seems warranted. 
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy after clavicle fracture: case report. Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) of the anterior chest wall is a rare entity. A MEDLINE search in all languages of the world's literature from 1966 to the present yielded no report of the association of clavicle fracture with this pain syndrome. Two cases are presented and the anatomic variations of the supraclavicular nerves in relation to the clavicle are discussed. 
Visual illusions in a patient with lateral medullary syndrome. The disturbance of visual perception associated with nystagmus is a rare phenomenon. This is a case of a 61-year-old woman who developed progressive right hemisensory deficit, left facial sensory deficit, vertigo, staggering to the left, left ptosis, vertical diplopia, and ataxia of the left upper extremity. She had rotatory nystagmus in primary position, which increased in amplitude with left gaze. The above signs and symptoms were consistent with lateral medullary syndrome. During her rehabilitation, the patient complained of visual disturbances typical of oscillopsia. These disturbances, or illusions, are compensatory mechanisms for nystagmus and its resultant retinal error. The purpose of this case presentation was to study the pathophysiology underlying oscillopsia in patients with nystagmus and to stimulate awareness of such visual disturbances in stroke patients. 
The effect of an alpha-2 agonist on bladder function and cord histology after spinal cord injury [retracted by Weiss R, Tomasula JJ, Sotologo JR Jr. In: J Urol 1991 Aug;146(2):426] Spinal injury in cats is accompanied by urinary bladder and hind limb dysfunction. Ten cats subjected to spinal contusion at the ninth thoracic segment were treated with guanabenz (an alpha-2 agonist) intraperitoneally (0.65 mg./kg.) three hours after injury, and twice daily for eight weeks. An additional six spinal cats were untreated and served as controls. Urodynamic studies were performed on a weekly basis on all animals. Guanabenz modified the vesico-somatic reflex: detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia was either ablated or abolished. In contrast, the controls demonstrated detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia, high residual urine, and spasticity below the lesion. Histological evaluations of the spinal cords revealed that the six paraplegic animals (untreated) suffered marked cavitation of the cord and complete destruction of the grey matter. The five incomplete paraplegic animals (treated) showed minimal cavitation with some preservation of the grey matter. The five ambulators (treated) demonstrated some distortion of grey matter with preservation of white matter. Treatment with guanabenz post traumatic cord injury results in decreased cord cavitation. Detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia is diminished and hind limb function is improved in treated animals. 
Apparent reduction in the size of one side of the face associated with a small retrosplenial haemorrhage. A 68 year old Japanese female with unilateral metamorphopsia of the face that developed after a small haemorrhage in the contralateral retrosplenial region, is described. The patient claimed that the right side of a face, that is, the left side when looked at by the patient, appeared smaller than the left. In addition, her drawings of the face showed some distortions. Objects other than the face were perceived normally. Cranial CT scan revealed a small high density area in the right retrosplenial region. The face appears to have a special representation in the posterior hemisphere. 
Mapping the distribution of amobarbital sodium in the intracarotid Wada test by use of Tc-99m HMPAO with SPECT. The intracarotid amobarbital sodium, or Wada, test has been used to localize speech and memory function prior to surgical treatment of temporal lobe seizures. The authors mixed technetium-99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) with amobarbital sodium and injected the mixture in 25 patients with epilepsy. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain was then performed to determine intracerebral distribution of the amobarbital sodium. Results of SPECT were compared with those of conventional and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The distribution of Tc-99m HMPAO and, presumably, amobarbital sodium varied from patient to patient. SPECT revealed a statistically different distribution from that predicted with conventional angiography. The distribution also often differed from that of DSA, although the difference was not significant. SPECT revealed infrequent delivery to mesial temporal lobe structures. This emphasizes the need for caution in the use of the intracarotid amobarbital sodium test to predict the outcome of removal of these areas. 
Hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma. In summary, hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe, efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases, which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma. The rapidity, frequency, and duration of pain relief, as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously, make this type of treatment especially appealing. By following premedication and radiation dose guidelines, both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence. Although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as "systemic" therapy, the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic, and complications have been considerable. Hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data. As a palliative treatment, however, hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain. 
Tarsal tunnel syndrome. Causes and results of operative treatment. From 1975 to 1988, operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome. The causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18, and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15. Five feet had sustained an injury, tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine. In most cases in need of operative treatment, there was a space-occupying lesion. Classifying the results according to causes, those with coalition or a tumour fared better, and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome. In cases with a definite lesion, an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition. 
Surgical technique for implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis. The surgical technique for the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis is described in detail. This procedure is straightforward and is easily carried out by surgeons familiar with carotid surgery. 
Toward a rational therapeutic strategy for arachnoiditis. A possible role for d-penicillamine. Twenty-six patients (13 men and 13 women), ranging in age from 38 to 75 years, with surgical and/or radiculographic evidence of chronic adhesive spinal arachnoiditis (CASA) were admitted to a randomly allocated, double-blind, 6-month crossover trial of d-penicillamine (500 mg/day) versus matching placebo. Assessments using subjective and objective criteria at 3-month intervals demonstrated no statistically significant effect with either d-penicillamine or placebo or between them. Thirteen of the 17 patients completing the trial expressed no clear preference. One patient preferred placebo. The remaining three patients who expressed strong preference for d-penicillamine (supported by objective data) subsequently maintained improvement on long-term therapy for up to 5 years. It is concluded that there may be a small subgroup of patients with CASA who might benefit from d-penicillamine therapy. 
Replication patterns of the fragile X in heterozygous carriers: analysis by a BrdUrd antibody method. The replication status of the fragile X chromosomes was studied in short-term cultures of lymphocytes from six female heterozygous carriers. The fragile X was induced by adding 0.1 microM fluorodeoxyuridine during the last 24 h of culturing. The replication status of the X chromosomes was studied using a bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) antibody method. BrdUrd was added (1) at a final concentration of 0.2 micrograms/ml during the early S phase of chromosome replication (16-10 h before harvest), (2) at 0.2 microgram/ml during the late S phase (the last 6 h of culturing), (3) at 20 micrograms/ml during the early S phase, and (4) at 20 micrograms/ml during the late S phase. BrdUrd that was incorporated into replicating chromosomes was detected by using a nuclease and BrdUrd monoclonal antibody. The frequency of the fragile X was reduced by BrdUrd treatment. The degree of reduction was more severe in the 20 micrograms/ml than in the 0.2 microgram/ml series and was more severe with late S than with early S treatment. Of the early- and late-replicating fragile X chromosomes, those which were actively replicating during a BrdUrd treatment were more reduced than the others. Thus, the average rate of early and late S treatment with 0.2 microgram BrdUrd/ml was assumed to be the closest reflection of the situation in vivo. There was no correlation between the average rate of the early replicating, active fragile X and the intelligence of the heterozygous carriers studied. 
Retrobulbar alcohol injection in blind painful eyes. We studied 39 blind painful eyes in 39 patients who were treated with retrobulbar injection of absolute (96%) alcohol for their severe ocular pain at the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital from January 1984 to January 1987. There were 21 (54%) male and 18 (46%) female patients; all were followed for at least three months. The protracted ocular pain was mainly due to: end-stage (absolute) glaucoma in 31 (80%) eyes, uveitis or endophthalmitis in four (10%) eyes, or corneal ulcer in two (5%) eyes. One eye had painful phthisis bulbi, and one eye had infraorbital neuralgia. The complications encountered were transient and included blepharoptosis in eight (21%) eyes, external ophthalmoplegia, and corneal epithelial defect. The effective time of the injection to relieve pain ranged from two weeks to two years (mean, 29 weeks). The authors believe that there is still a place for retrobulbar alcohol injection for blind painful eyes when enucleation or evisceration is not possible. 
Use of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and management of posterior fossa hemangioblastomas. The diagnosis of central nervous system hemangioblastoma as well as the surgical treatment requires the accurate radiologic visualization of both the cystic and solid components of the tumor. We report two cases of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma examined with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, which clearly defined the tumor nodule that was not visualized on noncontrast magnetic resonance imaging, contrast-enhanced computed tomography scans, or angiography. In both cases the operative findings precisely correlated with the gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance image. Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging is the examination of choice for preoperative evaluation of posterior fossa hemangioblastoma. In cases of von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, magnetic resonance imaging is a useful tool for clinical screening as well as follow-up. 
Screening for early dementia using memory complaints from patients and relatives. This study examined whether the subjective impression of memory function might differentiate healthy elderly subjects from patients with memory complaints, and whether memory complaints differed between patients with and without a dementing illness. Both self-assessment and relatives' responses on a new memory questionnaire differentiated patient groups from control subjects. The relatives' form measuring deterioration in memory function over time identified dementing individuals from those with non-dementing causes for their memory complaints. Factor analysis indicated that patients' memory complaints correlated with depression rather than objective memory performance, while relatives' ratings correlated with objective memory scores, not depression. Stepwise discriminant function analyses showed that objective memory testing greatly improved specificity but not sensitivity of the subjective memory questionnaire alone. 
Myelopathy associated with human T cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) in natal, South Africa. A clinical and investigative study in 24 patients. Unexplained spastic myelopathy in black (Zulu) patients, similar to that seen in the tropics, has previously been described from Natal, South Africa. Following reports linking the human T cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) to spastic myelopathy, we undertook a prospective and retrospective search for HTLV-I antibodies in 36 patients who were labelled as having unexplained myelopathy; 24 (66%) were positive and HTLV-I was isolated from 4 out of the 6 patients whose peripheral blood lymphocytes were cultured. Eighteen (75%) gave a short history (less than 6 months). There was a female preponderance (71%), spinothalamic dysfunction was common (55%) and as many as half were severely disabled (50% wheelchair bound). Routine laboratory studies showed no specific trends apart from hypergammaglobulinaemia and CSF pleocytosis (greater than 5 cells/microliter in 66% of patients). The total CSF protein was raised (greater than 0.4 g/l) in 45% of patients. The IgG index was greater than 0.7 in 15 of 19 patients. Conventional myelography did not show any specific abnormalities. Computer assisted myelography was undertaken in 22 patients; 3 showed arachnoiditis and 2 spinal cord atrophy. Periventricular lucencies were seen in 1 of 10 patients who had computed tomography of the head. Nerve conduction studies demonstrated abnormalities in 46% of the patients indicating that subclinical peripheral nerve dysfunction was common. Visual evoked responses were abnormal in only 1 patient but brainstem auditory evoked response studies showed some abnormality in 42% of the patients. The finding of HTLV-I antibodies in a significant number, and the isolation of HTLV-I from the blood in 6 of our black patients with noncompressive myelopathy, represents a substantial clinical advance. Future studies should define more clearly the role of the virus in this disorder. 
Sucrose as an analgesic for newborn infants. The effectiveness of sucrose as an analgesic agent for newborn infants was assessed during two standard painful hospital procedures: blood collection via heel lance and circumcision. Infants who drank 2 mL of a 12% sucrose solution prior to blood collection cried 50% less during the blood collection procedure than did control infants who had received 2 mL of sterile water. Crying of infants who ingested sucrose returned to baseline levels within 30 to 60 seconds after blood collection whereas control infants required 2.5 to 3.0 minutes to return to baseline. Like findings were obtained for infants who received sucrose on a pacifier prior to and during circumcision. Specifically, control infants who underwent a standard circumcision procedure without intervention cried 67% of the time. A water-moistened pacifier reduced crying to 49% (P less than .01). Crying was reduced further to 31% (P less than .05) by providing infants with a sucrose-flavored pacifier to suck. These findings, which parallel results obtained in studies of pain in infant rats, provide a potent yet simple, benign intervention to help alleviate stress and pain routinely experienced by human infants. 
Cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients: a clinical study and literature review. Endothelins are a family of structurally related, potent, long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides. There are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid. We measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients: normal controls, patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm, patients with severe head injuries, patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy, and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine. Endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration. 
Relief of injection pain in adults. EMLA cream for 5 minutes before venepuncture. The effectiveness of skin anaesthesia after 5 minutes' topical application of a lignocaine-prilocaine cream was evaluated. One hundred and twenty patients estimated the pain of antecubital venepuncture both on a linear scale and verbally after use of the cream for either 5 or 60 minutes, a placebo cream or no treatment. Reported pain was significantly less after only 5 minutes of the lignocaine-prilocaine cream (p = 0.002). The cream can be used to relieve the pain of all routine injections. 
Effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits. The effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied. As expected, prostaglandin E2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group, indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis. Brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group; however, cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts, lactate and protein concentrations, and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups. It seems that indomethacin, while effective in reducing brain edema, does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis. 
Dysmorphogenesis elicited by microinjected acetaminophen analogs and metabolites in rat embryos cultured in vitro. Direct additions of acetaminophen (APAP), 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen or 3-methoxyacetaminophen to the medium of cultured embryos each produced an increased incidence of morphologically similar, abnormally open anterior neuropores. Approximate concentrations required to produce an equal incidence were 0.5 mM, 1.0 mM, 0.1 mM and 0.75 mM, respectively. In contrast, 2.6-dimethylacetaminophen and N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine failed to produce elevated incidences of abnormal neurulation unaccompanied by marked growth retardation. However, with intra-amniotic microinjections, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen and N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine were roughly equipotent for eliciting abnormal neurulation, whereas 3-methoxyacetaminophen required greater than 30-fold higher concentrations. This suggests that N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine does not readily transit the visceral yolk sac and would likely not be a major factor in APAP-elicited neural tube abnormalities unless generated in target tissues. The differential effects produced by two dimethylated (2.6 and 3.5) APAP analogs further suggest that sulfhydryl oxidation is associated more closely than sulfhydryl conjugation with the neurulation defect. Intra-amniotic microinjections of large quantities (3500 ng) of 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (7-OH-AAF) or APAP failed to produce the specific neurulation defect. Microinjections of 7-OH-AAF into the exocoelomic cavity effected the characteristic abnormal neurulation. Conversion by conceptal homogenates of 7-OH-AAF was roughly 7- to 8-fold more rapid than conversion of APAP to respective catechol metabolites, and specific activities in yolk sac tissues were greater than those in the embryo. Rates of conceptal conversion to the quinoneimine were approximately 2- to 3-fold lower than catechol generation. 
Enterogenous cyst of the cerebellopontine angle cistern: case report. A case of an enterogenous cyst located in the cerebellopontine angle cistern is presented. These cysts have usually been found in the spinal canal, and their intracranial occurrence is exceptional. In the present case, the cyst was lined histologically by a single epithelial layer of cuboidal cells with some glandular structures resembling the fundic glands of the stomach. The unusual location of the cyst and its histological features are discussed. 
Gastrointestinal motor dysfunction in acquired selective cholinergic dysautonomia associated with infectious mononucleosis. This report documents the disturbance in gastrointestinal motor function in a patient with selective cholinergic dysautonomia that occurred following acute infectious mononucleosis. Apart from the gut, other organs affected included the pupils, sweat glands, lacrimal and salivary glands, and urinary bladder. Autonomic function tests showed the preservation of sympathetic adrenergic functions in contrast to the generalized involvement of postganglionic parasympathetic and sympathetic cholinergic nerves, including denervation hypersensitivity of the pupil and urinary bladder to exogenous cholinergic agonists. Cardiac and abdominal vagal responses were abnormal. Colon myenteric plexus ganglion cells were normal by morphological and immunohistochemical studies, suggesting that the selective cholinergic dysautonomia was the most likely pathophysiologic process responsible for the observed motility disorder. This study documents the occurrence of selective cholinergic dysautonomia following a viral illness, the importance of the extrinsic neural control on the motor function of the gastrointestinal tract, and the usefulness of combined motility and autonomic function testing in the evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of gut dysmotility. 
Interactions between N-methyl-D-aspartate and CGS 19755 administered intramuscularly and intracerebroventricularly in pigeons. Behavioral effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and the competitive NMDA antagonist cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine-carboxylic acid (CGS 19755) were studied in pigeons. NMDA decreased responding under a fixed-ratio schedule of food presentation and was 8000 times more potent administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) as compared to intramuscularly (i.m.). CGS 19755 was 870 times more potent in producing catalepsy when administered i.c.v.; however, the duration of catalepsy was similar by the two routes of administration. Administered i.m. CGS 19755 decreased response rates only at doses that also produced catalepsy; administered i.c.v. some doses of CGS 19755 decreased responding without producing other behavioral effects. Rate-decreasing effects of i.m. NMDA were attenuated by i.m. CGS 19755; however, when CGS 19755 was administered i.c.v., there was little or no antagonism of NMDA. Rate-decreasing effects of i.c.v. NMDA were not attenuated by i.m. or i.c.v. CGS 19755 up to doses that produced catalepsy or eliminated responding. The large difference in potency between i.m. and i.c.v. administration for NMDA and for CGS 19755, as well as the slower onset of catalepsy when CGS 19755 was administered i.m., suggests these compounds do not readily cross the blood-brain barrier when administered parenterally. The inability of CGS 19755 to attenuate the rate-decreasing effects of NMDA when CGS 19755 or NMDA was administered i.c.v. suggests NMDA might decrease responding by different mechanisms when administered i.m. or i.c.v. in pigeons. Together these results indicate antagonism of NMDA in this study, and perhaps in other studies, when both NMDA and CGS 19755 were administered parenterally, might result from a peripherally mediated interaction. Moreover, this agonist-antagonist interaction is not a simple, competitive antagonism. 
Dominantly inherited apathy, central hypoventilation, and Parkinson's syndrome: clinical, biochemical, and neuropathologic studies of 2 new cases. We describe 2 new patients from a family in which 10 persons in 3 successive generations had a dominant neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by apathy, central hypoventilation, and parkinsonism. Neuropathologically, both patients showed severe neuronal loss and reactive gliosis in the substantia nigra. Neurochemical studies showed a marked depletion of dopamine in substantia nigra, putamen, and caudate nucleus, as well as reduction in serotonin content in the substantia nigra. Glutamate contents were low in frontal cortex and thalamus, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) contents were low in thalamus and substantia nigra of both patients. In addition, phosphoethanolamine contents were reduced in all brain regions of both patients, especially in the substantia nigra. One patient with severe symptoms had low levels of homovanillic acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and GABA in his CSF repeatedly for 3 years before death (aged 58), while the 2nd patient died (aged 51) of an unrelated cause before developing any symptoms of the familial disorder. Because brain deficiencies of multiple neurotransmitters appear to be involved, this disorder is unlikely to respond to treatment; however, neurochemical studies of CSF may make presymptomatic diagnosis feasible. 
Spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the medial and intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with deafferentation pain. Electrical activity was recorded from single cells in the thalamus of 10 patients with chronic pain associated with deafferentation. Under local anesthesia, these patients underwent either electrode implantation or thalamotomy for treatment of their pain. In eight of the 10 patients, single units were identified as discharging spontaneously in high-frequency, often rhythmic, bursts. The discharges were of two types: short bursts comprised of two to six spikes with a burst frequency of one to four per second; and long trains of 30 to 80 spikes of similar frequency. Reconstruction of electrode trajectories indicated that recordings were made from the region corresponding to the lateral aspect of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, the central lateral nucleus, a small part of the central median nucleus, and the parafascicular nucleus. In the eight patients in whom spontaneous neuronal burst activity was exhibited, it was impossible to study activity evoked by natural cutaneous stimulation due to the continuous spontaneous neuronal discharges. Both animal and human studies have suggested that pain related to deafferentation is accompanied by spontaneous hyperactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in the ventral posterior thalamic nuclei. The authors present evidence of spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with pain related to deafferentation. The findings suggest that spontaneous neuronal discharge in patients with pain related to deafferentation is more widespread in the central nervous system than has been previously appreciated. The results have important implications for the surgical treatment of chronic pain. 
The cluster diathesis. We present further evidence for a sympathetic defect of vasomotor control of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) on the side of the headache during cluster periods. In 119 cluster headache patients, utilizing transcranial Doppler, we measured CO2 reactivity of the major intracranial vessels, in and out of cluster. Reactivity was significantly lower during the cluster period, but only in the ACA on the side of the headache. Nineteen patients followed sequentially for a full cycle (ie/both in and out of a cluster period) showed the same changes. In 3 out of 6 patients in an active cluster period, we describe a lesion on Gallium single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) in the region of the cavernous sinus which fades as the patient moves out of cluster. It is felt that this lesion may represent the cavernous sinus plexus lesion postulated as the central lesion in cluster. Changes in the sympathetic outflow at this point could explain the changes we have described in ACA CO2 reactivity during cluster. 
Stance duration under sensory conflict conditions in patients with hemiplegia. Standing balance was evaluated in ten subjects with hemiplegia using a sensory organization balance test (SOT). The SOT is a timed balance test which evaluates somatosensory, visual, and vestibular function for maintenance of upright posture. The duration of bilateral stance was assessed using combinations of three visual and two support surface conditions. Stance time was measured with eyes open, eyes closed, and with each patient wearing a visual dome to produce inaccurate visual information. The support surface conditions involved stance on a hard flat floor followed by attempted stance on a compliant foam surface. Visual deprivation or visual conflict conditions did not cause a loss of balance when stance was performed on a stable surface. However, a lower stance duration was found when patients stood on a compliant surface (p less than .05). Visual compensation was evident during the compliant-surface condition because stance duration showed the greatest reductions with eyes closed and with the visual dome. These findings suggest that the ability to integrate somatosensory information from the lower extremities for balance is compromised after cerebrovascular disease. The implications for diagnosing the specific cause of balance dysfunction and for developing sensory-specific therapeutic interventions are discussed. 
Determination of ventricular fluid outflow resistance in patients with ventriculomegaly. Resorption of the ventricular fluid was studied by measuring ventricular fluid outflow resistance during steady state 1.5 and 5.0 ml/min infusions in 26 patients with substantial enlargement of the supratentorial ventricular system. This test may avoid unnecessary use of shunts, but a shunt could be introduced during the same procedure. 
Platelet monoamine oxidase B activity in parkinsonian patients. Monoamine oxidase B (MAO B) plays a pivotal role in N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induced Parkinsonism. An increased MAO B activity in platelets of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is reported in this study. The possibility that high MAO B activity may represent a trait of vulnerability for PD by enhancing the neurotoxic effects of environmental compounds is discussed. 
Magnetoencephalographic localization of interictal spike sources. Case report. The reliability of localization of interictal spike sources using magnetoencephalography (MEG) was examined by repeated measurements in a patient with temporal lobe epilepsy. During two preoperative recording sessions, the estimated sources, projected onto magnetic resonance images of the patient's brain, were found to lie less than 1 cm apart within the area subsequently resected. The MEG localization was in close agreement with intraoperative cortical recordings. 
Methamphetamine. Stimulant of the 1990s? During the past several years, the use of a smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride called "ice" has increased rapidly. The heaviest use has occurred on the West Coast and in Hawaii. Many regional emergency departments treat more methamphetamine users than cocaine-intoxicated patients. The ease of synthesis from inexpensive and readily available chemicals makes possible the rampant abuse of a dangerous drug that can produce a euphoria similar to that induced by cocaine. Clinicians should be familiar with the medical effects and treatment of acute methamphetamine toxicity. 
Cerebral venography with MR. The authors describe a two-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance (MR) angiography technique to create projection venograms of the head. The technique was applied to 27 healthy volunteers and 39 patients. The superior sagittal and straight sinuses, the internal cerebral veins, and the Galen vein were visualized in all the volunteers. Other veins were seen in a high percentage of subjects. Systematic comparison of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) after intraarterial contrast medium injection and MR venography in patients showed good correlation between the two techniques. MR venography proved helpful in identifying thrombosis or patency of cerebral veins and sinuses and showed collateral venous drainage and venous drainage from arteriovenous malformations. There was good correlation between conventional contrast angiography and MR venography. In conclusion, MR venography is considered reliable for showing the cerebral venous system and provides information additional to that of conventional spin-echo imaging. 
Cholinergic stimulation of the pons depresses respiration in decerebrate cats. The injection of carbachol into the pontine tegmentum of decerebrate cats evokes a postural motor atonia that has many of the characteristics of the atonia of natural rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep (Morales et al. J. Neurophysiol. 57: 1118-1129, 1987). We have used the carbachol-injected decerebrate cat to study the changes in respiratory neuronal activity that accompany the atonia. The activities of representative respiratory motor nerves--phrenic, intercostal, and hypoglossal--and that of a motor branch of C4 were recorded in decerebrate, vagotomized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats. After the microinjection of carbachol, there was a profound suppression of activity in all the nerves and a decrease in respiratory rate. This was a consistent stereotyped response in which the magnitude of the suppression of respiratory-related activity was phrenic (to approximately 65% of control) less than inspiratory intercostal (approximately 50%) less than hypoglossal (approximately 10%) less than expiratory intercostal (approximately 5%). The decrease in respiratory rate (to approximately 70% of control) was caused by a prolongation of both inspiratory and expiratory durations. Complete reversal of the carbachol effect was elicited by the microinjection of atropine into the same site as the carbachol injection. This allowed us to produce a second episode of atonia by the injection of carbachol into the contralateral pons. Thus we have demonstrated the existence of neural pathways originating in the cholinoceptive cells of the pons that have the potential to powerfully and differentially depress various respiratory motoneuronal pools and to reduce the respiratory rate. These pathways are likely to be activated along with the atonia of REM sleep. 
Concurrent intradural and extradural meningiomas of the cervical spine. A case of an extradural spinal meningioma presenting with a separate intradural meningioma at the same cord level is reported. Review of the English literature on spinal epidural meningiomas reveals a high incidence of concurrent intradural tumors in patients with epidural meningiomas. This leads to the conclusion that the intradural space should be evaluated carefully when an epidural meningioma is encountered. 
Effect of plasmapheresis on serum and CSF autoantibody levels in CNS paraneoplastic syndromes. We compared the effect of plasmapheresis on antineuronal autoantibody titers in the serum and CSF of 3 patients with CNS paraneoplastic syndromes. Plasmapheresis reduced the serum autoantibody titer to 20% of the initial levels in the 3 patients, but the CSF autoantibody titer decreased only in the patient with severe damage of the blood-brain barrier. 
Improved access to lesions of the central skull base by mobilization of the zygoma: experience with 54 cases. Improved access to lesions at the medial end of the sphenoid wing or in the interpeduncular cistern after mobilization of the zygoma has been a subject of growing interest in recent years. This study describes the operative technique we have adopted and records our experience with 55 operations in 54 patients who underwent the procedure in the past 3 years. Seven patients had vascular lesions, 44 had tumors, and 3 had miscellaneous lesions. The majority of the tumors were medial meningiomas, and particular note is made of those arising from the cavernous sinus with respect to their resectability. Sixteen of these tumors were encountered, and total excision was possible in 11 cases. Access to the infratemporal fossa is facilitated, and in 2 cases we were able to excise completely trigeminal neuromas that had extended there. The extra maneuver adds little to the overall operating time, and complications relating to it are uncommon, mild in degree, and usually self-limiting. We conclude that the operation is extremely valuable in appropriate circumstances. 
Myelopathic neurosarcoidosis: diagnostic value of enhanced MRI. Neurosarcoidosis is an underdiagnosed variant of the systemic disease. We report a case of myelopathic neurosarcoidosis, noting the contribution made by MRI in establishing the diagnosis, and we discuss the possibility that the disease is differentially responsive to various steroid formulations. 
Conditioning of the spinal stretch reflex: implications for rehabilitation. The purpose of this article is to describe a new technique that can potentially be applied to patients with hyperactive spinal stretch reflexes (SSRs). The progression of clinical research from conditioning of individual muscles or muscle groups (electromyographic biofeedback) to conditioning SSRs is explained. Research data from subhuman primates in addition to the first human experiments are reviewed. Potential applications of SSR conditioning are discussed, as are the issues requiring further delineation and research before the specificity of a training effect can be ascertained. 
Effect of felbamate on plasma levels of carbamazepine and its metabolites. Felbamate (FBM) is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) currently undergoing clinical evaluation in the United States. During a controlled clinical trial conducted at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, FBM was added to constant carbamazepine (CBZ) monotherapy. CBZ total concentrations were reduced during active FBM treatment (mean reduction 25%, range 10-42%, p less than 0.001). The effect was evident after the first week of treatment and reached a plateau in 2-4 weeks. To clarify the interaction mechanism, free and total concentrations of CBZ and its plasma metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and ultrafiltration in four patients. In these patients, FBM treatment reduced CBZ concentrations and increased CBZ-epoxide (CBZ-E) concentrations (p less than 0.01). Free fractions of all compounds were unmodified. FBM appears to be capable of inducing CBZ metabolism. CBZ-FBM interaction may be clinically relevant. 
Transient neuromuscular impairment resulting from prolonged inhalation of halothane and enflurane. Inhalation anesthesia first with halothane followed by enflurane relieved a patient with status asthmaticus who was refractory to conventional therapy including mechanical ventilation. After 13 days of anesthesia while on mechanical ventilation and employing nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, significant neuromuscular impairment, manifested by tetraplegia and sensory disturbance, developed. Anesthesia was discontinued on day 14, and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation on day 16. Over the next two months, the neuromuscular impairment markedly improved. Halothane was associated with cardiac arrhythmias and hepatitis necessitating replacement by enflurane. Enflurane appeared to be as effective a treatment for refractory asthma as halothane. The most probable cause of the neuromuscular impairment in our patient was the long-term use of inhalation anesthetics or nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. 
The effects of cyproheptadine on locomotion and on spasticity in patients with spinal cord injuries. The effects of cyproheptadine, a serotonergic antagonist, were studied in seven patients with spastic paresis of spinal origin. Six patients were included in a double blind crossover trial (maximal dose 24 mg/day). The patients were evaluated on both their spasticity and locomotor function. Four of the patients also participated in an open trial in which cyproheptadine was administered for a minimum of six months at optimal dose. Patients walked on a treadmill at full weight bearing when possible, or with 40% of their body weight externally supported, as required, by an overhead harness system. Cyproheptadine considerably decreased the sustained ankle clonus and episodes of spontaneous spasms observed in all the patients who previously presented these manifestations of spasticity. Two patients who required body weight support (BWS) during locomotion could walk at full weight bearing during cyproheptadine therapy. A more normal timing of EMG patterns in these patients during cyproheptadine therapy was associated with temporal distance changes and marked improvement of joint angular displacement. In contrast, the other patients showed marginal changes in the EMG and the kinematic pattern but eventually managed to walk at a higher speed. These preliminary results suggest that cyproheptadine can reduce spasticity and enhance locomotor function in spinal cord injured patients. 
Transient ischaemic attacks and small-vessel disease. Dutch TIA Study Group Histories and computed tomograms of 606 patients with transient cerebral ischaemia were studied. All symptoms and signs had completely resolved within 24 hours, and any episodes suggestive of posterior fossa ischaemia were excluded. Computed tomography, done after the clinical features had resolved, showed 79 relevant infarcts: 46 were small, deep, lacunar infarcts (58%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 47-69%), and 33 were larger cortical infarcts. The histories and the type of infarct in these 79 patients were compared to see whether lacunar infarcts were preceded by a history of unilateral motor or sensory symptoms without features usually attributed to the cerebral cortex. The positive predictive value of such lacunar symptoms was 0.74, with a negative predictive value of 0.61. 11 patients had a cortical infarct despite a history of lacunar TIAs, but only one occurred in the left hemisphere and speech was not affected. Of 527 patients with transient ischaemic attacks without a relevant infarct visible on computed tomography, 335 (64%) had a history suggestive of lacunar ischaemia, whereas in several other studies 20-25% of patients with ischaemic stroke have evidence of lacunar infarcts. Lacunar TIAs may therefore have a better prognosis than cortical TIAs or may often precede cortical infarcts; alternatively, many cortical infarcts may occur without warning. 
Ionic channels, cholinergic mechanisms, and recovery of sensorimotor function after neocortical infarcts in rats. Unilateral photochemical infarcts were produced in the hind limb sensorimotor neocortex of 243 rats by intravenous injection of the fluorescein derivative Rose Bengal and focal illumination of the intact skull surface. Facial contact stimuli governed the degree and recovery rate of contralateral tactile/proprioceptive forelimb placing reactions. Contralateral forelimb placing recovered, whereas hind limb placing was resistant to recovery. Infarcted rats displayed marked recovery of spontaneous limb usage (beam traversing). However, deficits in isolated tactile/proprioceptive hind limb placing reactions endured. Posttreatment with the class IV calcium antagonist flunarizine after neocortical infarction protected sensorimotor function in a dose-dependent manner. This protective effect may be due to the peculiar ionic channel blocking profile of flunarizine. Scopolamine hydrobromide reinstated contralateral placing errors in infarcted rats at a dosage that did not affect neurologically intact rats. The cognitive enhancer sabeluzole, a novel benzothiazol derivative, dose-dependently blocked the anticholinergic-induced deterioration of a sensorimotor deficit in rats. 
Combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery. The perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique. A group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone (GA), while in the group of 77 remaining patients, a combined epidural and general anesthesia (Epi-GA) was employed. The two groups were similar in regards to age, medical risk factors, preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function, and type of surgical reconstruction. There was no significant difference in the anesthetic, operative time, or operative fluid requirements between the two groups. There was a lower rate pressure product in the Epi-GA group during aortic cross clamping (P less than 0.05). More patients in the GA group required a prolonged ventilatory support (P less than 0.05) and a high parenteral narcotic administration (P less than 0.025) during the first 48 hours. While the mortality rate was similar for the two groups (3.0% for GA group vs 5.2% for Epi-GA group), there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the GA group (7.6%) compared to the Epi-GA group (2.6%). By facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period, Epi-GA may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction. 
Rate of oxyhemoglobin desaturation in obstructive versus nonobstructive apnea. Preapneic thoracic gas volume (Vtg), arterial saturation (SaO2), and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2), have been shown to influence the rate of SaO2 fall (dSaO2/dt) during apnea. We asked the following question: does tissue oxygen consumption (tVO2) affect the dSaO2/dt during apnea? We attempted to answer this question by comparing dSaO2/dt during obstructive apneas (high tVO2) with dSaO2/dt during nonobstructive apneas (low tVO2) in six adult baboons. Fiberoptic central venous and arterial catheters were used for continuous monitoring of SvO2, SaO2, and cardiac output. A sapphire-bearing turbine monitored minute ventilation and airflow cessation. A Respitrace and esophageal pressures were used to assess relative differences in Vtg. Obstructive apneas (30, 45, and 60-s) were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end-expiration. Nonobstructive apneas were created by paralyzing the animals with atracurium and interrupting ventilation for periods equivalent to those of the obstructed apneas. The ventilator was adjusted to duplicate the respiratory rate, tidal volume, and relative Vtg of the spontaneously breathing animal. Mean tVO2 during spontaneous breathing was 110 ml/min (Fick method) and decreased to 90 ml/min during paralysis (p less than 0.05). The dSaO2/dt for the three apnea durations (mean, all animals), obstructive versus nonobstructed were: 0.85 and 0.74%/s (n = 6), 0.87 and 0.75%/s (n = 6), and 0.60 and 0.48%/s (n = 4), respectively. The dSaO2/dt was significantly lower during the nonobstructive apneas. We conclude that differences in VO2 during apnea may affect the dSaO2/dt and that for the same duration apnea, central apneas may show less desaturation than obstructive apneas where vigorous muscular efforts at overcoming obstruction are common. 
Neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin prophylaxis of posttraumatic seizures In order to determine potential negative neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin given to prevent the development of posttraumatic seizures, 244 subjects were randomized to phenytoin or placebo. They received neurobehavioral assessments at 1 and 12 months postinjury while receiving their assigned drug and at 24 months while receiving no drugs. In the severely injured, phenytoin significantly impaired performance at 1 month. No significant differences were found as a function of phenytoin in the moderately injured patients at 1 month or in either severity group at 1 year. Patients who stopped receiving phenytoin according to protocol between 1 and 2 years improved more than corresponding placebo cases on several measures. We conclude that phenytoin has negative cognitive effects. This, combined with lack of evidence for its effectiveness in preventing posttraumatic seizures beyond the first week, raises questions regarding its use for long-term prophylaxis. Our findings do not negate phenytoin's proven efficacy in controlling established seizures nor do they indicate that its cognitive effects are worse than other anticonvulsant drugs. 
Asthma and eczema in children born to women with migraine. Migraine and asthma have been reported to occur in the same person more commonly than would be expected if they are independent. The large Collaborative Perinatal Project provided an opportunity to see if children born to women with migraine or with the group of disorders characterized by asthma and/or allergies were more likely to manifest asthma or eczema in the first 7 years of life. Among children whose mothers had neither migraine nor asthma/allergies, 3.2% had asthma. Of children whose mothers had migraine, but not asthma/allergies, more than 6% had asthma. The risk of asthma among children born to women who had both migraine and asthma/allergies was greater than the risk associated with each maternal disease. The risk of eczema in children was not appreciably influenced by the mother's propensity to migraine or asthma/allergies. The results of this first study of migraine in one generation and asthma in the next lead to the conclusion that the two disorders are probably related. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome in Parkinson's disease after withdrawal or alteration of dopaminergic therapy. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is characterized by altered consciousness, fever, extrapyramidal signs, autonomic instability, elevated creatine kinase level, and leukocytosis. Although originally described in patients receiving neuroleptic drugs, this syndrome may also occur in patients with Parkinson's disease during withdrawal or reduction of levodopa therapy or other dopaminergic drug therapy. We have encountered three cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome related to withdrawal of levodopa therapy. These cases illustrate the variety of circumstances in which alteration of therapy with dopaminergic drugs can cause this syndrome and the relative unfamiliarity of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome-levodopa relationship among physicians who do not treat large numbers of patients with Parkinson's disease. An understanding of the role of brain dopamine in the pathogenesis of neuroleptic malignant syndrome and an appreciation of the great variety of drugs whose manipulation can result in this potentially fatal syndrome will aid its proper and timely recognition, especially when the offending pharmacologic manipulation does not involve neuroleptic drugs. 
Multilevel transneuronal degeneration after brain damage. Behavioral events and effects of anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid-related drugs. Recent morphologic and behavioral studies of the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agents on transsynaptic degeneration after cortical and striatal damage are reviewed and discussed. Following unilateral lesions of the anteromedial cortex, mild atrophy appears in the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata. Long-term diazepam administration greatly enhances this degeneration, extends the degeneration into the thalamus, and severely disrupts recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. Following unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum, progressive degeneration of neurons occurs in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and efferent targets in the thalamus. This degeneration can be prevented by chronic infusion of muscimol, a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist. Unexpectedly, this treatment did not facilitate recovery from somatosensory asymmetries. Recovery in muscimol-treated animals was impaired relative to saline-treated controls. Thus, gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists either may enhance or prevent neural atrophy secondary to brain damage, but the behavioral outcome appears to depend importantly on the excitatory and inhibitory characteristics of the affected networks. 
Bioactive and inactive forms of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in spinal fluid from patients with meningitis. Twenty-four patients, including 12 with meningitis, were admitted with meningeal symptoms and fever. Their serum and spinal fluid tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) levels were determined by ELISA. TNF alpha immunoreactivity was found in spinal fluid of 10 meningitis patients and one nonmeningitis patient, whereas 7 sera, 5 from meningitis patients, contained TNF alpha. Levels were significantly higher in spinal fluids than in serum samples, and the TNF alpha bioactivity of spinal fluids and sera was considerably below predictions based on ELISA measurements. Gel filtration chromatography demonstrated the presence of both polymeric (greater than 200 kDa) and oligomeric (10-40 kDa) TNF alpha in spinal fluid. Significant bioactivity was obtained only from samples containing oligomeric cytokine. In agreement with previous in vitro findings, these results strongly indicate that bioactive TNF alpha oligomers form inactive polymers and monomers, which could contribute to the observed in vivo discrepancies between immunoreactive and bioactive protein. Finally, the data support the concept of local central nervous system production of TNF alpha in meningitis. 
Importance of a neurologic evaluation in women with lower urinary tract dysfunction. The normal coordinated functions of the bladder and urethra are controlled by a set of central and peripheral reflex mechanisms. Disruptions of these neuronal reflexes may produce abnormalities in the storage and expulsion of urine. Electrophysiologic testing can be employed to complement other urodynamic tests used in the evaluation of these patients and also to document that abnormalities previously thought to be anatomic in origin in reality may be secondary to neurologic dysfunction. 
Neuropathological changes in transgenic mice carrying copies of a transcriptionally activated Mos protooncogene [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 May 1;88(9):4060] Independent transgenic mouse lines carrying the mouse Mos protooncogene linked to a retroviral transcriptional control sequence display behavioral abnormalities including circling, head tilting, and head bobbing. This dominant phenotype shows various degrees of penetrance in different transgenic founder animals and lines. Neuronal and axonal degeneration, gliosis, and inflammatory infiltrates are found in all transgenic mouse lines in which behavioral traits are present. Recordings of auditory-evoked potentials in mice of one of these lines demonstrate that transgenic mice are deaf; in these mice spiral ganglia degenerate and most of the cochlear hair cells are absent. By using an S1 nuclease protection assay, we have detected RNA expression of the transgene in all tissues examined and, in particular, at high levels in brain. In situ hybridization experiments show that Mos expression can be detected in specific areas of the central nervous system. Lesions are present in areas with demonstrable overexpression of Mos. 
Extradural haematoma in the Irish Republic: an analysis of 82 cases with emphasis on 'delay'. Eighty-two cases of extradural haematoma were analysed to elucidate the factors contributing to delay in treatment and poor outcome. The majority of cases occurred in the first three decades of life with falls being the commonest aetiological factor. Five distinct modes of presentation are described. Excessive delay occurred in recognizing the condition and in subsequent transfer of patients. This resulted in many patients being operated on while in coma. Associated intracranial and extracranial injury occurred in a significant number of cases. Recommendations for the management of these patients are outlined. 
Clozapine-related seizures. Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with minimal extrapyramidal toxicity recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for hard-to-treat schizophrenic patients. We reviewed information on 1,418 patients treated with clozapine in the United States between 1972 and 1988. Forty-one of 1,418 (2.8%) patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures during treatment with clozapine. Life-table analysis predicts a cumulative 10% risk of seizures after 3.8 years of treatment. Clozapine-related seizures appear to be dose-related. High-dose therapy (greater than or equal to 600 mg/day) was associated with a greater risk of seizures (4.4%) than medium (300 to 600 mg/day; 2.7%) or low doses (less than 300 mg/day; 1.0%). Also, rapid upward titration may increase seizure risk. Thirty-one of 41 patients were successfully continued on clozapine despite seizure occurrence, either with reduction of dose or addition of an antiepileptic medication. Recognition and treatment of clozapine-related seizures will become increasingly important as its use grows in the 1990s. 
Electrocorticographic confirmation of focal positron emission tomographic abnormalities in children with intractable epilepsy. The relationship between focal disturbances of glucose utilization demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET) and electrophysiologic abnormalities defined by intraoperative electrocorticography (ECoG) was studied in eight children (aged 13 months to 12 years) who underwent cortical resection because of intractable seizures. None of the children had pure temporal lobe epilepsy. Computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were normal in four of the eight children. The scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) showed lateralized interictal epileptiform abnormalities in all eight and lateralized ictal onset in five of eight. In seven children, interictal PET showed focal hypometabolism; the eighth child had focal, ictal hypermetabolism. ECoG at the time of surgery showed epileptiform spiking, slowing, and/or suppression of normal background activity that in every case corresponded to the focus on PET scan. The ECoG findings support the notion that in children with epilepsy focal metabolic abnormalities on PET correspond to electrophysiologically abnormal areas of cortex, which are presumably also the epileptogenic regions. Such areas can appear normal on anatomic imaging studies (CT and MRI). When ictal scalp EEG data are ambiguous or contradictory, PET provides a less invasive means than chronic grid or depth electrode recording for evaluating whether a localized epileptogenic area exists. 
Elevated serum concentrations of IgE antibodies to environmental antigens in HIV-seropositive male homosexuals. Forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections (CDC group IV C, N = 28), cancers (IV D, N = 10), or limited or no symptoms (groups II, III, IV A, or IV B, N = 7). The incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after HIV seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups IV C and IV D. The mean serum concentration of IgE was significantly higher for group IV C than for the other HIV-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 HIV-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently. More patients in groups IV C and IV D had positive RASTs for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other HIV-seropositive groups and the HIV-seronegative control group. Patients with AIDS presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases. 
Compensatory mechanisms in degenerative neurologic diseases. Insights from parkinsonism. In animal models of parkinsonism, the ability to lose a substantial proportion of dopaminergic neurons without behavioral deficits does not derive from other systems taking over function of the dopaminergic pathway. The surviving nigrostriatal projection increases both the rate of synthesis and the release of dopamine, as compensatory adjustments. This capacity allows at least a fivefold rise in dopamine delivery per neuron, and this enhancement is potentiated further by receptor up-regulation. Decreased reuptake, due to loss of nerve endings, may also lead to augmented occupancy of dopamine receptors, and so constitute yet another compensatory mechanism. In humans, positron emission tomography has revealed subclinical impairment of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in subjects at risk for parkinsonism caused by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and Lytico-Bodig (the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism dementia complex of Guam). However, the separation of patients with clinically overt idiopathic parkinsonism from controls is less marked in vivo (by positron emission tomography) than in postmortem analysis (by neurochemical assay). This disparity may be attributable to the reduction in the number of nigrostriatal nerve endings, leading, in vivo, to a relative increase of extracellular dopamine because active reuptake into the nerve endings is an important mechanism for removing dopamine from the synaptic cleft. In contrast, in a postmortem setting, dopamine that is not sequestered in the storage vesicles of nerve endings is readily available for biochemical degradation during the interval between death and brain analysis. Finally, it is also possible that differences may derive, in part, from dissimilar kinetic systems for handling exogenous and endogenous levodopa. 
Benign intracranial hypertension after ciprofloxacin administration. Many drugs, including antibiotics, have been implicated in the aetiology of benign intracranial hypertension. We report the development of benign intracranial hypertension after the use of ciprofloxacin in a teenager with cystic fibrosis. 
Treatment of spasticity with botulinum toxin: a double-blind study. We studied the effect of botulinum-A toxin on spasticity of the leg adductors in 9 patients who were either chair-bound or bed-bound with chronic stable multiple sclerosis. We injected botulinum toxin (400 mouse units) or placebo into the adductor muscles in a randomized, crossover, double-blind design. Two physicians, who were unaware of the treatment order, used an objective rating scale and independently assessed the patients; interobserver correlation was excellent (r = 0.93-0.81). We found that botulinum toxin produced a significant reduction in spasticity (p = 0.009) and a significant improvement in the ease of nursing care (p = 0.009). There were no adverse effects during this short-term trial. This is the first demonstration of the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin on focal spastic muscle contractions. 
The standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. Tissue markers of cellular proliferation have been recently utilized as prognostic indicators in tumors of the central nervous system. Nucleolar organizer regions represent transcriptionally active sites of ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and can be identified by a simple argyrophilic technique. The authors describe a standardized approach to the assessment of these argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions in meningeal tumors. Twenty-five meningiomas were classified histologically into benign, atypical, or malignant groups. In addition, two hemangiopericytomas and one leptomeningeal melanoma were examined. Appropriate sections were silver stained and argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions were counted in 200 nuclei. The mean argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region count was statistically different (p less than 0.001) between benign tumors (245 +/- 156, 1.23/cell), atypical tumors (497 +/- 135, 2.49/cell), and malignant tumors (921 +/- 59, 4.61/cell). The count for recurrent meningiomas (544 +/- 76) was also statistically different (p less than 0.02) from non-recurrent tumors (329 +/- 183). The standardized assessment of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions can be easily performed by any surgical pathology laboratory without specialized equipment and, in meningeal tumors, may be useful as an independent indicator of biological behavior. 
Dorsal rhizotomy for children with cerebral palsy: support for concepts of motor control. The results from selective dorsal rhizotomy research suggest that therapists need to question some common clinical assumptions about movement dysfunction. The rationale for performing a selective dorsal rhizotomy is based on the clinical assumptions that spasticity is the underlying cause of disordered movement and that reducing or eliminating the spasticity will improve movement. This article reviews the literature related to movement dysfunction, the effects of selective dorsal rhizotomy, and the evidence for disordered motor control in children with spastic cerebral palsy. Selective dorsal rhizotomy appears to reduce spasticity and increase joint range of motion. Abnormal movement patterns, however, persist after the spasticity is reduced. Well-coordinated movement patterns are acquired slowly and appear to be related to an intense period of physical therapy. I argue that these results provide evidence that the presence of spasticity alone is an insufficient explanation for abnormal movement patterns. I propose that physical therapists redirect their efforts from developing methods for reducing spasticity to developing adequate assessment, treatment, and measurement techniques for assessing motor control in children with cerebral palsy. I believe we can maximize the functional potential of children with cerebral palsy by identifying problems related to motor control and applying sound principles of motor learning to treatment. 
Status of cochlear implantation in children. American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Subcommittee on Cochlear implants. The cochlear implant is a medical device, part of which is placed surgically, that uses electrical stimulation to provide hearing. For almost a decade, investigational studies have been ongoing to define its safety and efficacy in profoundly deaf children. During this period, more than 500 children aged 2 through 17 years have been implanted with either a single-electrode or multielectrode device. Extensive auditory, speech, educational, and psychologic testing has been performed before and after implantation. Results show that the cochlear implant provides auditory detection over much of the speech signal. Compared with the preimplant period, there is significant improvement in auditory discrimination and speech production skills. Limited open-set word and sentence recognition is possible for at least some children. Complications with the device have been minimal. The cochlear implant can provide sound to deaf children unable to benefit from hearing aids. The complex assessment, rehabilitation, and parent counseling should be performed by centers with the multidisciplinary staffs necessary to provide effective care for patients with this specialized auditory prosthesis. 
Short-term memory and sentence comprehension. An investigation of a patient with crossed aphasia. The relationship between short-term memory impairment and sentence comprehension is explored in a right-handed patient with a focal temporoparietal lesion of the right hemisphere. The general clinical profile, as well as characteristics of the patient's immediate memory for word lists, suggests the occurrence of a 'mirror image' crossed aphasia. Detailed analysis of the patient's ability to repeat and to comprehend sentences, however, indicates some important differences between this case and previously reported patients with short-term memory impairment. It is suggested that these differences, which may be related to an unusual pattern of neuroanatomical organization of cognitive functions, involve symptom dissociations with implications for models of normal language/memory interactions. 
Gross motor patterns in children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia. Rolling, sitting, and crawling patterns were motoscopically analyzed in 72 children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia; the relation between these patterns and the severity of the locomotive disability was studied. In rolling, trunk rotation and elbow support were difficult for the most severely diplegic children. When sitting, most patients had a between-heel sitting pattern in which the thighs were adducted and the knees were flexed. When crawling, the reciprocal thigh movements were insufficient and accompanied by lateral bending of the trunk in many patients. In the more impaired patients, the thighs supported the weight in flexion and did not move reciprocally. Creeping on the elbows without reciprocal leg movements was demonstrated in the most severely affected children after 2 years of age. 
Contingent Negative Variation in migraine. The Contingent Negative Variation (CNV) is an event-related slow potential. It was recorded in healthy volunteers (n = 8) and in patients suffering from migraine without (n = 12) or with (n = 5) aura, during one (CNV1) and three second (CNV3) foreperiods in a forewarned reaction time task. CNV1 was recorded at the vertex while CNV3 was recorded at multiple electrode sites to assess topographical differences. Seven out of twelve migraine patients without aura had increased CNV1 amplitudes. CNV3 amplitudes were increased as well, but only at electrode positions C3 and C4 and not at Fz. CNV3, which allows for analysis of both an early and a late CNV component, could improve the discrimination of migraine without aura beyond that of CNV1. In migraine with aura all CNV parameters were at control levels, confirming previous results. The data obtained are discussed in terms of arousal, activation and stress and the "biobehavioral model of migraine" (Welch, 1986). 
The management of mid-face fractures with intracranial injury. Recent advances have radically changed the management of facial fractures. CT scanning, extensive exposure, and rigid plate fixation in the setting of the trauma center have permitted early operation with improved results. A subset of patients with facial fractures will also have intracranial injuries (ICI). We sought to identify parameters associated with an increased risk for ICI. We also sought to examine the safety and limits of early craniofacial repair in patients with intracranial injuries. Of 114 mid-face fractures treated over a 1-year period, 43 (38%) had a concomitant ICI. The majority, 36 (84%), were from motor vehicle accidents (MVA). Frontal sinus and orbitoethmoid fractures were at the highest risk for ICI, although orbitozygomatic fractures caused by MVAs also had a surprisingly high incidence of ICI. Our results show that early craniofacial repair can be performed safely with appropriate general surgical and neurosurgical support. 
Differential effect of oncotic pressure on cerebral and extracerebral water content during cardiopulmonary bypass in rabbits. To study the effect of oncotic pressure on brain water content during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), 14 anesthetized New Zealand White rabbits underwent 60 min of nonpulsatile CPB at normothermia. Animals were grouped according to the composition of the circuit priming fluid. Group 1 animals (n = 7) received a priming fluid (6.5% hydroxyethyl starch in 0.72 N NaCl; 323 +/- 13 mOsm/kg [mean +/- SD]) that maintained normal colloid oncotic pressure (COP) during CPB (19.0 +/- 1.5 mmHg). Group 2 animals (n = 7) received a priming fluid (0.9 N NaCl; 324 +/- 23 mOsm/kg) that led to a hypooncotic state (COP = 6.2 +/- 1.2 mmHg). Blood chemistries and hemodynamics were recorded every 15 min during CPB. Animals were given additional priming fluid and sodium bicarbonate during CPB to maintain a circuit flow of 85 ml.kg-1.min-1 and arterial pH greater than 7.35. There were no significant differences between groups 1 and 2 with respect to temperature, central venous pressure, mean arterial pressure, PaO2, PaCO2, plasma sodium concentration, or osmolality at any time during CPB, although osmolality increased in both groups. After 60 min of bypass, animals were killed and organ water contents were determined by wet/dry weight ratios. A separate group of nine similarly prepared and anesthetized animals that did not undergo cannulation or CPB also underwent measurement of plasma chemistries and tissue water contents and served as nonbypass controls (group 3). Brain and kidney water contents were unaffected by oncotic pressure, whereas duodenum and skeletal muscle had significantly greater water content (P = 0.003 and P = 0.008, respectively) after hypooncotic CPB. 
Botulinum treatment of childhood strabismus. Four hundred thirteen children ranging in age from 2 months to 12 years were treated for strabismus by botulinum injection of extraocular muscles. An average of 1.7 injections per patient was given. Follow-up at an average of 26 months after the last injection (minimum, 6 months) was available on 362 children (88%). The frequency of correction of 10 prism diopters (PD) or less in various groups of strabismus cases was: all 362 cases, 61%; all esotropia, 66%; infantile esotropia, 65%; and exotropia, 45%. Smaller deviations (10-20 PD) were more frequently corrected (73%) than were larger deviations (20-110 PD, 54%). The frequency of correction to 10 PD or less of previously operated cases was not different from that of unoperated cases. There was no globe perforation, amblyopia, or visual loss produced by the injection treatment in this series. 
Visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception. We reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period. Of these patients, 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye. Eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better. Of these, five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better, one had visual acuity of 20/25, one had visual acuity of 20/30, and one had visual acuity of 20/40. Four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400. Dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients. 
No confirmation of visual evoked potential diagnostic test for migraine. We have attempted to replicate the results of studies on a diagnostic test reported to have 90% sensitivity and 89-96% specificity for migraine. The technique is based on peak-to-peak measurements of fast background electroencephalographic activity during a visual evoked potential (VEP) study. VEP latencies and amplitudes did not differ significantly, and showed substantial overlap, between a group of eight migraine patients and ten age-matched healthy controls. We could not recognise previously described fast activity or measure it objectively by peak-to-peak measurements. We cannot confirm that measurement of fast wave activity in the VEP background is useful in diagnosis of migraine. 
Hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade. A spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin. The associated persistent hyponatraemia, which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone, rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis. 
Reinforcement of incontinent stools in the treatment of encopresis. In this paper, fecal incontinence and constipation were treated in two mentally retarded individuals using a novel intervention wherein incontinent stools were first rewarded in order to increase the frequency of bowel movements. This intervention was implemented only after more traditional pediatric and behavioral treatments were unsuccessful. The reinforcement of incontinent stools procedure resulted in an increase in both the frequency and the number of continent stools for both individuals. Hypotheses regarding the failure of previous treatments and the success of the current treatment are discussed as well as directions for future research. 
Work and power in gait of stroke patients. Biomechanical analysis of the work and power patterns involved in gait provides insight into the nature of gait deficits and suggests methods for improvement. The purpose of this study was to describe the work and power characteristics during gait for both limbs of hemiplegic patients, and to determine the work and power variables related to self-selected speeds of walking. The gait of 30 ambulatory adults between the ages of 47 and 79 years was studied using two-dimensional cinematography and force-plate data in a link-segment model. About 40% of the positive work required for walking was performed by the muscles of the affected side. Major contributors were the ankle plantar flexors, hip flexors, and hip extensors. The results suggest interdependence between the limbs and between muscle groups of the same limb; a need for further research is indicated. 
Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis: clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for HIV infection. Patients with HIV infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent P. carinii pneumonia. Signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved. Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques. Therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat P. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients. An association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of P. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed. Other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis. Further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis. 
Opiates suppress carrageenan-induced edema and hyperthermia at doses that inhibit hyperalgesia. This study determined whether opiates alter vascular components of inflammation (hyperthermia, edema and plasma extravasation) in addition to the suppression of hyperalgesia. Rats were administered carrageenan into one hind paw and saline into the other hind paw, followed by i.p. injection of morphine (0.2-5.0 mg/kg) or saline at 60 min, and testing at 90 min after hind paw injections. Morphine produced a dose-dependent reduction in carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia (17-53%), hyperthermia (39-53%) and edema (24-36%). Morphine treatment did not alter the temperatures of the contralateral saline-injected paws, indicating that opiate suppression of hyperthermia was not confounded by alterations in systemic body temperature or blood flow. The opiate effects on inflammation were stereospecific since levorphanol (1 mg/kg), but not dextrorphan (1 mg/kg), suppressed carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. Pre-treatment with naltrexone (1.5 mg/kg) blocked the effects of a 5 mg/kg dose of morphine sulfate on hyperalgesia, hyperthermia and edema. In a separate study, i.v. injection of morphine sulfate (2 mg/kg) reduced plasma extravasation by 41% (P less than 0.01). Morphine administration resulted in significantly greater increases in paw withdrawal latencies in the inflamed (38-139%) than the contralateral, saline-treated paws (4-19%). The results indicate that opiates exert a moderate, though significant, reduction in the vascular signs of inflammation in addition to their reduction of hyperalgesia. The mechanisms for this vascular effect involve inhibition of both vasodilation (as indicated by a decrease in hyperthermia) and inhibition of vascular permeability. In addition, opiates exhibit enhanced antinociceptive effects in inflamed paws, even when compared to uninjured paws in the same animal. 
An objective comparison of intrathecal lidocaine versus fentanyl for the treatment of lower extremity spasticity. The reduction of spasticity after administration of intrathecal fentanyl, 35 micrograms, and intrathecal lidocaine, 50 mg, was compared with preinjection spasticity levels in ten subjects with central nervous system disease or injury. Spasticity was objectively assessed by an electronic instrument that simultaneously measures degrees of extension and force during passive knee extension. Duration of spasticity relief and adverse effects were recorded. Both drugs equally reduced spasticity and increased the range of motion. There were no supraspinal side effects from the fentanyl, whereas three subjects became hypotensive after receiving lidocaine. The reduction of spasticity with intrathecal fentanyl lasted at least 3 h. The authors postulate that fentanyl reduced spasticity by an effect on spinal pathways. Intrathecal fentanyl should be considered as an alternative to lidocaine for diagnostic blocks in patients with spasticity. 
Evidence of serum-protein leakage across the blood-brain barrier in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Lesions of the central nervous system (CNS) in 23 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were compared with control cases for the presence of serum protein by immunoperoxidase staining. A sensitive immunostaining kit in conjunction with rabbit antisera to human serum, albumin, immunoglobulins and complement component 3c was used to demonstrate specific immunoreactivity in paraffin-embedded sections. Most AIDS patients with CNS lesions had serum protein immunoreactivity in some neurons, glial cells (including astrocytes), gliomesenchymal cell nodules, vascular endothelial cells, inflammatory cells or microvascular walls. Cases with the most necrosis tended to have the least immunostaining. Immunoreactivity for IgG and fixed complement in anatomically intact or morphologically altered neural cells may indicate cellular lesions and potential cellular necrosis beyond the damage indicated by routine studies alone. Part of this immunoreactivity might represent a humoral autoimmune response. 
Increased serotoninergic and noradrenergic activity in hepatic encephalopathy in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure. Functional changes of various neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. In this study the role of brain monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems in hepatic encephalopathy was investigated in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure. Concentrations of serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline and of their metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, dihydroxyphenylalanine (following inhibition of dihydroxyphenylalanine-decarboxylase), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl-glycol, were measured in the cerebral cortex, striatum and hippocampus by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. In hepatic encephalopathy concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were increased in all three brain areas (196%, 204% and 264% of saline-treated controls, p less than 0.01), and concentrations of serotonin were increased in the frontal cortex (121%, p less than 0.01). In the frontal cortex and hippocampus of encephalopathic rats dopamine levels were increased (157% and 289%, p less than 0.05), and levels of noradrenaline (53% and 46%, p less than 0.05) were decreased associated with increased 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol levels (173% and 206%, p less than 0.05). The extent of these changes correlated with the stage of hepatic encephalopathy. In hepatic encephalopathy dihydroxyphenylalanine accumulation was increased in the hippocampus and unchanged in the cerebral cortex. Dopamine, noradrenaline, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid concentrations were unchanged in the striatum. The results of this study indicate that hepatic encephalopathy in thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure in rats is associated with neurochemical changes, suggesting an increased activity of the noradrenergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems. 
Pseudopsammomatous meningioma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen: a true secretory meningioma. Case report. A sphenoid-wing meningioma in a 60-year-old woman was accompanied by elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels, which returned to normal after removal of the tumor. Light microscopic examination revealed a secretory meningioma containing numerous pseudopsammoma bodies and a prominent vascular pattern. Immunohistochemical analysis showed the tumor cells and pseudopsammoma bodies to be CEA-positive. This case illustrates the possibility that secretory meningioma may be associated with clinically detectable secretion of CEA. The report also documents the rare occurrence of elevated serum CEA in a primary benign intracranial tumor. 
Spongiform encephalopathy transmitted experimentally from Creutzfeldt-Jakob and familial Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker diseases. A comparison was made of the effects of experimental intracerebral inoculation into marmosets of brain homogenates from a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and from a member of the Wo. family with cerebral amyloid and spongiform encephalopathy--the Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker (GSS) syndrome. All the inoculated marmosets developed spongiform encephalopathy (SE) after incubation times of 20-23 months in the CJD group and 25-32 months in the GSS group. Subsequent passage from 1 affected animal in each group resulted in SE developing after 17 months incubation. In every animal inoculated with CJD or GSS material and in the 2 passage experiments the most severely affected region of the brain was the thalamus which in all cases was almost totally occupied by vacuoles. Other grey matter masses were less severely and less consistently affected. Vacuolation was observed in the cerebellar granule cell layer as well as in the molecular layer and the brain stem was finely vacuolated in all cases. There were only minor and inconsistent differences between the disease transmitted from CJD compared with GSS and some differences between the original transmissions and the SE caused by passaged inocula. Severe astrocytic gliosis accompanied the spongiform changes but no amyloid was identified in any of the marmosets with experimentally transmitted disease. The pathogenesis of the spongiform change in the thalamus was studied in a series of marmosets by light and electron microscopy 3-22 months after the intracerebral inoculation of CJD or GSS homogenates and was compared with controls. Dilated irregularly-shaped cisternae and the large complex vacuoles typical of SE, present in abundance after 18 and 22 months incubation, were considered most probably to be derived from cisternae of neuronal smooth endoplasmic reticulum. 
Effect of nicardipine on somatosensory evoked potentials in patients with acute cerebral infarction. We evaluated the effect of nicardipine, a calcium channel blocker, on somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) in 26 patients with acute cerebral infarction. Post treatment, 58% (15/26) of the N20 and P25 latencies were prolonged in the affected hemispheres; 8% (2/26) were shortened; and 35% (9/26) did not change. The mean N20 and P25 latencies were significantly prolonged two hours post treatment in the affected hemisphere (N20, P less than 0.01, P25 P less than 0.01). Nicardipine (Ni) had no effect on SEP components in the intact hemispheres. Seventy five per cent of the 12 patients with hypertension had a decrease in blood pressure (BP) after taking nicardipine, but there were no undesirable side effects or worsening of neurological signs. Our study demonstrates that nicardipine prolongs the latencies of short-latency components of SEP in the affected hemisphere after acute ischaemic stroke and also decreases BP. These observations suggest that nicardipine therapy might impair neuronal function in the ischaemic zone. 
Fungal meningitis. Fungal meningitis tends to be a subacute or chronic process; however, it may be just as lethal as bacterial meningitis if untreated. There are many similarities between the pathogenic fungi. Most of the fungi are aerosolized and inhaled, and initiate a primary pulmonary infection which is usually self-limited. Hematogenous dissemination may follow the initial infection, with subsequent involvement of the CNS. Rarely, trauma or local extension provides the route to CNS infection. The host is frequently, although not always, immunosuppressed. The hyphae of molds generally cause focal disease with hemorrhagic necrosis secondary to vascular thrombosis. The yeasts tend to cause a more diffuse process with the base of the brain being primarily affected, such that hydrocephalus is seen as a frequent complication of chronic disease. Diagnosis may be difficult, as the CSF may be normal, with negative smears and sterile cultures, although more often there is at least one abnormality indicating disease. Serologies (if available, depending on the fungus) may point towards the proper diagnosis, as may a careful travel history. Currently, amphotericin B is still the drug of choice in most situations; however, the newer azole antifungal agents offer great promise, especially in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis. The precise role of such agents will remain unclear until appropriate large-scale studies of their effectiveness have been completed. The treatment of the unusual CNS mycoses will continue to be based on clinical experience, and reports of the use of new azoles in these diseases need to be critically evaluated. 
White matter hyperintensities in dementia of Alzheimer's type and in healthy subjects without cerebrovascular risk factors. A magnetic resonance imaging study. T2-weighted (0.5 T) magnetic resonance images were used to study the prevalence of subcortical white matter hyperintensities (WMHIs) in 22 patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), 20 age-matched older healthy control subjects, and 10 younger healthy control subjects. Exclusionary criteria for all groups included cerebrovascular risk factors. All subjects had Hachinski Ischemic Index scores of less than 2 and computed tomographic scans showing no infarct. The WMHIs were classified as periventricular WMHIs or deep WMHIs and graded 0 through 3 (0 indicated absent, and 3, severe). For the group with DAT and older control subjects, periventricular WMHIs and deep WMHIs were graded 2 or 3 in fewer than 17% and 27% of subjects, respectively, whereas in the younger control subjects, all ratings were grade 1 or less. Serum cholesterol and systolic blood pressure values, although within the normal range, were elevated significantly in older control subjects when compared with those in younger control subjects. No significant differences in WMHI ratings, blood pressure, cholesterol, or triglyceride levels were found between patients with DAT and age-matched control subjects. Systolic blood pressure levels correlated with the severity of periventricular WMHIs only in older control subjects. Age correlated with periventricular WMHIs and deep WMHIs within both the older control subjects and the patients with DAT. There was no significant correlation between WMHIs and the severity of dementia in the group with DAT. These results suggest that, in subjects screened for cerebrovascular risk factors, WMHIs are rare and occur with identical frequency in patients with DAT as in age-matched healthy control subjects. 
Whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis? Short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease. We present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years. Short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and, in some cases, with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits. We think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate. 
Double-blind comparison of topical lignocaine-prilocaine cream (EMLA) and lignocaine infiltration for arterial cannulation in adults. In a double-blind, double-dummy study, the efficacy of topical 5% EMLA cream was compared with that of lignocaine infiltration in alleviating the pain of arterial cannulation. Forty unpremedicated adults were allocated randomly to four groups to receive EMLA cream alone, EMLA and 0.9% saline infiltration, EMLA and 1% lignocaine infiltration or placebo cream and 1% lignocaine infiltration. Following arterial cannulation, pain was assessed by the patient using a visual analogue score and by an independent observer using a four-category verbal rating score. Significantly lower pain scores were observed in all patients receiving EMLA compared with those receiving placebo cream and lignocaine infiltration by both patient (P less than 0.01) and observer (P less than 0.001) assessments. There were no significant differences between the three EMLA groups. 
Brain protection: physiological and pharmacological considerations. Part I: The physiology of brain injury. Ischaemia, whether focal or global in nature, produces a sequence of intracellular events leading to increased cell permeability to water and ions including Ca++. There is a loss of cellular integrity and function, with increased production of prostaglandins, free radicals, and acidosis with lactate accumulation. These events may be exacerbated by glucose administration. Pharmacological agents aimed at alleviating ischaemic injury could be directed at decreasing cerebral metabolic requirements for oxygen, improving flow to ischaemic areas, preventing Ca+(+)-induced injury, inhibition of free radical formation, lactate removal, inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, and prevention of complement-mediated leukocyte aggregation. Part I of this paper describes some of the pathophysiological events leading to ischaemic brain injury. Part 2 of this paper will consider the current agents available for brain protection. 
Nerve-muscle involvement in a large family with mitochondrial cytopathy: electrophysiological studies. Thirteen patients with mitochondrial cytopathy were investigated. They represent different generations, ages, stages, and severities of the disease. All were assumed to have the same metabolic defect. The disease is a multisystem disorder with a metabolic defect located at complex 1 in the respiratory chain. Clinically, the disorder gives symptoms such as hearing loss, retinal pigmental degeneration, ataxia, cardiomyopathy, muscular fatiguability and neuropathy. The patients were investigated with nerve conduction studies, concentric needle EMG, SFEMG, and macro EMG examinations. Neurophysiologic studies revealed signs of myopathy in both the younger members and in those with slight muscular symptoms. In the more advanced stages, neuropathic changes of the axonal type were seen as well. Macro EMG was interpreted as indicating muscle fiber membrane abnormalities in the early stages. Single fiber EMG studies indicate that this metabolic defect does not disturb neuromuscular transmission. 
Histopathologic correlation of magnetic resonance imaging signal patterns in a spinal cord injury model. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a noninvasive method of monitoring the pathologic response to spinal cord injury. Specific MR signal intensity patterns appear to correlate with degrees of improvement in the neurologic status in spinal cord injury patients. Histologic correlation of two types of MR signal intensity patterns are confirmed in the current study using a rat animal model. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent spinal cord trauma at the midthoracic level using a weight-dropping technique. After laminectomy, 5- and 10-gm brass weights were dropped from designated heights onto a 0.1-gm impounder placed on the exposed dura. Animals allowed to regain consciousness demonstrated variable recovery of hind limb paraplegia. Magnetic resonance images were obtained from 2 hours to 1 week after injury using a 2-tesla MRI/spectrometer. Sacrifice under anesthesia was performed by perfusive fixation; spinal columns were excised en bloc, embedded, sectioned, and observed with the compound light microscope. Magnetic resonance axial images obtained during the time sequence after injury demonstrate a distinct correlation between MR signal intensity patterns and the histologic appearance of the spinal cord. Magnetic resonance imaging delineates the pathologic processes resulting from acute spinal cord injury and can be used to differentiate the type of injury and prognosis. 
Frontal lobe utilization behavior associated with paramedian thalamic infarction. Disinhibited, exaggerated responses to objects and environmental cues (utilization behavior) occur predominantly with frontal lobe damage. We report a striking example associated with paramedian thalamic infarction suggesting a thalamofrontal component to environmental interactions that require inhibition, self-monitoring, and cognitive flexibility. 
The natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. Seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively. Sixty three (89%) were followed to the end of the study or death, mean follow up time was 5.3 years. Whilst twenty (28%) had diabetes or hypertension, in thirty nine (55%) no predisposing condition was identified. In those who had monocular disease at presentation (68), subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen (25%), seven within the first year. Nineteen patients died within the study period. Of these, nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease. This is a significant increase above figures calculated from the Office of Population Census and Surveys (p less than 0.001 for all causes, p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease). Such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported, and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed. 
Triiodothyronine and brain excitability. We investigated mechanisms involved in thyroid hormone action on brain excitability. The effect of acute exposure of triiodothyronine (T3) to rat hippocampal slices in vitro was studied. No significant changes could be detected in prevolley, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) and population spike amplitude, while there was a minor, nonsignificant trend toward shortening of the population spike latency time. T3 had no effect on penicillin-induced epileptiform activity. There was, however, an active accumulation of radioactively labeled T3 in the slices. A rat cervaux-isole preparation was used to determine focal seizure thresholds in the visual cortex, and no acute (2-4 h) effects were demonstrated. No significant acute effects of T3 on brain excitability in the hippocampus and visual cortex was observed, despite an active accumulation of T3. Thus, the effect of T3 on brain excitability most likely is due to delayed effects. 
Epidural hematoma: an unusual presentation. The authors present a patient with a traumatic epidural hematoma who complained only of headache and presented to the emergency department 48 hours after a fall. Mental status and neurological examination were normal. This delayed presentation is more commonly seen when a subdural hematoma is present but may result from epidural bleeding. Delayed formation of a traumatic epidural hematoma may occur when the following are present: elevated intracranial pressure, hypovolemic shock, a concomitant mass lesion, coagulopathy, bleeding from dural or diploic veins, a dural sinus laceration, a traumatic pseudoaneurysm, or an arteriovenous fistula. Although criteria for computed tomography of patients with head injuries remain variable in the literature, delayed presentation of epidural bleeding must be considered in the differential diagnosis of posttraumatic headache irregardless of the time interval or neurological presentation. 
The role of conditioning and verbal expectancy in the placebo response. Both conditioning and expectancy models have been offered in recent years as explanations for the placebo response. Following our earlier work on conditioning placebo responses in human subjects the current study examined the relative contribution made by conditioning and verbal expectancy. Group 1 received a Combined Expectancy and Conditioning Manipulation; group 2 received Expectancy Alone; group 3, Conditioning Alone; and group 4 was the control group. Subjects' responses were compared with and without a placebo cream, using iontophoretic pain stimulation. The results suggest that conditioning was more powerful than verbal expectancy in creating a placebo response. 
Effects of lactulose and lactitol on protein digestion and metabolism in conventional and germ free animal models: relevance of the results to their use in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy. Protein digestion and metabolism have been studied in laboratory rats and miniature pigs to investigate the mechanisms of action of lactulose and lactitol when used in the treatment of patients with portosystemic encephalopathy. Lactulose (beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1----4)-beta-D-fructofuranose) and lactitol (beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1----4)-D-glucitol) increased the excretion of nitrogenous material in the faeces and decreased nitrogen excretion in the urine in a similar degree to that reported for human patients. In studies with germ free rats given lactulose no such effect was observed, suggesting that, for lactulose at least, these effects are mediated by the gut flora. Measurement of the alpha-, epsilon-diaminopimelic acid content of the faeces confirmed that the enhancement of faecal nitrogen was due to an increased contribution from bacteria. The similarity in the results for lactulose and lactitol suggests that, from the perspective of protein metabolism, lactitol acts in a similar way to lactulose in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy. 
Cells secreting anti-MAG antibody occur in cerebrospinal fluid and bone marrow in patients with polyneuropathy associated with M component. Occurrence and distribution of cells secreting antibodies against myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) were studied in 9 patients with polyneuropathy associated with the monoclonal (M) component in serum. Utilizing an immunospot assay, we found that 4 of 7 patients with polyneuropathy associated with an IgM M component had cells secreting anti-MAG IgM antibody in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) numbering between 1 per 212 and 1 per 3333 mononuclear cells. All 7 patients had cells secreting anti-MAG IgM antibody in bone marrow (median value 1 per 2000 cells). In contrast, peripheral blood from only 2 of these patients contained low numbers of such cells. One patient with polyneuropathy associated with an IgA M component had cells secreting anti-MAG IgA antibody in CSF, and 1 with an IgG M component had cells secreting anti-MAG IgG antibody in CSF; both patients also had anti-MAG IgM antibodies detectable in CSF only by ELISA. These 2 patients may thus have concurrent intrathecal production of antibodies of 2 different isotypes which are directed against the same or different epitopes of MAG. The production of antibodies directed against a component of myelin occurring in the immediate vicinity of the peripheral nervous system might be involved in the pathogenesis of the polyneuropathy. 
Spinal hemangioblastoma, syrinx, and hydrocephalus in a two-year-old child. A two-year-old child presented with an acute inability to bear weight. Radiological investigation revealed a large cervicothoracolumbar syrinx of no known cause. During investigation, acute communicating hydrocephalus developed, which required a shunt. At surgery, a small thoracic spinal cord hemangioblastoma was discovered and excised. Complete recovery with collapse of the syrinx followed. The clinical features of this rare childhood tumor and its associated effects are discussed. 
X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia: linkage to phosphoglycerate kinase at Xq13. Molecular linkage analysis was performed on a kindred with X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia. Two-point analysis with a DNA probe for phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1), which maps to Xq13, suggested linkage to the disorder by a lod score of at least 2.60 at a recombination fraction of zero. The disease in this kindred appears to be clinically and genetically distinct from that in previously reported families with X-linked hereditary ataxia or spastic paraparesis. No mapping data are available for inherited X-linked sideroblastic anemia without neurologic abnormalities. However, structural alterations of band Xq13 may be involved in the development of idiopathic acquired sideroblastic anemia. No alterations in the restriction patterns of two X-linked genes involved in erythrocyte formation-i.e., a DNA-binding protein (GF-1) and 5-aminolevulinate synthase (ALAS)-were detected in DNA from affected males, arguing against a large deletion in either of these candidate genes. 
Intraoperative ultrasonography: an important surgical adjunct for intramedullary tumors. The echographic characteristics of 186 suspected intramedullary spinal cord tumors were reviewed. Ultrasonography was found to be specific in distinguishing the tumor type, the extent of the lesion, and the presence and type of associated cysts. Ultrasonography greatly facilitates the selection of respective sites for the placement of a myelotomy, and for initiation of the resection. Additionally, this indispensable adjunct provides ongoing images that allow the preoperative plan to be precisely followed in a surgical field where anatomical landmarks are limited and the margin for error is minimal. 
Clinical differentiation of fulminant Wilsonian hepatitis from other causes of hepatic failure. Establishing a diagnosis of fulminant Wilson's disease can be difficult because Kayser-Fleischer rings may not be present and parameters of copper metabolism, including serum and urinary copper, and serum ceruloplasmin levels are neither specific nor diagnostic. In this study, ratios of both the serum alkaline phosphatase to total bilirubin and aspartate transaminase to alanine transaminase were constructed to evaluate their usefulness in differentiating fulminant hepatic failure caused by Wilson's disease (n = 6) from other etiologies (n = 43). An analysis of the data showed that cutoff values of less than 2.0 for the alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio and greater than 4.0 for the aspartate transaminase ratio were associated with a diagnosis of fulminant hepatic failure caused by Wilson's disease only (P less than 0.001). The alkaline phosphatase-total bilirubin ratio of less than 2.0 provided 100% sensitivity and specificity in identifying fulminant hepatic failure caused by Wilson's disease from other types of fulminant hepatic failure. 
Corpus callosotomy for intractable seizures in the pediatric age group. The results of corpus callosotomy in 18 patients 16 years old and younger are presented. Eighty-three percent of our patients have had a significant improvement from the surgery (a decrease in seizure frequency of greater than 80% or no longer having generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic seizures). The procedure seems to be well tolerated in young patients, and we have not noted a postoperative deterioration in behavior, memory, or language function in our patients. One of our patients died in status epilepticus 3 months after surgery. Nevertheless, we have not encountered any serious morbidity in our other patients. Corpus callosotomy can be considered for children with intractable seizures, especially when generalized atonic, tonic, or tonic-clonic (whether primary or secondary) seizures are the major seizure type. 
Spinal catheter anaesthesia for caesarean section in a patient with spina bifida. A patient with grossly deformed vertebral anatomy, scheduled for elective Caesarean section, expressed her wish to stay fully awake during the procedure. Epidural anaesthesia was considered to be impracticable, while dural puncture appeared possible only at thoracic level. Spinal anaesthesia using a subarachnoid catheter placed at T7-8 was employed successfully. 
Very low birth weight children: behavior problems and school difficulty in a national sample We addressed three questions concerning the behavioral and academic status of low and very low birth weight infants through a secondary analysis of the 1981 National Health Interview Survey--Child Health Supplement: (1) in children born with very low birth weight, what is the risk of behavior problems and school difficulty compared with that in heavier low birth weight and normal birth weight children? (2) What are the correlates of school difficulty? (3) Are behavior problems associated with school difficulty when variables are controlled for these correlates? The analysis revealed that 34% of very low birth weight children could be characterized as having school difficulty, compared with 20% and 14% of the other groups, respectively, and that they were more likely to have higher scores on the hyperactive subscale of the Behavior Problems Index. Although a broad array of sociodemographic factors correlated with school difficulty, very low birth weight and hyperactivity scores contributed independently to the risk of academic problems. We conclude that very low birth weight infants are at risk of having school problems that are in part associated with hyperactive behavior. 
Bacteremia in an ambulatory setting. Improved outcome in children treated with antibiotics. We undertook a study of 414 bacteremic patients (167 with Haemophilus influenzae and 247 with Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia) to evaluate their clinical presentation, laboratory and clinical results, and subsequent outcomes. Patients with H influenzae bacteremia were more likely to have soft-tissue foci, poorer clinical appearance at presentation, and be at higher risk for subsequent serious focal infections, persistent bacteremia, and subsequent hospital admissions than patients with S pneumoniae. Patients with H influenzae bacteremia had a 21.1-fold increase in risk of meningitis (95% confidence interval [CI] of 3.8 to 78.0) compared with those with S pneumoniae. The odds ratio for initial lumbar puncture was 5.25 (95% CI [1.1-23.6]). Ambulatory patients treated with antibiotics at presentation were less likely to develop new serious soft-tissue infections, persistent bacteremia, or to require subsequent hospital admissions than untreated patients. The effect of treatment was greater for patients with S pneumoniae than those with H influenzae. Careful follow-up and reevaluation of patients with presumptive bacteremia is essential because treated and untreated patients can still develop serious soft-tissue infections. 
Reversible brain death. A manifestation of amitriptyline overdose. Tricyclic antidepressants are known to cause central nervous system depression. However, a generalized depression of brainstem functions is rarely reported. We report a patient in deep coma with complete absence of brain-stem reflexes after she had taken a large quantity of amitriptyline. With continuous supportive treatment, she eventually regained all neurologic function and made a full recovery. 
Cerebrospinal fluid eicosanoid levels: endogenous PGD2 and LTC4 synthesis by antigen-presenting cells that migrate to the central nervous system. We analyzed CSF from patients with multiple sclerosis, patients with other neurologic diseases, and healthy controls for the presence of prostaglandin (PG) E2, F2 alpha, D2, I, A, and leukotriene (LT) C4. Control CSF had little measurable PGs or LTs. CSF eicosanoids from patients with progressive MS were increased. We found PGD2 only in MS CSF. CSF monocytes from patients in active disease produced significantly increased PGD, PGE, and LTC4 than paired peripheral blood monocytes and monocytes from healthy controls. We saw no significant difference in LTC4 production between MS and control peripheral blood monocytes. 
Spinal cord compression with paraplegia in xanthomatosis due to normocholesterolemic sitosterolemia. A 48-year-old woman with a 30-year history of tendinous xanthomatosis developed paraplegia. The magnetic resonance image revealed extramedullary tumors. The analysis of her sera and tumors revealed increased amount of plant sterols, especially sitosterol, and the diagnosis of sitosterolemia was made. This is the first reported case of a patient with sitosterolemia who had the neurological complication of spinal cord compression due to extramedullary sitosterolemic xanthomas. 
Systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome. Relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities. To examine the possible relationship between systemic HT and SAS we compared 21 hypertensive (HT+) and 29 normotensive (HT-) patients for morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography. There was no significant difference between HT+ and HT- patients with respect to age, weight, BMI, sleep stage distribution and disorganization, apnea-hypopnea index (number of episodes per hour of sleep) and duration (minutes per hour of sleep) nor O2 saturation indices: mean nocturnal and minimum O2 saturation. We conclude therefore that HT in SAS patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics, sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities. 
Modification of pain on injection of propofol--a comparison between lignocaine and procaine. Pain on injection of propofol was assessed in a controlled, randomised study of 273 patients. They received either lignocaine 10 mg, procaine 10 mg or isotonic saline 0.5 ml, 15 seconds before the injection of propofol into a vein on the back of the hand. The incidence of pain on injection in the control group (51%) was comparable with other studies. Lignocaine and procaine both significantly reduced the pain (35% and 34% respectively, p less than 0.05) but there was no statistical difference between these two groups. 
Cerebral effects of sevoflurane in the dog: comparison with isoflurane and enflurane. The cerebral effects of sevoflurane were compared in dogs with those of enflurane and isoflurane. Initially, the minimum alveolar concentrations (MAC) of sevoflurane and enflurane were determined and the electroencephalographic (EEG) responses to increasing doses of sevoflurane (1.5, 2.0 and 2.5 MAC) or enflurane (1.5 and 2.0 MAC) in unparalysed animals were examined. Administration of sevoflurane was not associated with seizure activity at any concentration either during normocapnia (PaCO2 5.3 kPa) or hypocapnia (PaCO2 2.7 kPa), even in the presence of intense auditory stimuli. All dogs anaesthetized with enflurane demonstrated sustained EEG and motor evidence of seizure activity induced by auditory stimuli at concentrations of enflurane greater than 1 MAC, particularly during hypocapnia. In a separate group of dogs, the effects of increasing concentrations of sevoflurane and isoflurane (0.5, 1.5 and 2.15 MAC) were compared directly on arterial pressure, cardiac output and heart rate, cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) using the venous outflow technique. Sevoflurane, in common with isoflurane, had minimal effects on cerebral blood flow at the concentrations studied, but significantly reduced the CMRO2 at end-tidal concentrations sufficient to produce a burst suppression pattern on the EEG (approximately 2.15 MAC). Both sevoflurane and isoflurane significantly decreased arterial pressure in a dose-dependent manner, but neither drug significantly altered cardiac output. 
Skin and epidural recording of spinal somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation: correlation between the absence of spinal N13 and impaired pain sense. A clinical lesion study and intraoperative epidural recordings were made to test the origin and clinical significance of the spinal N13 and P13 of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) that follow median nerve stimulation. Intraoperatively, the respective peak latencies of spinal P13 and N13 coincided with those of the N1 component of the dorsal cord potential and its phase reversed positivity. On both the ventral and dorsal sides of the cervical epidural space, maximal amplitude was at the C5 vertebral level to which nerve input from the C6 dermatome is the main contributor. The modality of sensory impairment in the hand dermatome was examined in selected patients with cervical lesions, who showed such normal conventional SEP components as Erb N9, far-field P9, P11, P14, N18 and cortical N20, with or without loss of spinal N13. Statistically, the loss of spinal N13 was associated with decrease of pain sensation in the C6 dermatome. This was interpreted as being due to damage to the central grey matter of the cord, including the dorsal horn. Our results suggest the spinal N13 and P13 originate from the same source in the C6 spinal cord segment and that they are good indicators for the detection of centromedullary cervical cord damage. 
Characterization of periventricular edema in normal-pressure hydrocephalus by measurement of water proton relaxation times. The magnetic resonance longitudinal relaxation time (T1) and transverse relaxation time (T2) of the water proton of the periventricular white and cortical gray matter were measured for 17 control patients and 21 patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). Of the latter group, 14 showed good response to shunting (true-NPH group) and seven showed no response (false-NPH group). In the true-NPH group, both the T1 and the T2 of the periventricular white matter were significantly prolonged compared to the control values, and slowly shortened after cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting. The true-NPH group showed significantly longer T1 and T2 of the white matter than did the false-NPH group. The T1 and T2 of the white matter were longer than those of the gray matter in this group, which was the reverse of the relationship observed in the control patients. In the white matter of the false-NPH group, there was a significant prolongation of T1 only; no difference was seen in the T2 compared to control values. There was no change in either T1 or T2 of this region after CSF shunting. The false-NPH group showed no significant difference in either T1 or T2 between the white and the gray matter. There was no difference in either T1 or T2 of the gray matter between the false-NPH and control groups or between preshunt and postshunt measurements in each patient group. It is suggested that a distinction between true- and false-NPH, which cannot be made from the radiographic appearance alone, may be possible from measurement of relaxation times. The mechanism of varied relaxation behavior between two entities may be explained by a difference in properties of the biological water and its environment. 
Chronic blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke, transient ischemic attack, and risk factors for stroke. The origin and significance of blood hyperviscosity in subjects with acute stroke has been controversial. It has been argued that viscous abnormalities simply reflect either elevated hematocrit or an acute-phase response to the stroke itself. To address these issues, we measured the factors that determine blood viscosity in a cross-sectional study of 430 subjects, including 135 with acute stroke, 89 with acute transient ischemic attacks of the brain, 115 with recognized risk factors for stroke, and 91 healthy controls. The at-risk group was balanced with the acute stroke group for types of risk factors and medication usage, and all four groups were balanced for age. The viscosity of whole blood at low rates of shear and the plasma viscosity were significantly elevated in both groups with cerebrovascular symptoms and in the at-risk group compared with the healthy controls. The severity of hyperviscosity was stroke group greater than transient ischemic attack group greater than at-risk group greater than healthy controls. Increased viscosity of whole blood was associated with an elevated plasma fibrinogen concentration and with a decreased albumin/globulin ratio. This study provides evidence that blood hyperviscosity is present not only in subjects with acute brain infarction, but also in those with risk factors for stroke, and that these abnormalities are, to a considerable degree, chronic. 
Histochemical demonstration of 5'-nucleotidase activity in inflammatory muscle disease. Using a histochemical method, 5'-nucleotidase activity was investigated in 80 muscle biopsy specimens, including specimens from eight patients with muscular dystrophy, 18 with nonspecific type II fiber atrophy, 15 with polymyositis, and 29 histologically normal controls. An interstitial reaction for 5'-nucleotidase was associated with an inflammatory infiltrate in 19 of 21 positive cases. Of the 15 cases of polymyositis, 14 showed an extensive interstitial reaction surrounding most of the myofibers and extending well away from the areas infiltrated by inflammatory cells. The extensive nature of this reaction makes 5'-nucleotidase activity a useful adjuvant in the diagnosis of inflammatory muscle disease. 
Systems analysis of cerebrovascular pressure transmission: an observational study in head-injured patients. In an observational study in head-injured patients, cerebrovascular pressure transmission was investigated using a systems analysis approach whereby the blood pressure (BP) waveform was used as a measure of an input stimulus to the cerebrovascular bed (CVB) and the intracranial pressure (ICP) waveform as the response to that stimulus. The transfer function is a measure of how much pressure is transmitted through the CVB at a given frequency and is calculated using Fourier analysis of the pressure waveforms. The transfer function allows quantification of the pressure transmission performance of the CVB, thus providing a basis for comparison between normal and abnormal function. Fifteen hundred samples of ICP and BP waveforms were collected from 30 head-injured patients via microcomputer. Off-line spectral analysis of the waveform database revealed four main classes of transfer function: those with an overall flat transfer function (curve type 1); those with an elevated low-frequency response (curve type 2); those with an elevated high-frequency response (curve type 3); and those exhibiting both an elevated low- and high-frequency response (curve type 4). Curve types 2 and 4 were most often associated with raised ICP (greater than 20 mm Hg), whereas curve types 1 and 3 were most often affiliated with ICP less than 15 mm Hg. Studies of this type may provide insight into the pathophysiology of the CVB and ultimately aid in the prediction and treatment of raised ICP. 
Changes in thermal and mechanical pain thresholds in hand amputees. A clinical and physiological long-term follow-up. In a previous study, allodynia to cold and vibratory stimuli was found in the finger stumps of 24 patients with amputations, control values being obtained from fingers of the intact contralateral hand. When treated with regional intravenous guanethidine block (RGB), some of the patients only had short-lasting relief of symptoms, whereas others experienced a more long-lasting beneficial effect. In the present long-term follow-up study the patients were re-examined 6 years after the RGB treatment. The aim was to investigate whether the earlier symptoms and signs persisted, and whether there were any differences in these respects, between patients with long-lasting (group 1) and short-lasting relief of symptoms after RGB (group 2). All 24 patients were asked to answer a questionnaire concerning their clinical symptoms. In addition, 14 of them visited the laboratory for determination of thermal and vibration-induced pain thresholds. Comparisons were made with values obtained at the first examination before RGB treatment and with values from 14 healthy subjects tested in a similar way on 2 occasions with an interval of 8 years. Twenty of 23 patients reported that cold exposure still evoked stump pain. However, the threshold measurements showed that with time the patients had become more tolerant to thermal stimuli not only in the injured but also in the uninjured hand. A rise in pain threshold was also observed when vibration-induced pain was tested in the injured hand. There was no significant difference between groups 1 and 2. Similar changes in pain thresholds with time were not observed in the group of healthy control subjects. 
Herpes simplex virus type 2 meningitis without genital lesions: an immunoblot study. Two sexually active female patients presented with acute meningitis. The CSF abnormalities were severe and persistent. In spite of the absence of genital lesions, serological studies revealed a primary infection by herpes simplex virus type 2. An immunoblot study revealed intrathecal synthesis of anti-herpes antibodies early in the course of the disease. 
The use of cognitive behavior therapy with a normalizing rationale in schizophrenia. Preliminary report. Sixty-four consecutively referred patients with schizophrenia were treated with cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy as an adjunct to standard treatment. A destigmatizing rationale to explain symptom emergence was devised and supplemented these techniques. They proved safe to use and appeared acceptable to patients and their relatives. Members of the group are being maintained on low levels of or no medication and have required minimal hospitalization. The techniques used are described in detail. 
Recurrent tension headache in adolescents treated with self-help relaxation training and a muscle relaxant drug. Forty-eight adolescents suffering from recurrent tension headache participated in a controlled trial conducted in a high school setting. During the first treatment phase self-help relaxation training was compared with a waiting-list group. Following this phase a pharmacological regimen consisting of a muscle relaxant (chlormezanone) and placebo was superimposed on relaxation therapy in a double-blind crossover design. Each treatment phase encompassed a 5-week period. In addition to the evaluation of headache complaints, psychological distress among students was measured with respect to their experience of somatic complaints, depressive, anxiety and stress symptoms. Although self-help relaxation training significantly decreased the severity and annoyance of adolescents' headache besides their somatic complaints, the clinical improvement of headache was modest. The addition of chlormezanone did not help those who were nonresponders to self-help relaxation training. Finally, a set of pretreatment variables consisting of baseline headache severity and annoyance, experience of anxiety and daily life stress among adolescents could predict outcome of self-help relaxation therapy. 
Subcutaneous lisuride infusion in Parkinson's disease. Response to chronic administration in 34 patients. Thirty-eight parkinsonian patients with motor fluctuations and dyskinesias on chronic levodopa therapy were treated with subcutaneous lisuride infusion (SLI). Thirty-six were discharged from hospital on combined treatment with 24 h lisuride infusion (111.3 +/- 29.5 micrograms/h) and oral levodopa plus a decarboxylase inhibitor (729.6 +/- 452 mg/day); all obtained a marked initial improvement in mobility (mean reduction 'off' hours 87.5%); 34 were followed for a mean of 20.85 (range 6-45) months. Most patients continued to show improvement with respect to baseline assessment during chronic treatment but 23 developed dyskinesias, 'off' periods or both, which were difficult to control by changing the levodopa schedule, lisuride dose or both. In only 5 patients was lisuride treatment stopped because of inefficacy. The high incidence of psychiatric side-effects (18/38) was the major limiting factor for continuing lisuride infusion in this population of severe parkinsonian patients. Many complained about the inconvenience of the pump's technical requirements for long-term utilization, but only 4 patients abandoned SLI for this reason. These results indicate that motor function may be substantially improved in severe parkinsonian patients treated with SLI but increased dyskinesia or psychiatric adverse effects limited the long-term usefulness of this approach. It is suggested that continuous dopaminergic stimulation may be a particularly useful therapeutic strategy when applied in earlier stages of the disease. 
Chronic headache associated with a functioning shunt: usefulness of pressure monitoring. Chronic headaches in a shunt-dependent patient with small ventricles has long been treated with little or no regard to intracranial pressure. In this study, pressure monitoring on 12 such patients demonstrated that they fell into three distinct categories: 3 had headaches caused by intracranial hypertension, 2 had headaches from hypotension, and 7 showed no relation of symptoms to pressure. As therapeutic procedures for treating these three categories are entirely different and sometimes opposing, it is clear that intracranial pressure monitoring is essential to successful management of this complaint. 
Language function following anterior temporal lobectomy. The authors report the results of a prospective investigation that evaluated postoperative changes in language function after dominant (29 cases) or nondominant (35 cases) anterior temporal lobectomy for treatment of complex partial seizures. These patients received conservative resection of lateral temporal cortex but aggressive resection of medial temporal cortex. None of the patients underwent functional mapping of cortical language ability. All patients were assessed with a standardized aphasia battery (Multilingual Aphasia Examination) before and 6 months after surgery. Postoperatively, the dominant anterior temporal lobectomy group did not show any significant losses in language function compared to patients who underwent nondominant anterior temporal lobectomy. In addition, the dominant temporal lobectomy group showed significant postoperative improvement in complex receptive language comprehension compared to the nondominant group. These results suggest that patients with complex partial seizures of medial temporal lobe onset can undergo a conservative resection of lateral temporal cortex without language mapping. Such surgery carries little risk to language function and provides an excellent postoperative surgical outcome. 
Indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. Fifty-six board-certified neurologists with interest and expertise in myasthenia completed a survey of indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis. Thymectomy was advocated for virtually all patients with thymoma, for a variable subset of patients with generalized myasthenia without thymoma, and occasionally for selected patients with disabling ocular myasthenia. 
Severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption. A severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption is described. Data are presented to show a significant absorption of lidocaine through diseased skin when lidocaine cream is used as a local anesthetic. Awareness of this route of intoxication might be important in patients in whom neurologic or psychiatric symptoms develop while large amounts of lidocaine cream are being used. 
Effects of short spaceflights on mechanical characteristics of rat muscles. The aim of this study was to investigate the contractile protein characteristics after 5-day (Cosmos 1514) and 7-day (Cosmos 1667) spaceflights. The experiments were performed on skinned fibers from the soleus, gastrocnemius lateralis, and plantaris muscles isolated from Wistar rats. A reduction in fiber diameter might explain the decrease in the maximal tension in the soleus, whereas this tension was unaltered in the gastrocnemius and the plantaris. Moreover the calcium sensitivity of the myofilament appeared modified in the soleus and in the gastrocnemius: The tension/pCa relationships were shifted toward higher calcium concentrations, indicating a decrease in the apparent calcium binding constant of the troponin C. The tension/pCa relationship appeared unaltered in the plantaris after spaceflight. Finally, the studies of the time to reach a steady tension indicated an increase in the rate of force development in the soleus and, on the contrary, a slowing down in the plantaris. No change in the gastrocnemius was found. The results were analyzed with references to the different muscle functions in disuse atrophy. 
Acute tolerance in morphine analgesia: continuous infusion and single injection in rats. This study aimed to determine whether the decline of the analgesic effect of morphine with a continuous infusion or that after a single injection correlates with the changes in brain concentration of morphine. The analgesic effect of morphine and its brain and serum concentrations were determined with a continuous 8-h infusion at a constant rate and after a single subcutaneous injection of the agent. The analgesic effect was determined by measuring the threshold of motor response to noxious stimulation. Brain and serum concentrations of morphine were detected by radioimmunoassay with the use of 125I-labeled morphine. With the constant-rate (4 mg.kg-1.h-1, intravenous) morphine infusion, the peak of analgesia could not be maintained: the increase in the pain threshold at 2 h was 1,003 g and at 8h was 286 g (a decrease in analgesia by 72%, P less than 0.0002). At the same time, the brain morphine concentration tended to increase, to 278 ng/g at 2 h and 329 ng/g at 8 h. After the single morphine injection (6 mg/kg, subcutaneous), recovery from analgesia occurred at a much faster rate than did the decrease in morphine brain concentration; the decrease in pain threshold was 79% at 90 vs. 30 min after the injection (P less than 0.0001), and the corresponding decrease in brain concentration was 28% (NS). The absence of correlation between analgesia and morphine brain concentration both with the constant-rate morphine infusion and after the single injection suggests the development of acute tolerance, which is pharmacodynamic in nature. 
Kindling susceptibility and genetic seizure predisposition in inbred mice. Olfactory bulb kindling rates were studied in two inbred strains of genetically seizure-prone mice (DBA/2 and El) and in three non-epileptic inbred strains [C57BL/6 (B6), ddY, and C3H/He (C3H)]. None of the DBA/2 mice had been stimulated to seizure before or during the kindling and all mice were studied at 4-6 weeks of age, before development of spontaneous or movement-induced seizure activity in the El strain. The audiogenically seizure-susceptible DBA/2 mice required the fewest number of stimulations to reach stage 5 seizure (mean +/- SE = 4.0 +/- 0.6). The nonepileptic C3H mice required the most stimulations to reach stage 5 seizures (22.6 +/- 1.4). Kindling rates for B6 (9.6 +/- 0.6), El (14.8 +/- 1.1), and ddY (18.5 +/- 1.0) strains were intermediate, and the kindling rate for each strain was significantly different from that of the other strains. These findings show that the seizure-susceptible El mouse kindles more rapidly than the genetically similar but nonepileptic ddY control and suggest that an inherited seizure susceptibility accelerates the kindling rate. Nonepileptic B6 mice kindled more rapidly than El mice, however, suggesting that genetic factors other than those that influence seizure susceptibility are of primary importance in the determination of the kindling rate. 
The progression of mild idiopathic dementia in a community population. Thirty-one subjects aged 75 years and over who were identified as suffering from mild, idiopathic dementia in a large community survey were reviewed at annual intervals for 2 years. Diagnoses and severity ratings were based on defined criteria following a mental state examination, a medical and psychiatric history, detailed cognitive testing, and an interview with relatives or other key informants. Fourteen subjects became more severely demented within 2 years. The initial cognitive test battery failed to reveal any differences between respondents whose dementia advanced and those whose condition remained unchanged, but, in the former group, subjects' symptoms had been present for longer, and a greater proportion had been recognised as demented, or possibly demented, by their general practitioners. We suggest that subjects whose dementia progressed had actually been more severely disabled at the time of identification. 
Recurrence of acoustic neurilemoma as a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm. Case report. A 75-year-old man presented with a right cerebellopontine angle tumor 11 months after complete macroscopic resection of a right acoustic neurilemoma. Histological examination of the recurrent tumor showed a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm with positive staining for S-100 protein. The patient had no stigmata of von Recklinghausen's disease. It is proposed that this recurrence represents progression from a benign to a malignant acoustic nerve-sheath tumor, an event that is extremely rare outside the clinicopathological context of neurofibromatosis. 
Misperceptions of comprehension difficulties of stroke patients by doctors, nurses and relatives. Doctors, nurses and relatives involved with 30 recently aphasic stroke patients were asked to predict how the patient would perform on a comprehension test. Results show that not only do doctors, nurses and relatives underestimate the receptive disability of these patients, but they also illustrate a lack of agreement between health professionals. Implications for management are considered. 
Problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine. Fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine. Eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5% (two patients) had severe sensory impairments. All patients had this complication in the early phases of the study. Of 297 screws, 17 broke, ie, 5.7%. These breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients (21%). In patients with spondylolisthesis, the degree of slip correction averaged 53% postoperatively, which decreased to 35% at the 1-year follow-up. Slip angle was maintained after correction. Pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis. The surgeon must be fully trained in methodology. It is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage. 
Penetrating craniocerebral trauma. The authors review the pathophysiology of penetrating and perforating cranial wounds. Radiologic evaluation includes computed tomography and angiography. Operative technique and perioperative critical care are discussed, with special emphasis on the control of the intracranial pressure. Other problems such as fluid and electrolyte disorders and nutrition are discussed in relation to neurosurgery. 
Effect of sleep and sleep deprivation on ventilatory response to bronchoconstriction. To characterize ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction during sleep and to assess the effect of prior sleep deprivation on ventilatory and arousal responses to bronchoconstriction, bronchoconstriction was induced in eight asthmatic subjects while they were awake, during normal sleep, and during sleep after a 36-h period of sleep deprivation. Each subject was bronchoconstricted with increasing concentrations of aerosolized methacholine while ventilatory patterns and lower airway resistance (Rla) were continually monitored. The asthmatic patients maintained their minute ventilation as Rla increased under all conditions, demonstrating a stable tidal volume with a mild increase in respiratory frequency. Inspiratory drive, as measured by occlusion pressure (P0.1), increased progressively and significantly as Rla increased under all conditions (slopes of P0.1 vs. Rla = 0.249, 0.112, and 0.154 for awake, normal sleep, and sleep after sleep deprivation, respectively, P less than 0.0006). Chemostimuli did not appear to contribute significantly to the observed increases in P0.1. Prior sleep deprivation had no effect on ventilatory and P0.1 responses to bronchoconstriction but did significantly raise the arousal threshold to induced bronchoconstriction. We conclude that ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction, unlike extrinsic loading, are not imparied by the presence of sleep, nor are they chemically mediated. However, prior sleep deprivation does increase the subsequent arousal threshold. 
Fracture-dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with an ulnar motor nerve lesion: case report. We report a case of delayed diagnosis of a fracture dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with a resultant ulnar motor nerve lesion. The patient achieved marked improvement after fracture reduction and ulnar neurolysis. 
Relationship of clinical features with psychological status in primary fibromyalgia. Clinical features and psychological status determined by the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) in 103 patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome (PFS) were analyzed by univariate and multivariate techniques to determine if clinical features were related to psychological status or were intrinsic to PFS per se. The central features of PFS, e.g., number of pain sites, number of tender points, fatigue, and poor sleep, were independent of psychological status. However, discriminant analysis identified 4 variables--patient-reported depression, anxiety, stress, and pain severity--which together predicted 3 MMPI subgroups with an accuracy of 55% (P less than 0.001); the only musculoskeletal feature--pain severity--alone provided an accuracy of only 34% (P greater than 0.05). These data suggest a new concept, that the central features of fibromyalgia are independent of the psychological status and are more likely related to the PFS itself. However, pain severity may be influenced by psychological factors. 
An intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis: case report. The authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors, who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater, spinal cord, retroperitoneum, pericardium, and mediastinum. Systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic Weber-Christian disease, except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis. Immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis X, because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not T-zone histiocyte markers. Differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed. 
Anomalous macular vessels: case report and review of the recent Japanese literature. We examined a 19-year-old woman with large macular vessels who had temporarily impaired visual acuity. The anomalous macular vessels had arteriovenous shunts and were associated with abnormal capillary networks. In a review of the recent Japanese literature, we found another eight patients with anomalous macular vessels who had undergone fluorescein angiography. We prefer the term anomalous macular vessels to describe this condition. 
Automatic rifle injuries: suicide by eight bullets. Report of an unusual case and a literature review. A 25-year-old man committed suicide by shooting himself with eight bullets fired from a military rifle set on automatic. This rifle has two firing modes: an automatic mode and a self-loading, single-shot mode. Using this case as an example, some important aspects of firearm injuries are discussed with special emphasis on those points that are relevant to automatic military rifles and most applicable to forensic pathology practice. Some of the pathologic features of firearm wounds are reviewed and the role of the pathologist is discussed. Lastly, the most important points that help the pathologist to determine the type or nature of a firearm death--that is, whether it is an accident, homicide, or a suicide--are discussed. Classically, the number of the firearm wounds is used to differentiate suicide from homicide. As in the case reported here, however, when an automatic rifle or a military rifle set on automatic is used, the number of wounds is not a reliable indicator of the type of death. 
Anisocoria in the pigmentary dispersion syndrome We studied four patients with anisocoria and the pigmentary dispersion syndrome. In all patients, the larger pupil was on the side of the greater iris transillumination. The amount of anisocoria was between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and was the same in both the light and dark. There was no blepharoptosis, and all pupils dilated normally with cocaine. All of the patients were young men with myopia, and one patient had increased intraocular pressure. 
Uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. Uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea. Unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications. We report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year. Snoring was abolished in 18 (36 per cent) and substantially reduced in the remainder. Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, identified in 11 patients pre-operatively, was reduced in severity in all but three. Troublesome complications were seen in 18 (36 per cent) patients, namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five (10 per cent), pharyngeal dryness in 11 (22 per cent) and loss of taste in five (10 per cent). One patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction. A cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection. The importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated. 
Molecular biology of atherothrombotic brain infarction. Because reduced high density lipoproteins may contribute to atherothrombotic brain infarction, we performed molecular biologic and metabolic studies to characterize high density lipoprotein metabolism with respect to its role in reverse cholesterol transport, to clone the high density lipoprotein receptor, and to determine gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein A-I, the major protein of high density lipoprotein, because altered structure may impair reverse cholesterol transport. For high density lipoprotein metabolism measurements, high density lipoprotein 3 was isolated, purified, and labeled with iodine-125. The radiolabeled high density lipoprotein 3 was reinjected, and daily blood samples were taken for 10 days. Synthesis rates and fractional catabolic rates were determined from the specific activities and daily decrements. Preliminary data indicate that stroke-prone individuals' fractional catabolic rates for high density lipoprotein 3 are twice those of normal individuals. Also, the conversion of high density lipoprotein 3 to high density lipoprotein 2 is reduced in these individuals, suggesting that high density lipoprotein may be abnormally processed in individuals prone to atherothrombic brain infarctions. We surveyed more than 100 patients with carotid stenosis using a 2.2-kb probe for the apolipoprotein A-I gene. A subset of these patients displays polymorphism with restriction enzymes SacI or PstI. These preliminary findings suggest that gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein A-I may provide a molecular clue of atherothrombic brain infarction. 
Structural alterations of nerve during cuff compression. Whether compression nerve injury is due to ischemia, direct mechanical injury, or both remains unsettled. To assess structural changes of nerve during compression, peroneal nerves of rats were compressed at various pressures for different times, and the structural alterations were stopped by simultaneous in situ and perfusion fixation. The structural changes observed during a few minutes of compression cannot be explained by ischemic injury because the pathologic alterations characteristic of ischemia take many hours to develop and in any case are different from the ones found here. The pressure- and time-related structural changes observed in the present study under the cuff were (i) decrease in fascicular area and increase in fiber density due to expression of endoneurial fluid; (ii) compression and expression of axoplasm, sometimes to the point of fiber transection; (iii) lengthening of internodes; and (iv) obscuration of nodes of Ranvier due to cleavage and displacement of myelin and overlapping of nodes by displaced loops of myelin. At the edges of the cuff the changes were (i) increase of fascicular area probably from expressed endoneurial fluid; (ii) widening of nodal gaps, perhaps mainly from translocated axonal fluid; and (iii) disordered structure of axoplasm. We suggest that the process of paranodal demyelination and axonal transection are linked, occur during the act of compression, and are due to shear forces. The initial event is expression of endoneurial fluid, followed by compression and expression of axoplasm and cleavage and displacement of layers of myelin. Conceivably, with prolonged cuff compression ischemic injury might be found to be superimposed on mechanical injury. 
Kearns-Sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis. Renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of Kearns-Sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child. Subsequently, he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, retinopathy, heart block, and endocrinopathy. There was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial DNA documented in muscle, kidney, skin fibroblasts, and leukocytes, providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy. 
Epilepsy. As surgical treatments for adult and pediatric forms of epilepsy have become more refined, methods for noninvasive localization of epileptogenic foci have become increasingly important. Detection of focal brain metabolic or flow abnormalities is now well recognized as an essential step in the presurgical evaluation of many patients with epilepsy. Positron emission tomography (PET) scanning is most beneficial when used in the context of the total clinical evaluation of patients, including scalp EEG, invasive EEG, neuropsychologic testing, etc. Metabolic PET studies also give insight into pathophysiologic mechanisms of epilepsy. The dynamic nature of the interictal hypometabolism observed with 18[F]FDG in some patients suggests that excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters and their receptors may be involved. An exciting current application of PET scanning is the use of tracers for neurotransmitter receptors in the study of epilepsy patients. Mu and non-mu opiate receptors have been extensively studied and are beginning to give new insights into this disorder. Increased labeling of mu receptors in temporal neocortex using 11C-carfentanil has been demonstrated and, in some patients, supplements the clinical localization information from 18[F]FDG studies. Increased mu opiate receptor number or affinity is thought to play a role in anticonvulsant mechanisms. Specificity of increased mu receptors is supported by the absence of significant changes in non-mu opiate receptors. Other brain receptors are also of interest for future studies, particularly those for excitatory neurotransmitters. Combined studies of flow, metabolism, and neuroreceptors may elucidate the factors responsible for initiation and termination of seizures, thus improving patient treatment. 
Platelet-activating factor. A putative mediator in central nervous system injury? Platelet-activating factor (1-O-hexadecyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine) is a potent lipid autacoid produced by many cell types. Platelet-activating factor is produced by cerebellar granule cells in culture and has been extracted from brain tissue. Multiple platelet-activating factor receptors have been demonstrated in brain tissue. Activation of platelet-activating factor receptors in transformed neuronal cell lines involved increases in intracellular calcium. Platelet-activating factor has potent actions on cerebral vessels and cerebral metabolism when administered in vivo, but may not have direct effects on brain microvessels. Excessive platelet-activating factor production in pathological states of the nervous system such as neurotrauma and stroke has been shown in only a few models (e.g., spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion or focal repercussion brain injury). In multiple studies using highly specific and potent platelet-activating factor antagonists, reversal or prevention of key consequences of brain injury such as hypoperfusion following ischemia, reperfusion and edema, inflammatory cell accumulation, neurologic/motor deficits, and neuronal salvage were demonstrated. This review provides and analyzes evidence in support of the role that platelet-activating factor might have in modulation of brain function and pathophysiological processes in brain ischemia and trauma. 
Outcome among surviving very low birthweight infants: a meta-analysis. Because published outcome studies are the only available source of data about the morbidity among surviving very low birthweight infants (VLBW, less than 1500 g) a search was carried out of 1136 references in the English language. A total of 111 outcome studies were found that reported morbidity data in cohorts of VLBW infants born since 1960. The methods used and results obtained in these studies were systematically assessed. No agreement exists about the definition of study populations, descriptive statistics, or measurement of outcome. Follow up ranged from six months to 14 years. In 85 cohorts the incidence of cerebral palsy was recorded, and in 106 that of disability. Studies that followed up infants for longer time periods reported higher incidences of disability. Studies from the United States reported higher incidences of disability than those from other countries. The median incidence of cerebral palsy among all the cohorts studied was 7.7%, and the median incidence of disability was 25.0%. Despite substantial improvements in the mortality of VLBW infants, poor outcomes among survivors are common. 
Comparison of motor response to apomorphine and levodopa in Parkinson's disease. The magnitude and pattern of motor responses to single doses of subcutaneous apomorphine and oral levodopa were compared in 14 patients with Parkinson's disease. Although apomorphine produced much shorter motor responses than levodopa, the quality of response to the two drugs was virtually indistinguishable. These clinical observations support the notion that integrity of striatal post-synaptic dopamine receptors is a key determinant of responsiveness to dopaminergic treatment in Parkinson's disease. 
Frequency of three Hex A mutant alleles among Jewish and non-Jewish carriers identified in a Tay-Sachs screening program. Mutations in the HEX A gene, encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase A (Hex A), are the cause of Tay-Sachs disease as well as of juvenile, chronic, and adult GM2 gangliosidoses. We have examined the distribution of three mutations--a 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11, a G----C transversion at a 5' splice site in intron 12, and a 269Gly----Ser amino acid substitution in exon 7--among individuals enzymatically diagnosed as carriers of Hex A deficiency. Mutation analysis included polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the relevant regions of genomic DNA, followed by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization; another test for heterozygosity of the exon 11 insertion was based on the formation of heteroduplex PCR fragments of low electrophoretic mobility. The percentage distribution of the exon 11, intron 12, exon 7, and unidentified mutant alleles was 73:15:4:8 among 156 Jewish carriers of Hex A deficiency and 16:0:3:81 among 51 non-Jewish carriers. Regardless of the mutation, the ancestral origin of the Jewish carriers was primarily eastern and (somewhat less often) central Europe, whereas for the non-Jewish carriers it was western Europe. Because a twelfth of the Jewish carriers and four-fifths of the non-Jewish carriers of Hex A deficiency had mutant alleles other than the three common ones tested, enzyme-based tests cannot be replaced by DNA-based tests at the present time. However, DNA-based tests for two-carrier couples could identify those at risk for the chronic/adult GM2 gangliosidoses rather than for infantile Tay-Sachs disease. 
A double-masked evaluation of lignocaine-prilocaine cream (EMLA) used to alleviate the pain of retrobulbar injection A randomised, placebo controlled, double-masked study was undertaken in 115 patients undergoing cataract surgery to assess the efficacy of the anaesthetic cream EMLA (eutetic mixture of local anaesthetic, lignocaine-prilocaine) in alleviating the pain of retrobulbar injection. Sixty three patients received the EMLA cream and 52 the placebo cream. The pain was assessed objectively by the anaesthetist, who observed the reaction of the patient on needle insertion, and subjectively by the patient. Significantly lower pain scores were recorded in patients treated with EMLA cream (anaesthetist's observation: p less than 0.01, patient's assessment: p less than 0.006). No patients experienced serious side effects in either treatment group. 
Comparison of algorithms of testing for use in automated evaluation of sensation. Estimates of vibratory detection threshold may be used to detect, characterize, and follow the course of sensory abnormality in neurologic disease. The approach is especially useful in epidemiologic and controlled clinical trials. We studied which algorithm of testing and finding threshold should be used in automatic systems by comparing among algorithms and stimulus conditions for the index finger of healthy subjects and for the great toe of patients with mild neuropathy. Appearance thresholds obtained by linear ramps increasing at a rate less than 4.15 microns/sec provided accurate and repeatable thresholds compared with thresholds obtained by forced-choice testing. These rates would be acceptable if only sensitive sites were studied, but they were too slow for use in automatic testing of insensitive parts. Appearance thresholds obtained by fast linear rates (4.15 or 16.6 microns/sec) overestimated threshold, especially for sensitive parts. Use of the mean of appearance and disappearance thresholds, with the stimulus increasing exponentially at rates of 0.5 or 1.0 just noticeable difference (JND) units per second, and interspersion of null stimuli, Bekesy with null stimuli, provided accurate, repeatable, and fast estimates of threshold for sensitive parts. Despite the good performance of Bekesy testing, we prefer forced choice for evaluation of the sensation of patients with neuropathy. 
Dwarf locus mutants lacking three pituitary cell types result from mutations in the POU-domain gene pit-1. Mutations at the mouse dwarf locus (dw) interrupt the normal development of the anterior pituitary gland, resulting in the loss of expression of growth hormone, prolactin and thyroid-stimulating hormone, and hypoplasia of their respective cell types. Disruptions in the gene encoding the POU-domain transcription factor, Pit-1, occur in both characterized alleles of the dwarf locus. The data indicate that Pit-1 is necessary for the specification of the phenotype of three cell types in the anterior pituitary, and directly link a transcription factor to commitment and progression events in mammalian organogenesis. 
The development of infratentorial atrophy in patients with idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset: a CT study. The development of infratentorial atrophy in six patients suffering from idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset was studied by a retrospective evaluation of consecutive computed tomography (CT) scans. Four patients had evidence of olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) both on clinical testing and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In these four patients, atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem became visible at the same time and progressed in a roughly parallel manner, whereas in the remaining two the brain stem was left intact. In all patients with OPCA, definite brain-stem atrophy was visible earlier than the appearance of non-cerebellar clinical symptoms. The present data suggest that CT investigations at regular intervals may be of prognostic value in cerebellar ataxias. 
Blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root. The effect of clipping on lumbar nerve root blood flow rates in the region of the nerve root canal was studied experimentally in the hog. Blood flow rate was measured using the hydrogen washout technique. When the entrance zone was clipped with a microvascular clip, blood flow rate of the nerve root was decreased by 37% in comparison with the initial control rate; clipping at the exit zone reduced blood flow rate by 69%. Blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root within the nerve root canal was found to be predominantly proximal. The current data indicate that the more lateral the impingement of the nerve root occurs, the more ischemic changes are induced. 
Fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on Escherichia coli meningitis. Pseudomeningitis is the demonstration of microorganisms from the cerebrospinal fluid by stain or culture in a patient with symptoms suggesting meningitis. This is a report of fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on a case of nosocomial Escherichia coli meningitis resulting from a neurosurgical procedure. Critical care personnel need to be aware of the possibility of pseudomeningitis with or without associated meningitis in the appropriate setting. 
Use of activated charcoal to reduce elevated serum phenobarbital concentration in a neonate. The course of a neonate administered activated charcoal orally for elevated phenobarbital concentration is described. The neonate required a serum concentration of phenobarbital eventually exceeding 80 micrograms/mL for seizure control. However, due to the severe CNS injury as a result of the asphyxia at birth, a diagnosis of cerebral death by electroencephalogram and apnea test was pursued. This required the phenobarbital concentration to be less than 30 micrograms/mL. Serial phenobarbital concentrations during this time indicated a 250 hour half-life, which would require two weeks for the phenobarbital to drop below 30 micrograms/mL. With the administration of six doses of activated charcoal at 0.7 g/kg/dose, the phenobarbital serum concentration decreased to 22 micrograms/mL, giving an estimated phenobarbital half-life of 22 hours. This, and two other subsequent cases, indicates repeated doses of activated charcoal are effective in augmenting the clearance of certain drugs in the neonatal age group. 
Hyperglycemia presenting with occipital seizures. Seizures are common in hyperglycemia and are often the first manifestation, particularly in nonketotic hyperglycemia (NKH). Published reports emphasize partial motor seizures almost exclusively. In a 3-year period, we observed three patients in whom occipital seizures, documented by ictal EEG recording, were the initial symptom of hyperglycemia. One patient was mildly ketotic at first. Seizures were visual in two patients and visual and adversive in the third. Seizures regressed with correction of abnormal glucose levels and did not recur during follow-up of less than or equal to 1 year despite discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in two. Computed tomography (CT) scans did not show correlative abnormalities. Although published reports suggest that frontal lobe structures are particularly susceptible to the epileptogenic effects of NKH, our experience indicates that in NKH epileptic foci may originate in other cortical areas, such as occipital. 
Anemia after traumatic spinal cord injury. The incidence and natural history of anemia in patients with spinal cord injuries (SCI) were investigated in a prospective study of 68 patients consecutively admitted to a regional acute SCI unit. Fifty had SCI and 18 had spine injuries (SI) without neurologic deficit. Thirty-six of 41 males (88%) and six of nine females (67%) with SCI were anemic on at least one occasion. In the first two weeks after injury, in females and in males, there was no significant difference in mean hemoglobin level between SI and SCI patients. At six weeks, no male with SI was anemic, and males with SCI had significantly lower mean hemoglobin levels than those with SI (121.6 g/L vs 145.4 g/L, p less than .001). Identified early causes of anemia were blood loss due to bony soft tissue or visceral injury, gastrointestinal bleeding, and surgery. In the postacute phase (more than six weeks after injury), anemia occurred in 25 of 41 male and three of nine female SCI patients, and its occurrence was associated with the presence of an identified chronic disease, especially urinary tract infection. 
Characterization of descending inhibition and facilitation from the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis and gigantocellularis pars alpha in the rat. Descending influences on the spinal nociceptive tail-flick (TF) reflex produced by focal electrical stimulation and glutamate microinjection in the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis (NGC) and gigantocellularis pars alpha (NGC alpha) were examined and characterized in rats lightly anesthetized with pentobarbital. Both inhibition and facilitation of the TF reflex were produced by electrical stimulation at identical sites in the NGC/NGC alpha; glutamate microinjection only inhibited the TF reflex. The chronaxie of stimulation for inhibition of the TF reflex was 169 +/- 28 microseconds. Inhibition of the TF reflex by stimulation was produced throughout the NGC and NGC alpha; intensities of stimulation for inhibition were least in the ventral NGC and in the NGC alpha. At threshold intensities of stimulation, inhibition of the TF reflex did not outlast the period of stimulation. Facilitation of the TF reflex was produced at many of the same sites at which stimulation inhibited the TF reflex, but always at lesser intensities of stimulation (mean, 10 microA vs. 43 microA for inhibition, n = 25). Stimulation in the NGC/NGC alpha at threshold intensities for facilitation or inhibition of the TF reflex did not significantly affect blood pressure. Strength-duration characterization of electrical stimulation and microinjection of glutamate into identical sites in the NGC and NGC alpha suggest that descending inhibition of the TF reflex results from activation of cell bodies in the NGC and NGC alpha. 
Homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease. A case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented. Ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis. 
Molecular genetic basis of maple syrup urine disease in a family with two defective alleles for branched chain acyltransferase and localization of the gene to human chromosome 1. Maple syrup urine disease in humans results from inherited defects in branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase, a mitochondrial multienzyme complex. A variety of genetic changes may produce this phenotype by affecting the function of any of the three complex-specific subunits. The varied clinical expression observed in patients may be partially explained by the defects in the involved subunit. Here we report localization of the gene for the branched chain acyltransferase component of the complex to human chromosome 1 and describe a proband who is a compound heterozygote at this locus. One allele, inherited from the father, produces transcripts with 124 nucleotides deleted from the coding region. The deletion is not found in the branched chain acyltransferase gene, implying that the deleted transcripts arise by an error in transcript processing. Cells from the patient's mother contain 50% of the normal amount of mRNA for the subunit, and the proband has inherited this nonexpressing allele from her. As a result, the proband produces no acyltransferase protein and therefore has greatly impaired complex activity. A phenotypically normal sibling is shown to be genetically similar to the mother having inherited the mother's nonexpressing allele and the father's normal allele. 
Phenytoin toxicity due to interaction with clobazam. The benzodiazepine antiepileptic drug clobazam can be added to existing AED treatment, usually without clinical toxicity. We report 3 patients in whom the addition of clobazam led within several weeks to clinically obvious phenytoin (PHT) intoxication in patients who had been taking maximum tolerable PHT doses. Symptoms and high PHT levels resolved with lowering the PHT dose. Clobazam and norclobazam levels were not elevated. This interaction is probably related to interference with hepatic degradation of PHT. Clinicians should be aware of possible PHT intoxication in patients starting clobazam. 
Central nervous system magnesium deficiency. The central nervous system concentration of magnesium (Mg++) appears to have a critical level below which neurologic dysfunction occurs. Observations presented suggest that the interchange of the Mg++ ion between the cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular fluid, and bone is more rapid and dynamic than is usually believed. This is especially so when the hypertrophied parathyroid gland is associated with significant skeletal depletion of Mg++ as judged by history rather than serum level. Magnesium, much like calcium, has a large presence in bone and has a negative feedback relationship with the parathyroid gland. A decline in central nervous system Mg++ may occur when the skeletal buffer system orchestrated largely by the parathyroid glands is activated by an increase in serum calcium. Observations in veterinary medicine and obstetrics suggest that the transfer of Mg++ from the extracellular fluid into bone during mineralization processes may be extensive. If the inhibition of the hypertrophied parathyroid gland is prolonged and the skeletal depletion of Mg++ extreme, serious neurologic symptoms, including seizures, coma, and death, may occur. Noise, excitement, and bodily contact appear to precipitate neurologic symptoms in Mg+(+)-deficient human subjects as it has been documented to occur in Mg+(+)-deficient experimental animals. The similarity of the acute central nervous system demyelinating syndromes with reactive central nervous system Mg++ deficiency is reviewed. 
Embolization with particles in thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations: long-term angiographic and clinical results. To evaluate the long-term results of endovascular treatment with particles in the management of thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), the authors retrospectively reviewed the angiographic and clinical findings in 35 patients. Follow-up was 1-15 years (mean, 6 years) in 28 patients and 6-10 months (mean, 7 months) in seven. A total of 158 embolization procedures were performed in 35 patients. Revascularization occurred frequently, necessitating multiple endovascular sessions. Long-term clinical evaluation showed clinical improvement, compared with the initial status before treatment, in 63% of the patients. Clinical aggravation due to embolization was observed in seven patients (20%) after 12 of the 158 endovascular sessions (8%). These results are better than those reported after surgery and indicate that embolization with particles is an efficient and safe tool in the treatment of thoracic intramedullary AVMs. 
Intracranial pressure in African children with cerebral malaria Opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 Kenyan children (mean age 39 months) with cerebral malaria. In all cases pressure was above normal (mean [SD]22.6 [7.4] cm CSF, range 10.5-36). Clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children, especially as a cause of death. We suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume. Lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria. The potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria. 
Radiosurgery of acoustic neurinomas. Eighty-five patients with acoustic neurinomas underwent stereotactic radiosurgery with the gamma unit at the University of Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh, PA) during its first 30 months of operation. Neuroimaging studies performed in 40 patients with more than 1 year follow-up showed that tumors were smaller in 22 (55%), unchanged in 17 (43%), and larger in one (2%). The 2-year actuarial rates for preservation of useful hearing and any hearing were 46% and 62%, respectively. Previously undetected neuropathies of the trigeminal (n = 12) and facial nerves (n = 14) occurred 1 week to 1 year after radiosurgery (median, 7 and 6 months, respectively), and improved at median intervals of 13 and 8 months, respectively, after onset. Hearing loss was significantly associated with increasing average tumor diameter (P = 0.04). No deterioration of any cranial nerve function has yet developed in seven patients with average tumor diameters less than 10 mm. Radiosurgery is an important treatment alternative for selected acoustic neurinoma patients. 
Cerebrospinal fluid as a reflector of central cholinergic and amino acid neurotransmitter activity in cerebellar ataxia. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amino acid neurotransmitters, related compounds, and their precursors, choline levels, and acetylcholinesterase activity were measured in the CSF of patients with cerebellar ataxia during a randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled clinical trial of physostigmine salicylate. The CSF gamma-aminobutyric acid, methionine, and choline levels, adjusted for age, were significantly lower in patients with cerebellar ataxia compared with controls. Physostigmine selectively reduced the level of CSF isoleucine and elevated the levels of phosphoethanolamine. No change occurred in CSF acetylcholinesterase activity and in the levels of plasma amino compounds in patients with cerebellar ataxia when compared with controls. Median ataxia scores did not statistically differ between placebo and physostigmine nor did functional improvement occur in any of the patients. 
Pre-trigeminal neuralgia. Eighteen patients who subsequently developed typical trigeminal neuralgia experienced a prodromal pain termed "pre-trigeminal neuralgia." These patients described their prodromal pain as a toothache or sinusitis-like pain lasting up to several hours, sometimes triggered by jaw movements or by drinking hot or cold liquids. Typical trigeminal neuralgia developed a few days to 12 years later, and in all cases affected the same division of the trigeminal nerve. Six additional patients experiencing what appeared to be pre-trigeminal neuralgia became pain-free when taking carbamazepine or baclofen. Recognition of pretrigeminal neuralgia makes it possible to relieve the pain with appropriate medications and avoid unnecessary irreversible dental procedures. 
Wilson's disease: 35 years' experience. Thirty-seven Chinese patients fulfilling the criteria for Wilson's disease seen during a 35-year period were reviewed. Males and females were equally affected. Twenty-two patients were symptomatic and 15 asymptomatic; most of them presented before the third decade. Thirty-one per cent of the relatives screened showed evidence of disease, and parents were rarely affected (13 per cent). Half of the adult symptomatic females presented with primary amenorrhoea. Liver laboratory tests were abnormal in only 50 per cent of patients, with gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase being the most sensitive index. Renal disease was infrequent. Serum caeruloplasmin level was the single biochemical parameter of prognostic significance (p = 0.0001). Seventy per cent of the symptomatic patients showed an improvement after treatment with penicillamine. 
Treatment of phenobarbital poisoning with multiple dose activated charcoal in an infant. A 28-day-old infant developed lethargy, hypotonia, and hypothermia following a phenobarbital overdose secondary to a pharmacist's error. He was treated with multiple dose activated charcoal (MDAC) and alkalinization of the urine, which resulted in prompt recovery with rapid elimination of the drug (t1/2-11.2 hours, expected 45 to 118 hours). The use of MDAC in this newborn was safe and effective. We suggest that age should not pose a barrier to the use of MDAC, when indicated. 
Cervicogenic headache: diagnostic criteria. Criteria for the diagnosis of cervicogenic headache are proposed, which include unilateral head pain, symptoms and signs of neck involvement, non-clustering episodic moderate pain originating in the neck then spreading to the head, and response to root or nerve blockade; plus rarer and non-obligatory features such as autonomic disturbances, dizziness, phonophotophobia, monocular visual blurring, and difficulty swallowing. 
Adult peripheral neuroepithelioma in Meckel's cave. A case of peripheral neuroepithelioma arising from the trigeminal nerve in Meckel's cave is presented. The discussion emphasizes the pathological criteria for the diagnosis of a peripheral neuroepithelioma and the current controversy about the classification of this and related tumors. 
Brain pH in head injury: an image-guided 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy study. It has been suggested that brain acidosis may follow head trauma, and therapies aimed at correcting acidosis have been proposed. Direct measurements of intracellular pH, however, have thus far not been possible in clinical situations. We have studied the intracellular brain pH in 22 patients after head injury (mean Glasgow Coma Score 6.1). Patients were investigated by a combined approach of phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging (overall examination time 50-75 min) at a mean time of 11 days after injury (36 hours to 24 days). 31P spectra were obtained in 11 patients on assisted ventilation and in 11 patients on spontaneous ventilation. These spectra were analyzed to yield the pH in the regions studied in all the patients. All pH values were in the normal or alkalotic range when compared with 6 age-matched normal controls. No differences were found between patients on assisted ventilation and patients on spontaneous ventilation. When analyzed as a group, the brain pH in the focal lesions appeared to increase in the first days, to reach a peak in the alkalotic range in the second week, and to return toward normal within 3 weeks from acute injury. Our results suggest that there is no evidence of posttraumatic intracellular brain acidosis in recent human head injury, and therefore, therapies aimed at alkalinizing brain cells need to be reconsidered. 
Erythromycin failure with subsequent Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim. We report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin. Review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures. We recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections. Suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed. 
General principles of therapy of pyogenic meningitis. In bacterial meningitis, several pharmacodynamic factors determine therapeutic success-when defined as sterilization of the CSF: (1) Local host defense deficits in the CNS require the use of bactericidal antibiotics to sterilize the CSF. (2) CSF antibiotic concentrations that are at least 10-fold above the MBC are necessary for maximal bactericidal activity. Protein binding, low pH, and slow bacterial growth rates are among the factors that may explain the high antibiotic concentrations necessary in vivo. (3) High CSF peak concentrations that lead to rapid bacterial killing appear more important than prolonged suprainhibitory concentrations, probably because very low residual levels in the CSF prevent bacterial regrowth, even during relatively long dosing intervals. (4) Penetration of antibiotics into the CSF is significantly impaired by the blood-brain barrier and thus, very high serum levels are necessary to achieve the CSF concentrations required for optimal bactericidal activity. Beyond these principles, recent data suggests that rapid lytic killing of bacteria in the CSF may have harmful effects on the brain because of the release of biologically active products from the lysed bacteria. Since rapid CSF sterilization remains a key therapeutic goal, the harmful consequences of bacterial lysis present a major challenge in the therapy of bacterial meningitis. Currently, dexamethasone represents that only clinically beneficial approach to reduce the harmful effects of bacterial lysis, and novel approaches are required to improve the outcome of this serious infection. 
Availability of transplantable organs from brain stem dead donors in intensive care units. OBJECTIVE--By audit from January to June 1989 to quantify, separately for hearts, kidneys, liver, lungs and corneas, the possible increases in transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units and to compare them with the increases achieved in October-November 1989, during intense, national publicity about transplantation. DESIGN--Prospective audit of all deaths in intensive care units in England from 1 January to 30 June 1989 and subsequent case study of the impact of publicity on offers and donations during October-November 1989. SETTING--15 regional and special health authorities in England. PATIENTS--5803 patients dying in intensive care units, of whom 497 were confirmed as brain stem dead and had no general medical contraindication to organ donation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Organ specific suitability for transplantation (as reported by intensive care units); consent for donation of specific suitable organs; and procurement of specific organs reported as suitable for transplantation and offered. RESULTS--In the 497 (8.6%) brain stem dead potential donors were estimated the organ specific suitability for heart as 63%, kidneys 95%, liver 70%, lungs 29%, and corneas 91%. Refusal of relatives (30%) accounted for major losses of suitable organs of all types. For kidneys the loss was equivalent to 44% of brain stem dead actual kidney donors. No discussion of organ donation was the second most important reason for missed kidney donors, the loss being equivalent to 10% of brain stem dead actual donors. Non-procurement or difficulties with allocating organs was the second most notable cause of missed suitable liver and lung donors; 29% (55) of the offered total of 189 liver donors and 27% (21) of 78 offered suitable lung donors in six months. Non-procurement of suitable, offered organs was rare for kidneys and modest, of the order of 13% and 10% respectively, for heart and corneas. Corneal donation from brain stem dead potential donors might be improved nearly as much (that is, a 78% increase in brain stem dead actual corneal donors) by specific measures to promote corneal donation when other organs are offered as by reducing the overall refusal rate. Restricted offers, non-procurement, and no discussion of donation accounted for nearly equal numbers of lost donations of hearts (each equivalent to 15% of donated hearts). During October-November 1989 when there was intense, positive publicity about transplantation the rates of refusal and non-discussion fell compared with during January-June (22%, 36/163 v 30%, 138/460; 7%, 33/497 v 2%, 4/167 respectively). Offers of suitable donors increased significantly (p less than 0.02) compared with the first six months of 1989, most notably for heart donors (80 v 60.1 expected) and kidney donors (122 v 102.1 expected) but only for kidneys was there a noticeable 17% increase in actual donors (118 actual audited donors v 100.8 expected donors; p = 0.09). CONCLUSIONS--Four strategies to increase the supply of transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units were identified: (a) reducing refusal of relatives (b) avoiding non-procurement of actually suitable organs (by logistical initiatives) and deterioration of initially suitable organs (by donor care initiatives); (c) converting restricted offers to unrestricted offers; and (d) ensuring discussion with families. Early referral to the transplant team or coordinator gives time for discussion about donor care and agreement on medical suitability for donation of specific organs. Solving some of the logistical problems of non-procurement may be a prerequisite for increased offers to be translated into increased donations. The impact of publicity therefore needs to be measured on offers of suitable donors as well as by actual donations. 
Growth factor expression after stroke. Fibroblast growth factors are polypeptides with potent trophic effects on central nervous system cells. Both acidic and basic forms of fibroblast growth factor are found in the mammalian brain. We have examined the expression of these factors after focal brain injury or stroke. After infarction of the lateral cerebral cortex in the mature rat brain, we found a twofold to threefold increase during the first 3 weeks after stroke in levels of fibroblast growth factors in tissue surrounding infarcts. This increase persisted for at least 2 months and appeared mainly to be due to increased levels of basic, but not acidic, fibroblast growth factor. Because of its gliotrophic, angiogenic, and neuronotrophic properties, basic fibroblast growth factor may play an important role in the cascade of cellular reactions that contributes to wound healing and functional recovery after stroke. 
Phenotypic variability in glutaric aciduria type I: Report of fourteen cases in five Canadian Indian kindreds. We describe 14 patients with glutaric aciduria type 1 in five Canadian Indian kindreds living in Manitoba and northwest Ontario. The patients had marked clinical variability of the disease, even within families. Eight followed the typical clinical course of normal early growth and development until the onset of neurologic abnormalities, often precipitated by infection, between 6 weeks and 7 1/2 months of age. Five patients had early developmental delay; one was thought to be normal until 8 years of age. Three patients died, seven are severely mentally and physically handicapped, and four have only mild mental retardation or incoordination. Six patients had macrocephaly in the neonatal period. Computed tomography was done for 12 patients, and findings were abnormal in 11. Glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid were detected in increased amounts in the urine of all patients, but the concentrations were much lower than those in most other reported patients. Glutaryl coenzyme A dehydrogenase activity in skin fibroblasts, interleukin-2-dependent lymphocytes, or both, ranged from 0% to 13% of control values. There was no correlation between clinical severity and urine glutaric acid concentration or level of residual enzyme activity. We recommend that organic acid analysis of the urine be done in patients with unexplained cerebral palsy-like disorders, especially if the computed tomographic scan is abnormal. If there is suspicion of glutaric aciduria, glutaryl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase should be measured in fibroblasts or lymphocytes even if glutaric acid is not increased in the urine. 
The neuroradiology of visual disturbances. The neuroradiology of visual deficits has advanced dramatically in recent years. Plain film evaluation of the orbit and face remains useful in the emergency room for the evaluation of trauma. High-resolution coronal CT remains the method of choice in the assessment of serious injury to the orbit and in cases of penetrating metallic foreign body. The contrast-enhanced orbital CT provides useful information in cases of tumor and infection and when the bones of the face or skull are involved. MRI has largely replaced CT in the search for brain infarct, brain tumor, and cerebral inflammatory and demyelinating processes. MRI is the study of choice in all cases of sellar and parasellar disease. It offers high-resolution images in any plane. GTPA enhancement has provided additional information from MRI without significant risk. The final selection of an imaging modality should be based upon the clinical presentation and any physical limitations of the patient. 
Alterations in brain phosphate metabolite concentrations in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals often demonstrate neuropsychiatric impairment; however, it is unclear how brain metabolism may be altered in such patients. We used in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy to noninvasively assess brain energy and phospholipid metabolism by measuring brain concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), phosphocreatine (PCr), and inorganic phosphate (Pi), as well as phospholipid compounds and intracellular pH. In study 1, 17 HIV-seropositive men with varying degrees of neuropsychiatric impairment and six control subjects were studied. Localized spectra were obtained from a heterogeneous 5 x 5 x 5-cm volume of interest (VOI). Patients with HIV infection had a significantly lower ATP/Pi ratio and a trend for a lower PCr/Pi ratio than did the control group. In addition, the ATP/Pi and PCr/Pi ratios were both significantly negatively correlated with overall severity of neuropsychiatric impairment. In study 2, three HIV-seropositive men with neuropsychiatric impairment were compared with 11 HIV-seronegative men. Localized phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectra were obtained from two relatively homogeneous VOIs: (1) a predominantly white matter VOI, and (2) a predominantly subcortical gray matter VOI. The three HIV-infected patients demonstrated significantly decreased ATP and PCr concentrations in the white matter VOI. These results suggest that HIV infection of the brain may impair brain cellular oxidative metabolism and that the degree of metabolic compromise may be related to the severity of neuropsychiatric impairment. 
Ultrastructural evidence of a merocrine secretion in the human endolymphatic sac. The results of a light and transmission electron microscopic analysis of an endolymphatic sac (ES) from a patient suffering from episodic vertigo, tinnitus, and hearing loss are presented. A biopsy of the intraosseous portion of the ES was obtained during a translabyrinthine approach to section the vestibular nerve in the internal acoustic meatus. The material consisted mainly of tubular epithelial structures filled with heavily stained material. Pathologically dilated and degranulated rough endoplasmic reticuli and disaggregation of polyribosomes with accumulation of solitary ribosomes in the cytosol and endoplasmic reticulum suggested a disturbed epithelial cell protein synthesis. Ultrastructural evidence of an increased merocrine secretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the ES was noted. This made it possible to analyze the presumed intracellular secretory pathways. An increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and monocytes was observed. Since the inner ear had been subjected to surgical intervention before the vestibular nerve section, no conclusions can be drawn as to whether the patient's symptoms were related to the disturbed protein metabolism and hypersecretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the ES. The findings support earlier experimental results that indicate that the ES has not only a resorptive function but also a secretory one. 
Electroencephalography should not be routine in the evaluation of syncope in adults We reviewed the reports of all electroencephalograms obtained at the Nashville (Tenn) Veterans Administration Hospital from September 1987 to August 1989. Seventy-three patients were referred for evaluation of syncope or near syncope. Of these 73 patients, 10 (13.7%) had abnormal findings. Twenty-six patients were referred for other complaints similar to syncope (ie, blackouts, loss of consciousness, falling out, passing out, and fainting). Of these 26 patients, five (19.2%) had abnormal findings. We reviewed the medical records of the patients with abnormal findings and found that the final diagnosis or treatment of the syncope was affected by electroencephalogram in only one patient. These findings suggest that routine electroencephalography is not of significant value in the evaluation of syncope in adults. 
Cognitive strategies during coincident timing tasks. Research findings suggest that experience and cognitive strategies contribute to successful performance during perceptual-motor tasks. This article critically reviews selected literature on the effects of information-processing skills, preferred movement time, experience, and task difficulty on performance during coincident timing tasks. Theoretical information and research findings are discussed, and their applications to clinical practice are considered. Clinical recommendations include assessment of coincident timing skills and use of functional activities that provide opportunities to explore and dynamically interact with the environment. 
Surgical treatment of a rare congenital anomaly of the vertebral artery: case report and review of the literature. A case of an abnormal loop of the vertebral artery compressing both the cervicomedullary junction and the accessory nerve is reported. The embryological development of the vertebrobasilar system may explain this anatomical anomaly. The possibility of an abnormal location of the vertebral artery may complicate the lateral C1-C2 puncture for myelography. Only five similar cases have been reported previously, but none of them presented any clinical symptomatology, and surgical treatment was never required. The present patient was cured by microvascular decompression. The pathogenetic and surgical implications are discussed in light of the literature. 
Central nervous system tuberculosis in children: a review of 30 cases. The medical records of 30 children with central nervous system tuberculosis (CNS tuberculosis) who were treated between March, 1976, and February, 1989, were reviewed. All had cranial computerized tomography scans at presentation. The mean cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count was 200/mm3, protein 239 mg/dl, glucose 25 mg/dl and CSF/serum glucose ratio 21%. Mantoux skin tests with 5 tuberculin units were greater than or equal to 10 mm induration in 50%, and chest radiographs were positive in 40% of patients. Hydrocephalus was demonstrated by cranial computerized tomography in all 30 patients (100%). Cranial computerized tomography scan demonstrating hydrocephalus is a sensitive radiographic nervous system tuberculosis and should be part of the early evaluation of children with suspected central nervous system tuberculosis. 
Movement disorders--limb movement and the basal ganglia. The primary concern of this article is to review experimental methods that may lead to a better understanding of the functional role of the basal ganglia in the control of movement. Two models of basal ganglia impairment are considered: Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. The review focuses primarily on akinesia and bradykinesia because they are key abnormalities of basal ganglia dysfunction. In general, through electromyography and kinematic analysis of movement, it may be possible to characterize specific movement disorders. Specifically, if damage sustained by the central nervous system is traced to a certain structure, it may provide insight on the extent of involvement and functional role of that structure in the control of movement. Much of the data reviewed suggests that the basal ganglia may play a specific role in the initiation and regulation of force control. 
Postischemic (S)-emopamil therapy ameliorates focal ischemic brain injury in rats. (S)-Emopamil is a calcium channel blocker of the phenylalkylamine class, having potent serotonin S2 antagonistic properties and high blood-brain barrier penetrability. Previous studies have documented cerebroprotective effect in animal models of both focal and global ischemia. The present study was undertaken to define the postischemic "window" of therapeutic efficacy for this agent. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to permanent proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion, combined with an initial 30-minute period of halothane-induced hypotension (50 mm Hg). (S)-Emopamil (20 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally either 20-30 minutes prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion or 1 hour, 2 hours, or 3 hours following occlusion. Treated groups received a second similar dose 2.5 hours later and twice daily for 2 days thereafter. Brains were perfusion-fixed on the third day. Planimetric analysis of hemotoxylin and eosin-stained coronal brain sections documented a cortical infarct averaging 72.9 +/- 33.3 mm3 (mean +/- SD) in untreated rats. Cortical infarct volume was reduced by 48% (to 37.6 +/- 27.6 mm3) when therapy was initiated 1 hour postischemia (p less than 0.05). When treatment was deferred to 2 hours postichemia, mean cortical infarct volume was reduced by 34%, but this difference did not attain statistical significance. Infarct volume in rats with treatment initiated at 3 hours postischemia was indistinguishable from that in controls. Striatal infarct volume was similar in all groups. These results document a postischemic therapeutic window of cerebroprotection for (S)-emopamil lying between 1 and 2 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion. 
The shoulder in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. One hundred shoulders were assessed in 50 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, of which one-third were found to have bilateral symptoms. Two distinct clinical and radiological groups emerged. Those with minor epiphyseal abnormalities developed painful osteoarthritis in middle age, but retained shoulder movement until the secondary changes were advanced. Those with 'hatchet head' shoulders likewise became painful in the fifth and sixth decades but had minimal glenohumeral movement from an early stage. 
Rehabilitation in brain disorders. 4. Specific disorders. This self-directed learning module highlights important aspects of medical rehabilitation of patients with brain disorders. The specific disorders reviewed in this module are traumatic brain injury, stroke, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and other degenerative disorders. This module is a section of the chapter on rehabilitation of brain disorders for the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. The chapter is composed of four articles, and each builds on principles established in the others. Emphasis is given in this section on key elements of current medical practice, including epidemiology, pathophysiology, prognosis, and outcome. Neurologic assessment and management is highlighted for coma, amnesia, cranial nerve and late intracranial complications, postacute management, and postconcussive syndromes. The learner is directed to articles 1, 2, and 3 in this chapter for supporting information. 
More than one mutant allele causes infantile Tay-Sachs disease in French-Canadians. Two Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) patients of French-Canadian origin were shown by Myerowitz and Hogikyan to be homozygous for a 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5' end of the hexosaminidase A alpha-subunit gene. In order to determine whether all French-Canadian TSD patients were homozygotes for the deletion allele and to assess the geographic origins of TSD in this population, we ascertained 12 TSD families of French-Canadian origin and screened for occurrence of mutations associated with infantile TSD. DNA samples were obtained from 12 French-Canadian TSD families. Samples were analyzed using polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) amplification followed by hybridization to allele-specific oligonucleotides (ASO) or by restriction analysis of PCR products. In some cases Southern analysis of genomic DNA was performed. Eighteen of the 22 independently segregating mutant chromosomes in this sample carried the 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5' end of the gene. One chromosome carried the 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11 (a "Jewish" mutation). In this population no individuals were detected who had the substitution at the splice junction of exon 12 previously identified in Ashkenazi Jews. One chromosome carried an undescribed B1 mutation; this allele came from a parent of non-French-Canadian origin. Patients in three families carried TSD alleles different from any of the above mutations. The 5' deletion mutation clusters in persons originating in southeastern Quebec (Gaspe) and adjacent counties of northern New Brunswick. 
Congenital mirror movements. Abnormal organization of motor pathways in two patients. We studied 2 patients with congenital mirror movements by means of various neurophysiological and metabolic techniques, including mapping of motor evoked potentials to transcranial electrical and magnetic stimulation, premovement and somatosensory evoked potentials, kinematics of voluntary movements, muscle reflexes, and positron emission tomography (PET). Abnormalities in maps of motor and premovement potentials and in PET scans were consistent with a bilateral representation of hand muscles in the motor cortex, the existence of physiologically active connections capable of conducting fast efferent volleys from the motor cortex to ipsilateral muscles, the presence of mirror EMG activity in either hand with intended voluntary movement of the other hand, the absence of mirrored EMG responses from wrist flexors and extensors to mechanical perturbation of the contralateral wrist, and normal scalp distribution of somatosensory evoked potentials to right and left median nerve stimulation. Our findings are consistent with aberrant organization of motor representation areas and corticospinal pathways with ipsilateral as well as contralateral control of voluntary movement. 
Panic disorder in seizure patients: a diagnostic pitfall. Panic disorder is a psychiatric diagnosis whose main feature is paroxysmal attacks of anxiety that strike suddenly without apparent provocation. Physicians explain the attacks as an ictal phenomenon in patients with known seizures because of their similarities to complex partial seizures. We report eight patients with seizures and panic disorder. Recognition of a second diagnostic entity resulted in a beneficial change in treatment in six of the eight. We did not find an increased incidence of panic disorder in our seizure clinic population as compared with the general population. 
Continuous removal of middle molecules by hemofiltration in patients with acute liver failure. In patients with acute liver failure and hepatic coma, an increase in the abnormal "middle molecules" seen on the chromatograms of the sera is suspected of playing an etiologic role in the coma. A pilot study of continuous hemofiltration using a high-performance membrane was conducted in 16 such patients in an attempt to decrease the serum levels of the middle molecules. The procedure was used alternately with plasma exchange. High-performance liquid chromatography showed a notable removal of the substances in the filtrates and a sequential removal from the serum by hemofiltration. Eight (50%) of the 16 patients had amelioration in level of consciousness and were weaned successfully from hemofiltration. Although only three of the 16 patients survived the acute illness, 13 others lived an average of 15 days and five patients survived greater than 3 wk. While the continuous removal of middle molecules from the serum may not reverse liver failure, this procedure used in conjunction with plasma exchange may provide a means of life support, e.g., for patients awaiting a liver transplant. 
Effect of ethanol on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure as a treatment for obstructive sleep apnea. The effect of ethanol ingestion on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nasal CPAP) as a treatment for the obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome was studied in ten obese male subjects undergoing this therapy. On the first night of polysomnography, the lowest level of CPAP that maintained airway patency was determined (critical level). On the second (control) night (C), subjects slept the entire night on this level of CPAP. On the third night (E), subjects ingested either 1.5 ml/kg (part A, N = 6) or 2.0 ml/kg (part B, N = 4) of 50 percent ethanol (100 proof vodka) over one half-hour starting 1 h before bedtime. A serum ethanol level was obtained at bedtime (part A: 63.7 +/- 17.3 mg/dl; part B: 108.6 +/- 20.6 mg/dl), and subjects were monitored on the critical level of CPAP. Comparison of nights C and E for parts A + B showed no difference in total sleep time (TST) or the amount of different sleep stages as an absolute time or a percentage of TST except that there was more stage 2 (as a percent of TST) on E nights. The apnea + hypopnea index and C and E nights did not differ and was quite low (3.6 +/- 3.7/h vs 1.9 +/- 2.7/h). Similarly, ethanol ingestion did not increase the number of desaturations to at or below 90 and 85 percent, or lower the mean arterial oxygen saturation in NREM or REM sleep. Analysis of parts A and B separately also showed no differences with respect to the apnea + hypopnea index or the number of desaturations on control and ethanol nights. We conclude that acute moderate ethanol ingestion does not decrease the efficacy of an optimum level of nasal CPAP. 
Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography: clinical applications in cerebrovascular disease. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography was introduced in 1982 as a noninvasive procedure for assessment of the intracranial cerebral circulation. The lightweight and portable equipment used for transcranial Doppler examination facilitates its use in the bedside assessment of critically ill hospitalized patients and outpatients. Clinical applications include the diagnosis of vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, assessment of intracranial collateral flow in patients with extracranial arterial occlusive disease, detection of intracranial arterial stenosis, identification of the feeding arteries of arteriovenous malformations and monitoring the hemodynamic effects of their treatment, confirmation of the clinical diagnosis of brain death, intensive-care unit monitoring of brain-injured patients, and intraoperative and postoperative monitoring of neurosurgical patients. Transcranial Doppler technology is also providing new insights into the pathophysiologic mechanisms of a variety of cerebrovascular conditions. Clinicians will find transcranial Doppler technology most helpful if they have a specific question about the status of the intracranial circulation. Further investigations may expand the clinical and research utility of this technology. 
IgM deposits at nodes of Ranvier in a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, anti-GM1 antibodies, and multifocal motor conduction block. We studied a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multifocal motor conduction block, and IgM anti-GM1 antibodies. A sural nerve biopsy demonstrated deposits of IgM at nodes of Ranvier by direct immunofluorescence. The deposits were granular and located in the nodal gap between adjacent myelin internodes, and in some instances, they extended along the surface of the paranodal myelin sheath. When injected into rat sciatic nerve, the serum IgM bound to the nodes of Ranvier, and the binding activity was removed by preincubation with GM1. These observations suggest that anti-GM1 antibodies may have caused motor dysfunction by binding to the nodal and paranodal regions of peripheral nerve. 
Paraesthesiae and tetany induced by voluntary hyperventilation. Increased excitability of human cutaneous and motor axons. Anxiety can induce hyperventilation, and the resultant hypocapnia and hypocalcaemia can lead to paraesthesiae and tetany. To define the nature of the disturbance created in peripheral nerve, the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons was monitored in 6 normal subjects requested to hyperventilate until paraesthesiae developed in the hands, face and trunk. This occurred when alveolar PCO2 (PACO2) had declined on average by 20 mmHg. Spontaneous EMG activity developed when PACO2 had declined by a further 4 mmHg. Changes in the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons were measured from changes in the compound action potentials evoked by stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist and recorded over the digital nerves of the index finger and over the thenar muscles, respectively. As PACO2 declined, the size of the compound sensory and muscle potentials evoked by a constant stimulus progressively increased, indicating an increase in axonal excitability. These changes occurred before paraesthesiae or tetany developed. In each subject there was a statistically significant inverse correlation between PACO2 and axonal excitability. Independent of this increase in axonal excitability, there was no significant change in the supernormal phase of the recovery cycle of cutaneous axons. Microneurographic recordings from the median nerve in 2 subjects revealed spontaneous bursting activity of cutaneous axons, perceived as paraesthesiae. It is concluded that the paraesthesiae and tetany induced by hyperventilation result solely from changes in the excitability of cutaneous and motor axons in the peripheral nerve, presumably due to an alteration in the electrical properties of the axonal membrane resulting from a reduced plasma [Ca2+]. The supernormal phase may entrain the ectopic discharge and thereby determine the maximal discharge frequency of impulses in ectopically generated trains, but does not otherwise contribute to the physiological disturbance. 
Imaging the fetal brain in the second and third trimesters using transvaginal sonography. High-frequency transvaginal probes were used at 20-40 weeks' gestation to develop a systematic examination of the fetal brain. Modeling the procedure after the standard neonatal neurosonographic examination, we attempted to obtain three coronal sections (anterior, midline, posterior) and two sagittal sections (midsagittal, right or left parasagittal). In 70 normal patients, all planes were imaged with a similar frequency (74-76%) except for the posterior coronal plane, which was imaged 59% of the time. Among the first 35 cases, 17% had a complete study, compared with 71% of the second 35 cases. Transvaginal sonography established or changed the diagnosis in five of the 13 cases with central nervous system or other abnormalities. We recommend that a complete fetal neurosonographic examination include transvaginal sonography to complement and enhance the transabdominal examination, especially for cases in which a fetal abnormality is suspected. 
Telephone use to elicit voice or speech in brain injured subjects. The initiation of speech is often delayed in the early stages of recovery from a serious brain injury. We have found a high percentage of patients with both speech and swallowing problems. This makes bedside assessment of swallowing safety difficult because one cannot listen for the sound of aspirated material on the vocal cords when a patient is at high risk for silent aspiration and is often unable to cooperate with a videofluoroscopic study. The use of the telephone has been described several times for aphasia treatment, but not to elicit speech or assess swallowing safety early after brain injury. This study, therefore, recruited subjects who had brain injuries and (1) were referred early for swallowing and other evaluations, (2) were out of coma and able to follow some commands, and (3) did not initiate voice or speak when asked to. Subjects were asked three questions under two different conditions: face to face and after ringing the telephone from another room. The results were recorded on videotape and analyzed by another investigator for quantifiable differences. Six of the seven subjects responded better with the telephone stimulus than without. This technique may elicit voice or speech early after brain injury in some patients and may be useful in bedside assessment of swallowing safety. It may also serve as an example of appropriate stimulation of brain injured subjects coming out of coma. 
Traumatic intracranial aneurysms caused by missiles: their presentation and management. Only 30 cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysm (TICA) secondary to missile injury have been reported to date. To these we add 15 more cases. Missile TICAs are often seen on a secondary branch of the middle cerebral artery and are usually accompanied by a intracerebral hematoma (80%) or by an acute subdural hematoma (26%). Fourteen of our cases were secondary to shrapnel injuries and only one was secondary to a bullet. None of the injuries was through-and-through. TICAs may enlarge in time and, seemingly inoffensive, may rupture and lead to death. All seven TICAs studied histologically proved to be false aneurysms. TICAs are best treated through trapping and excision. The outcome depends on the patient's status and level of consciousness before surgery. Indications for angiography are discussed. 
Bilateral homonymous visual field defects as initial manifestation of multiple sclerosis. Symptomatic suprageniculate lesions in multiple sclerosis expressed as a visual field defect are infrequent. The present case developed a bilateral homonymous defect as the initial and unique symptom of the disease. It was confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, which disclosed extensive demyelinating areas in both optic nerve radiations. The mode of onset, perimetric findings, and unusual presentation of this condition are briefly discussed. 
Scaphoid malunion. We reviewed 10 patients with symptomatic malunion of a carpal scaphoid fracture. All had displacement with dorsiflexed intercalated segment instability, and suffered from pain, restricted range of movement at the wrist and decreased grip strength. The restriction of flexion-extension and the decreased grip strength correlated with the severity of the DISI deformity. Seven patients had a corrective osteotomy, using an anterior wedge-shape bone graft with internal fixation by Herbert screw, and all had satisfactory results. We believe that symptoms associated with scaphoid malunion are related to consequent carpal deformity. 
Essential tremor: clinical correlates in 350 patients. To study the demographic and clinical correlates of essential tremor (ET), we analyzed a comprehensive database of 350 patients evaluated at the Movement Disorders Clinic at Baylor College of Medicine from 1982 to 1989. The age at onset of tremor showed bimodal distribution for both male and female patients, with peaks in 2nd and 6th decades. ET appeared most frequently in hands, followed by head, voice, tongue, leg, and trunk. Half of the patients (47%) had associated dystonia, including cervical dystonia, writer's cramp, spasmodic dysphonia, and cranial dystonia, and 20% of the patients had associated parkinsonism. At least one 1st-degree relative of 62.5% of ET patients reported tremor. Alcohol relieved tremor in 2/3 of ET patients. Sixty-eight percent of patients who had adequate follow-up improved with propranolol, and 72% with primidone. There was no significant difference in various clinical variables between the 219 patients with familial ET and 131 with sporadic ET. Patients with early-onset ET were more likely to have hand involvement and associated dystonia than patients with late-onset ET. Dystonia was more frequently associated with mild ET than with severe ET. Patients with low-frequency tremor were older and had more head but less hand involvement than patients with high-frequency tremor. The lack of relevant differences between ET subgroups suggests that, despite variable expression, ET represents a single disease entity. 
Cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia. Four cases of cauda equina syndrome occurring after continuous spinal anesthesia are reported. In all four cases, there was evidence of a focal sensory block and, to achieve adequate analgesia, a dose of local anesthetic was given that was greater than that usually administered with a single-injection technique. We postulate that the combination of maldistribution and a relatively high dose of local anesthetic resulted in neurotoxic injury. Suggestions that may reduce the potential for neurotoxicity are discussed. Use of a lower concentration and a "ceiling" or maximum dose of local anesthetic to establish the block should be considered. If maldistribution of local anesthetic is suspected (as indicated by a focal sensory block), the use of maneuvers to increase the spread of local anesthetic is recommended. If such maneuvers prove unsuccessful, the technique should be abandoned. 
Atlanto-occipital disarticulation. Accident characteristics. A retrospective study of cases of atlanto-occipital disarticulation was conducted to describe incident characteristics: 24 cases were identified, including nine motor vehicle drivers, two passengers, seven pedestrians, and five motorcyclists; one other person had fallen four stories. The highest rates were found among motorcyclists and pedestrians. Atlanto-occipital disarticulations occur in high-energy impacts and collisions and are associated with aortic laceration in 25% and basilar skull fracture in 21% of such cases. Current restraint systems and motorcycle helmets do not appear to prevent this generally rapidly fatal injury. 
Immunodominant regions for T helper-cell sensitization on the human nicotinic receptor alpha subunit in myasthenia gravis. In myasthenia gravis an autoimmune response against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) occurs. The alpha subunit of the AChR contains both the epitope(s) that dominates the antibody response (main immunogenic region) and epitopes involved in T helper cell sensitization. In this study, overlapping synthetic peptides corresponding to the complete AChR alpha-subunit sequence were used to propagate polyclonal AChR-specific T helper cell lines from four myasthenic patients of different HLA types. Response of the T helper lines to the individual peptides was studied. Four immunodominant sequence segments were identified--i.e., residues 48-67, 101-120, 304-322, and 419-437. These regions did not include residues known to form the main immunogenic region or the cholinergic binding site, and they frequently contained sequence motifs that have been proposed to be related to T-epitope formation. 
Regional variation in brain lactate in Leigh syndrome by localized 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Localized water-suppressed 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy was performed in an 11-month-old infant with Leigh syndrome. Spectra obtained from the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and brainstem showed elevations in lactate, which were most pronounced in regions where abnormalities were seen with routine T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. This approach has allowed us to examine metabolism in brain tissue directly and noninvasively, and may provide a sensitive means for evaluating metabolic disease and the response to therapy in the brain. 
A multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in Italy. A multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis (MG) in Italy. Data from 1152 patients, fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice, were analysed for diagnostic criteria, clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches. Mean follow-up was 4.9 years. The disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80% of cases. Onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males. At first observation 87% of the patients had generalized MG. Maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77% of patients. At the last follow-up, 35% of cases were symptom-free (pharmacological remission 24%, remission without treatment 11%). The more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms, the lower was the proportion of remissions. Steroids were given in 54% and immunosuppressants in 18%. Thymectomy was performed in 72%, mostly in women, younger than age 40, and with generalized MG. Thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease, mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus. MG was lethal in 4% of patients, principally men, older than 40, in grade 3 or worse at first observation, with a short history of disease, and with thymona. 
Obstructive sleep apnea presenting with nocturnal angina, heart failure, and near-miss sudden death. An obese woman with a one-year history of episodic nocturnal chest pain was admitted because of shock and pulmonary edema. A clinical diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock was made. She was ventilated and successfully resuscitated. Subsequent investigations showed no evidence of cardiac dysfunction or coronary disease, but sleep study confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). We suggest that the nocturnal angina and heart failure in this patient might have resulted from extreme hypoxemia produced by OSAS. This case raised the possibility that the high cardiovascular mortality rate reported in OSAS might not necessarily relate to underlying coronary artery disease. Further investigations are required to delineate the true incidence of coronary disease in patients with OSAS. 
Infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. We report 10 cases of cerebellar infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (mPICA). Axial sections on MRI through the middle of the medulla and the cerebellum showed the infarction as a triangular area with a dorsal base and a ventral apex directed towards the fourth ventricle. The infarct also involved the lateral and dorsal medulla when the mPICA supplied all or part of these regions. Three clinical patterns were observed: 1) pseudolabyrinthine signs with or without dysmetria and ataxia when the medulla was spared; marked axial lateropulsion was present in most cases; 2) complete or incomplete Wallenberg's syndrome, when the medulla was involved; 3) silent infarction. These syndromes are precisely those previously attributed to PICA occlusion without distinction of the branch involved. No alteration of consciousness was recorded and spontaneous recovery was the rule. Cerebellar infarction in the distribution of the mPICA can be regarded as a benign condition with a good prognosis. 
The robustness of an empirically derived taxonomy of chronic pain patients. There is currently no classification system for chronic pain patients that has achieved consensus. The lack of a classification that is used consistently across settings has impaired advance of knowledge and treatment of chronic pain patients. Recently, an empirically derived multivariate classification system, the Multiaxial Assessment of Pain (MAP) patients, has been developed. In this paper, the generalizability of the MAP system was evaluated by contrasting the MAP classification of 3 common but diverse chronic pain syndromes, namely, low back pain, headache, and temporomandibular disorders. The results indicate that although the proportion of patients classified into the 3 subgroups of the MAP taxonomy differ, the profiles based on the pattern of interrelationship among the assessment scales were remarkably similar. These data suggest that the psychosocial and behavioral responses associated with chronic pain are common to diverse samples of pain patients despite differences in demographic characteristics and medical diagnosis. The implications of these results for research and clinical practice are discussed. The potential utility of a polydiagnostic approach using more traditional medically based classifications such as proposed by the IASP (Merskey, H., Pain, Suppl. 3 (1986) S1-S225) complemented by classification based on the MAP psychosocial-behaviorally based taxonomy are examined. 
The cholecystokinin receptor antagonist devazepide enhances morphine-induced analgesia but not morphine-induced respiratory depression in the squirrel monkey. The effects of the cholecystokinin antagonist devazepide on analgesia and respiratory depression induced by morphine in squirrel monkeys were examined. Pain thresholds were determined using the tail withdrawal procedure, in which monkeys restrained in chairs kept their tails in cool (35 degrees C) water for at least 20 sec, but withdrew them from warm (55 degrees C) water in less than 4 sec. Morphine produced a dose-related increase in tail withdrawal latencies from warm water. Devazepide (injected i.p. or p.o.) had no effect on tail withdrawal latencies when given alone but enhanced the analgesic effects of morphine. The devazepide dose-response curve for morphine enhancement was bell-shaped with doses of 3, 10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg injected i.p. increasing morphine analgesia whereas higher and lower dose did not. In a separate group of monkeys, morphine produced dose-dependent decreases in respiratory rate and oxygen tension and increases in carbon dioxide tension. In contrast to its effects on morphine analgesia, devazepide had no effect on the various indices of morphine-induced respiratory depression. These data suggest that devazepide may have therapeutic utility as an adjuvant to morphine analgesia allowing lower dose of the opiate to be used to relieve pain and reducing the risk of opiate-induced respiratory depression. 
Surgical treatment of double major scoliosis. Improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve. We have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients. In group 1, 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only. In group 2, 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve. The magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively. Forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation. Those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain. Group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review, but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness. The number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome. Selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees. It may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle. 
Cumulative AIDS incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections. To determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) experienced increased deaths from sepsis, central nervous system abscess, or endocarditis, New Jersey AIDS patients were grouped according to their age, sex, race, and residence-specific cumulative incidence of AIDS since the onset of the AIDS epidemic. Between 1980 and 1986, among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for AIDS, sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 11.9 deaths/100,000/year (95% confidence interval (6.9, 17.0) deaths/100,000/year); mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 (0.1, 3.2) deaths/100,000/year; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100,000/year to 2.4 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 1.6 (-0.5, 3.7) deaths/100,000/year. Age-matched New Jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of AIDS did not sustain a similar increase. The HIV disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in U.S. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades, but was previously limited to older populations. 
Diagnostic quality and complications of hysterosalpingography: oil- versus water-soluble contrast media--a randomized prospective study. In a prospective randomized study of 417 patients, side effects and complications of contrast media and the diagnostic quality of images obtained after hysterosalpingography (HSG) were evaluated after use of diatrizoate meglumine (104 patients), ioxaglate (105 patients), iohexol (105 patients), or ethiodized poppy-seed oil (103 patients). The authors detected no differences among these groups in the prevalence of pain during HSG. The prevalence of lower abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding after HSG was significantly lower in the group that received ethiodized poppy-seed oil than in the three other groups. The prevalence of pelvic infection or inflammation was significantly lower with ethiodized poppy-seed oil than with water-soluble media. All contrast media provided acceptable diagnostic image quality with regard to fallopian tubes, peritoneal spill, and intraperitoneal distribution. Visualization of the uterine cavity and ampullary rugae was significantly better with water-soluble media than with ethiodized poppy-seed oil, which was associated with a high conception rate and which the authors consider preferable for HSG. 
Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates that electric stimulation of cerebellar fastigial nucleus reduces cerebral infarction in rats. We sought to determine whether high spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging is useful for noninvasive quantitation of the ischemic infarct produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and for detection of reduced infarct volume elicited by electric stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus. Male rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain were anesthetized, the middle cerebral artery was occluded, and the fastigial nucleus was stimulated for 1 hour. Twenty-four hours later, rats were reanesthetized and T1- and T2-weighted images were obtained. Rats were killed and the volume and distribution of the lesion was established by histopathology. Magnetic resonance imaging estimates of the lesion volume were 271 +/- 41.0 mm3 (middle cerebral artery, n = 5) and 148 +/- 8.4 mm3 (middle cerebral artery + fastigial nucleus stimulation, n = 6; 45% reduction, p less than 0.05). Histopathological analysis revealed a lesion of 229.8 +/- 15.4 mm3 involving somatosensory cortex, lateral caudate putamen, and lateral hippocampus. Fastigial nucleus stimulation resulted in a 36% reduction in infarct volume to 146.0 +/- 10.3 mm3. The retrieved zone was largely in the cortex dorsal and ventral to the lesion and mostly posterior to the lesion. The estimates of lesion volume by magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology did not differ and were highly correlated (r = 0.90; p less than 0.001). This study confirms our previous finding that fastigial nucleus stimulation reduces the volume of a focal ischemic infarct and demonstrates that magnetic resonance imaging not only accurately estimates the volume of the lesion but also can detect changes as small as 50-100 mm3. 
Cerebrovascular and metabolic effects on the rat brain of focal Nd:YAG laser irradiation. To investigate the effects of focal neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) laser irradiation (lambda = 1060 nm) on regional cerebral blood flow, cerebral protein synthesis, and blood-brain barrier permeability, the parietal brain surface of 44 rats was irradiated with a focused laser beam at a constant output energy of 30 J. Survival times ranged from 5 minutes to 48 hours. Laser irradiation immediately caused well-defined cortical coagulation necrosis. Within 5 minutes after unilateral irradiation, 14C-iodoantipyrine autoradiographs demonstrated severely reduced blood flow to the irradiation site and perilesional neocortex, but a distinct reactive hyperemia in all other areas of the forebrain. Apart from a persistent ischemic focus in the vicinity of the cortical coagulation necrosis, blood flow alterations in remote areas of the brain subsided within 3 hours after irradiation. Autoradiographic assessment of 3H-tyrosine incorporation into brain proteins revealed rapid onset and prolonged duration of protein synthesis inhibition in perifocal morphologically intact cortical and subcortical structures. Impairment of amino acid incorporation proved to be completely reversible within 48 hours. Immunoautoradiographic visualization of extravasated plasma proteins using 3H-labeled rabbit anti-rat immunoglobulins-showed that, up to 1 hour after irradiation, immunoreactive proteins were confined to the neocortex at the irradiation site. At 4 hours, vasogenic edema was present in the vicinity of the irradiation site and the subcortical white matter, and, at later stages (16 to 36 hours), also extended into the contralateral hemisphere. Although this was followed by a gradual decrease in labeling intensity, resolution of edema was still not complete after 48 hours. Analysis of sequential functional changes in conjunction with morphological alterations indicates that the evolution of morphological damage after laser irradiation does not correlate with the time course and spatial distribution of protein synthesis inhibition or vasogenic edema. Although the central coagulation necrosis represents a direct effect of radiation, the final size of the laser-induced lesion is determined by a delayed colliquation necrosis due to persistent perifocal ischemia. Extent and severity of ischemia in a zone with initial preservation of neuroglial cells can be explained by the optical properties of the Nd:YAG laser; extensive scattering of light within brain parenchyma associated with a high blood-to-brain absorption ratio selectively affects blood vessels outside the irradiation focus. 
Mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases: 11 years of experience. Mechanical ventilation (MV) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure (ARF). The aim of this work was to review all episodes of MV in a Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) during the 11-year period 1976-1986. Four per cent (n = 1008) of 24,899 admissions to the MICU were treated with MV. The mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 +/- 18 years, and obviously it increased during the period of study. The average duration of MV was 4.7 d. MICU mortality, hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to MV were 33%, 38% and 46%, respectively. The mortality rate did not change during the study period. Cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates, 75 and 79%, respectively, whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose (n = 313) was only 2%. The results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of MV, and we conclude that the effects of MV remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients. Improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring, as well as continued research directed at the causes of ARF, are equally important in reducing the mortality in ARF. 
Postencephalitic acquired Tourette-like syndrome in a child. We report a 6-year-old girl who developed a Tourette-like syndrome following presumed herpes encephalitis. This case suggests that tics can be acquired in childhood and may be associated with lesions involving basal ganglia or limbic circuitry. 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease from allogeneic dura: a review of risks and safety. Surgeons and the lay public have recently expressed concern over the safety of allogeneic dura as it relates to the transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease. Indeed, two cases have resulted from use of tissue procured from a commercial agency that did not adhere to criteria accepted by the American Association of Tissue Banks or the Southeast Organ Procurement Foundation. This review discusses the risks and safety of allogeneic dura. The findings should reassure the surgeon of the safety of allogeneic dura when it is properly processed and catalogued by a bona fide, reputable tissue bank. To date, there have been no documented cases reported to the Center for Disease Control in which Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease was transmitted from allogeneic dura obtained from a registered tissue bank. 
Dystonia in Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and progressive supranuclear palsy. Adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism is a syndrome in search of a pathology. We therefore reviewed the literature on dystonic manifestations in autopsy-proven cases of multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Only 6 of 140 autopsy reports of MSA remarked on the presence of dystonia in life, but personal observations suggest prominent antecollis may develop at some stage in up to 1/2 of sufferers. Similarly, very few (15/118) clinicopathologic observations on PSP included convincing dystonic manifestations, in contrast to some clinical reports where blepharospasm and early limb dystonia were prominent. Virtually any form of focal and segmental dystonia may sometimes occur with clinically diagnosed PD, with occasional descriptions of hemidystonia-hemiparkinsonism. However, there is pathologic confirmation of this diagnosis in only 1 case. With many patients thought clinically to have PD proving pathologically to have another cause for their parkinsonism, the true frequency and the range of dystonic manifestations acceptable in PD remain unknown. 
Manual stretch: effect on finger movement control and force control in stroke subjects with spastic extrinsic finger flexor muscles. This study evaluated the effects of manual stretch of extrinsic finger flexor muscles on finger extension movement control and force control in 16 spastic hemiparetic subjects. These subjects were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group. A group of able-bodied subjects also participated. A joint-movement tracking test (JMTT) quantified control of active finger extension movement at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the index finger within the available range of active movement, and a force tracking test (FTT) quantified control of isometric finger extension force at the same joint within the subject's available force range. Electromyographic activity was monitored in the extensor digitorum and flexor digitorum superficialis muscles during both tracking tests. Manual stretch was applied to the extrinsic finger flexor muscles of the experimental group between the pretest and posttest tracking tests. The JMTT performances of both control (p less than .025) and experimental (p less than .05) groups were significantly subnormal on the pretest as were FTT performances of controls (p less than .01) and study subjects (p less than .03). The JMTT improvement on posttest was significantly greater (p less than .05) in subjects than in controls. However, the change in FTT performance was not significantly different between the two groups. Manual stretch treatment, properly applied to extrinsic finger flexor muscles, is an effective method of temporarily improving the control of finger extension movement in spastic hemiparetic subjects. 
Brain imaging abnormalities in mental disorders of late life. Psychiatric inpatients with dementia (N = 61) or depression (N = 67) in late life were 2.6 times more likely to manifest magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities of the brain than were elderly controls (N = 44). Controlling for the effects of age and gender, demented patients were distinguishable from controls by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy and infarction, while depressed patients exhibited an increased prevalence of cortical infarctions and leukoencephalopathy. Patients with dementia were distinguishable from those with major depression by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy. These results indicate that major depression in late life, like dementia, is associated with a remarkable increase in overt pathologic changes in the brain. 
Decline in the prevalence of childhood deafness in the Jewish population of Jerusalem: ethnic and genetic aspects. A longitudinal study was performed on 147 Jewish children with bilaterally sensorineural hearing loss of moderately severe to profound degree, born in Jerusalem during the eighteen years 1968-85. The prevalence rate of these children declined during the years 1977-85, and at the same time the rate of consanguinity of their parents decreased; this decline was more evident in the genetic group among children with non-Ashkenazi ethnic origin. No such decline was found among the Ashkenazi children and no consanguinity among parents of these children was recorded. Our study supports the assumption that restriction of consanguineous matings may affect the prevalence of genetic deafness in children in a well-defined population. We have tried to remain unbiased and concede certain shortcomings in our present study. 
Glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy prevention by exercise in fast-twitch fibers. Exercise has been shown to be effective in preventing glucocorticoid-induced atrophy in muscles containing high proportions of type II or fast-twitch fibers. This investigation was undertaken to further evaluate this response in type IIa and IIb fibers, determined by histochemical staining for myofibrillar adenosinetriphosphatase with alkaline and acid preincubation. Steroid [cortisol acetate (CA), 100 mg/kg body wt] and exercise (running 90 min/day, 29 m/min) treatments were initiated simultaneously for 11 consecutive days in female rats. Fiber distribution and area measurements were performed in a deep and superficial region of plantaris muscle. The exercise regimen spared approximately 40% of the CA-induced plantaris muscle atrophy. In the deep region, the fiber population, which contained approximately 13% type I (slow-twitch), 24% type IIa, and 63% IIb fibers, was not affected by either treatment. In the superficial section, which consisted solely of type II fibers, the proportion of type IIa fibers was higher (27 vs. 9%, P less than 0.01) in the steroid- than in the vehicle-treated groups. Within each region, type IIa fibers were less susceptible to atrophy than type IIb fibers, and within each fiber type, the deep region had less atrophy than the superficial region. Type I fibers were unchanged by steroid treatment. For type IIa fibers, exercise prevented 100% of the atrophy in the deep region and 50% in the superficial region. For type IIb fibers, the activity spared 67 and 40% of the atrophy in these same regions, respectively. These results show that glucocorticoids are capable of changing the myosin phenotype. 
Vector short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation. A new method has been developed for recording short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation. Negative electrical forces recorded with three orthodiagonal bipolar electrodes in the neck had a direction opposite to that of impulse conduction in the proximal peripheral and cervical somatosensory pathway. Sequential tracings of vectors opposite the electrical forces were made in three-dimensional display, thus reproducing the actual time sequence of electrical events in those structures. Fixed generators such as the subcortical nuclei were also analyzed with this technique, and multiple generators of N13 potential (N13a and N13b) were visualized. This technique may be useful in the functional evaluation of the somatosensory pathway in the cervical cord. 
Relationship of laparoscopic findings to self-report of pelvic pain. An assessment battery including standardized measures of behavioral and psychosocial factors associated with other chronic pain conditions was administered to 102 women scheduled for laparoscopic surgery. Surgeons who were blinded to the patient's self-reported pain data completed the American Fertility Society classification for endometriosis and adhesions on the basis of observed physical disease. Although American Fertility Society classification scores were significantly related to self-assignment into pain or no-pain groups, the extent of physical disease evaluated by this procedure was not significantly correlated with ratings of pain levels or a number of indexes of impairment. The group of patients with laparoscopically diagnosed pathologic conditions reported higher pain levels and greater interference than the group who reported pain and had negative laparoscopic results; however, some women with observable pathologic conditions reported no pain symptoms. 
Quantifying language development from birth to 3 years using the Early Language Milestone Scale. A point-scoring technique for the Early Language Milestone Scale is described. Normative data based on the original 1982 cross-sectional sample and validation data based on a separate longitudinal sample are presented. Mean Early Language Milestone Scale point scores, standard deviations, and percentile equivalents for raw point scores are presented for all ages from birth to 36 months. Correlations between point scores on the Early Language Milestone Scale and scores on other standardized developmental tests such as the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale, the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test, and the Illinois Test of Psycholinguistic Abilities are presented. The clinical and research advantages of this point-scoring technique are presented and compared with the original pass/fail scoring method. 
Efficacy and safety of vagus nerve stimulation in patients with complex partial seizures. A clinical trial of chronic intermittent vagal stimulation in five patients suggests that the procedure may be safe and effective as adjunctive treatment of medically intractable seizures of partial onset. Patients tolerated well the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis and the vagal stimulation without serious physiological or lifestyle changes. Stimulation of the vagus nerve either reduced the seizure frequency or decreased the duration or intensity of seizures. Adverse side effects were limited to a tingling sensation in the throat and hoarseness during stimulation. A major complication was mechanical interruption of the wire-electrode circuitry, with consequent cessation of stimulation. The small number of patients and the relatively short follow-up period make this a pilot study, but the results are promising. 
Transcranial electrical stimulation with high frequency intermittent current (Limoge's) potentiates opiate-induced analgesia: blind studies. Transcutaneous cranial electrical stimulation (TCES) with high frequency (166 kHz) intermittent current (100 Hz: Limoge current) has been used for several years in cardiac, thoracic, abdominal, urological and micro-surgery. The main benefits are a reduced requirement for analgesic drugs, especially opiates, and a long-lasting postoperative analgesia. We have confirmed these clinical observations in rats using the tail-flick latency (TFL) test to measure pain threshold. TCES was not found to modify the pain threshold in drug-free rats, but it potentiated morphine-induced analgesia (systemic injection). To obtain a maximal effect, the stimulation must be initiated 3 h before the drug injection and be maintained throughout the duration of its pharmacological action. TCES potentitation was found to depend on the dose of the drug, the intensity of the current and the polarity of electrodes. These findings were confirmed by blind tests of the efficiency of TCES on several opiate analgesic drugs currently used in human surgery (morphine, fentanyl, alfentanil and dextromoramide). The analgesic effect of these 4 opiates (TFL as % of baseline without or with TCES) were respectively: 174%, 306%; 176%, 336%; 160%, 215%; and 267%, 392%. The results were obtained not only after systemic opiate treatment, but also after intracerebroventricular injection of morphine (10 micrograms; analgesic effect 152%, 207% with TCES) suggesting that TCES potentiation of opiate-induced analgesia is centrally mediated. 
Prediction of cognitive change as a function of preoperative ability status among temporal lobectomy patients seen at 6-month follow-up. The relationship between preoperative ability levels and postoperative changes in cognitive function was examined among 23 left (LTL) and 19 right (RTL) temporal lobectomy patients using a battery of memory, language, and visuospatial tasks administered approximately 3 months before surgery and at 6 months follow-up. Higher preoperative performances on the memory and language measures were associated with larger decrements in postsurgical scores among the LTL patients. The RTL group showed no consistent relationship between preoperative ability levels and subsequent postsurgical cognitive changes. Based on the present data, we constructed base-rate tables for the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised indicating the likelihood of measurable gains or losses in memory as a function of presurgical ability level for patients undergoing LTL. While tentative, these data provide a useful and practical guide for counseling prospective epilepsy patients of the attendant cognitive risks of LTL. 
Surgical decompression without transposition for ulnar neuropathy: factors determining outcome. Fifty-one surgical decompressions without nerve transposition for ulnar neuropathy were performed in 46 patients. All of the patients were men with an average age of 59 years at the time of surgery. The follow-up range was between 5 and 32 months (average, 17.8 months). The disease involved the nondominant arm in 24 patients (52%) and was bilateral in 5 (11%). In 23 cases (50%), no predisposing condition could be identified, whereas 15 patients (33%) abused alcohol and 8 patients (17%) had diabetes mellitus. Fifty-seven percent of the patients helped by surgery had symptoms for less than 1 year, whereas only 30% of patients with symptoms for more than 1 year had symptomatic improvement. The relative magnitude of the slowing of ulnar nerve conduction velocity across the elbow was not significantly correlated with the success of decompression in relieving symptoms. Ulnar nerve conduction velocities across the elbow were 36.13 +/- 11.76 m/s in those responding to surgery and 38.97 +/- 13.91 m/s in those not responding (c = 0.06, dF = 50, P less than 0.3). A total of 37 patients showed symptomatic improvement after decompression. Simple decompression of the ulnar nerve was performed under local anesthesia without transposition of the nerve. In all of these cases, compression of the nerve occurred predominantly in the epicondylar groove. Narrowing of the nerve in the groove was present in 28 cases (55%); scar tissue was found adhering to the nerve in 21 cases (41%); and two pseudoneuromas were found (4%). Forty-one operations (80%) resulted in symptomatic improvement, typically noted by the patient within the first month postoperatively. 
pH-adjustment and discomfort caused by the intradermal injection of lignocaine [published erratum appears in Anaesthesia 1991 Mar;46(3):242] One hundred adult day-case patients who required intravenous access had cannulae inserted using local anaesthesia with 1% lignocaine, 1% lignocaine with adrenaline or the corresponding pH-adjusted solutions. The local anaesthetic solutions were modified by the addition of 1 ml 8.4% sodium bicarbonate to 10 ml lignocaine. Pain scores at different stages of cannulation were noted and showed a significant reduction after use of pH-adjusted solutions (p less than 0.02 for the plain lignocaine, and less than 0.001 for the lignocaine with adrenaline). Modification of the pH of lignocaine solutions by the addition of sodium bicarbonate is a simple method significantly to reduce the discomfort caused by the infiltration of the local anaesthetic. 
Sudden cervical pain: spontaneous cervical epidural hematoma. Three cases of cervical epidural hematoma are reported. Acute neck pain usually associated with a mild effort, closely followed by radicular pain and a neurologic deficit below the lesion is the typical presentation of this extremely rare and difficult diagnosis. As prognosis depends on preoperative neurologic state, the authors emphasize the importance of prompt identification of this lesion. The diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography, and emergency neurosurgical laminectomy is mandatory. 
Cefotaxime and aminoglycoside treatment of meningitis caused by gram-negative enteric organisms. We reviewed cases of Gram-negative enteric bacillary meningitis in infants and children treated with cefotaxime at Texas Children's Hospital from January, 1984, through June, 1989. Seventeen of 20 children had an underlying condition predisposing to the development of meningitis. The etiologic organisms in these 20 children (2 days to 12 years old; median, 12 days old) were Klebsiella sp, 9; Escherichia coli, 4; Enterobacter cloacae, 3; Citrobacter diversus, 2; other, 2. With the exception of one isolate of Acinetobacter, all isolates were susceptible to cefotaxime. In addition to cefotaxime 17 children received an aminoglycoside intravenously. Children with meningitis caused by Klebsiella sp. or non-Klebsiella organisms received cefotaxime for 31 +/- 14 and 37 +/- 17 days, respectively. Aminoglycosides were administered for 16 +/- 10 days in both groups. Five children in each group also received intraventricular doses (1 to 25) of an aminoglycoside (9) or colistimethate (1). The mean durations of positive lumbar, ventricular cerebrospinal fluid or brain abscess cultures were 5.8 +/- 4.7 and 7.2 +/- 5.0 days after start of therapy in the Klebsiella and non-Klebsiella meningitis patients, respectively. Only three children were normal at the time of discharge or follow-up. Gram-negative enteric meningitis remains difficult to treat despite the excellent in vitro activity of cefotaxime against Gram-negative enterics, in part as a result of the predisposing conditions resulting in the development of this infection. 
Botulinum vs adjustable suture surgery in the treatment of horizontal misalignment in adult patients lacking fusion. Thirty patients were treated with either botulinum toxin or adjustable suture surgery in a prospective, randomized clinical trial. All patients had horizontal deviations greater than 10 prism diopters and absent fusion. Seventeen patients were assigned to toxin treatment, and 13 were assigned to surgical treatment. Follow-up at 6 months after either procedure indicated that surgery was superior, with patient alignment showing a 92.7% average net change, compared with a 50.50% net change in the botulinum-treated group. There was no difference in response between those patients with a starting deviation of 20 PD or less and greater than 20 PD in the surgery group. However, in the botulinum-treated group, those patients with a starting deviation of 20 PD or less seemed to show better responses than those patients with greater than 20 PD. Patients with esotropia showed an 88.89% change with surgery and a 51.55% change with toxin treatment. Patients with exotropia had a 95.83% change with surgery but a 50.3% change with toxin treatment. Since we had 20 patients with exotropia and 10 patients with esotropia, a more formal comparison would require larger numbers. 
Electromagnetic treatment of shoulder periarthritis: a randomized controlled trial of the efficiency and tolerance of magnetotherapy. The potential benefit of magnetotherapy was investigated in 47 consecutive outpatients with periarthritis of the shoulder. Using a controlled triple-blind study design, one group of patients received hot pack applications and passive manual stretching and pulley exercises; the other group received the same therapy plus magnetotherapy. Treatment was administered three times a week. For a maximum of three months, a standardized treatment protocol was used. There was no significant improvement in pain reduction or in range of motion with electromagnetic field therapy. After 12 weeks of therapy, the patients who received magnetotherapy showed mean pain scores of 1.5 (+/- .61 SD) at rest, 2.2 (+/- .76 SD) on movement, and 1.9 (+/- .94 SD), on lying, compared to scores for the control group of 1.4 (+/- .65 SD), 2.2 (+/- .7 SD), and 1.9 (+/- .95 SD), respectively. Linear pain scale scores improved from 71 to 21 for both groups. At 12 weeks the gain in range of motion was mean 109 degrees +/- 46.8 in patients receiving electromagnetic field therapy, compared to 122 degrees +/- 33.4 for the controls (not significant). At entry, the functional handicap score was 53.5 for both groups. At 12 weeks, it was 24 for the magnetotherapy group and 17 for the control group (difference not significant). In conclusion, this study showed no benefit from magnetotherapy in the pain score, range of motion, or improvement of functional status in patients with periarthritis of the shoulder. 
Clinical diagnostic considerations on cocaine abuse. Following a review of the research literature on the psychophysiological effects of cocaine, a study is described of a group of 120 cocaine addicts. Of the 120 patients, 10 (8.33%) exhibited fleeting, unformed, organic delusions and hallucinations. Case reports of the 10 cases are presented. The quality of the adverse subjective effects of cocaine is emphasized, and the differential diagnosis between Cocaine Delusional Disorder and Paranoid Schizophrenia is discussed. Guidelines for a more accurate differential diagnosis are provided. 
Community hospital carotid endarterectomy in patients over age 75. We compared the prevalence of stroke and death in 133 patients aged 75 and older in whom 170 carotid endarterectomies were performed with that in 501 patients less than age 75 in whom 640 carotid endarterectomies were performed. There were three strokes (2%) in patients aged 75 and older and nine strokes (1%) in younger patients (p = 0.7). There were 8 deaths (5%) in patients aged 75 and older and 14 deaths (2%) in younger patients (p = 0.1). After controlling for the possible confounding effects of diabetes, prior stroke, history of angina, prior carotid artery disease, previous vascular surgery, history of myocardial infarction, preoperative hypertension requiring medication, and female gender, a logistic regression model showed that patients aged 75 and older were no more likely to have a stroke or death than patients under age 75. We conclude that age alone is not a contraindication to the safe performance of carotid endarterectomy in the community hospital. 
Effects of carotid denervation and decerebration on ventilatory response to CO. To clarify the mechanisms involved in the ventilatory response to the inhalation of low concentrations of CO (0.18-0.22% in air), the roles of the arterial chemoreceptors and the forebrain structures have been investigated in unanesthetized adult cats. The ventilatory response was observed in conscious animals intact, after carotid denervation (CD), and after midcollicular decerebration. The results show that the initial small ventilatory depression was unaffected by CD but that the subsequent characteristic tachypnea was blunted after CD even after more prolonged exposure to CO. The CO tachypnea was not observed after decerebration, but a residual hyperventilation was noted with the higher concentration used. It may be concluded that carotid chemoreceptors do not mediate the CO tachypnea, which may then originate in suprapontine structures as shown by comparison of intact and decerebrate animals. The blunting of the tachypnea after CD may be caused by the relative hypercapnia observed in CD animals. The residual hyperventilation observed in decerebrate animals may be caused by central acidosis and/or some peripheral potentiation of chemoreceptor activity resulting from the decrease in arterial blood pressure that accompanied CO inhalation in decerebrate animals. 
Neuroacanthocytosis. A clinical, haematological and pathological study of 19 cases. Nineteen cases are described, including 12 cases from three different families and 7 nonfamilial cases, in which multisystem neurological disease was associated with acanthocytosis in peripheral blood and normal plasma lipoproteins. Mild acanthocytosis can easily be overlooked, and scanning electron microscopy may be helpful. Some neurologically asymptomatic relatives with significant acanthocytosis were identified during family screening, including some who were clinically affected. The mean age of onset was 32 (range 8-62) yrs and the clinical course was usually progressive but there was marked phenotypic variation. Cognitive impairment, psychiatric features and organic personality change occurred in over half the cases, and more than one-third had seizures. Orofaciolingual involuntary movements and pseudobulbar disturbance commonly caused dysphagia and dysarthria that was sometimes severe, but biting of the lips or tongue was rarely seen. Chorea was seen in almost all symptomatic cases but dystonia, tics, involuntary vocalizations and akinetic-rigid features also occurred. Two cases had no movement disorder at all. Computerized tomography often demonstrated cerebral atrophy. Caudate atrophy was seen less commonly, and nonspecific focal and symmetric signal abnormalities from the caudate or lentiform nuclei were seen by magnetic resonance imaging in 3 out of 4 cases. Depression or absence of tendon reflexes was noted in 13 cases and neurophysiological abnormalities often indicated an axonal neuropathy. Sural nerve biopsies from 3 cases showed evidence of a chronic axonal neuropathy with prominent regenerative activity, predominantly affecting the large diameter myelinated fibres. Serum creatine kinase activity was increased in 11 cases but without clinical evidence of a myopathy. Postmortem neuropathological examination in 1 case revealed extensive neuronal loss and gliosis affecting the corpus striatum, pallidum, and the substantia nigra, especially the pars reticulata. The cerebral cortex appeared spared and the spinal cord showed no evidence of anterior horn cell loss. Two examples of the McLeod phenotype, an X-linked abnormality of expression of Kell blood group antigens, were identified in a single family and included 1 female. The genetics of neuroacanthocytosis are unclear and probably heterogeneous, but the available pedigree data and the association with the McLeod phenotype suggest that there may be a locus for this disorder on the short arm of the X chromosome. 
Probability of stroke: a risk profile from the Framingham Study. A health risk appraisal function has been developed for the prediction of stroke using the Framingham Study cohort. The stroke risk factors included in the profile are age, systolic blood pressure, the use of antihypertensive therapy, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, prior cardiovascular disease (coronary heart disease, cardiac failure, or intermittent claudication), atrial fibrillation, and left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiogram. Based on 472 stroke events occurring during 10 years' follow-up from biennial examinations 9 and 14, stroke probabilities were computed using the Cox proportional hazards model for each sex based on a point system. On the basis of the risk factors in the profile, which can be readily determined on routine physical examination in a physician's office, stroke risk can be estimated. An individual's risk can be related to the average risk of stroke for persons of the same age and sex. The information that one's risk of stroke is several times higher than average may provide the impetus for risk factor modification. It may also help to identify persons at substantially increased stroke risk resulting from borderline levels of multiple risk factors such as those with mild or borderline hypertension and facilitate multifactorial risk factor modification. 
Hemodynamic effects of nasal CPAP examined by Doppler echocardiography. The effects of incremental application of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (0 to 15 cm H2O) on heart rate, pulmonary artery pressure, and cardiac index were studied noninvasively by Doppler echocardiography. By two-way analysis of variance within two groups (19 normal volunteers and six sleep apnea patients), no significant effects on heart rate, pulmonary artery pressure, ventricular size, or cardiac index could be found with increasing positive intrathoracic pressures and consequent lung hyperinflation. In subjects with normal cardiac function, nasal CPAP is safe from a hemodynamic viewpoint. This simple, repeatable and noninvasive technique may be used to assess the clinical safety and efficacy of prescribed nasal CPAP on cardiac hemodynamics in individual patients. 
Coccydynia. Aetiology and treatment. A five-year prospective trial involving 120 patients was undertaken to investigate the aetiology and treatment of coccydynia. The cause lies in some localised musculoskeletal abnormality in the coccygeal region. Lumbosacral disc prolapse is not a significant factor. The condition is genuine and distressing and we found no evidence of neurosis in our patients. Physiotherapy was of little help in treatment but 60% of patients responded to local injections of corticosteroid and local anaesthesia. Manipulation and injection was even more successful and cured about 85%. Coccygectomy was required in almost 20% and had a success rate of over 90%. 
Germ cell tumor of testis in a patient with von Hippel-Lindau disease. Germ cell testicular tumor is a previously undescribed entity in association with von Hippel-Lindau disease. This case exemplifies the variety of pathologic entities encountered in von Hippel-Lindau disease and stresses the importance of thorough evaluation of the patient, as well as careful follow-up, to ensure early detection of potentially malignant lesions. 
Mechanism of stroke in patients taking aspirin. During a 1-year period, we prospectively studied the mechanism and severity of stroke in 47 patients sustaining a cerebral infarction while taking aspirin. The mechanism of stroke was undetermined in 12 patients (26%). In the remaining 35 patients, we identified 39 potential mechanisms: large-artery atherosclerosis (19 patients, 40%), cardioembolism (15 patients, 32%), and small-vessel occlusive disease (5 patients, 11%). Of 11 patients with carotid atherosclerosis and stroke, 9 (82%) had greater than 90% carotid stenosis or occlusion; of 12 patients with stroke of undetermined mechanism, 10 (83%) had previous stroke, of which 8 were also of undetermined mechanisms. Disability after stroke was moderate or severe in 27 patients (57%). These data suggest that (1) stroke in patients taking aspirin has a variety of etiologies and frequently causes moderate or severe disability; (2) patients with carotid disease failing aspirin often have high-grade carotid stenosis or occlusion; (3) stroke of undetermined mechanism may recur more frequently than other stroke subtypes in patients taking aspirin. 
Heterogeneity in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy. A clinical and PET study. Six patients with a slowly progressive aphasic disorder due to degenerative cortical disease are reported. The length of history varied from 18 months to 6 years. In 5 patients, there was a naming deficit, associated in 4 of these with some abnormalities in comprehension. One patient had a progressive history of reduced speech output, which was associated with an orofacial dyspraxia. All patients were studied neuropsychologically, and in addition regional cerebral metabolism was measured using position emission tomography. A localized left hemisphere deficit was found in all patients except 1, who had the longest history and the most profound clinical deficit, and who also had right hemisphere hypometabolism. The major brunt of the deficit was in the anterior portion of the left temporal lobe in all but 1 case, the patient with poor speech output who had a more severe left posterior frontal deficit. These findings suggest that in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy there is heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and anatomical site of the deficit, with possible implications for the underlying aetiology. 
Assessing the severity of dementia. Patient and caregiver. In dementia there is cognitive impairment, disability in daily life, and sometimes behavioral disturbance. These changes are a burden for the caregivers of patients with dementia. Few studies are available that examine all these aspects and their interrelationships in a single patient group. In our study we selected detailed methods for assessment of all these aspects. Interrelationships were studied in 30 mild to moderately impaired patients with dementia and their caregivers. Although the relations of cognitive deterioration to disability in daily life and of burden experienced by the caregiver to patient's condition were stronger than often reported, it was impossible to deduce the overall severity of dementia from one single aspect. Thus, for effective management of patients and caregivers, for evaluation of individual treatment or of clinical trials, attention should be paid to all the different aspects of patients' condition and caregivers' burden. Outcome measurements will then be more valid. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome: correlations between pressure measurement and intraoperative electrophysiological nerve study. In 19 carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) patients and 4 control subjects a catheter was introduced into the carpal tunnel and slowly retracted in 5 mm steps. Pressure was measured with the continuous infusion technique. In the same group of patients and controls, median nerve antidromic sensory action potential (aSAP) was detected intraoperatively stimulating proximally (S1), in the center (S2), and distally (S3) to the carpal tunnel and recording from the third finger (R). Sensory conduction velocity (SCV) and aSAP amplitude were considered in S1-S2, S2-S3 and S3-R segments. The intracarpal tunnel pressure was significantly higher in CTS patients than in controls, with the highest values located between 25 and 35 mm distal to the proximal border of the flexor retinaculum. SCV and aSAP amplitude were also decreased most often in the distal part (S2-S3) of the carpal tunnel. 
Cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics in children with external ventricular drains. Fifty-five children had 64 external ventricular drains (EVDs) placed predominantly (95%) for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunt infections. In 9 children, a computer monitoring system measured the CSF output each second continuously for up to 24 hours. The monitoring was repeated daily for up to 9 days. The state of arousal of the patients was recorded simultaneously. In all children, daily EVD outputs were related to age, sex, weight, method of establishing the EVD, height of the drip chamber, time since insertion, and type of infecting organism. Computer monitoring revealed wide fluctuations in flow rate, with peak rates frequently greater than 20 ml/h and periods of flow arrest. These changes were usually associated with increased arousal, but also occurred with sleep. The mean EVD flow rate for all children was 6.3 ml/h. EVD output increased with age and weight. EVD output decreased with Gram-negative or multiple-organism infections and with elevation of the drip chamber. Resolution of the infection, sex of the patient, and method of establishing the EVD had no effect on output. These results predict that CSF production increases with brain growth in humans: that CSF production is depressed by Gram-negative and multiple-organism infections: that implanted CSF shunts with standard valves flow at equivalent rates to an EVD in the supine position; and that the CSF drainage requirements in this group are approximately equal to their EVD outputs. 
Tardive dyskinesia. Tardive dyskinesia is a potentially irreversible syndrome of involuntary hyperkinetic movements that occur in predisposed persons receiving extended neuroleptic (antipsychotic) drug therapy. It is usually characterized by choreoathetoid dyskinesias in the orofacial, limb, and truncal regions, but subtypes of this syndrome may include tardive dystonia and tardive akathisia. Although the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of this disorder are unproven, altered dopaminergic functions will likely play a role in any explanation of it. Tardive dyskinesia develops in 20% of neuroleptic-treated patients, but high-risk groups such as the elderly have substantially higher rates. Risk factors include age, female sex, affective disorders, and probably those without psychotic diagnoses, including patients receiving drugs with antidopaminergic activity for nausea or gastrointestinal dysfunction for extended periods. Total drug exposure is positively correlated with tardive dyskinesia risk. Management strategies include a careful evaluation of both the psychiatric and neurologic states, a broad differential diagnosis, and adjustment of neuroleptic agents to the lowest effective dose that controls psychosis and minimizes motor side effects. No drug therapy is uniformly safe and effective for treating this disorder. A favorable long-term outcome of improvement or resolution correlates with younger age, early detection, lower drug exposure, and duration of follow-up. 
An assessment and care planning strategy for nursing home residents with dementia. Dementia is extremely common among nursing home patients, and it takes many forms. Accurate assessment by staff is crucial in providing appropriate care to these patients. Equally important is the ability to establish care priorities. Current staging models are so general, however, that their usefulness is limited. Thus, this paper proposes a strategy that, using basic assessment data, categorizes dementia residents according to four key determinants of care needs: activities of daily living status, behavioral problems, communication abilities, and physical transition. 
Magnetic resonance imaging in the preoperative evaluation of cervical radiculopathy. Forty patients with cervical radiculopathy were examined preoperatively with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI was used alone in 27 (68%) of the 40 patients; the remainder also had computed tomography in conjunction with myelography. The primary criterion on MRI for a clinically significant lesion was asymmetrical narrowing of the subarachnoid space in the region of the nerve root. Surgical confirmation of the abnormality was obtained in all 40 cases. The operative findings were a herniated nucleus pulposus (32 of 40 patients), spondylosis (2 of 40 patients), or a combination of the two (6 of 40 patients). MRI identified a surgical lesion (herniated nucleus pulposus, spondylosis, or both) in 37 of the 40 (92%) patients. We think MRI is the only preoperative imaging examination necessary in most cases of cervical radiculopathy. 
The effect of nightly nasal CPAP treatment on underlying obstructive sleep apnea and pharyngeal size. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). It is usually prescribed for nightly use; however, recent studies show that patients often do not wear the appliance consistently. Previous studies have also suggested that nasal CPAP may improve a patient's underlying OSA even when the mask is not in place. We investigated 12 men with OSA to see if nasal CPAP used nightly for six weeks would improve their underlying sleep-disordered breathing. We also studied pharyngeal volumes measured using magnetic resonance imaging and a computer-controlled digitizing pad. Patients with more severe OSA had improvement after six weeks; however, they still demonstrated significant OSA. Patients with less severe OSA did not have significant change. We were unable to show a significant difference in any patient's awake pharyngeal volumes. We conclude that patients with OSA should be encouraged to wear their nasal CPAP machines regularly. 
Congenital demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy with focally folded myelin sheaths. Six patients (5 index cases and 1 sib) with a congenital motor and sensory neuropathy are described. The clinical, genetic and electrophysiological features resembled Dejerine-Sottas disease or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) type III. Sural nerve biopsy of 5 patients revealed segmental demyelination and remyelination with hypertrophic changes, although onion bulbs were not as ubiquitous as in classical HMSN type III. A striking discriminating feature from HMSN type III was an abundance of focal myelin thickenings (tomacula) present in nearly all teased fibres. Possible pathogenic implications are discussed. These cases corroborate the heterogeneity of congenital motor and sensory neuropathies. 
The accuracy of predictions about progress of patients on a stroke unit. The aim of the study was to check the accuracy of predictions about the factors which affect the progress, in physical abilities and activities of daily living, of patients admitted to a stroke unit. A series of 60 patients admitted consecutively to a stroke unit were assessed on tests of motor, functional and cognitive abilities at admission. On the basis of these assessments predictions were made about the abilities of the patients at discharge. Patients were assessed for level of motor abilities and activities of daily living at discharge and the accuracy of the predictions checked. Predictions were found to be significantly correlated with outcome but the relationships were not so close as to be useful for the clinical management of individual patients. 
An empirical study of diagnostic criteria for delirium. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine empirically how many patients are identified as delirious or nondelirious according to DMS-III, DMS-III-R, and ICD-10 criteria. METHOD: Daily, a trained research assistant using a structured instrument to detect the presence of symptoms of delirium evaluated 325 elderly patients who were admitted to a general hospital for acute medical problems. Each patient's symptoms were then compared with these diagnostic criteria sets to determine if the patient met criteria for delirium. RESULTS: DSM-III criteria were the most inclusive: they identified 125 patients as delirious. DSM-III-R identified a somewhat different group of 106 patients as delirious. ICD-10 criteria identified only 30 patients as delirious. CONCLUSIONS: The development of new criteria for delirium (e.g., DSM-IV) will have to balance the need to define a pure group of patients for research purposes with the need to include cases of clinical interest. Changes in criteria should be based on data such as those presented in this paper. 
Multicenter trial of L-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients. II. Clinical and biochemical effects. Since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis, we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of L-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment. The trial, which lasted seven months (one month baseline, 6 months treatment) was multicenter, double blind, placebo controlled, and randomized. Eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients, who were given either carnitine (N = 38) or placebo (N = 44), completed this study. In each group, clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values. Intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group, while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups. Maximal oxygen consumption, measured during a progressive work exercise test, improved significantly in the carnitine group (111 +/- 50 ml/min. P less than 0.03) and was unchanged in the placebo group. L-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen, creatinine and phosphorus (means +/- SEM, 101 +/- 4.5 to 84 +/- 3.9, 16.7 +/- 0.67 to 14.7 +/- 0.64, and 6.4 +/- 0.3 to 5.5 +/- 0.4 mg/dl, respectively, P less than 0.004). No significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group. Mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients. Calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients (41.37 +/- 2.68 to 45.6 +/- 2.82 cm2, P = 0.05) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients. 
Lateralized effects of subclinical epileptiform EEG discharges on scholastic performance in children. The interaction between lateralization of subclinical epileptiform discharges and cognitive tasks was investigated in 21 children (12 girls and 9 boys, mean age 10.6 years). Seventeen had a diagnosis of epilepsy (partial or secondarily generalized). Testing was by reading, arithmetic, and intelligence subtests during continuous telemetric EEG and video monitoring. Children with left-sided discharges had significantly lower reading performance than children with right-sided discharges. During reading, epileptiform discharges occurred relatively less frequently and with a shorter total duration over the left hemisphere than the right. This supports the view that cognitive tasks suppress epileptiform discharges when they activate a region of the brain within the epileptogenic zone. Discharges from other epileptogenic zones not directly activated by the tasks are increased, however. 
Vancomycin pharmacokinetics in hydrocephalic shunt prophylaxis and relationship to ventricular volume. Vancomycin pharmacokinetics were determined in 25 patients receiving ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus. Computed tomography scan-derived ventricular-brain ratio as an expression of hydrocephalus varied between 9.3% and 15.4% (12.9% +/- 1.7%). One hour prior to surgery each patient received 1 g of vancomycin infused intravenously over 60 minutes. Samples of cerebrospinal fluid and venous blood were obtained 1 hour later and vancomycin levels assayed by fluorescence polarization immunoassay. There were 11 females and 14 males, with a mean age of 44.5 +/- 10.3 years and a mean weight of 72.0 +/- 11.4 kg. All had normal renal function. Levels of vancomycin in the cerebrospinal fluid at 1 hour ranged from 0.1 to 1.5 micrograms/mL (0.9 +/- 0.3). Weight did not affect these values (p greater than 0.1). Simultaneous blood vancomycin levels varied between 9.1 and 38.7 micrograms/mL (22.3 +/- 8.3). Ventricular volume, expressed as the ventricular-brain ratio, did not correlate with cerebrospinal fluid vancomycin levels (p greater than 0.5). There was no significant increase in concentrations of vancomycin in CSF as cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration increased, nor when blood vancomycin concentration was greater than 20 mg/dL (therapeutic range) (p greater than 0.1). No patient had evidence of infection at 6 months follow up. These results indicate minimal cerebrospinal fluid penetrance of vancomycin when administered systemically 1 hour prior to shunt surgery. In addition concentrations of vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid bear no relationship to weight, ventricular volume, meningeal inflammation, or blood levels in the therapeutic range. The minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin for staphylococci is 1.5 to 3.1, and as bactericidal levels of 5 to 8 minimum inhibitory concentration are needed to kill organisms, a combination of both systemic and intraventricular vancomycin may be needed to ensure adequate cerebrospinal fluid and tissue concentration of antibiotic during shunt prophylaxis. 
Thymoma: results of 241 operated cases Clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed. One hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases; 55% of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45% invasive. Operation was radical resection in 87.5% of the patients, subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7%, and simple biopsy in 3.7%. A tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients (10%): 2 (1.5%) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 (20.4%) of 108 with invasive thymomas; among these patients, a relapse was found in 20.6% of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6% who did not. Adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage IVa (multiple pleural nodes), not feasible resection (for technical reasons), inoperable tumor relapse, and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases: pure red cell aplasia, hypogammaglobulinemia, and lupus erythematosus. Conversely, myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma, thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis (p less than 0.05). Postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas, but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas, regardless of the extent of the resection. 
Management of children with myelodysplasia: urological alternatives. Recent reports have suggested that the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization in selected infants with myelodysplasia and with normal upper tracts may prevent their deterioration. The selection of these patients at risk depends on urodynamic criteria. We reviewed our experience with clean intermittent catheterization instituted when upper tract deterioration was found. Of 130 patients with myelodysplasia followed at our clinic 25 (19%) had or presented with radiological upper urinary tract deterioration. A total of 21 patients had vesicoureteral reflux and 4 had hydronephrosis without reflux. Treatment consisted of clean intermittent catheterization alone in 5 patients and combined with anticholinergic medication in 16. Four patients with no post-void residual urine were carefully observed without intervention. Urodynamic evaluation was performed selectively in 11 of these 25 patients for persistence of upper urinary tract deterioration or urinary incontinence after institution of treatment. Of the 21 children with reflux 19 (90%) had resolution or improvement for an average followup of 47 months. Hydronephrosis completely resolved in the 4 patients without reflux. Thus, the over-all resolution or improvement rate was 92% for an average of 41 months. Although these excellent results may not be superior to the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization, they validate the assumption that upper tract deterioration can be reversed. The application of current urodynamic selection criteria may result in overtreating a significant number of infants who otherwise may not have upper tract deterioration. Further refinements in these criteria may be necessary to select better not only patients at risk but also to determine the frequency of imaging necessary in this urologically heterogeneous population. In addition, careful consideration should be given to urethral dilation as a third and equally viable alternative to prevent upper tract deterioration. 
Rosenthal fibers share epitopes with alpha B-crystallin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and ubiquitin, but not with vimentin. Immunoelectron microscopy with colloidal gold. Ultrastructural immunoreactivities of alpha B-crystallin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), ubiquitin, and vimentin in Rosenthal fibers (RFs) isolated from an Alexander's disease brain were investigated using nonosmium and low-temperature embedding technique. The morphology of RFs embedded in Lowicryl K4M resin was well preserved after treatment with 0.5% Triton X-100. alpha B-crystallin immunoreactivity was present in RFs of various sizes and was the strongest in loosely scattered deposits, which were considered to be the initial stage of RFs. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in RFs was heavy, homogeneous throughout RFs, and equivalent to that in networks of glial filaments. Immunoreactivities of both alpha B-crystallin and GFAP were mainly restricted to the high electron-dense areas within RFs and were proved to exist close to each other by double immunolabeling. Rosenthal fibers were negative for vimentin. Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was relatively homogeneous in RFs with small diameters, but in RFs with large diameters, the immunoreactivity diminished in the center. Based on these observations, combined with the tendency of self-aggregation of alpha B-crystallin, it is conceivable that RFs are huge aggregation products of alpha B-crystallin involving GFAP, and that ubiquitination may be a consequent phenomenon, as it may be in other intracytoplasmic inclusions, such as neurofibrillary tangles and Lewy bodies. 
New approaches to research on the long-term consequences of prenatal exposure to alcohol. As the summary presentation of a symposium on prenatal alcohol-induced brain damage and long-term postnatal consequences, this paper proposes the establishment of two main research priorities--to begin to correlate long-term behavioral effects with alterations in underlying neural substrates, and to explore the mechanisms of neuroteratogenicity. To reach these goals, three objectives are described. First, animal and human research must become more interrelated. Second, experimental observations should be integrated into formal models that incorporate both neural structure and function. Third, researchers should choose well-defined dependent measures that are derived from models of brain function based on modern concepts of cognitive neuroscience. Examples of neuropsychological tests that may serve as the bases for structure/function relationships are presented. Incorporating these objectives into future research will facilitate understanding of the fundamental issues concerning prenatal alcohol exposure and will begin to provide the bases for rational intervention or treatment. 
Assessment of brain death in children by means of P-31 MR spectroscopy: preliminary note. Work in progress. The authors examined the possibility of assessing cerebral damage with phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy in 24 patients (three infants, four children older than age 5 years, and 17 adults) who met the adult criteria for brain death. In all patients except patient 3 (an infant 8 months old), inorganic phosphate with phosphodiester was observed, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and phosphocreatine (PCr), which are detectable in healthy brains, were not detected. In 22 of these 23 patients, cardiac death occurred within 7 days after clinical brain death, and in one infant 14 months old, cardiac death occurred 38 days after clinical brain death. In patient 3, ATP and PCr were detected with P-31 MR spectroscopy, and now, more than 20 months after brain death, cardiac death has not yet occurred. In children younger than age 5 years, P-31 MR spectroscopic findings were predictive of the patient's clinical outcome. These findings may help establish criteria for the diagnosis of brain death in children younger than age 5 years. 
Mechanical restraint use among residents of skilled nursing facilities. Prevalence, patterns, and predictors The patterns of and risk factors for mechanical restraint use were determined in 12 skilled nursing facilities. Restraints were being used for 59% of residents at the beginning of the study; 31% of remaining residents were restrained during the follow-up year. No facility characteristic was associated with restraint use. The resident characteristics independently associated with initiation of restraints were older age, disorientation, dependence in dressing, greater participation in social activities, and nonuse of antidepressants. Unsteadiness (72%), disruptive behavior such as agitation (41%), and wandering (20%) were the most frequently cited reasons for initiation of restraints. 
Psychologic and behavioral aspects of chronic headache. It is important for physicians to be aware of the expectations and psychologic needs patients have, to understand how psychologic and personality variables can impact care, to realize the importance of patient education, and to be cognizant of how environmental factors can influence headache pain behaviors. Empirical data indicate that the nonpharmacologic treatments of biofeedback, relaxation, and stress coping training can serve as useful adjunctive or alternative procedures, and that the combined use of medication and nonpharmacologic treatments yields the greatest clinical outcome. Certain headache types show minimal response to nondrug therapies alone (cluster, menstrual, and post-traumatic headache). Age and personality variables have a bearing on nondrug treatment outcome as well. 
An immunofluorescence study of cerebral malaria. A correlation with histopathology. Histopathologic and immunopathologic features of cerebral malaria have been defined in a study of six autopsy cases with severe Plasmodium falciparum infection. In five cases, immunofluorescent studies demonstrated intense deposition of P falciparum antigen, IgG, and fibrin in cerebral vessels associated with the histopathologic finding of hemorrhage in the white matter of cerebrum and cerebellum regardless of the presence of parasitized erythrocytes in the cerebral vessels. Immunofluorescent study also demonstrated the extravascular deposits of P falciparum granular antigen associated with acute inflammatory lesion in cerebral tissue in one case. These findings suggested that the immunopathogenic mechanism may in some way play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria. 
Antiepileptic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic: a prospective evaluation. To assess the value of on site therapeutic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic, management decisions were recorded before and immediately after antiepileptic drug (AED) concentrations became available. In the first year of this prospective study, 632 [277 carbamazepine (CBZ), 170 phenytoin (PHT), 113 valproate (VPA), and 72 phenobarbital (PB)] assays were performed during 488 clinic attendances in 182 actively managed epileptic patients. The results of drug analysis led to alterations in management at 114 patients visits, i.e., 23% of those monitored. Dosage was increased in response to the circulating AED concentration in 12% of consultations and decreased in another 7.5%. Unsuspected poor compliance was uncovered in eight patients, and in three others an AED was added or discontinued on the basis of the assay result. The time of the next appointment was rearranged in 58 attendances. Only 50% of results were in the "therapeutic" ranges for the four major AEDs. Dosage was adjusted (50 up, 16 down) after 54% of low results. "Therapeutic" levels were followed by a change in AED dose (52 up, 31 down) in 26%. Only 29% of concentrations above the "therapeutic" range persuaded the doctor to alter the dosage regimen, and in 20% of these an increase in dose was recommended. On-site AED monitoring had an immediate impact on clinical decision-making in greater than 23% of consultations but in a form more subtle than the simple quest for a therapeutic result. 
Neurophysiological observations on corticospinal projections to the upper limb in subjects with Rett syndrome. The aim of the present study was to investigate the excitability of corticospinal neurons and the integrity of their projections to the alpha motor neurons through the corticospinal tract in subjects of different ages with Rett syndrome. Electromagnetic stimulation of the motor cortex and cervical motor roots was used to evoke motor action potentials in the biceps brachii and hypothenar muscles. The phasic stretch reflex in the biceps brachii was also recorded to study the excitability of spinal alpha motor neurons. Motor cortex stimulation evoked motor action potentials at low threshold and with abnormally short latencies and prolonged durations. In contrast cervical motor root stimulation resulted in responses of normal latency and duration. The phasic stretch reflex had a low threshold, short latency and prolonged duration. It is concluded that in Rett syndrome the corticospinal pathway is intact. The results suggest disordered synaptic control of the Betz cell of the motor cortex and/or the spinal alpha motor neuron, although the involvement of the latter might be a consequence of dysfunction in supraspinal descending motor pathways. 
Outcome of cataract surgery in central India: a longitudinal follow-up study. An epidemiological follow-up study of patients who had intracapsular cataract extraction in a voluntary hospital and its associated eye camps in Central India has for the first time evaluated the outcome one year after surgery in terms of visual acuity, use of spectacles, and improvement in income and mobility. The findings indicate that under these fairly typical conditions, 92% of the cases have adequate vision of 6/18 or better one year after surgery. Information on high usage of spectacles and on considerable improvements in income and mobility after cataract surgery is also reported. The outcome for patients operated upon in eye camps was almost as favourable as for those operated upon in hospital. Although the small differences are not statistically significant, the comparative findings require cautious interpretation and give rise to the epidemiological issues which are briefly discussed in this paper. 
Capillary prolactin measurement for diagnosis of seizures. Measurement of serum prolactin levels can be useful in the diagnosis of epilepsy, since prolactin levels often rise after seizures, but not after most imitators of epilepsy. Utility of the test is limited by the need to obtain blood 10 to 20 minutes after the episode. The present study documents the validity of prolactin measurements using capillary blood, which was obtained by the finger-stick method after a possible seizure and then applied to filter paper. Venous and capillary prolactin levels were determined 10 to 20 minutes after seizure-like episodes in 20 patients who were studied in an epilepsy monitoring unit. Venous and capillary prolactin values correlated, with a Pearson coefficient of 0.90. Using a criteria of any elevation above the laboratory upper limit of normal, capillary prolactin values correctly identified seizure versus pseudoseizure in 9 (100%) of 9 patients with generalized tonic-clonic seizures, in 5 (71%) of 7 patients with complex partial seizures, and 4 (100%) of 4 patients with pseudoseizures. Prolactin values were unaffected by leaving filter paper samples at room temperature for up to 1 week. This study suggests the utility of diagnostic capillary blood collection kits to assist in the diagnosis of epilepsy in outpatients. 
Resistance to d-tubocurarine in lower motor neuron injury is related to increased acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction The hypothesis that lower motor neuron injury, with its associated proliferation of acetylcholine receptors (AChR), induces resistance to the neuromuscular effects of d-tubocurarine (dTC) was tested in the rat. The left gastrocnemius was denervated by a 75-80% lesion of the sciatic nerve. The effective dose for 95% twitch depression (ED95) was studied in the denervated gastrocnemius and compared to the contralateral undenervated and sham-injured (control) gastrocnemius muscles approximately 2 weeks after injury. The AChR number was quantitated by the specific ligand 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin (125I-alpha-BT). Plasma dTC concentrations, measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), were correlated to twitch tension during spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular blockade in the denervated animal. The ED95 (mean +/- SE) of dTC for the denervated leg was significantly (P less than 0.05) higher (0.26 +/- 0.06 mg.kg-1) than contralateral (0.16 +/- 0.03) and sham-operated left (0.13 +/- 0.03) legs. The twitch tension recovered to 50% of control twitch height at significantly (P less than 0.05) higher plasma dTC concentrations in the denervated (0.78 micrograms.ml-1) compared to contralateral (0.24 micrograms.ml-1) limb. The AChR number was significantly increased in the denervated limb (1041 +/- 96 fmol.mg protein-1) compared to contralateral right (109 +/- 4) and control left limb (113 +/- 11). There was a significant (P less than 0.05) positive correlation (R2 = 0.73) between ED95 and AChR number; that is, 73% of the variability in ED95 could be explained by changes in AChR. This study, therefore, confirms the hypothesis that proliferation of AChR after nerve denervation results in resistance to the neuromuscular effects of dTC. 
Intraspinal transplants. Transplants of embryonic central nervous system tissue have long been used to study axon growth during development and regeneration, and more recently to promote recovery in models of human diseases. Transplants of embryonic substantia nigra correct some of the deficits found in experimental Parkinson's disease, for example, by mechanisms that are thought to include release of neurotransmitter and reinnervation of host targets, as well as by stimulating growth of host axons. Similar mechanisms appear to allow intraspinal transplants of embryonic brainstem to reverse locomotor and autonomic deficits due to experimental spinal cord injuries. Embryonic spinal cord transplants offer an additional strategy for correcting the deficits of spinal cord injury because, by replacing damaged populations of neurons, they may mediate the restoration of connections between host neurons. We have found that spinal cord transplants permit regrowth of adult host axons resulting in reconstitution of synaptic complexes within the transplant that in many respects resemble normal synapses. Transplants of fetal spinal cord may also contribute to behavioral recovery by rescuing axotomized host neurons that otherwise would have died. Electrophysiological and behavioral investigations of functional recovery after intraspinal transplantation are preliminary, and the role of transplants in the treatment of human spinal cord injury is uncertain. Transplants are contributing to our understanding of the mechanisms of recovery, however, and are likely to play a role in the development of rational treatments. 
The relation of pain to depression among institutionalized aged. Nursing home and congregate apartment residents (N = 598) were classified on the basis of a DSM-IIIR symptom checklist as suffering possible major, minor, or no depression; they also completed the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Possible major depressives reported more intense pain and a greater number of localized pain complaints than did minor depressives; nondepressed individuals reported the least intense pain and fewest localized complaints. The effect remained strong even when functional disability and health status were controlled statistically. Both pain intensity and number of localized complaints were correlated with GDS and POMS factor scores, but strength and direction of associations varied with level of depression. Item-by-item examination of localized complaints again indicated that more depressed individuals were more likely to report pain, particularly where physicians had identified a physical problem that might account for the pain. Results are compared with previous research on pain among younger individuals. Implications for treatment of depressed elderly are discussed. 
Acute and long-term changes in serum lipids after acute stroke. We studied serum lipid profiles in 171 patients less than or equal to 48 hours after the onset of acute stroke and 3 months later. The 83 patients suffering cerebral infarction had significantly higher serum concentrations of total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B and significantly lower serum concentrations of triglycerides and lipoprotein (a) less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus than 3 months later. The lipid profiles of the 53 patients suffering lacunar infarction were similar on both occasions, the only significant differences being higher total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus. No significant changes were observed among the 35 patients suffering cerebral hemorrhage apart from a significantly higher concentration of high density lipoprotein3-cholesterol less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus. Our study, with many patients classified according to stroke subtype, gives results different from those of previous studies with much fewer patients. We conclude that in studies of serum lipid and lipoprotein concentrations as risk factors for cerebral infarction, comparing values obtained less than or equal to 48 hours after admission with control values may incorrectly identify certain lipid fractions as risk factors. 
Neuromuscular function in polio survivors at one-year follow-up [published erratum appears in Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1991 Mar;72(3):213] Many polio survivors complain of progressive loss of strength, work capacity, endurance, and ability to recover from fatiguing activity. These variables were measured initially and one year later in the quadriceps muscles of 28 symptomatic and 16 asymptomatic persons who had polio and 38 control individuals. Peak knee extension torque was measured isokinetically and isometrically. Endurance, or the amount of time the subject could maintain isometric torque at 40% of maximal torque, was measured. Work capacity was determined as the product of isometric torque and endurance time. Recovery of strength was measured at regular intervals for ten minutes after the endurance test. Statistical analysis was done by repeated measures ANOVA. Although the initial measures showed significant deficits in mean peak torque, work capacity, and recovery of strength in symptomatic postpolio subjects, no significant changes were found one year later in any of the variables. We conclude that symptomatic postpolio subjects do not lose significant neuromuscular function in one year. 
Threat of unemployment and cardiovascular risk factors: longitudinal study of quality of sleep and serum cholesterol concentrations in men threatened with redundancy. OBJECTIVE--To assess whether the threat of unemployment affects risk factors for cardiovascular disease. DESIGN--Longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged shipyard workers followed up for a mean of 6.2 (SD 1.9) years and a group of controls observed for the same period. The first investigation took place during a period of relative economic stability for the shipyard and the second during the phase of its closure. SETTING--An age cohort health screening programme in Malmo, Sweden. PARTICIPANTS--715 Male shipyard workers and 261 age matched male controls. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Changes in 19 variables related to the risk of cardiovascular disease, and psychological variables, alcohol consumption, smoking, and dietary habits as assessed by questionnaire. RESULTS--Serum cholesterol concentrations increased more (mean 0.25 (SD 0.68) mmol/l v 0.08 (0.66) mmol/l) and serum calcium concentrations decreased less (-0.06 (0.10) mmol/l v -0.08 (0.09) mmol/l) in the shipyard workers than in the controls. A correlation was found between scores for sleep disturbance and changes in serum cholesterol concentration. In the whole series there was a greater increase in serum cholesterol concentrations among men threatened with unemployment (437/976; 44.8%) than among those who were not. In stepwise regression analysis the change in serum cholesterol concentration was correlated with changes in haemoglobin concentration, body weight, and serum triglyceride and calcium concentrations. A positive correlation was found between change in cholesterol concentration and change in blood pressure, indicating that the overall risk profile had worsened among men with increased serum cholesterol concentrations. CONCLUSIONS--Risk of unemployment increases the serum cholesterol concentration in middle aged men, the increase being more pronounced in those with sleep disturbance. The increase in serum cholesterol is related to changes in other established risk factors for cardiovascular disease. These findings might partly explain the excessive mortality due to cardiovascular disease recorded among the unemployed and people with sleep disturbance. 
Abnormal pattern detected in fragile-X patients by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. The fragile-X syndrome is the most frequent inherited form of mental retardation, with an incidence of 1 in 1,500 males. It is characterized by the presence of a fragile site at Xq27.3 induced in vitro by folate deprivation or by inhibitors of deoxynucleotide synthesis. Its mode of inheritance is unusual for an X-linked trait, with incomplete penetrance in both males and females. Some phenotypically normal males transmit the mutation to all their daughters who rarely express any symptoms, but penetrance is high in sons and daughters of these carrier women. Genetic and physical mapping of the Xq27-q28 region has confirmed that the disease locus is located at or very near the fragile site. Hypotheses proposed to account for the abnormalities in the inheritance of the disease include sequence rearrangements by meiotic recombination or a mutation that affects reactivation of an inactive X chromosome during differentiation of female germ cells. To detect such rearrangements, or methylation changes that may reflect a locally inactive X chromosome, we used pulsed-field gel analysis of DNA from fragile-X patients with probes close to the fragile-X locus. The probe Do33 (DXS465) detected abnormal patterns in fragile-X patients, but not in normal controls or in non-expressing male transmitters. 
Pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsy due to midbrain infarction. Vasculopathic oculomotor nerve palsies with pupillary sparing are thought to be due to ischemic damage to the nerve in the subarachnoid space or the cavernous sinus. We present two cases of patients with isolated pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies due to midbrain infarcts. Focal ischemic midbrain lesions should be considered in cases of pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies. 
A prospective, double-blind study of metoclopramide hydrochloride for the control of migraine in the emergency department STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of IV metoclopramide as sole therapy for relieving the pain of acute migraine in the emergency department. DESIGN: Prospective study. Fifty patients were divided randomly into subjects and placebo controls with blinding of the treating physician and the patient. PARTICIPANTS: Patients presenting to the ED with migraine requiring parenteral treatment. INTERVENTIONS: Subjects received 10 mg IV metoclopramide and controls received IV normal saline; patient assessment of relief was followed by means of a numerical scale. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Sixty-seven percent of subjects compared with 19% of controls had effective pain relief within one hour (P less than .001). Subjects achieved mean relief scores of 2.46 compared with 1.69 for controls (P less than .02). No significant side effects were observed. CONCLUSION: IV metoclopramide as a single agent is effective and safe therapy for migraine in the ED. 
Relationship between body and brain temperature in traumatically brain-injured rodents. Recent work has shown that mild to moderate levels of hypothermia may profoundly reduce the histological and biochemical sequelae of cerebral ischemic injury. In the present study, the authors examined the effect of fluid-percussion injury on brain temperature in anesthetized rats and the effect of anesthesia on brain temperature in uninjured rats. The relationship between the brain, rectal, and temporalis muscle temperatures during normothermia, hypothermia, and hyperthermia was studied following a moderate magnitude of fluid-percussion brain injury (2.10 to 2.25 atmospheres) in rats. The results showed that mean brain temperature in 10 anesthetized injured rats, in 21 anesthetized uninjured rats, and in 10 unanesthetized uninjured rats was a mean (+/- standard error of the mean) of 36.04 degrees +/- 0.20 degrees C, 36.30 degrees +/- 0.08 degrees C, and 37.95 degrees +/- 0.09 degrees C, respectively. There was no significant difference in temperature under general anesthesia between injured and uninjured rats (p greater than 0.05). In the absence of brain injury, mean brain temperature was significantly lower in anesthetized rats than in unanesthetized rats (p less than 0.001). In anesthetized brain-injured rats, temporalis muscle temperature correlated well with brain temperature over a 30 degrees to 40 degrees C range, even when brain temperature was rapidly changed during induction of hypothermia or hyperthermia (r = 0.9986, p less than 0.0001). In contrast, rectal temperature varied inconsistently from brain temperature. These observations indicated that: 1) brain injury itself does not influence brain temperature in this model; 2) anesthesia alone decreases brain temperature to levels producing cerebral protection in this model; and 3) external monitoring of temporalis muscle temperature can provide a reliable indirect measure of brain temperature in the course of experimental brain injury. The authors believe that it is essential to monitor or control brain temperature in studies of experimental brain injury. 
Analgesic use: a study of treatments used by patients for migraine prior to attending the City of London Migraine Clinic. Eighty-three unselected patients attending the City of London Migraine Clinic for the first time were asked about their drug intake and use of alternative treatment. Thirty-one of those questioned took regular daily doses of medication. Fifteen were taking a combination of drugs bought 'over the counter' (OTC) and drugs prescribed by their GP; eleven took OTC drugs only; and 5 took prescription drugs only. It was noticeable that those taking drugs prescribed both by the GP and obtainable over the counter were more likely than the other groups to be taking several drugs rather than a single type. Thirty five of the 83 (42.2%) had tried alternative treatments for their attacks. 
Reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament. The results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free, autogenous, non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution. Eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years. In forty-eight (60 per cent) of the knees, the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band. The patients were evaluated with a physical examination, a KT-1000 arthrometer, radiographs, a subjective questionnaire, and a revision of the scale of The Hospital for Special Surgery for rating ligaments. Postoperatively, seventy-six (95 per cent) of the eighty knees no longer gave way, and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven (84 per cent) of the knees. The average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points. All of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction. Arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty (76 per cent) of the treated knees. In the patient who had bilateral reconstruction, the laxity was the same in both knees. Seventeen patients, who had more than three millimeters of translation, also had additional related ligamentous instability, most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament. We think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction. 
Temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rates presenting as occipital neuralgia. A retrospective review of 46 patients with biopsy-proven giant cell (temporal) arteritis revealed 8 (17%) whose initial presentation was occipital pain. The most likely etiology of occipital pain in these patients was occipital artery inflammation. A Westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 40 mm/hour was noted at presentation in 6 of these 8 patients. Giant cell arteritis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients who present with occipital pain and demonstrate a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate. 
Intraputaminal infusion of nerve growth factor to support adrenal medullary autografts in Parkinson's disease. One-year follow-up of first clinical trial. Experimental studies in rodents show that beta-nerve growth factor can increase the survival, neurite outgrowth, and functional effect of grafts of adrenal chromaffin cells to the basal ganglia. We, therefore, have begun to investigate whether treatment with nerve growth factor might also increase the functional effect of autografts of adrenal medullary tissue in patients with Parkinson's disease. Previous studies have shown that stereotactic implantation of adrenal tissue pieces produces a transient functional improvement that lasts for a few months. This report describes a trial of grafting of adrenal chromaffin tissue into the putamen, supported by infusion of nerve growth factor. The patient is a 63-year-old woman with a 19-year history of Parkinson's disease, now complicated by on-off phenomena and drug-induced hyperkinesia, despite optimized medical management. The left adrenal gland was removed, and the medulla was dissected into 1- to 2-mm3 pieces in a solution containing nerve growth factor purified from mouse submandibular gland. Pieces were implanted in six tracts 3 to 4 mm from a previously placed cannula in the left putamen. Through the cannula, nerve growth factor was infused for 23 days for a total dose of 3.3 mg. Clinical assessment consisted of global ratings for rigidity and/or hypokinesia and for drug-induced hyperkinesia. Measures of gait and fine-motor control were also made. The motor readiness potential and auditory evoked potentials were recorded. 
Treatment of status migrainosus: the American experience. Dependence upon a variety of drugs--ergotamine, analgesics, benzodiazepines, corticosteroids--is a major reason for patients to enter an intractable phase of their migrainous disorders. Repeated dosing of dihydroergotamine has proven to be remarkably effective in stabilizing the mechanism of migraine, allowing these patients to make the transition to a more reasonable as well as more specific form of therapy. 
Comparison of vastus medialis obliquus: vastus lateralis muscle integrated electromyographic ratios between healthy subjects and patients with patellofemoral pain. The purpose of this study was to compare vastus medialis obliquus:vastus lateralis muscle (VMO:VL) integrated electromyographic (IEMG) ratios of healthy subjects and patients with unilateral patellofemoral pain (PFP) under isotonic and isometric quadriceps femoris muscle contraction conditions. Subjects ranging in age from 18 to 35 years (mean = 28.06, SD = 5.97) were assigned to one of three groups on the basis of type of knee condition. In group 1, which consisted of seven healthy control subjects with no history of knee pathology, both knees were tested. In group 2, which consisted of nine patients with unilateral PFP, only the painful knee was tested. In group 3, which consisted of the same nine patients who comprised group 2, only the nonpainful knee was tested. Nonnormalized and normalized VMO:VL IEMG ratios were computed for ascending stairs, descending stairs, submaximal isometric contraction, and maximal isometric contraction (nonnormalized only). A two-way analysis of variance for repeated measures indicated VMO:VL ratios for isotonic stair-climbing activities were significantly greater than VMO:VL ratios for isometric contractions. Nonnormalized VMO:VL ratios in group 1 were significantly greater than nonnormalized VMO:VL ratios in the other two groups. Patients with PFP may have abnormal VMO:VL activation patterns, and isotonic quadriceps femoris muscle exercise may elicit more favorable muscle activation patterns than isometric exercise for patients with PFP. 
A retrospective outcome study and review of hypnosis as treatment of adults with sleepwalking and sleep terror. Hypnosis has been described anecdotally to be effective in the treatment of sleepwalking and sleep terror, potentially dangerous parasomnias. The authors report the use of hypnosis in the treatment of 27 adult patients with these disorders. A total of 74% of these individuals reported much or very much improvement when followed over substantial periods after instruction in self-hypnotic exercises that were practiced in the home. Hypnosis, often preferred over pharmacotherapy by patients, required one to six office visits (mean = 1.6). This represents a very cost-effective and noninvasive means of treatment, especially when constrasted with lengthy psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy. 
The dynamic flexometer: an instrument for the objective evaluation of spasticity. Anesthesiologists may care for patients who have spasticity in the operating room or pain clinic. A number of therapeutic modalities for treatment of spasticity exist, but there are few simple objective methods for evaluating their effect. We describe one instrument, the Dynamic Flexometer, that measures the force required to move the limb passively through its maximum range of motion. The data presented validate the instrument's reliability. Two clinical cases presented here demonstrate the instrument's utility. This device may be of value to anesthesiologists involved in the care of patients with spasticity. 
Orbital intramuscular schwannoma. In an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis, computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly, bowed the optic nerve laterally, and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex. T1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle. Histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular, intramuscular schwannoma, separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers. The intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor, together with its occurrence in a child, distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas. 
Tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria. To investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) to Plasmodium falciparum infection, plasma TNF alpha concentrations were measured in Zairian children with severe malaria, mild malaria, or other illnesses. The initial geometric mean plasma concentration of TNF alpha among 61 children with P. falciparum infection, (71 pg/ml) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill, aparasitemic children (10 pg/ml; P less than .001). Among 29 parasitemic children, initial geometric mean TNF alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml (P less than .001) at day 7. TNF alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia, severe anemia, hypoglycemia, and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome. However, TNF alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria. With multiple linear regression, TNF alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia (P = .001) and severe anemia (P = .04). In this study, high TNF alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria. 
Arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes. Vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma. Thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia. Nine were professional baseball catchers. The majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms, including cold hypersensitivity (four patients), finger numbness (one), finger coolness (three), and finger blanching (three). Two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain. Diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing. Testing included use of Doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors. Two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain. All patients in this group were managed nonoperatively. Those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding. The two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator (papaverine chloride) infusion, followed by intravenous heparin and dextran. All baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms. 
Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. We performed clinical and neuroradiologic studies, including positron emission tomography, in five patients with vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. The clinical features of these cases consisted of slowly progressive dementia, together with vascular risk factors such as hypertension and often a history of minor stroke, and characteristic white matter lesions on brain computed tomograms or magnetic resonance images. Digital subtraction angiography of the cervical and intracranial arteries demonstrated no occlusive lesion in any patient. Both cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were markedly reduced in the white matter (54-77% of control values), and both were decreased in the parietal (73% of control), frontal (74-80%), and temporal (74-83%) cortices, where no abnormalities were detected by brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. We conclude that vascular dementia of the Binswanger type may be caused by disconnection between the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures due to ischemic damage in the white matter. 
Misdiagnosis in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. To confirm our impression that a high percentage of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are initially misdiagnosed, we reviewed records of 33 patients with a definitive diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis seen over 10 years. Fourteen patients (43%) were initially misdiagnosed. Mean time to correct diagnosis was significantly greater for the misdiagnosed group (16.0 +/- 9.3 months) than for the rest of the patients (7.6 +/- 4.1 months). Two of three patients with an initial symptom of dyspnea were misdiagnosed. Three patients underwent laminectomies because of misdiagnosis. Age, stage of disease, and unusual presenting symptoms were not identified as causes of misdiagnosis. Most likely causes were physicians' failure to consider the diagnosis and lack of familiarity with the common clinical presentations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Earlier diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis may help prevent medical mismanagement and may benefit patients both medically and psychologically. 
Prognosticating study for cervical myelopathy using evoked spinal cord potentials. One hundred twenty-three cases of cervical spondylotic and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) myelopathy cases with long tract signs subjected to surgical treatment were studied to identify the most important factors having an influence on postoperative outcome using evoked spinal cord potentials (ESCP). Disappearance and positive wave changes of these potentials at the level of responsible lesions and slow conduction velocity under 40 m indicated an unsatisfactory outcome. Localized-lesion cases diagnosed by ESCPs had excellent results, significantly more so than extensive-lesion cases, regardless of operative methods. In 123 cases, 76% were found to have localized lesions, while the other 24% showed extensive lesions. Concerning the difference between CSM and OPLL, 54% of OPLL and only 14% of CSM demonstrated extensive lesions. 
The comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage. Two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour. A battery of developmental psychology paradigms (not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage. In comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development, frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight, foresight, social judgement, empathy, and complex reasoning. 
Microsaccadic flutter. Microsaccadic flutter is a rare symptomatic saccadic oscillation that has been reported only twice previously. Here we describe 5 patients with this disorder. The oscillation is horizontal, has a frequency of 15-30 Hz, an amplitude of 0.1-0.5 degrees, and cannot be seen with the unaided eye. It is usually not associated with any underlying neurological disorder. We hypothesize that microsaccadic flutter is due to malfunction of the brainstem omnipause neurons. 
Corticosteroid-responsive dominantly inherited neuropathy in childhood. We describe three children with corticosteroid-responsive inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy from families with dominantly inherited neuropathy. There were atypical clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic characteristics that suggested a coexistent inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy and that should alert the clinician to the possibility of an associated acquired, potentially treatable disorder. 
Resistance to atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade in patients with intractable seizure disorders treated with anticonvulsants. Previous studies have demonstrated that, with the exception of atracurium, resistance to the neuromuscular blocking effects of various muscle relaxants develops in patients receiving anticonvulsant therapy. We studied the effects of 0.5 mg/kg IV atracurium in 53 neurosurgical patients: 21 nonepileptic patients receiving no anticonvulsant therapy (MED = 0); 14 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine for years (MED = 1); and 18 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine plus either phenytoin or valproic acid for years (MED = 2). The evoked compound electromyogram of the adductor pollicis brevis was recorded, and results were analyzed using analysis of covariance, with weight and age as covariables. The onset time was not significantly different among the three groups. Times for recovery of baseline and train-of-four responses to stimuli were significantly shorter in the MED = 1 and MED = 2 groups than in control patients (MED = 0). The recovery index (time between 25% and 75% recovery of baseline electromyogram values) was progressively shorter in the three groups (MED = 0: 8.02 min; MED = 1: 5.93 min; MED = 2: 1.96 min; P less than 0.001). This study demonstrates that atracurium, when used on epileptic patients requiring long-term (that is, years of) anticonvulsant therapy, has a shorter duration of action than when used in nonepileptic patients. 
Headache. Public health problem. Headache is, and apparently always has been, a frequent pain syndrome. It is reported in American and Western European societies in very high percentages of the population. Headache, and specifically severe headache, have also been reported as prevalent from a variety of societies worldwide, although prevalence rates have varied (they are very low, for example, in the People's Republic of China). Whether prevalence varies with different socioeconomic groups remains uncertain. Severe headache and specifically migraine is, for reasons still unknown, much more common in women, and, in most studies, is reported to decrease in prevalence in older age groups. Positive family histories are common, but the precise role of genetics is unknown. A major problem in the epidemiologic studies remains the difficulty of uniform definition of headache syndromes. 
Dual task performance and processing resources in normal subjects and patients with Parkinson's disease. In recent years, there has been a growing consensus among investigators that the presence or absence of external cues guiding behaviour and attention is an important factor in determining whether or not deficits are found in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In an earlier study, the authors suggested that the pattern of impaired and intact performance could be explained in terms of differential resource demands of the tasks, combined with depleted levels of central processing resources in PD patients. Two experiments are reported, both employing dual-task paradigms. The first assessed, in normal subjects, the relative processing demands of a cued and an uncued version of the Stroop task. The results supported the proposal that the noncued task made greater demands on the subject's limited processing resources. Further, performing a resource demanding secondary task concurrently with the Stroop test produced, in normal subjects, the same pattern of impaired performance as that reported previously in PD patients. In the second experiment the same dual-task paradigm was employed with a group of PD patients and normal aged-matched controls. Only the patients showed an increase in reaction time on the Stroop task when performing a resource demanding secondary task. The patients also showed an interfering effect with concurrent foot tapping but not with an articulatory suppression task. The results were taken to support the hypothesis that PD patients have depleted central processing resources. In considering the present data, alternative explanations for the results are considered, in particular the possibility that they represent a deficit in switching processing resources between two tasks as the combined demands outweigh available resources. 
Treatment of fulminant hepatic failure with insulin and glucagon. A randomized, controlled trial. Insulin and glucagon are among the therapeutic modalities that have been investigated in the treatment of fulminant hepatic failure (FHF). We have completed a randomized, controlled trial of insulin and glucagon in 38 patients with FHF from either viral or toxin exposure. The control and treatment groups consisted of 21 and 17 patients, respectively, and did not differ significantly in etiology or admission laboratory values. Mortality was not significantly different between control and treatment groups and was 67% and 82%, respectively. Time from randomization to death or discharge was not significantly different between the two groups. Peak levels of alpha-fetoprotein were statistically higher in survivors than in nonsurvivors (P less than 0.01). We conclude that even though a type-2 error may exist, the combination of insulin and glucagon is not useful in the treatment of FHF. 
Parathyroid hormone-related peptide in lactation and in umbilical cord blood. Parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP) is expressed in lactating rat mammary glands after suckling, as a result of increases in prolactin rather than suckling per se. In addition, PTHrP produced in the fetal parathyroid glands and placenta may be responsible for stimulation of placental calcium transport. In the current study, we used a radioimmunoassay for human PTHrP to measure levels of the peptide in (1) human breast milk, cow's milk, and two infant formulas; (2) sequential plasma samples in prepartum and postpartum lactating women; (3) women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia; and (4) human umbilical cord blood. In normal subjects, plasma PTHrP levels ranged from less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter. In contrast, human breast milk contained substantially increased levels of immunoreactive PTHrP. Similar elevations were found in cow's milk and in one infant formula. Column chromatography of breast milk demonstrated that PTHrP immunoreactivity included a region of adenylate cyclase stimulating activity, consistent with the presence of biologically active PTHrP. Plasma prepartum PTHrP values did not differ from corresponding postpartum values in lactating women. Women with hyperprolactinemia had a mean plasma PTHrP value in the high-normal range. Umbilical cord blood had considerably suppressed parathyroid hormone values but PTHrP levels that were indistinguishable from those in normal human plasma. Thus, PTHrP is present in high concentrations in breast milk but apparently does not gain access to the maternal circulation in significant amounts. In addition, women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia seem not to have increased levels of circulating PTHrP. 
Bacterial meningitis in the United States, 1986: report of a multistate surveillance study. The Bacterial Meningitis Study Group. A prospective, laboratory-based surveillance project obtained accurate data on meningitis in a population of 34 million people during 1986. Haemophilus influenzae was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis (45%), followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae (18%), and Neisseria meningitidis (14%). Rates of H. influenzae meningitis varied significantly by region, from 1.9/100,000 in New Jersey to 4.0/100,000 in Washington state. The overall case fatality rates for meningitis were lower than those reported in several studies from the early 1970s, suggesting that improvements in early detection and antibiotic treatment may have occurred since that time. Concurrent surveillance was also performed for all invasive disease due to the five most common causes of bacterial meningitis. Serotypes of group B streptococcus other than type III caused more than half of neonatal group B streptococcal disease and mortality, suggesting that an optimal vaccine preparation must be multivalent. Of the organisms evaluated, group B streptococcus was the second most common cause of invasive disease in persons greater than 5 years old. 
Neurofibromatosis type 2: report of a family and review of current evaluation and treatment. Significant advances during the past decade have greatly improved our understanding of neurofibromatosis type 2, a genetic disease which results in bilateral acoustic neuromas. The emergence of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging has allowed early detection of minute intracanalicular eighth-nerve tumors, less than 1 cm in diameter. Recombinant DNA studies have clarified the genetics that underlie neurofibromatosis type 2 and separate it from a variety of related conditions, such as von Recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis. Early diagnosis and surgical removal of these tumors may offer the only hope of preserving hearing and facial nerve function. A report of the evaluation and treatment of a family with multiple affected individuals will exemplify these conclusions. 
Pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. A pulse oximeter was used to monitor arterial oxygen saturations in 11 patients during apparent tonic-clonic seizures. 8 had a clinical diagnosis of genuine fits, 6 of whom showed striking falls in oxygen saturation during the seizures. 3 had a clinical diagnosis of pseudoseizures, none of whom had hypoxia during these episodes. Pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures may help to identify patients with low arterial oxygen tension who need immediate intervention. 
Responses of intercostal muscle biopsies from normal subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis. In order to evaluate the mechanisms of weakness in muscles of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), intercostal muscle biopsies were obtained from 9 normal subjects and 6 MG patients, and the compound muscle action potential (AP) and tension responses to nerve and muscle stimulation, and contracture responses on exposure to caffeine, were monitored in vitro. In normal muscle, on stimulation of the nerve or muscle at 30 to 100 Hz, the AP responses showed decrement in amplitude, one-third of which was attributable to failure of neuromuscular transmission and two-thirds to failure of muscle membrane excitation. On stimulation at 1 to 5 Hz, the AP responses showed very little decrement, while the contractile responses showed significant fade in tension, due to failure of E-C coupling or contractility. In muscle from patients with generalized MG, stimulation of the nerve at all frequencies (1 to 100 Hz) caused much greater decrement in APs and fade in tension responses than in normal muscle, due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission. However, at 100 Hz, 40% of the decrement in APs was due to failure of muscle membrane excitation, and at 1 to 5 Hz, 40% of the fade in tension was due to failure of E-C coupling or contractility, as in normal muscle. On direct stimulation the contraction and half-relaxation times were slower and the tetanic tension was smaller than in normal muscle, especially in the MG patient with thymoma. Caffeine-induced contractures were smaller in MG muscle than in normal muscle. These results indicate that while the weakness of MG muscle is due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission, it is also partly due to reduced E-C coupling or contractility. 
Individual differences in children's response to pain: role of temperament and parental characteristics. Sixty-five families were enlisted in a study exploring factors associated with distress behavior in 5-year-old children receiving diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunizations. At a home visit 1 month before the immunization, the following measures were obtained: (1) the Behavioral Style Questionnaire, a measure of temperament: (2) parental self-reports of medically related attributes (eg. "good patient"); (3) parental attitudes toward pain in children and responsiveness to their child's pain; and (4) parental prediction of distress at upcoming immunization. The child's distress behavior during the immunization was evaluated using a modification of the Procedure Rating Scale-Revised and, after the procedure, the child's assessment of his or her pain was elicited using the Oucher. Children's mean Procedure Rating Scale-Revised score was 2.57 of a possible 11. Thirty-one (48%) had low (less than or equal to 1) and 7 (11%) had high distress scores (greater than or equal to 2 SD above the mean). Factors positively correlated with distressed behavior included more "difficult child" cluster characteristics, the individual temperamental dimension of adaptability, but few parental attitudes and attributes. Parent's predictions of distress were the strongest correlates. These findings document the variation that children demonstrate in response to pain and offer some insight into associated innate and environmental factors. These results imply that treatment strategies derived from parental knowledge and tailored to individual characteristics of the child may be most effective in alleviating pain-related distress in medical settings. 
Pharmacology of recovery after stroke. Laboratory research during the past decade has begun to provide insights into the neurobiologic basis of functional recovery after brain injury. It is clear that drugs influencing specific neurotransmitters also can influence the recovery process. Some of these drugs may be beneficial, but others may be detrimental. Some of the difficulties in interpreting the results of these behavioral studies are reviewed, and potential mechanisms of drug effects are discussed. These types of studies are leading to an increased awareness of the potentially harmful effects of some drugs often given to stroke patients. Pharmacotherapy designed to enhance functional recovery after stroke may be possible in the future. 
Postoperative lumbar spinal instability occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy. The manifestations and pathomechanism of postoperative lumbar spinal instability, occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy, was clarified by means of functional radiographic analysis in a series of 46 patients over 40 years of age. The relation between instability and the clinical symptoms also is discussed. In patients under 60 years of age, instability at the operated level tended to appear in cases of wide laminectomy more often than in cases of partial laminectomy. Occurrence or progress of instability seems to be promoted by resection of the posterior spinal elements rather than the disc. It is further considered that the postoperative aggravation of clinical symptoms may be influenced not only by instability, but also by the other factors. 
Cerebral cysticercosis. We studied 143 cases of cerebral cysticercosis over a 30-year period. In 46 there was hydrocephalus due to cysts obstructing the cerebrospinal fluid pathways, with signs of hydrocephalus and cerebellar dysfunction. In 97 there were cysts in the cerebral parenchyma, causing symptoms of intracranial hypertension alone in 22 cases, with additional neurological deficits in the remainder. Before 1980 diagnosis was made by pneumoencephalography and ventriculography, but since then it has mostly been done by computed tomography. In 28 cases scanned, typical abnormalities were present in 25. Complement fixation tests were positive in serum in 74% of cases and in cerebrospinal fluid in 73%, and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test was positive in serum in 90% and in cerebrospinal fluid in 92%. Treatment of cases with hydrocephalus was by removal of the cysts at craniotomy, with placement of a shunt where necessary. Intracranial hypertension caused by parenchymal cysts was treated with steroids and osmotic agents, if possible. In resistant cases subtemporal decompression was needed, unilateral in 55 cases and bilateral in eight. Mortality in the acute stage was 11%, with a further 20% at follow up. 
Hypercalcemia in infants presenting with apnea. To our knowledge apnea in infants has not been associated with hypercalcemia. We describe seven hypercalcemic infants aged 2 days to 3 months who had presented with apnea; six of the seven were otherwise healthy. The apneic attacks were brief, and normal breathing was restored spontaneously or after tactile stimulation. The attacks stopped and the apnea monitoring was discontinued when the children were 1 month to 2 years of age. The only abnormal finding common to all of the patients was hypercalcemia. Idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia was diagnosed in six of the patients and familial benign hypercalcemia in one. Our findings suggest that determination of the plasma calcium level be included in the investigation of apnea in infancy. 
Self-injurious behavior: a review of the behavior and biology of self-mutilation. OBJECTIVE: The authors describe the clinical characteristics of self-injurious behavior, giving special emphasis to self-injurious behavior occurring among individuals with character disorders. DATA COLLECTION: They review data suggesting the involvement of serotonergic, dopaminergic, and opiate neurotransmitter systems in the expression of self-injurious behavior. FINDINGS: Self-injurious behavior occurs among mentally retarded individuals, psychotic patients, prison populations, and individuals with severe character disorders. Although theoretical psychological models of self-injurious behavior are helpful in understanding the patient's experience of self-injury, no generally useful therapeutic approach has yet evolved from these models. Data derived from animal models and treatment studies suggest the involvement of opiatergic and dopaminergic mechanisms in self-injury among the mentally retarded. Serotonergic influences on self-injurious behavior may be present in varying forms of this behavior. The scientific literature on the benefits of pharmacological agents for mentally retarded individuals is beset with a number of problems. Support is emerging, however, for the use of lithium and carbamazepine with self-injuring mentally retarded patients, and some behavioral interventions appear to be successful for mentally retarded individuals. Self-injuring patients with borderline personality disorder may benefit from milieu treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Although no form of treatment has yet been demonstrated to be of general benefit, the literature suggests that therapeutic trials with dopamine antagonists, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and opiate antagonists may be of value. 
Immunopathology and viral reactivation. A general theory of schizophrenia. A theory is proposed that explains a broad range of clinical manifestations in schizophrenia. It is a heuristic device for organizing research in the neuroimmunology and virology of schizophrenia. This approach is different from other immune and viral theories of schizophrenia and defines testable hypotheses for further theory refinement or rejection. Defective alpha-interferon (aIFN) regulation resulting in excessive effect is postulated to cause schizophrenia. The role of aIFN in the regulation of development and its induction within the brain by the reactivation of viruses that are commonly present in the normal central nervous system (CNS) are the primary pathophysiological mechanisms. Biological properties of aIFN include neural excitation, opiate and adrenocorticotropic hormone activity, and inhibition of cellular proliferation and differentiation. Psychosis results from in situ viral stimulation of aIFN production in the CNS of a vulnerable host having defective regulation of either sensitivity or production. Negative symptoms result from aIFN effects on CNS development and the behavioral toxicity of aIFN. Biological developmental abnormalities, gender differences in severity, and decline in psychotic symptoms with age are discussed in the context of the theory. Research strategies and specific testable hypotheses are presented. 
AAEM minimonograph #35: Clinical experience with transcranial magnetic stimulation. We elicited motor evoked potentials (MEPs) using transcortical magnetic stimulation in 150 control subjects aged 14 to 85 years and 275 patients with a variety of diseases. There were no significant side effects. Cortex-to-target muscle latencies measured 20.2 +/- 1.6 ms (thenar), 14.2 +/- 1.7 ms (extensor digitorum communis), 9.4 +/- 1.7 ms (biceps), and 27.2 +/- 2.9 ms (tibialis anterior). Central motor delay between the cortex and the C-7 and L-5 measured 6.7 +/- 1.2 ms and 13.1 +/- 3.8 ms, respectively. Mean spinal cord motor conduction velocity measured 65.4 m/s. MEP amplitude expressed as a percentage of the maximum M wave was never less than 20% of the M wave. A value of less than 10% is considered abnormal. MEP latency increases linearly with age and central motor delay is longer in older subjects. Compound muscle action potentials and absolute MEP amplitudes decreased linearly with age. In multiple sclerosis (MS), MEP latency and central delay were often very prolonged. The MEP was more sensitive than the SEP in MS. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, MEP latencies were only modestly prolonged; the characteristic abnormality was reduced amplitude. When pseudobulbar features predominated MEPs were often absent. The MEP was of normal latency in Parkinson's disease, but age-related amplitude was often increased. MEP latency and amplitude were normal in Huntington's disease. Abnormal MEPs persisted several months after stroke despite good functional recovery. The MEP could be used to advantage to demonstrate proximal conduction slowing and block in demyelinating neuropathies. In plexopathy, ability to elicit an MEP several days after onset of paresis was good evidence of neuronal continuity in motor fibers. 
Role of serum prolactin determination in evaluation of impotent patient. Hyperprolactinemia is a recognized cause of impotence. The discovery of elevated prolactin levels in impotent men is very important since pharmacotherapy in this instance is highly successful. We review our experience with prolactin determinations in impotent men, and a population is defined that may benefit from routine prolactin determination. In our experience, the predominant symptom associated with hyperprolactinemia in men is loss of libido. 
Disturbance in daily sleep/wake patterns in patients with cognitive impairment and decreased daily activity. The sleep/wake patterns of 121 chronically ill, mentally and physically handicapped patients were visually monitored hourly for 14 consecutive days. Four types of sleep/wake patterns were found. In order to investigate how cognitive and physical functions correlated with sleep disorders, patients were classified based on a scale of mental function and the grading of daily activity. The percent of total sleep hours and the sleep rating, showing disturbances in sleep/wake pattern, were evaluated. We found a high degree of individuality in sleep/wake patterns. Sleep disturbance was associated with daily activity as well as with cognitive impairment. This monitoring system provides medical personnel with valuable information for clinical management. 
Antemortem diagnosis of diffuse Lewy body disease. Using the presence of widespread cortical Lewy bodies (LB) as the pathologic criteria of diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), we describe serial neurologic and mental status examinations in 6 patients with DLBD, 3 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 1 patient with Parkinson's disease (PD). The 6 patients with DLBD included 3 with neocortical neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) consistent with coincident AD. Most patients with DLBD had gait impairment concurrent with mild to moderate dementia. Abnormalities of tone or resting tremor were also prominent early symptoms in the subjects with DLBD, but not AD. Patients with DLBD frequently had abnormal EEGs with background posterior slowing and a frontally dominant burst pattern at the time of mild to moderate dementia. Agitation, hallucinations, and delusions were frequent early symptoms in DLBD patients. Patients with DLBD without concomitant AD had numerous Alz-50 negative cortical plaques. Patients with DLBD have a distinct clinical syndrome that can be differentiated from AD. Pathologic features, including the absence of Alz-50 immunoreactivity, also differentiate DLBD from AD. 
Enhanced in vitro uptake and retention of 3H-tetraphenylphosphonium by nervous system tumor cells. Photodynamic therapy is a promising treatment for human brain tumors because of the selective retention of certain compounds by tumor cells. Certain lipophilic cationic compounds, such as tetraphenylphosphonium (TPP), are selectively taken up by a variety of carcinomas. Although preferential retention of TPP has been demonstrated for the breast carcinoma cell line MCF-7, this compound had not been tested previously on cells derived from nervous system tumors. In the present study, tritiated-TPP (3H-TPP) uptake and retention for eight different cell cultures of three histologically different types of nervous system tumors was measured and the data were compared to a positive control (MCF-7) and negative controls (normal African Green monkey kidney epithelium (CV-1) and the normal human fibroblast (WI-38) cell lines). Uptake and retention characteristics could be grouped by specific pathological tumor types, but individual tumor variability was notable. Malignant astrocytoma (grade III/III glioblastoma) and malignant neurofibrosarcoma cells showed preferential uptake and retention of 3H-TPP relative to meningioma cells and normal controls. A clonogenic assay utilizing the cytotoxic lipophilic cationic compound dequalinium showed strong retainers of 3H-TPP to be more susceptible to the effects of dequalinium than weak retainers. These data demonstrate that certain human and experimental animal nervous system tumor cell lines retain lipophilic compounds possessing a delocalized positive charge. Lipophilic cationic compounds may be useful in the intraoperative delineation of tumor margins and in the photodynamic therapy of certain nervous system tumors. 
Pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults. Twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis. Thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment. All patients underwent spinal decompression; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts. All patients have recovered and are ambulatory, and no patient's disorder was made worse by surgery. Twenty-three separate organisms were cultured, only five of which were Staphylococcus. The antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion. All anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly, and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts, regardless of organisms or level. The rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination. Pain relief, stabilization, and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion. Autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis. 
High-dose cisplatin plus dacarbazine in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The combination of cisplatin plus dacarbazine (DTIC) is active in metastatic melanoma with response rates reported between 10% and 55%. To optimize this regimen, a Phase II study was conducted employing a dose intensity of cisplatin higher than previously reported. Twenty-two patients were treated. Eight patients received cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 combined with DTIC 300 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, 8 and 9 (regimen A). Because of excessive toxicity, the protocol was modified so that cisplatin was given at 50 mg/m2 per day and DTIC 350 mg/m2 per day on days 1 through 3 (regimen B). The overall response rate was 32% and consisted of four partial and three complete responses (CR). The median duration of response was 6 months. Two of the CR remain in sustained, unmaintained remission in excess of 1.5 years. All seven patients that responded were treated on regimen B. High-dose cisplatin plus DTIC on a 3-day schedule represents an effective, well-tolerated therapy for metastatic melanoma. 
Multipiece tire rim injuries. Multipiece tire rims can explode during tire change, causing severe injury. Although more than 450 such accidents, with at least 80 deaths, have been recorded by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), we found no reports in the surgical literature on such injuries in the United States. This report describes experience with seven patients who sustained injuries in explosions of multipiece tire rims. All victims suffered massive maxillofacial trauma with associated ocular, cranial, intracranial, and extremity injuries. Two patients died, both because of intracerebral hemorrhage. One patient suffered serious long-term disability. All survivors required extensive reconstructive surgery. The design of the multipiece tire rim is inherently hazardous. Since many accidents of this type are not reported to the NHTSA, the incidence of such injuries may be significantly higher. An alternative, nonhazardous tire rim is available. Design modifications or a law restricting use of multipiece tire rims would prevent many accidents. 
The prognostic value of residual spikes in the postexcision electrocorticogram after temporal lobectomy. We correlated the postresection electrocorticograms (ECoGs) of 80 patients who underwent temporal lobectomy under general anesthesia for treatment of intractable complex partial seizures with surgical results in three groups: seizure/aura free (32 patients), auras only (16 patients), and one or more postoperative seizures (32 patients) at mean follow-up times of 34, 31, and 38 months, respectively. Spontaneous "residual spikes," ie, present after all resections, were present in 47% of patients who had no postoperative seizures or auras. However, they occurred in 72% of patients with any postoperative seizures (p less than 0.05). The location (convexity, mesial, or edge of resections) or the distribution (unifocal versus multifocal) of the residual spikes was not of prognostic value. Quantitative studies in 5-minute epochs of the postexcision ECoGs did not reveal a significant difference in the morphology of the residual spikes, ie, the amplitude or firing pattern (single versus polyspike), in the three groups. The group with postoperative seizures showed a higher number of spikes per epoch (greater than or equal to 50), but it was not significant. Although the study shows that patients with residual spikes may have good prognosis, they are at significantly higher risk for postoperative seizures as compared with those without residual spikes. The possibility that intensity of firing of residual spikes may be an additional predictor of outcome warrants further study. 
The effect of glucose administration on carbohydrate metabolism after head injury. The role of intravenous infusion of glucose in limiting ketogenesis and the effect of glucose on cerebral metabolism following severe head injury were studied in 21 comatose patients. The patients were randomly assigned to alimentation with or without glucose. Systemic protein wasting, arterial concentrations of energy substrates, and cerebral metabolism of these energy substrates were monitored for 5 days postinjury. Both groups were in negative nitrogen balance, and had wasting of systemic proteins despite substantial protein intake. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose concentrations were highest on Day 1, but remained higher than normal fasting levels on all days of study, even in the patients who received no exogenous glucose. Although there were no differences in blood or CSF glucose concentrations in the two groups of patients, the glucose group had higher plasma insulin levels, with a mean +/- standard deviation of 14.8 +/- 7.3 microU/ml compared to 10.3 +/- 4.2 microU/ml in the saline group. The blood concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, pyruvate, glycerol, and the free fatty acids were higher in the saline group than in the glucose group. Cerebral oxygen consumption was similar in the two groups, while the cerebral metabolism of glucose and of the ketone bodies was dependent on whether glucose was administered. In the glucose group, glucose was the only energy substrate utilized by the brain. In the saline group, the ketone bodies beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate replaced glucose to the extent of 16% of the brain's total energy production. Cerebral lactate production and CSF lactate concentration were lower in the saline group. These studies suggest that administration of glucose during the early recovery period of severe head injury is a major cause of suppressed ketogenesis, and may increase production of lactic acid by the traumatized brain by limiting the availability of nonglycolytic energy substrates. 
Dacron-woven pacemaker pouch. Influence on long-term pacemaker mobility. Pacemaker migration can interfere with correct pacing system function and patient comfort. A Dacron pouch has been developed which may prevent these problems. To assess the efficacy of the pouch, we measured various factors of pacemaker mobility in 100 patients after long-term follow-up. The patients were divided into three groups on the basis of their dictated operative reports: group 1, no pouch or anchoring stitch; group 2, pouch only; group 3, anchoring stitch to pacemaker header or pouch. The average age of the study population was 74.3 +/- 11 years. Total follow-up time was 42 +/- 28 months (group I, 53 +/- 32 months; group 2, 36 +/- 23 months; group 3, 34 +/- 25 months). There were no significant differences when pacemakers were measured for movement in the inferosuperior and lateromedial directions, nor was there any difference in the distance between the incision scar and the pacemaker header in any group. There was a significant difference between group 1 and groups 2 and 3 when the degree of tilt of the pacemaker off the chest wall was compared. This was 46 degrees +/- 34 degrees for group 1 and 27 degrees +/- 26 degrees and 26 degrees +/- 27 degrees for groups 2 and 3, respectively (p less than 0.02 for both). These data suggest that the Dacron pouch does not restrict pacemaker mobility parallel to the chest wall during long-term follow-up but does reduce the angle to which the pacemaker can be tilted relative to the chest wall. 
Multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection. III. Neurologic and neuropsychological findings. We explored the possibility that neurologic and neuropsychological changes constitute the earliest detectable manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Without knowledge of HIV status, we assessed neurologic signs and symptoms and administered a battery of neuropsychological tests to 208 homosexual men, of whom 84 were HIV negative, 49 were HIV positive and asymptomatic, 29 were mildly symptomatic, and 46 had significant medical symptoms but not the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. There was no difference between the HIV-negative and HIV-positive men in the frequency of neurologic signs or of defective or borderline performance on any neuropsychological test. However, HIV-positive men performed slightly but significantly worse than HIV-negative men on tests of verbal memory, executive function, and language. Similar results were obtained when comparisons were limited to HIV-positive medically asymptomatic and HIV-negative men. There was no degradation of neurologic status or neuropsychological performance across stages of HIV severity, but neurologic and neuropsychological summary scores correlated with CD4/CD8 ratios in the HIV-positive group. Ratings of neurologic signs and symptoms correlated with neuropsychological summary scores in the HIV-positive group only. Cognitive complaints were more frequent in the HIV-positive men; they correlated with actual test performance in the HIV-positive but not HIV-negative men. The constellation of subjective and objective neuropsychological and neurologic findings suggests the possibility of a definable syndrome associated with HIV infection in asymptomatic individuals. 
Sensitivity of effect variables in rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis of 130 placebo controlled NSAID trials [published erratum appears in J Clin Epidemiol 1991;44(6):613] In a meta-analysis of placebo controlled NSAID trials, the sensitivity of the effect variables was calculated as the correlation coefficient and as the difference between drug and placebo, divided by the placebo group standard deviation. The patient's global evaluation was the most sensitive variable overall. Pain was more sensitive than Ritchie's index. Several variables may be omitted from clinical trials, especially if two active drugs are being compared. For example, the best maximum estimate for the difference in ESR between NSAIDs and placebo was 1.0 mm/hr (95% confidence interval -1.5 to 3.4 mm/hr), and for joint size 0.44% (-1.0 to 1.9%), corresponding to a quarter of a millimeter for each of the 10 joints usually measured. It is suggested to record only the patient's global evaluation, pain, and morning stiffness. 
Two siblings with phenotypes mimicking peroxisomal disorders but with discordant biochemical findings. The authors present a report on two sibling with a nearly identical phenotype mimicking peroxisomal disorder but with totally discordant biochemical findings. In an attempt to confirm the diagnosis of a peroxisomal disorder, plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) and phytanic acid were determined. In addition, fibroblasts profile of VLCFA and plasmalogen levels were evaluated for Case 2. Pathomorphological examinations represented by lymph node and kidney biopsies as well as postmortem examinations of liver, adrenals and brain were performed in Case 1. The phenotypes of both siblings showed marked resemblance to those observed in children with Zellweger syndrome. The results of biochemical tests performed in Case 1, together with abundant peroxisomes in the liver and the wide spectrum of clinical abnormalities suggest pseudo-Zellweger or Zellweger-like syndromes, but no conclusive data have been found. The plasmalogen level in fibroblasts as well as the fibroblasts profile of VLCFA noted in Case 2 were within the normal range, thus excluding the possibility of a peroxisomal disorder. The striking phenotype resemblance of the siblings mimicking Zellweger, together with discordant biochemical findings, are difficult to explain on the basis of currently available tests. 
Abnormal pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone in men with epilepsy: relationship to laterality and nature of paroxysmal discharges. We compared the pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) between 13 men with clinically and electrographically documented temporal lobe seizures and 8 age-matched controls. Serum for LH measurement was drawn every 15 minutes during 8 hours of EEG telemetry in both groups. The 2 groups did not differ significantly in average mean baseline LH secretion, total LH secretion, or average pulse amplitude. The group with seizures, however, showed a significantly greater (p less than 0.05) variability of baseline LH secretion and pulse frequency. Among the men with unilateral paroxysmal EEG findings, pulse frequency was significantly greater (p = 0.05) with right epileptiform discharges or left slowing (6.4 +/- 0.4) than with left epileptiform discharges or right slowing (3.0 +/- 1.3). The relationship of pulse frequency to the nature and laterality of paroxysmal discharges makes it unlikely that endocrine abnormalities can be attributed to medication alone and strengthens the notion that temporal lobe epileptiform discharges may disrupt hypothalamic regulation of pituitary secretion. 
Cemented and ingrowth fixation of the Miller-Galante prosthesis. Clinical and roentgenographic comparison after three- to six-year follow-up studies. One hundred thirty-nine cemented and 132 cementless Miller-Galante total knee prostheses were followed between three and six years (average, 43-44 months). The fixation technique was based on patient age, bone quality, and ability to delay full-weight bearing. Clinical follow-up studies were possible on 116 cemented knees. Fifteen knees were lost because of death before the three-year follow-up study, and eight knees required component removal. One hundred twenty-three cementless knees were available for clinical follow-up studies; there were three deaths, and six failures required component removal. No cemented failure was due to fixation, and three cementless failures were due to lack of tibial ingrowth in two and pain of undetermined etiology in one. Preoperative knee scores were slightly significant with cemented knees averaging 48 points and cementless knees averaging 52 points. A similar significant difference was maintained at the final follow-up study. No significant differences were noted for pain, limp, or support scores. Average range of motion was similar in the two groups. Radiolucent lines about the femoral component were rare. Cementless tibial radiolucencies were partial in up to 20% of examined zones, and complete tibial tray radiolucency was seen in only three patients. No correlation between radiolucency and knee scores was seen. 
Manifestations of migraine. Migraine is a disorder with multiple manifestations affecting the circulation, gastrointestinal tract, and the central nervous system. Involvement of the autonomic nervous system is responsible for many of the clinical features. An attack of migraine can vary from a fragment of the clinical spectrum to one with several phases and potentially permanent sequelae. 
Visual losses after myopic epikeratoplasty. The vision of seven patients who had undergone epikeratoplasty for myopia was evaluated by measuring their contrast sensitivity functions without and with the presence of a glare source. Compared with findings for a normal control population, these epikeratoplasty patients were found to have statistically significant contrast sensitivity losses. To evaluate the clinical relevance of these losses, the results were also compared with those for two other patient groups with abnormal corneal optics, seven radial keratotomy patients and seven keratoconus patients wearing rigid contact lenses. Contrast thresholds for the epikeratoplasty and keratoconus patients were similar and usually statistically indistinguishable, and their losses were far more profound than those of the radial keratotomy patients. The addition of glare did not alter this pattern of losses. The results document the extent of vision losses in these patients and suggest that increased intraocular light scattering is not a major contributor to the observed contrast sensitivity decrements. 
Basic mechanisms in vascular headache. To better understand and treat painful conditions, one needs to identify the cause, discover the source, and develop knowledge of peripheral and central pain transmission; headaches are no exception. The development of appropriate animal models is important. Accordingly, we have reviewed the anatomy, neurochemistry, electrophysiology, and pharmacology of the trigeminovascular system in experimental animals and emphasized whenever possible the relevance of this final common pathway to migraine, cluster, and other headache syndromes in humans. For example, based on recent anatomic dissections, the pericarotid cavernous sinus plexus was suggested as an important focus to investigate cluster headache pathophysiology. This plexus is an anatomic point of convergence for the nerves giving rise to the signs of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity and sensory symptoms that develop in cluster patients. As in other nociceptive systems, trigeminovascular axons assume at least two important roles. One concerns the transmission of nociceptive information. Electrophysiologic evidence supports the trigeminal nucleus caudalis as an important site for the convergence of visceral (vessel) and somatic (forehead) inputs to mediate the referral of vascular pain to superficial tissues. A second important role concerns the initiation of local increases in blood flow and enhanced protein permeability (sterile inflammation) via the axonal release of vasoactive neuropeptides. Plasma extravasation develops within the dura mater following trigeminal stimulation. Extravasation can be blocked by the administration of ergot alkaloids or sumatriptan, a new serotonin-like agonist, and a prejunctional (neuronal) mechanism of action for these drugs (such as blockade of release) was suggested based on experimental evidence. Whether vasoconstriction also relates to the therapeutic efficacy remains to be determined. As in other organ systems, real or threatened tissue injury provides an important stimulus for depolarizing sensory fibers. The stimulus may come from external conditions such as reduced blood flow or hypoglycemia. The brain may also possess intrinsic neuronal mechanisms by which nociceptors may be synthesized (e.g., glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, seizures). Molecules of relevance include bradykinin, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and potassium. Experimental evidence was presented demonstrating that the trigeminal nerve mediates hyperemia within cortical gray matter by axon-reflex like mechanisms. An important role for this nerve was established during the hyperemic period of recirculation after ischemia or during severe hypertension above the limits of autoregulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy. Leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity. In this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined, and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected. Twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls. Various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2% of leprosy patients. Lagophthalmos, chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis, iris atrophy, and social blindness were found 4.5-16.6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity. 
A vascular malformation mimicking an intracanalicular acoustic neurilemoma. Case report. A patient with an enhancing, completely intracanalicular mass on magnetic resonance imaging was operated on for a presumed acoustic neurilemoma, but was found at surgery to have an intracanalicular vascular malformation. This rare lesion should be distinguished from angiomatous change within an acoustic neurilemoma and in the past has been termed "vascular tumor," "hemangioma," or "fibro-angioma." The clinical distinctions between intracanalicular acoustic neurilemomas and intracanalicular vascular malformations and the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between the two are discussed. 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy: a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers--report of 5 cases. We describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with Hashimoto's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies. The presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion, alteration in conscious level, and focal or generalized seizures. The relapsing course, association with myoclonus or tremulousness, and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features. The long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy, though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required. Neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal EEG, high CSF protein level without pleocytosis, and normal brain CT and cerebral angiogram. Isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake. Hashimoto's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of CNS complications of thyroid disease. 
Effect of vaginal delivery on the pelvic floor: a 5-year follow-up. We have studied the pelvic floor musculature and its innervation in 14 of 24 (58 per cent) multiparous women who had been recruited into a study of the effect of childbirth on the pelvic floor as part of a prospective investigation that began in 1983. These 24 women had all delivered by the vaginal route without forceps assistance. Five of the 14 had developed clinical symptoms of stress incontinence 5 years later; two of them had had a further uncomplicated vaginal delivery during this time. There was manometric and neurophysiological evidence of weakness because of partial denervation of the pelvic floor striated sphincter musculature, with pudendal neuropathy, which was more marked in those women with incontinence. These findings provide direct evidence for the hypothesis that pudendal neuropathy due to vaginal delivery persists and may worsen with time. 
Noninvasive trigeminal evoked potentials: normative data and application to neuralgia patients. A mild electric shock applied to the lower lip was used to elicit reliable evoked potentials from the trigeminal nerve in 20 normal young adults. The wave forms were morphologically similar to those observed with invasive procedures. No substantial differences for either the right or left side of stimulation, recording electrode, or subject sex were obtained for any of the individual potential amplitudes or latencies. The same procedures were applied to 10 patients who had been treated with retrogasserian glycerol injections for trigeminal neuralgia. Trigeminal evoked potentials were elicited in all patients, although the quality of the individual wave forms was more variable than that observed for the normal subjects. Comparison of the treated with the unaffected face side in the patients demonstrated significantly smaller N2-P2 amplitudes and longer N2 latencies for the affected face side. The results suggest that these procedures produce reliable evoked potential measures of trigeminal nerve function noninvasively which can provide an objective index of treatment efficacy. 
Sternocleidomastoid muscle transfer and superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication in the prevention of Frey's syndrome Parotidectomy may be associated with a significant depression in the retromandibular region and a significant incidence of gustatory sweating (Frey's syndrome). Superiorly and inferiorly based sternocleidomastoid flaps and posterior plication of the superficial musculoaponeurotic system were evaluated for their ability to ameliorate both consequences. Sixteen patients with sternocleidomastoid flaps and 16 patients with superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication were compared to a control group of 104 patients. The incidence of Frey's syndrome was 47.1% in the control group, 12.5% (P = 0.025) in the sternocleidomastoid flap group, and 0% (P = 0.005) in the superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication group. The surgical techniques are described. The prevalence of Frey's syndrome is discussed with respect to age, sex, radiation therapy, and the type of parotidectomy performed. The indications and contraindications of the three surgical techniques are described. 
High signal intensity in MR images of calcified brain tissue. Calcified lesions of the brain occasionally appear bright on T1-weighted MR images. This report shows that particulate calcium can reduce T1 relaxation times by a surface relaxation mechanism. Calcium particles with greater surface area show greater T1 relaxivity. Reduced proton density and reduced T2 tend to diminish signal intensity, but reduced T1 increases signal intensity. Thus, for concentrations of calcium particulate of up to 30% by weight, the signal intensity on standard T1-weighted images increases but subsequently decreases. 
Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis: treatments with simvastatin, lovastatin, and chenodeoxycholic acid in 3 siblings. We report 3 sisters treated for cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. We treated one, with a severe neurologic form of the illness, with chenodeoxycholic acid, then lovastatin and simvastatin. These drugs had different efficacy and tolerance, but induced no clinical improvement. Her sisters, without neurologic symptoms, received chenodeoxycholic acid, which normalized the cholestanol level. Optimal treatment of this illness must begin before there is significant clinical symptomatology. 
Symptoms of Raynaud's syndrome in patients with fibromyalgia. A study utilizing the Nielsen test, digital photoplethysmography, and measurements of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Twenty-nine female patients with fibromyalgia were questioned about symptoms of cold intolerance and Raynaud's syndrome; objective documentation of cold-induced vasospasm was obtained by a Nielsen test. Twelve patients (41%) had abnormal Nielsen test results, and 11 patients (38%) had elevated levels of platelet alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. There was a positive correlation between the percentage of change in finger systolic pressure on cooling (Nielsen test) and the number of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. There was poor correlation between Raynaud's syndrome symptoms and an abnormal Nielsen test result. Digital photoplethysmography showed a normal waveform in 2 of 3 patients. We hypothesize that a subgroup of patients with fibromyalgia syndrome have an up-regulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors as a cause of their exaggerated reaction to cold. 
Pain 'memories' in phantom limbs: review and clinical observations. This paper reviews reports of phantom limb sensations which resemble somatosensory events experienced in the limb before amputation. It also presents descriptions of this phenomenon in 68 amputees who took part in a series of clinical studies. These somatosensory memories are predominantly replicas of distressing pre-amputation lesions and pains which were experienced at or near the time of amputation, and are described as having the same qualities of sensation as the pre-amputation pain. The patients who experience these pains emphasize that they are suffering real pain which they can describe in vivid detail, and insist that the experience is not merely a cognitive recollection of an earlier pain. Reports of somatosensory memories are less common when there has been a discontinuity, or a pain-free interval, between the experience of pain and amputation. Among the somatosensory memories reported are cutaneous lesions, deep tissue injuries, bone and joint pain and painful pre-amputation postures. The experience of somatosensory memories does not appear to be related to the duration of pre-amputation pain, time since amputation, age, gender, prosthetic use, level of amputation, number of limbs amputated, or whether the amputation followed an accident or illness. The results suggest that somatosensory inputs of sufficient intensity and duration can produce lasting changes in central neural structures which combine with cognitive-evaluative memories of the pre-amputation pain to give rise to the unified experience of a past pain referred to the phantom limb. Implications for pre- and post-operative pain control are discussed. 
Interictal spikes and hippocampal somatostatin levels in temporal lobe epilepsy. We investigated the relationship between somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SSLI) and interictal spikes (IIS) in human temporal lobe epileptic tissue. IIS counted manually from depth electrode recordings obtained preoperatively were expressed as spike frequency in anterior, middle, and posterior portions of hippocampus. SSLI was determined by radioimmunoassay (RIA). An inverse relationship between SSLI in the entorhinal cortex (EC) and IIS frequency in hippocampus was present (r = -0.55, p = 0.06). No correlation between IIS and SSLI in CA4, CA3, CA1, or the dentate was evident. This finding suggests a role of the EC in generation, regulation, or expression of interictal paroxysmal electrical activity in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), for which somatostatin may be a marker. 
Anencephaly: clinical determination of brain death and neuropathologic studies. Twelve liveborn anencephalic infants were serially examined to determine if they would meet our clinical criteria for whole brain death within a 7-day period: Protocol 1 infants (6) received intensive care including intubation from birth; and Protocol 2 infants (6) received intensive care during the period in which death was imminent. Brain death was determined by absence of brainstem function, including loss of all cranial nerve responses and sustained apnea (PCO2 greater than 60 torr) for 48 hours with confirmation of findings by an outside consulting child neurologist. The initial examinations of these 12 infants revealed spontaneous movements and startle myoclonus (12), suck, root, and gag responses (7), increased tone (8), deep tendon reflexes (9), absent pupillary responses (9), absent oculocephalic and corneal responses (6), absent auditory/Moro responses (7), and nonvisualization of the optic nerve (8). Mild depression of neurologic function occurred during the first several days of life; subsequently, the infants' responses were easier to elicit and more sustained. Only 2 infants met the clinical criteria for brain death. Neuropathologic findings indicated that observed complex motor responses were not based upon cortical activity because no infant had a normally-formed cerebrum. Brainstem neuronal activity may have accounted for these motor responses in some patients but even at this level neurons were scanty or absent. Our findings suggest that, although rare, clinical brain death can be determined in liveborn anencephalic infants; ophthalmologic and otologic developmental abnormalities may confound examination of cranial nerve function; and absence of cortical neurons supports the widely held opinion that these infants do not experience sensation. 
Monitoring of cortical blood flow during temporary arterial occlusion in aneurysm surgery by the thermal diffusion method. During aneurysm surgery, regional cortical blood flow (CoBF) was continuously monitored in 12 patients with a thermal diffusion flow probe in an attempt to assess the effects of temporary major arterial occlusion on blood flow and outcome. When the CoBF was above 30 ml/100 g/min, the safe period for temporary clipping applied distal to the perforators was 15 minutes. The occlusion time should be shortened when the CoBF is below 30 ml/100 g/min. Two patients suffered basal infarction, which was not detected by CoBF monitoring. Attention should be paid to the blood flow in the deep structures when a temporary clip is applied at a site proximal to the perforating branches. Direct measurement of CoBF may be of value in estimating the time that temporary occlusion of a major vessel can be tolerated. 
A comparative study of naproxen sodium, pizotyline and placebo in migraine prophylaxis. 318 patients satisfying the Ad Hoc Committee's criteria for common or classical migraine were entered into an 8 week single-blind placebo recording phase to establish, by diary cards, the frequency and severity of their attacks. 176 patients completed this and had records indicating 4-8 episodes in the 8 week period, with sufficient severity to reduce activity and/or work; these patients were randomized by a predetermined code, into three double-blinded groups: naproxen sodium 550 mg bid (60 patients), pizotyline 0.5 mg tid (59 patients), or placebo (57 patients). The patients were followed at monthly intervals for 12 weeks, with 25 dropping out (3 on naproxen sodium, and 2 each on pizotyline and placebo because of "side effects;" the remaining 18 because of noncompliance or reasons unrelated to therapy). Approximately 25% of patients in each of the 3 groups complained of side effects. Statistical analysis showed that both naproxen sodium and pizotyline were better than placebo, and of overall equivalent (i.e. equal) efficacy in the prophylaxis of migraine. In some respects, naproxen sodium was slightly more effective than pizotyline in the first month of treatment. 
Rehabilitation of chronic stroke patients: changes in functional performance. Forty stroke patients who were at least one year post-onset completed a one-month intensive rehabilitation program. The month before the program served as a control period. During the program, patients received individual sessions in occupational and physical therapy four days a week, and they participated in group activities on the fifth day. Therapy emphasized instruction in motor planning, balance and weight shift, and the use of adaptive equipment; these motor abilities were then practiced within real life situations. The patients demonstrated significant improvement in the outcome measures of weight shift, balance, and ADL scores after the one-month rehabilitation program (weight shift: F = 16.1, p = .0001; balance: F = 6.26, p = .0007; ADL: F = 13.8, p = .0001). They retained these new skills during a three-month follow-up period. 
The epilepsies: clinical implications of the international classification. From the earliest days of neurology, the classification of epileptic seizures into those generalized from the beginning and those with a definable localization in the cortex from the onset has added to knowledge about the function of the nervous system. Further elaboration of the classification of seizures into those localized to the six-layered isocortex and those whose elaboration involves regions of the brain involved with consciousness and memory has provided the basic focus for the burgeoning subspecialty of epilepsy surgery. It is increasingly apparent that the etiology of a seizure disorder is of at least equal or of greater significance than the nature of the seizures it spawns and is the product not only of localization in the nervous system but also of causative factors with implications reaching into areas of genetics, higher cortical function, and intelligence. The prognosis concerning the outcome of the epilepsy under consideration is based on all of these facets. This pathophysiological substratum, of which the seizure is only the presenting symptom, constitutes the epilepsy or epileptic syndrome on which the formulation of a rational treatment plan is based. 
Tuberculous meningitis. Tuberculous meningitis is an uncommon but potentially devastating form of tuberculosis. Current antituberculous drugs are highly effective when treatment is initiated early, before the onset of altered mentation or focal neurologic deficits. Because the clinical outcome depends greatly on the stage at which therapy is initiated, early recognition is of paramount importance. Patients with the meningoencephalitis syndrome and CSF findings of low glucose levels, elevated protein levels, and pleocytosis should be treated immediately if there is evidence of TB elsewhere in the body, or if prompt evaluation fails to establish an alternative diagnosis. Examination of CSF is the best diagnostic approach; with sufficient diligence, serial AFB smears and cultures will usually yield positive results, even days after therapy has been started. The CT scan is an important and highly effective tool for the diagnosis and management of patients with TBM. In a patient with compatible clinical features, the combination of basilar meningeal enhancement and any degree of hydrocephalus is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of TBM. Serial evaluation by CT scanning is useful for following the course of hydrocephalus and tuberculoma, particularly in reference to the need for, or response to, adjunctive therapy with corticosteroids and surgery. The decision to administer corticosteroids should be based on careful correlation of the clinical and radiographic features of the case. Surgical shunting should be considered early in the patient with hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure. Tuberculomas are best treated medically, often in conjunction with corticosteroids where cerebral edema is believed to contribute to neurologic decline. The recommended chemotherapy regimen is isoniazid and rifampin in all patients, together with pyrazinamide for the first 2 months. 
Large-scale neurocognitive networks and distributed processing for attention, language, and memory. Cognition and comportment are subserved by interconnected neural networks that allow high-level computational architectures including parallel distributed processing. Cognitive problems are not resolved by a sequential and hierarchical progression toward predetermined goals but instead by a simultaneous and interactive consideration of multiple possibilities and constraints until a satisfactory fit is achieved. The resultant texture of mental activity is characterized by almost infinite richness and flexibility. According to this model, complex behavior is mapped at the level of multifocal neural systems rather than specific anatomical sites, giving rise to brain-behavior relationships that are both localized and distributed. Each network contains anatomically addressed channels for transferring information content and chemically addressed pathways for modulating behavioral tone. This approach provides a blueprint for reexploring the neurological foundations of attention, language, memory, and frontal lobe function. 
Handcuff neuropathies Compressive neuropathy due to tight application of handcuffs occurred in 5 patients. The superficial radial nerve was affected in 8 hands and the median nerve in two. Neurologic deficits persisted as long as 3 years after handcuffing. Nerve conduction studies helped to exclude malingering and other diagnoses. All patients had been intoxicated when handcuffed or had been arrested with force. The handcuff mechanism, which allows accidental overtightening after application, is an unrecognized factor in these neuropathies. 
Major histocompatibility complex antigen expression in the affected tissues in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Monoclonal antibody immunocytochemistry was used to examine spinal cord and muscle in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for changes that would indicate ongoing or potential immune activity. Increased expression of class I and II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens was seen in the affected areas of spinal cord. New MHC expression was concentrated in phagocytes, particularly in degenerating white matter in which they were dispersed in the tissue and also packed around blood vessels. MHC antigen was not revealed in motor neurons or skeletal muscle fibers. An anti-pan-T-cell monoclonal revealed small numbers of T cells in degenerating white matter. Similar changes have been seen in other neurodegenerative disorders. They suggest a potential for (secondary) cell-mediated activity in the affected areas rather than an ongoing MHC-restricted T-cell response. Vessel-associated phagocytes may be a source of antigen to peripheral lymphoid tissue, stimulating production of the autoantibodies that have been described. 
Amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with AIDS caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen. Leptomyxid ameba. A fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented. This opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen. A 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis. Computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions. Neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis, there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of Acanthamoeba. These organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands. By immunofluorescence, the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera. This emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species. 
A unique indexing splint for use in combined Le Fort and nasal injuries to avoid tracheostomy. Midface fractures with associated displaced and/or comminuted nasal fractures can require tracheostomy for a general anesthetic airway if these fractures are to be reduced simultaneously. We describe a unique indexing splint that allows oral intubation yet also allows simultaneous reduction of midface and nasal fractures under one anesthetic. Furthermore, tracheostomy with its potential complications is avoided. The case report illustrates the technique, and alternative treatments for these injuries are discussed. 
Cranial nerve palsy in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Forty-five children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma had cranial nerve palsy (CNP) as a complication of their disease. Twenty-two of these children had CNP initially and 23, at relapse, with or without previous hematologic relapse. Only one of the 23 patients with CNP at relapse was a long-term survivor. In contrast, 11 of the 22 children who had CNP initially survived in remission for 3+ months to 13+ years. Two factors are associated with an improved outcome for patients with CNP at diagnosis: treatment after 1979 (P less than 0.004) and male gender (P less than 0.01). Patients who received radiation therapy fared better than those for whom radiation was not given (disease-free survival at 2 years 53% versus 29%). The authors conclude that CNP signifies an aggressive or advanced disease requiring intensive systemic chemotherapy and that the role of irradiation should be examined for this group of patients. 
Assessment and treatment of children's headaches from a developmental perspective. Childhood headache is a common pediatric problem. Clinical researchers have evaluated several behavioral treatment, such as biofeedback and relaxation training, that may be viable interventions. Adding a developmental perspective to the evaluation and treatment of childhood headache is a likely way to increase the effectiveness of these strategies. This paper presents developmental issues related to the assessment and treatment of childhood headache. Three major areas of development are examined and the impact of these areas on the treatment and assessment of headache are discussed. The three major areas are cognitive development, self-regulation and psychosocial development. Provided are practical suggestions for the application of child development principles to assessment and intervention practices that may be more developmentally appropriate. 
The appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. A case report and review of the literature. The piriformis syndrome (PS) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed PS in a 27-year-old woman. This case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by CT and MR imaging. 
Primary leptomeningeal B-cell lymphoma in a 8-year-old child. A case of primary leptomeningeal B-cell lymphoma in an 8-year-old, previously healthy child is described. The child was found to have hypogammaglobulinemia, and the Epstein-Barr virus genome was identified in cultured tumor cells despite blood serology being negative for the virus. The patient was treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and dexamethasone, plus intrathecal methotrexate, and initially improved. Before the initiation of craniospinal radiation, the patient developed progressive disease, deteriorated, and died 9 months after the onset of symptoms. 
Metoprolol for aggressive behavior in persons with mental retardation. Persons with mental retardation sometimes exhibit behaviors that are difficult to control. Use of neuroleptic medications may be limited by side effects or ineffectiveness. Beta blockers such as propranolol and metoprolol have been shown to decrease aggressive and impulsive behaviors in some patients with mental retardation. 
The effect of sleep on the dyskinetic movements of Parkinson's disease, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, Huntington's disease, and torsion dystonia. The effect of sleep on the involuntary movements or dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, primary and secondary torsion dystonia, and Gilles de la Tourette syndrome was studied in a total of 52 patients and 10 normal subjects using video electroencephalographic telemetry. Movements typical of the wake pattern were seen occasionally during unequivocal sleep in all but two completed studies, and in each condition reappeared under similar circumstances. The movements were most likely to occur after awakenings or lightenings of sleep, or in stage one sleep. The movements were very rare during the deeper phases of sleep. Those movements that occurred during sleep without awakenings were usually preceded by arousal phenomena and, rarely, by sleep spindles or slow waves. The control group showed normal "semipurposeful" movements under the same conditions during sleep. The rare appearance of the different dyskinesias and normal movements under similar circumstances during sleep could be a result of common effects on the generator systems or changes in the excitability of the final common motor pathway. 
Respiratory muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease. To assess the relationship between respiratory mechanics and muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease (NMD), we compared PImax and PEmax at RV, FRC and TLC, total respiratory elastance (Ers) with VT, TI, TT, VE, VT/TI, TI/TT, P.01, and P.01/(VT/TI) effective impedance in 21 patients with NMD and 21 healthy control (C) subjects, in seated position breathing room air. Ers in NMD patients was 79 percent higher than in the C subjects. While TI, TT, and VT in NMD were approximately half the corresponding C values, P.01 was 66 percent greater than in the C subjects (both p less than 0.001). NMD PImax and PEmax ranged from 37 to 52 percent of corresponding C values, respectively. Despite significant respiratory muscle weakness, only 7 of 16 patients demonstrated a PaCo2 greater than 45 mm Hg. Ventilatory output in NMD was modulated by respiratory mechanics as indicated by the increased P.01. In spite of muscle weakness, central drive in patients with NMD is not decreased, and in fact, is often increased. VE is not an accurate measure of central drive because of abnormal intrinsic respiratory mechanics and the effects of conscious responses or reflexes. 
Foci of increased T2 signal intensity in MR images of healthy elderly subjects. A follow-up study. An 18-month follow-up study was conducted on 26 healthy elderly subjects with and without foci of increased T2 signal intensity on MR imaging. The subjects did not differ with respect to health status or cognitive performance as measured by the Cognitive Subscale of the Cambridge Mental Disorders of the Elderly Examination and the Mini Mental State Examination at follow-up. There was a significant decline in performance on the Digit Symbol Substitution Test in subjects who had evidence of T2 foci compared to the performance of subjects without T2 foci. This may indicate that the presence of T2 foci is correlated with subtle difficulties in learning and memory. 
Nocturnal sleep recording with cassette EEG in chronic headaches. Many headache patients complain of poor sleep, and sleep disturbance has been shown to play a role in chronic pain. We recorded nocturnal sleep with a 4-channel cassette EEG monitoring device in 10 common migraine patients, 10 individuals with muscle contraction (tension) headache, and 10 chronic tension-vascular headache sufferers. Migraine patients had essentially normal sleep, although rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and REM latency were increased. Patients with tension headache had reduced sleep time and sleep efficiency, decreased sleep latency but frequent awakenings, increased nocturnal movements, and marked reduction in slow wave sleep, without change in REM sleep or latency. Mixed-element headaches with both tension and vascular features were associated with reduced sleep, increased awakening, diminished slow wave sleep, and REM sleep that was decreased in amount and reduced in latency. The findings suggest that patients with intermittent migraine may have minimal sleep disturbance, while chronic headache may be worsened by chronically poor sleep. Muscle contraction headache may be associated with frequent awakenings and decreased slow wave sleep similar to the sleep changes of fibrositis, while chronic tension-vascular headache may have a depressive substrate. Four-channel sleep recording may miss contributory sleep apnea, but nonetheless cassette EEG may facilitate outpatient evaluation of refractory headaches. 
Muscle rehabilitation in impaired elderly nursing home residents. Based on observations of changes in muscle function associated with aging, and the exacerbation of these changes with frailty, a program of muscle strengthening has been developed to correct specific defects in muscles. This pilot study was undertaken on 18 functionally impaired nursing home residents (age range 60 to 90 years) with markedly deteriorated muscle function (50%) secondary to age, disuse, and multiple chronic illnesses. Fourteen of the subjects completed the six-week program without adverse effects. In 75% of the patients, there was improved muscle function, with endurance, strength, and speed increasing 35%, 15%, and 10%, respectively. After the program, many subjects increased their spontaneous activity and decreased their dependency. The improvements were still evident four months after rehabilitation. These results suggest that it may be possible, through a carefully supervised, short-term program of muscle rehabilitation, for nursing home residents to achieve an enhanced level of physical functioning. 
Continuous regional cerebral blood flow monitoring in acute craniocerebral trauma. Regional cortical cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and intracranial pressure (ICP) were monitored continuously with a combined thermal diffusion probe/ICP monitor in 12 patients (8 men and 4 women; mean age, 31 years; range, 7-65 years) with acute head injuries. The mean Glasgow Coma Scale score at admission was 6 (range, 4-12). The rCBF/ICP probes were placed during surgical procedures (n = 11) or in an intensive care unit (n = 1) for subdural hematomas (n = 7), cerebral contusions (n = 4), and an epidural hematoma (n = 1). No probe-related complications occurred. Reduced CBF often occurred and was often inversely proportional to elevations in ICP. Posttraumatic cerebral arterial vasospasm in one patient was detected by rCBF monitoring and confirmed by angiography. In 6 patients who progressed to brain death, rCBF patterns disappeared, which correlated with their clinical and electroencephalographic examinations. Several patients with severe, diffuse brain injuries and high ICP had hyperemic rCBF patterns. In 2 of these patients, increases in rCBF preceded rises in ICP, which implied loss of autoregulation as a mechanism in the development of malignant cerebral edema. This method of CBF monitoring has not yet been established for clinical decision making. The early detection of ischemic or hyperemic responses by continuous CBF monitoring could hasten intervention aimed at restoring adequate tissue perfusion. The technique could also serve as an index of the efficacy of therapeutic interventions and is suitable to gain more insight into the pathophysiology of head injury, especially the relationship of CBF to ICP. 
Timing of osteosynthesis of major fractures in patients with severe brain injury. A retrospective study was performed to assess the effects on outcome of early osteosynthesis of major extremity fractures in patients with severe brain injury (GCS less than or equal to 7). In a consecutive series of 58 patients, early osteosynthesis was performed on the day of injury in 15 patients. (Group A). In 43 patients no major fractures were present or no early osteosynthesis was performed (Group B). The severity of brain injury as seen on CT scan was similar in both groups. Mortality was significantly lower in Group A, despite a significantly higher ISS. As to the functional end result of brain injury, an indication of a better outcome was present in Group A. 
Severe fibromyalgia after hypophysectomy for Cushing's disease. We report a case of fibromyalgia occurring after hypophysectomy for Cushing's disease. Clinical examination revealed tender points at 12 of the 18 tender point sites described in the American College of Rheumatology 1990 criteria for the classification of fibromyalgia. The cause of fibromyalgia remains unknown. In our patient, hypophysectomy may have played a role by disturbing endorphin secretion and pain modulation. 
Tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia. Permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia. Conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems. The improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis. By this method, the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained, the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented. Also, reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease. 
Depression in dementia of the Alzheimer type and in multi-infarct dementia. The authors used the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and a rating of depressed mood to investigate the prevalence of depression in 55 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 37 patients with multi-infarct dementia, and 30 nondemented comparison subjects. The prevalence of depressed mood depended on the severity of dementia as measured by the Mini-Mental State examination and was significantly lower among patients in more severe stages of Alzheimer's disease but not among patients with severe multi-infarct dementia. 
Hippocampal sclerosis in temporal lobe epilepsy demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging. The value of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of hippocampal sclerosis has been controversial. We studied 10 patients aged 22.5 +/- 6.0 years with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy selected because of a history of a prolonged childhood convulsion, which is characteristic of a group of patients in whom hippocampal sclerosis is a constant finding. All 10 patients showed reduction in size of one hippocampus associated with increased signal intensity on T2-weighted magnetic resonance images. These changes were reliably detected on coronal spin-echo images, perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampus. Appreciation of the normal imaging anatomy of the hippocampus allowed correct interpretation of the relative changes in signal intensities of the hippocampus and adjacent temporal horn on sequential echo images. The side of the abnormal hippocampus on magnetic resonance imaging accorded with the electroencephalographic localization in all 10 patients, and with the lateralization of the early convulsions in all 6 patients where this was known. Temporal lobectomy was performed in all 10 patients. Hippocampal sclerosis was confirmed in the 3 patients in whom hippocampal tissue was available for histological examination. The value of this technique was reinforced by the excellent postoperative results, with 80% being seizure free at a mean follow-up time of 33 +/- 4 months. 
Tests of EEG localization accuracy using implanted sources in the human brain. The accuracy with which electrical sources in the brain can be localized by using electroencephalograms measured on the scalp is not well known. In this study, tests of localization accuracy were performed by using implanted dipolar sources in the human brain. These dipoles are created by passing a weak (subthreshold) current through intracerebral electrodes implanted in the brains of epileptic patients for seizure monitoring. The locations of these dipoles are accurately known from roentgenographs. First, 16 electroencephalograms produced by these dipoles were recorded, then inverse solutions were calculated for the apparent sources of these electroencephalograms. Finally, the locations of the apparent sources were compared with the known locations of the implanted dipoles to determine localization error. The average localization error for a total of 28 dipoles in 3 subjects was 1.1 cm. These results indicate that good localization accuracy for focal sources in the brain can be provided by scalp electroencephalograms. 
Noninvasive cerebral optical spectroscopy for monitoring cerebral oxygen delivery and hemodynamics. OBJECTIVE: To present an algorithm for noninvasive measurement of cerebral oxygen saturation (cerebral oximetry) and cerebral hemodynamics with near infrared spectroscopy. DESIGN: In vitro correlation of oximetry measurements with reference measurements; illustrative cases of hemodynamic and oximetric recordings. SETTING: Tertiary care neuroscience ICU. PATIENTS: Brain-injured patients with a prolonged, decreased level of consciousness chosen as illustrative examples. INTERVENTIONS: Two-channel multiple wavelength diffuse infrared transmission spectroscopy was interfaced with the scalp using adhesive. Transmission data were collected with gross superficial-to-deep spatial resolution. Saturation calculation based on the deep signal was observed longitudinally in the patient. With the same technology, arterial input and cerebral response functions, generated by iv tracer bolus, were deconvoluted to measure mean cerebral transit time. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A positive linear regression fit between diffuse transmission oximetry and measured blood oxygen saturation over the range 23% to 99% (r2 = .98, p less than .001) was noted. CONCLUSIONS: The approach used overcomes previously identified difficulties with cerebral oximetry, and demonstrates excellent in vitro correlation. The technique can be performed clinically without difficulty. A simultaneous measure of mean cortical transit time is possible. 
Developmental dyslexia in women: neuropathological findings in three patients. Brains from male cases with dyslexia show symmetry of the planum temporale and predominantly left-sided cerebrocortical microdysgenesis. We now report on three women with dyslexia. In all brains, the planum temporale was again symmetrical. Also, in two of the brains, multiple foci of cerebrocortical glial scarring were present. In both women, many of the scars were myelinated, suggesting origination during late intrauterine or early postnatal life. In one, scars were mainly left perisylvian and involved portions of the vascular border zone of the temporal cortex. In the other, scars were more numerous and occurred in the border zone of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries symmetrically. All three cases showed to a variable extent brain warts, molecular layer ectopias, and focal architectonic dysplasia identical to those seen in the male cases. Two women had primary brain neoplasms, an oligodendroglioma and a low-grade astrocytoma, respectively, and two women showed small angiomas. Reexamination of previously reported male cases disclosed one with myelinated glial scars. Two control brains with asymmetrical plana temporale showed myelinated glial scars as well. The significance of the anatomical findings is discussed, and possible etiological factors are considered with known effects of autoimmune diseases on the nervous system. 
The neck-eye reflex in patients with reduced vestibular and optokinetic function. It is accepted that the neck-eye loop (cervico-ocular reflex, COR) is enhanced following loss of vestibular function and that this helps to restore gaze stability during head movements. In this paper we address the question of which structures and/or mechanisms may participate in such plastic enhancement by investigating the COR in 2 patients with absent vestibular function and reduced smooth pursuit-optokinetic eye movements (SP-OKN). The patients had multisystem atrophy involving the vestibular system and the cerebellum. The COR (elicited by angular motion of the trunk relative to the fixed head and angular motion of the head relative to the fixed trunk) was not enhanced in these 2 patients when compared with normal subjects, in contrast to previous findings in a group of patients with absent vestibular function alone. Measurements of slow phase eye movement velocity during SP-OKN stimuli and during combined COR-OKN stimulation (head oscillation relative to the stationary trunk in the light) showed identical values in these two conditions, which indicates that the neck-eye loop did not contribute to gaze stability during head movements. The absence of plastic enhancement of the COR in these patients may be secondary to interruption of SP-OKN pathways at various possible sites and/or to involvement of the vestibulocerebellum, which is known to mediate adaptive plasticity in the vestibulo-ocular reflex. 
99mTc HM-PAO SPECT in pediatric migraine. 99mTC HM-PAO SPECT brain imaging was performed during the headache-free period in 19 young migraineurs, affected by common migraine (CM, 10 cases), classic migraine (CLM, 6 cases) and hemiplegic migraine (HM, 3 cases). SPECT findings were negative in all 10 patients with CM, in 3 cases of CLM and in 2 cases of HM. Positive findings in the remaining 4 patients (3 cases of CLM and 1 of HM) showed a decreased tracer distribution in the temporo-occipital regions (2 cases) and parietal regions (2 cases): the two with decreased temporo-occipital perfusion reported prodromal symptoms exclusively contralateral to the areas of hypoperfusion. An impaired regional cerebral vascular autoregulation may exist even during headache-free intervals in patients suffering from classic and hemiplegic migraine. 
Spasticity in spinal cord injured persons: quantitative effects of baclofen and placebo treatments. Spasticity commonly occurs after a spinal cord injury and is characterized by increased resistance to passive movement of peripheral joints. This study examined the effect of an antispasticity medication on stiffness from the myotatic reflex response generated by passive sinusoidal ankle motion. A repeated measures, multiple base-line, single-subject, double-blind design was employed. The independent variable was spasticity medication treatment, where the levels were 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day of baclofen v placebo treatment. Viscous and elastic stiffness measurements were taken at the ankle joint during a placebo base-line phase and during treatment with baclofen for five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injuries. Ankle sinusoidal oscillation frequencies were from 3 to 12 Hz during test sessions. Mean viscous and elastic stiffness scores for all frequencies were calculated for each phase of the study. Randomization tests of mean changes in stiffness measurements between each treatment phase of the study failed to provide any convincing evidence of a significant treatment effect for reduction of spasticity in the traumatic spinal cord injured subjects studied. Further testing is needed to exclude potential confounding factors before this conclusion can be confirmed. The results suggest that baclofen is not a universal treatment of choice for all individuals with spasticity resulting from traumatic spinal cord injury. 
Entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve at the level of the ligament of Struthers. The presence of a supracondylar process and Struthers' ligament is a rare congenital anomaly that may cause compression of either the median nerve, the brachial artery, or both. The authors present a case in which the supracondylar process and Struthers' ligament compressed both the median nerve and the brachial artery. This case is unusual, in that the symptoms of compression of the brachial artery increased--namely, the pulse intensity decreased and the pain increased with elbow flexion. 
Clonotypic analysis of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies from experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-sensitive Lewis rats and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-resistant Wistar Furth rats. A single immunization of Lewis rats with purified acetylcholine receptor (AChR) emulsified in adjuvant typically stimulates the production of oligoclonal AChR-reactive antibodies (as demonstrated by IEF) dominated by the IgG2a subclass, of moderate but clonotypically heterogeneous relative Ag-binding avidity, and capable of inducing symptoms of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Although similar immunization of Wistar Furth rats produces AChR-reactive antibodies with similar characteristics of clonotypic heterogeneity, avidity, and isotype expression, no detectable signs of AChR-dependent muscle impairment is observed. This contrasts the ability to induce impaired AChR function upon the passive transfer of pre-formed Lewis anti-AChR antibodies into naive Wistar Furth rats, suggesting that disease resistance in this model is not conferred at the level of the AChR itself. Moreover, if more aggressive immunization protocols are used (i.e., multiple injections of AChR), a transient breakthrough of AChR-dependent muscle dysfunction can be induced directly in the Wistar Furth strain indicating that the potential for the production of disease-causing antibodies does exist in the Wistar Furth repertoire. IEF analysis of Wistar Furth anti-AChR antibodies has revealed that hyperimmunization results in modified antibody clonotype expression that might explain changing expression of disease symptoms; however, explanations for the apparent "resistance" of Wistar Furth rats to disease induction are likely to be complex. 
Internal fixation of femoral neck fractures. Two methods compared. In a prospective randomised study, the Hansson pin technique for internal fixation of fractures of the femoral neck was compared with the Uppsala screw technique. The series consisted of 115 consecutive patients, 97 women and 18 men, with a mean age of 80 years. There were 56 patients treated with Hansson pins and 59 with Uppsala screws. After one year 22 patients had died, eight in the Hansson pin group and 14 in the Uppsala screw group (p = 0.28). Twenty-four complications had occurred, 18 in the Hansson pin group and six in the Uppsala screw group (p = 0.008). After exclusion of those with complications, the patients in the Hansson pin group had significantly more pain, less mobility, and a smaller proportion were living in their own homes. 
MRI findings in neuro-Behcet's disease. We report MRI findings in 6 patients with Behcet's disease and CNS involvement. There were 3 different stages of imaging appearance: (1) During the acute illness, there were scattered areas of high signal intensity on T2-weighted images with predilection to the central structures of the cerebrum, the cerebral peduncles, and basis pontis. (2) During the recovery phase, most of these findings improved, but some white matter high signal areas persisted in the upper brainstem and peripheral subcortical white matter. Occasionally, findings were suggestive of microhematoma. (3) During the chronic phase, atrophy of posterior fossa structures became evident with decreased signal intensity suggestive of hemosiderin deposits. 
Oestrogen and progesterone receptors in acoustic neuroma. Tissue samples from fourteen consecutive (8 male: 6 female) acoustic neuromas were assayed for hormone receptors using either a monoclonal antibody (MA), dextran coated charcoal (DCC) or isoelectric focusing (IEF) technique. In this series there were no unequivocally positive results, a finding at variance with previously published results. 
Brainstem auditory evoked response and subcortical abnormalities in autism. Previous studies of the neurobiology of autism that have used the brainstem auditory evoked response have given contradictory results. The authors of this study considered two supplementary aspects; they added an ipsilateral masking procedure, and they compared the results for every subject to the values (corrected for age and sex) of a large number of normal children. Twenty autistic (according to DSM-III-R criteria) and 13 mentally retarded (nonverbal IQ less than 75) subjects were assessed. Eighty percent of the autistic subjects had abnormal interpeak latencies, compared to 15% of the mentally retarded subjects. The I-V and III-V prolonged interpeak latency values were seen only in the autistic subjects. The ipsilateral masking procedure doubled the rate of detection of higher-brainstem abnormalities in the autistic children. 
Prenatal diagnosis of fetal intracranial calcifications. A case is presented wherein fetal intracranial calcifications as a result of intrauterine cytomegalovirus infection were visualized by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging at 36 weeks' gestation. Diagnosis of in utero cytomegalovirus infection was made by isolation of the virus from amniotic fluid. No symptomatic abnormality has been noted in the neonatal period except periventricular calcifications. 
Value of plasmapheresis in hepatic encephalopathy. Plasmapheresis is used for treating the complications of liver failure. We performed plasmapheresis on 6 children with hepatic encephalopathy resulting from acute hepatic failure and prospectively assessed its effects on neurologic and electrophysiologic (electroencephalography and evoked potentials) function. Clinical improvement was observed in 3 of 6 patients; changes in the serum ammonia value or the results of initial electrophysiologic tests did not predict the patient response. Two patients underwent transplantation after neurologic improvement was produced by plasmapheresis; however, despite plasmapheresis, 4 patients progressed to brain death. Our data demonstrate that plasmapheresis may transiently improve the encephalopathy of acute hepatic failure but is not curative alone. Therefore, plasmapheresis may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of liver failure, potentially improving the pretransplantation status of the patient. 
Cerebral infarction in patients with nephrotic syndrome. We describe two adult patients who presented with acute cerebral infarction and were found to have a hypercoagulable state due to nephrotic syndrome. One patient had a deficiency of free protein-S. The other patient had a pulmonary embolus 4 months after the stroke. Our cases demonstrate that the hypercoagulable state associated with nephrotic syndrome can be associated with cerebral arterial thrombosis and infarction in adults. Examination of the urine remains an important part of the evaluation of patients with recent stroke. The presence of severe proteinuria and a low serum albumin content should prompt consideration of a hypercoagulable state. Our experience suggests that anticoagulant drugs may be required to reduce the risk of new thrombotic events. 
Effects of tromethamine and hyperventilation on brain injury in the cat. The metabolic brain acidosis after trauma has been thought to be harmful and to contribute to neurological deterioration. Amelioration of the brain acidosis either by systemic buffering agents or by hyperventilation has been proposed as a method of treatment. The objective of this study was to explore with magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy the metabolic changes in brain that occur with the use of hyperventilation, THAM (tromethamine; tris[hydroxymethyl]aminomethane), and a combination (THAM and hyperventilation) therapy in experimental fluid-percussion injury. Brain lactate, brain pH, inorganic phosphate (Pi), and adenosine triphosphate levels were measured by 1H and 31P MR spectroscopy. Arterial and cerebrovenous lactate and water content in brain tissue was determined in 29 cats using the specific gravimetric technique. Following injury, the phosphocreatine (PCr)/Pi ratio, which is an index of cerebral energy depletion, decreased to 76% in four untreated animals, to 79% in 11 THAM-treated animals, to 68% in seven animals receiving hyperventilation, and to 66% in seven animals with combination THAM and hyperventilation therapy. The PCr/Pi ratio returned to a normal level in 8 hours in animals treated with THAM and THAM in combination with hyperventilation. The brain lactate index increased to 157% in the hyperventilation group after trauma. In cats receiving THAM plus hyperventilation, the brain lactate index was reduced to 142%, while the minimum rise of 126% was associated with treatment of THAM alone. In the THAM-treatment and combination-treatment groups, the water content of the white and gray matter was significantly decreased compared with that in untreated cat brains. Prolonged hyperventilation provided relative ischemia in brain tissue and promoted more production of brain lactate, no recovery of the PCr/Pi ratio, and no decrease in brain edema. On the other hand, administration of THAM decreased production of brain lactate and brain edema and promoted the recovery of cerebral energy dysfunction. It was found that THAM ameliorates the deleterious effects of hyperventilation by minimizing energy disturbance and that it also decreases brain edema. The authors conclude that THAM may be effective in reducing brain tissue acidosis and helpful as a metabolic stabilizing agent following severe head injury. 
Cytokine accumulations in CSF of multiple sclerosis patients: frequent detection of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor but not interleukin-6. We identified the cytokines interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) by specific radioimmunoassays in the CSF of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and other neurologic diseases (OND). There was a high incidence of detectable IL-1 beta in patients with active MS compared with inactive MS or OND patients. TNF was also more frequently present in active MS than in OND CSF. By contrast, most MS CSF did not contain detectable IL-6. There was no correlation between the degree of CSF pleocytosis and the level of individual cytokines, suggesting that cytokine accumulations may be derived from CNS, and not CSF, cells. As IL-1 beta and TNF experimentally induce astrogliosis, demyelination, temperature elevation, lassitude, and sleep, and results raise the possibility that these cytokines may contribute to a variety of manifestations in MS and in other disease states. 
How selective is selective posterior rhizotomy? Although selective posterior rhizotomy has become an increasingly utilized surgical treatment for spasticity, the procedure is unstandardized and is performed differently at various medical centers. Most surgeons use some form of direct dorsal rootlet stimulation with intraoperative multichannel electromyographic response monitoring. Electrophysiological monitoring offers the theoretical advantage of identifying pathologic reflex circuits for interruption while preserving those pathways that are "normal." However, the monitoring technique most commonly used has not been critically evaluated and, therefore, its value remains uncertain. In 22 selective posterior rhizotomy procedures performed for spastic cerebral palsy, the authors were unable to identify a single electromyographic response that could be called normal by presently accepted criteria. Dorsal rootlets were chosen for division on the basis of relative degrees of abnormality. Intraoperative electromyographic monitoring of a nonspastic patient produced tracings suggestive of spasticity by presently accepted criteria. These discrepancies suggest that current electrophysiological monitoring in selective posterior rhizotomy should be reevaluated. 
Profiles of opioid analgesia in humans after intravenous bolus administration: alfentanil, fentanyl and morphine compared on experimental pain. This report examines the relationship of plasma drug concentration to analgesic effect following bolus doses of alfentanil, fentanyl and morphine and assesses individual differences in analgesic response among volunteers. We predicted that the 3 opioids would yield disparate analgesic profiles because their physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characteristics differ. Ten healthy volunteers received intravenous bolus doses of either alfentanil, fentanyl, morphine or normal saline on different days. We stimulated their teeth electrically and measured brain evoked potential (EP) and pain report (PR) repeatedly over 2 h to assess analgesic effect. Concurrently, we drew 18 blood samples to assess opioid plasma concentrations during the test period. The relationship between opioid plasma concentration and analgesic effect was well defined for alfentanil but ambiguous for morphine. Fentanyl exhibited a marked hysteresis. We observed noteworthy individual differences in analgesic response with all 3 drugs but these differences were greatest for morphine and least for alfentanil. Inter- and intrasubject variability in analgesic response across drugs is related to the physicochemical properties of the drugs tested. 
Shunt nephritis. Case report. The incidence of shunt nephritis has decreased over the past several years due to the increased use of ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunts rather than the ventriculovascular systems for which this complication was originally reported in 1965. Despite this trend, the syndrome has been reported in cases of VP shunting and, for this reason, merit a renewed look. Shunt nephritis is thought to be secondary to immune complex formation and deposition in the kidney in response to Staphylococcus epidermidis. The diagnostic workup and management of this disease is discussed. 
Deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood. A natural history of fifty-two patients. We report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients (ninety-five hips) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood. There were twenty-one African, twenty-one West Indian, and ten Mediterranean patients. At the most recent follow-up examination (at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease), 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility, limb-length discrepancy, and an abnormal gait. When the patients were evaluated, at an average age of thirty-one years, fifteen hips (16 per cent) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty (63 per cent) had major problems because of pain. Of the twenty hips (21 per cent) that were not painful, five were in patients who had an abnormal gait, with decreased agility. The mean Iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points (range, 30 to 100 points). Correlations were found between the hip score and the patient's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up, between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip, and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip. 
Neonatal facial and cry responses to invasive and non-invasive procedures. Evaluation of pain in neonates is difficult due to their limited means of communication. The aim was to determine whether behavioural reactions of cry and facial activity provoked by an invasive procedure could be discriminated from responses to non-invasive tactile events. Thirty-six healthy full-term infants (mean age 2.2 h) received 3 procedures in counterbalanced order: intramuscular injection, application of triple dye to the umbilical stub, and rubbing thigh with alcohol. Significant effects of procedure were found for total face activity and latency to face movement. A cluster of facial actions comprised of brow bulging, eyes squeezed shut, deepening of the naso-labial furrow and open mouth was associated most frequently with the invasive procedure. Comparisons between the 2 non-invasive procedures showed more facial activity to thigh swabbing and least to application of triple dye to the umbilical cord. Acoustic analysis of cry showed statistically significant differences across procedures only for latency to cry and cry duration for the group as a whole. However, babies who cried to two procedures showed higher pitch and greater intensity to the injection. There were no significant differences in melody, dysphonation, or jitter. Methodological difficulties for investigators in this area were examined, including criteria for the selection of cries for analysis, and the logical and statistical challenges of contrasting cries induced by different conditions when some babies do not always cry. It was concluded that facial expression, in combination with short latency to onset of cry and long duration of first cry cycle typifies reaction to acute invasive procedures. 
Long-term follow-up of the use of nonporous hydroxyapatite for augmentation of the alveolar ridge. Particulate hydroxyapatite (HA) was used in the augmentation of 18 mandibular and four maxillary ridges in 21 patients whose cases were followed postoperatively for 5 to 7 years. Patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and through questionnaires. Prosthodontic assessment of retention and stability of dentures showed improvement 5 years postoperatively. Patients receiving HA rated their dentures favorably using parameters of the Cornell Medical Index. The results of this study show that particulate HA alone can be used as a satisfactory material for augmentation of the alveolar ridge. 
A comparison of regulatory cells in spinal fluid and blood in patients with multiple sclerosis and other neurologic diseases. Multiple sclerosis is a disease in which immune abnormalities are present both in the CNS and peripheral blood. Whether these changes are primary or secondary to the disease process is not known. We tested T-cell clones derived from activated lymphocytes in the blood and CSF of MS patients and controls for their capacity to regulate T-cell responses to alloantigens. A wide spectrum of regulatory functions were observed, ranging from marked enhancement to almost complete suppression. Clones from different patient populations and anatomic sites were equivalent in their regulatory functions with the net effect of clones in each compartment being suppression. However, certain clones from CSF and peripheral blood had the capacity to stimulate autologous T cells. Percentages of such clones in the peripheral blood of MS patients were significantly higher than in controls, while percentages in MS and other neurologic diseases (OND) CSF were equivalent. Our data suggest that (1) functional suppressor cells are not lost from the blood or CSF or MS and OND patients, (2) lymphocytes that have entered the CNS in patients with MS and other CNS diseases have equivalent regulatory functions, (3) MS may be an illness in which peripheral immunologic events are important in perpetuating the disease process, and (4) responses to autologous antigens may also play a role in this perpetuation. 
Effect of systemic medetomidine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist, on experimental pain in humans. The effect of systemic (intravenous) medetomidine, an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, on pain thresholds was studied in healthy human subjects (n = 6). Medetomidine produced a dose-dependent (cumulative doses: 25 and 50 micrograms) sedative effect evaluated by visual analog scale. Also, a dose-dependent decrease of blood pressure but not of heart rate was seen after administration of medetomidine. Pain threshold to electric stimulation of the tooth pulp and cutaneous heat pain threshold were uninfluenced by medetomidine. An index of cutaneous thermal sensitivity to innocuous stimuli, the width of the thermoneutral zone, also was uninfluenced by medetomidine. Medetomidine produced a significant attenuation of the affective-motivational component (unpleasantness) of tourniquet-induced ischemic pain, whereas the sensory-discriminative component (pain magnitude estimate) of the ischemic pain was not attenuated. The results suggest that systemic medetomidine alone at subanesthetic but sedative and hypotensive doses does not significantly influence the intensity and thresholds of experimental pain, whereas the affective-motivational component of pain can be attenuated. 
Borderzone hemodynamics in cerebrovascular disease. To investigate the possible existence of chronic selective hemodynamic impairment in the arterial borderzone regions of the brain, we used positron emission tomography (PET) to measure regional mean vascular transit time (rt, equal to the ratio of regional cerebral blood volume to cerebral blood flow) and regional oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF) in 32 patients with either severe internal carotid artery stenosis or occlusion and 11 normal controls. Twenty-four of the patients had had TIAs or amaurosis fugax from 1 to 60 days before PET; all had normal brain CT. We used a stereotactic localization method to locate the anterior and posterior borderzone regions of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory. We then calculated ratios of each borderzone to the ipsilateral MCA territory for both rt and rOEF. There was no significant difference from control ratios in any patient subgroup including those with greater than or equal to 75% stenosis or occlusion, those with or without contralateral greater than or equal to 50% stenosis, or those with abnormal hemodynamics in the MCA territory. We therefore found no evidence for selective borderzone hemodynamic impairment in this group of patients with severe carotid artery disease. 
Inconsistent response to divalproex sodium in hemichorea/hemiballism. We report 6 patients with hemichorea/hemiballism of vascular origin who were treated with divalproex sodium (Depakote). Four of 6 responded initially. Marked improvement was seen in 2 patients only and in 1 of these hemiballism recurred despite continuing therapy. Divalproex sodium is not uniformly effective in the treatment of hemichorea/hemiballism. 
Propofol infusion for control of status epilepticus. Two patients with status epilepticus who were resistant to conventional treatment but responded to propofol infusions are reported. An electroencephalogram confirmed the seizures and their successful treatment. 
Neurologic complications of cocaine abuse. The neurologic complications of cocaine toxicity are responsible for a major portion of the morbidity and mortality associated with cocaine. Most of the complications appear to be related to the hyperadrenergic state induced by cocaine and may be treated symptomatically. Diazepam is the most effective drug for cocaine-induced seizures. 
Tourette syndrome: recent advances. Clinical and genetic studies have allowed the limits of Tourette syndrome to be broadened. There is now strong evidence that chronic motor tics and Tourette syndrome are different manifestations of an autosomal dominant gene with high penetrance. A genetic link with obsessive-compulsive disorder also appears to have been established. Up to 10% of cases of Tourette syndrome may be nongenetic phenocopies, however. There is also an association between Tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. This complicates therapy, as psychostimulant drugs may precipitate or exacerbate tics in some individuals. A high proportion of patients with Tourette syndrome also has neuropsychological deficits and learning disabilities. The pathophysiology is incompletely understood. The best supported hypothesis is that there is dopamine receptor supersensitivity, although there are strong suggestions of abnormalities in serotonin metabolism. The possibility of abnormalities in neuropeptide systems is being explored. Treatment of tics relies primarily on neuroleptics with dopamine receptor blocking activity. Clonidine may be useful in some patients, especially those with behavior problems. Obsessive-compulsive symptoms can be treated using appropriate pharmacologic agents. The treatment of attention deficit disorder in patients with tics should begin with behavioral strategies. Clonidine can be tried as the first-line drug, and psychostimulants should be used only if necessary and with great caution. In rare instances it may be necessary to combine a psychostimulant and a neuroleptic. 
Radial tunnel syndrome. An investigation of compression neuropathy as a possible cause. Conventional electromyographic and nerve-conduction studies usually do not show abnormalities in patients who have a clinical diagnosis of radial tunnel syndrome. Therefore, posterior interosseous nerve-conduction measurements were performed during forced supination in patients who had this syndrome. Only one of sixteen patients had a major increase in latency. Our data do not support the hypothesis that the signs and symptoms in most patients who have a diagnosis of radial tunnel syndrome are caused by compression of the posterior interosseous nerve. 
Clonidine treatment of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. The safety and effectiveness of clonidine hydrochloride (3 to 5 micrograms/kg per day) were evaluated in 47 subjects with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, aged 7 to 48 years. Twenty-four subjects were randomly assigned to clonidine treatment and 23 to placebo. Forty subjects (21 given clonidine and 19 placebo) successfully completed the 12-week, double-blind clinical trial. Clinical ratings of tic severity improved for both groups. The magnitude of response was greater in the group receiving clonidine. Clinician-rated measures of motor tic severity, the degree to which the tics are "noticeable to others," motor tic counts from videotaped interviews, and parent-rated measures of impulsivity and hyperactivity were the most responsive to clonidine treatment. These results indicate that clonidine is more effective than placebo in reducing some of the tic and other behavioral symptoms associated with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome. 
Treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ('trigger finger') with corticosteroids. A prospective study of the response to local injection. We developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for "trigger finger." Fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest, therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide. Patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years. Results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61% after a single injection. Recurrent episodes, after prolonged pain-free intervals, occurred in 27% and were effectively re-treated with injection. In 12% of cases, either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release. Local adverse reactions to injection, including pain at the injection site, stiffness, ecchymosis, or atrophy of subcutaneous fat, were self-limited. No episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred. The medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection(s) is effective in nearly 90% of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions. 
Antinociceptive interaction between opioids and medetomidine: systemic additivity and spinal synergy. The antinociceptive interaction on the tail flick (TF) and hot plate (HP) tests between opioid analgesics and medetomidine after intravenous (iv) or intrathecal administration were examined by isobolographic analysis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received fixed ratios of medetomidine to morphine, fentanyl, and meperidine of 1:10 and 1:30, 10:1, and 1:3, respectively, by iv administration or 10:1, 3:1 and 10:1, and 1:3 by intrathecal administration, respectively. Data were expressed as the percentage maximal possible effect (%MPE). The A50 (dose producing 50% MPE) for each drug or drug combination was determined from the dose-response curve. Isobolographic analysis revealed that the effect of medetomidine combined with fentanyl, morphine, or meperidine was additive after iv administration. The intrathecal administration of combinations of medetomidine with the opioids produced a synergistic antinociceptive effect in the TF but not HP test. These data confirmed that the interaction between medetomidine and opioids in producing antinociception may be additive or synergistic, depending on the route of administration, drug ratio administered, and level of processing of the nociceptive input (i.e., spinal vs. supraspinal). Moreover, these results were consistent with a spinal role for alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating antinociception. The authors suggest that the interaction between the opioid and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors occurs within the spinal cord. 
Transcranial Doppler in reversible migrainous vasospasm causing cerebellar infarction: report of a case. A young woman with a history of classic migraine suffered a large cerebellar infarction. Comprehensive evaluation did not disclose any potential causes for the stroke and she had no other risk factors. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) was useful in identifying vasospasm of the vertebral arteries. Following treatment with propranolol, angiography and repeat TCD revealed resolution of the vasospastic disorder. TCD is a useful noninvasive tool in detecting vasospasm associated with ischemic lesions in certain patients with migraine. 
Differences in the membrane interaction of scrapie amyloid precursor proteins in normal and scrapie- or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease-infected brains. The membrane interaction and hydrophobicity of the normal (PrPC) and infectious isoform (PrPSc/CJD) of scrapie and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease amyloid precursor proteins was studied. The normal isoform of hamster and human scrapie amyloid precursor protein was found on the microsomal/synaptosomal membranes anchored solely by the C-terminal glycolipid. Glycolipid cleavage resulted in dissociation from the membranes and change of behavior from a highly hydrophobic to a hydrophilic protein, susceptible to proteases. In contrast, the PrPSc/CJD isoform was resistant to release by glycolipid-cleaving enzymes. A part of PrPSc/CJD was released from the membranes after prolonged trypsin treatment, yielding a further protease-resistant product of 27-30 kDa. The results demonstrate the proteolytic resistance of the membrane-bound PrPSc/CJD isoform and also indicate the presence of a different, apparently disease-induced mechanism of membrane interaction in the scrapie- and CJD-infected microsomal and synaptosomal membranes. 
Pregnancy in a patient with treated Wilson's disease: a case report. Pregnancy should have a successful outcome in a patient with treated Wilson's disease if complications are excluded before conception. Chelating treatment must be maintained, although there is some concern about its teratogenicity. We describe the course of pregnancy in a patient followed up in our department. 
Confusion. The term confusion describes a plethora of possible cognitive deficits and behavioral manifestations. A subjective assessment of confusion must be followed by an objective systematic evaluation to develop the cognitive-behavior profile. Because of age-associated physiologic and pathologic changes, elderly patients are at high risk for developing acute confusion. The management of confusion presents a challenge to nursing. Nursing can play a significant role in the prevention and the early detection of acute confusion. Preventing or identifying confusion early will decrease the physical and psychological stress of the patient as well as decrease the cost of hospitalization by shortening length of stay. Additional research is needed to determine the efficacy of present nursing activities and to identify new approaches for management. 
Tables for estimation of individual risks of fetal neural tube and ventral wall defects, incorporating prior probability, maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels, and ultrasonographic examination results. Tables are provided for estimation of the risk of open spina bifida in patients who have elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels but normal results on detailed anatomy ultrasonographic scan. Risks are provided for various prior population risks, for various levels of elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein, and for various assumptions about the sensitivity of ultrasonographic examination. The formula used is based on sequential multiplication of odds with the use of Bayes' theorem, but an arbitrary reduction (to the power of 0.5) in the degree to which ultrasonographic information modifies the odds has been made to allow for the nonindependence of ultrasonography and maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein tests. The wide range of resulting risks shows that the decision to offer amniocentesis after a negative scan should be individualized. 
Meningitis due to protozoa and helminths. This article reviews the microbiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, clinical manifestations, diagnostic tests, and recent advances in the therapy of protozoan and helminthic infections of the central nervous system, with more emphasis given to protozoan than to helminthic infections. 
Tourette syndrome and other tic disorders. Diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment. In this report, we discuss the definition, characteristics, pathophysiology, and treatment of tic disorders with a major emphasis on Tourette syndrome. Although the diagnosis of a tic disorder depends on the presence of motor and/or phonic tic(s), patients with these problems also have a variety of co-morbid features including obsessive-compulsive symptoms, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, behavioral difficulties, and learning disabilities. Conservative estimates for Tourette syndrome suggest a prevalence rate of 0.1-1.0 per 1000. This syndrome is inherited in a sex-influenced autosomal dominant pattern with either chronic multiple tic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder as alternative phenotypes of the putative gene. Current evidence continues to support a pathophysiologic mechanism involving synaptic neurotransmission, with the dopaminergic system as a primary candidate. Therapeutically, it is essential to clarify whether a patient's problems are related to tics or associated behavioral difficulties. Pharmacotherapy for motor and phonic tics is strictly symptomatic and should be reserved for those with functionally disabling symptoms. A comprehensive individualized treatment program is often required in the care of individuals with tic disorders. 
Untying the gordian knot: the genetics of Tourette syndrome. A review of the current status of the genetics of Tourette syndrome is presented. Over the course of the 104 years since Gilles de la Tourette described the syndrome that bears his name, a body of carefully collected, described, and analyzed data has produced a model of the genetics that implicates a single dominant gene that is variably penetrant in males and females. Moreover, the locus of action of this gene is most likely in the dopaminergic system of the midbrain. A systematic search for this gene using recombinant DNA techniques is under way. 
Diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine and serious neurologic illness: an updated review of the epidemiologic evidence. A widespread impression that DTP vaccine does cause brain damage has been based first on historical precedent--smallpox and rabies vaccines were recognized as sometimes causing devastating neurologic illness; analogy to pertussis--the disease can cause encephalopathy; and more recently on anecdotal evidence, particularly case series. A noncausal relationship--coincidence--could explain the temporal relation between DTP vaccine and neurologic illness, inasmuch as DTP vaccine is given at the age of emergence of idiopathic neurologic disease. The relationship between DTP vaccine and neurologic illness lacks specificity. Case series have had an impact on both physicians' and the lay public's impression of the safety of pertussis vaccine greatly out of proportion to their scientific importance. Case series can be useful for generating hypotheses but cannot provide evidence that pertussis vaccine is causally related to acute neurologic illness or brain damage. Observational studies using cohort and ecologic designs did not find an association between DTP vaccine and serious neurologic illness, but they were not powerful enough to detect an association as rare as that observed by the NCES investigators. The case-control design offers the best chance of providing causal evidence regarding DTP vaccine and serious neurologic illness. The NCES is the only published case-control study of this issue. This study found a rare association between DTP vaccine and some types of acute neurologic illness. Bias and chance are unlikely to account entirely for the association demonstrated by the NCES. However, the association has not yet been replicated by other case-control studies. The NCES does not demonstrate that DTP vaccine causes permanent brain damage. 
Spontaneous neurodegeneration in transgenic mice with mutant prion protein Transgenic mice were created to assess genetic linkage between Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome and a leucine substitution at codon 102 of the human prion protein gene. Spontaneous neurologic disease with spongiform degeneration and gliosis similar to that in mouse scrapie developed at a mean age of 166 days in 35 mice expressing mouse prion protein with the leucine substitution. Thus, many of the clinical and pathological features of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome are reproduced in transgenic mice containing a prion protein with a single amino acid substitution, illustrating that a neurodegenerative process similar to a human disease can be genetically modeled in animals. 
Lymphoma, motor neuron diseases, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We studied 9 patients with motor neuron disease and lymphoma. The following several observations have not been recognized in the past: (1) Motor neuron syndromes are associated with either Hodgkin's disease or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. (2) The syndromes are not restricted to lower motor neuron disorders; 8 of 9 patients had definite or probable upper motor neuron signs as well, qualifying for the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Corticospinal tracts were affected in both postmortem examinations. (3) The combination of motor neuron disease and lymphoma is often accompanied by paraproteinemia (3 of 7 patients studied), increased cerebrospinal fluid protein content (6 of 9 patients), and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands (3 of 9 patients). (4) In 2 patients, asymptomatic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was found only because the discovery of paraproteinemia gave impetus to examine the bone marrow. (5) Patients with both upper and lower motor neuron signs (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) may show physiological evidence of conduction block in peripheral nerves or autopsy abnormalities in peripheral nerves. The cause of this syndrome is not known. Both lymphoma and motor neuron disease could have a common cause, possibly a retroviral infection. The frequency of paraproteinemia suggests that an immunological disorder may play a role in the pathogenesis of the neurological disorder. 
Specificity of affective and autonomic symptoms of depression in Parkinson's disease. Previous investigators have suggested that numerous symptoms used to diagnose depression, such as sleep or appetite disturbance, are non-specific in medically ill patients, and alternative diagnostic criteria should be developed. In the study this hypothesis was tested in Parkinson's disease (PD) by comparing patients with PD who reported a depressive mood with patients having PD but without a depressive mood. Depressed patients showed a significantly higher frequency of both autonomic and affective symptoms of depression. Depressed patients with PD reported a significantly higher frequency of worrying, brooding, loss of interest, hopelessness, suicidal tendencies, social withdrawal, self-depreciation, ideas of reference, anxiety symptoms, loss of appetite, initial and middle insomnia, and loss of libido when compared with non-depressed patients. No significant between-group differences, however, were observed in the frequency of anergia, motor retardation, and early morning awakening. 
Ataxia and peripheral neuropathy: a benign variant of peroxisome dysgenesis. A 5-year-old boy with panperoxisomal dysfunction is described. Clinical features included hypotonia, areflexia, and ataxia. Cognition, vision, hearing, and hepatic function were normal. A panel of peroxisomal markers, including very-long-chain fatty acids, phytanic acid, pipecolic acid, and catalase compartmentalization, were abnormal. This is a uniquely benign syndrome of disordered peroxisome biogenesis. 
Cyclosporin-associated akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome after liver transplantation. Three patients developed akinetic mutism on the third day after the introduction of intravenous cyclosporin A, given for immunosuppression after liver transplantation. One patient in addition developed a florid orofacial dyskinesia, which resolved completely, as did the akinetic mutism, after withdrawal of cyclosporin. In these patients the time course of the akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome, which developed in the absence of any other identifiable cause, suggests cyclosporin A was the precipitating factor. Subsequently, two of the patients showed signs of pseudobulbar palsy with abnormalities in the pons on MRI scanning, suggesting central pontine myelinolysis (CPM). None of the patients had experienced significant fluctuations in serum sodium or other risk factors for central pontine myelinolysis and the exact relationship to the earlier cyclosporin related mutism was not clear. 
Schindler disease: the molecular lesion in the alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase gene that causes an infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. Schindler disease is a recently recognized infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy resulting from the deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase, alpha-N-acetylgalctosaminidase (alpha-GalNAc). The recent isolation and expression of the full-length cDNA encoding alpha-GalNAc facilitated the identification of the molecular lesions in the affected brothers from family D, the first cases described with this autosomal recessive disease. Southern and Northern hybridization analyses of DNA and RNA from the affected homozygotes revealed a grossly normal alpha-GalNAc gene structure and normal transcript sizes and amounts. Therefore, the alpha-GalNAc transcript from an affected homozygote was reverse-transcribed, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and sequenced. A single G to A transition at nucleotide 973 was detected in multiple subclones containing the PCR products. This point mutation resulted in a glutamic acid to lysine substitution in residue 325 (E325K) of the alpha-GalNAc polypeptide. The base substitution was confirmed by dot blot hybridization analyses of PCR-amplified genomic DNA from family members with allele-specific oligonucleotides. Furthermore, transient expression of an alpha-GalNAc construct containing the E325K mutation resulted in the expression of an immunoreactive polypeptide which had no detectable alpha-GalNAc activity. 
Occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma. Reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling. Although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture, it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle. The mechanism, diagnosis, and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed, as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium. Dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient's retropharyngeal hematoma. In addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury, post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture. To avoid overlooking such fractures, computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles. 
The classification and diagnosis of headache disorders. Headache disorders recently have been reclassified, and new operational diagnostic criteria assist in making the correct diagnosis. These diagnostic criteria have been accepted worldwide. 
Pain control in the ambulatory elderly. Pain control in the elderly, no matter what the etiology or setting, can be a major clinical challenge. Aging causes unique physiologic changes, eg, a decreased perception of pain and an enhanced sensitivity to opioid analgesics. Principles regarding evaluation of patients with pain are reviewed, including the use of an objective instrument for pain assessment from the viewpoint of both physician and patient. Good pain control can be achieved with the nonopioids, such as acetaminophen and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the opioid analgesics, and, in some cases, adjuvant agents. Discussed also are the concerns for patient addiction and the WHO Cancer Pain Relief program. 
Angiographic changes suggestive of vasospasm in migraine complicated by stroke. A 30-year-old woman with a history of common migraine developed a permanent left homonymous hemianopia during a typical headache. CT scan demonstrated a right posterior cerebral infarction and angiography showed irregular narrowing of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery, suggestive of vasospasm. In the case no risk factors for atherosclerotic stroke were present except for smoking, and no other causes of stroke could be found. 
Secondary deposition of beta amyloid within extracellular neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer-type dementia. The hippocampal areas of 34 autopsy specimen brains from aged demented and nondemented subjects were examined using double staining of Bodian and beta protein. In 18 cases (75.5 +/- 7.4 years old), none of the extracellular neurofibrillary tangles (E-NFTs) were immunoreactive with beta protein. In 16 cases (82.9 +/- 5.4 years old), the minority of E-NFTs were immunoreactive with beta-protein antiserum. These beta-immunoreactive E-NFTs frequently appeared in the areas having senile plaques, while they were not observed in the area lacking beta-immunoreactive senile plaques. The ultrastructure of beta-immunoreactive E-NFTs revealed that they consisted of extracellular amyloid fibrils, extracellularly located bundles of paired helical filaments, astroglial processes and degenerating neurites. These findings suggest that the beta immunoreactivity of E-NFTs comes from secondary deposition of amyloid fibrils. 
Arterial responses during migraine headache. The superficial temporal artery has been thought to be the main focus of pain during migraine attacks, but its diameter has never been measured directly. The use of a new, high-resolution ultrasound machine to measure arterial size in 25 migraine patients with unilateral head pain showed that the lumen was wider on the painful than on the non-painful side during a migraine attack. The diameters of both radial arteries and the temporal artery on the non-painful side were smaller during than between attacks. The generalised vasoconstriction was not shared by the temporal artery on the affected side, which suggests a local vasodilatory response. The findings suggest that cephalic arteries may play a role in migraine pathogenesis. 
A practical approach to the painful bladder syndrome. The painful bladder syndrome (PBS) is a progressive and painful disease of the bladder that may lead to fibrosis, contracture and reduction of bladder capacity. The usual symptoms are urinary urgency, frequency, nocturia, chronic pelvic pain and lower abdominal pain upon filling of the bladder. A retrospective analysis was performed on 21 women with PBS between March 1987 and March 1988. The patients were treated weekly with a bladder pillar block, bladder distention and dimethyl sulfoxide instillation. Symptomatic relief was observed in 80% of the patients so treated. The maximum bladder volume increased from 185 to 475 mL (P less than .01). The side effects were minimal. 
The effect of improved cementing techniques on component loosening in total hip replacement. An 11-year radiographic review. Improved cementing techniques have been shown to decrease the rate of aseptic loosening of femoral components of cemented total hip replacements at five to seven years. We now report our results in 105 hips in 93 patients at 10 to 12.7 years (mean 11.2). The improved techniques included use of a medullary plug, a cement gun, a doughy mix of Simplex P and a collared stem of chrome cobalt. Only three femoral components had definitely loosened, none were probably loose and 24 were graded as possibly loose. In contrast, the incidence of radiographic loosening on the acetabular side was 42%. Improved cementing techniques have produced a marked reduction in the rate of aseptic loosening of the femoral component, but the incidence of acetabular loosening is unchanged. 
Electroencephalographic parameters in assessing the cognitive function of children with epilepsy. Many biological and psychological possibilities have to be considered when attempting to explain cognitive dysfunction in the individual child with epilepsy. Electroencephalographic (EEG) information, which may be particularly relevant in some children, has mainly been studied in relation to the possible direct effects of seizure discharges on learning and behavior. Such discharges can be divided into transient, brief or prolonged. Prolonged seizure discharges includes nonconvulsive status epilepticus during wakefulness and status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep. In addition to the influence of seizure discharges, preliminary findings suggest that some children with epilepsy might have a subtle disorder of arousal mechanisms in sleep, possibly associated with impaired daytime performance. 
Neuroophthalmologic effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate. To test the hypothesis that visual disturbances are more common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration than at 1 to 4 days after discontinuation of the drug, 13 women underwent bedside neuroophthalmologic examinations during intravenous magnesium sulfate tocolysis at 2.0 to 3.0 gm hr and again at 1 to 4 days after cessation of therapy. Visual symptoms were common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. Blurred vision was present in 12 of 13 patients and diplopia was present in 10 of 13 patients. Abnormal findings during neuroophthalmologic examination occurred in all patients during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration. Findings included ptosis, accommodative and convergence insufficiency, and abnormal pupillary responsiveness to light and near. All patients were symptom-free and had normal examinations after magnesium sulfate was discontinued. These findings suggest that visual disturbances with therapeutic magnesium sulfate are common. 
Primary progressive aphasia. Longitudinal course, neuropsychological profile, and language features. Four patients with the clinical syndrome of primary progressive aphasia and a nonfluent aphasia profile were followed up over a period of 3 to 5 years. Extensive neuropsychological data for three patients revealed a progressive, quantitative decline of language with relative stability of memory, visuospatial skills, and reasoning. Comportment and most activities of daily living were preserved even when speech was unintelligible. Although several aphasia types may be associated with primary progressive aphasia, a nonfluent aphasia profile and phonemic paraphasic errors are most useful in differentiating it from the much more common clinical syndrome, "probable Alzheimer's disease." The clinicopathological correlates of probable Alzheimer's disease differ from those associated with primary progressive aphasia. Therefore, the clinical distinction between the two syndromes may be important for predicting the underlying pathophysiologic changes during the life of the patient. 
Progress in the search for genetic linkage with Tourette syndrome: an exclusion map covering more than 50% of the autosomal genome. Gilles de la Tourette syndrome is a neuropsychiatric disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance and reduced penetrance at a single genetic locus. Several research groups have genetic linkage studies underway to detect the chromosomal location of the gene that predisposes for this disorder. Strong and clear evidence of linkage has not yet been produced for Tourette syndrome. This paper presents an overview of the methods and progress of the groups centered at Yale University and Erasmus University in excluding linkage from a large portion of the genome. Our labs have screened 228 genetic marker loci for linkage with a gene for this disorder in a series of affected families in the United States, Canada, The Netherlands, and Norway. More than 50% (and perhaps as much as 66%) of the autosomal genome has now been excluded on the assumption that genetic heterogeneity is not an important factor in the Tourette syndrome pedigrees pooled for this summary. 
Loss of consciousness after emergence from anaesthesia. A case of suspected micturition syncope. A case of postanaesthesia micturition syncope with respiratory arrest is described. If syncope occurs, the temporary myocardial ischaemia and cerebral hypoperfusion may increase anaesthetic risk in the marginally compensated patient. The loss of airway protection during the syncopal period is also a cause of concern. We recommend the use of an indwelling bladder catheter during any prolonged surgical procedure. 
Familial eating epilepsy. Eating-related seizures affecting 20 individuals among 59 siblings belonging to nine families are presented. The type of epilepsy was partial in all the affected individuals, and the seizures complex in 15 and simple in 5, secondarily generalized in the majority. The onset of epilepsy, in most cases, was in the second decade of life. A remarkable degree of intra-family consistency was observed with regard to age at onset, symptomatology of seizures and timing of eating seizures. The study demonstrates sibling clustering in a partial epilepsy, implicating for the first time genetic susceptibility in the aetiology of eating epilepsy. 
The value of intubating and paralyzing patients with suspected head injury in the emergency department. One hundred consecutive trauma patients who underwent planned emergency intubation with muscle paralysis in the ED were studied to investigate the safety of these procedures and to determine their impact on the evaluation of patients with suspected head injury. Patients were intubated by either a surgeon (n = 47) or anesthesiologist (n = 53), and paralyzed with either vecuronium (n = 59) or succinylcholine (n = 41). Nasal intubation was used in 40 patients, oral in 57, and cricothyroidotomy in three. Ninety-four patients with suspected head injuries had a CT scan performed. Fifty-five (59%) had a positive scan and 15 required emergent neurosurgical intervention. Only two patients had lateral cervical spine roentgenograms before intubation; seven patients were eventually found to have cervical fractures. No patient suffered a neurologic deficit. One patient developed aspiration pneumonia following intubation. The three failed intubations occurred in patients with multiple facial fractures. We conclude that induced paralysis and intubation in the ED is safe, can facilitate the diagnostic workup, and may be a potentially life-saving maneuver in combative trauma patients. 
A multifocal schwannoma of the masseteric nerve causing hemicrania. A case is reported of schwannoma of the right masseteric nerve, invading the pterygopalatine fossa and the parapharyngeal space through the mandibular notch in a 61-year-old woman. The tumor in this case was composed of four various-sized interconnected nodules, simulating a string of beads. The tumor was the cause of the patient's chronic hemicrania, as confirmed by the relief from and disappearance of head pain after surgical removal of the tumor. The most important aspects of this case are the anatomic site of the schwannoma and its uncommon clinicopathologic manifestations; this tumor originated from the masseteric nerve and is the first case reported to straddle the mandibular notch. 
Limb-body wall complex with complete absence of external genitalia after in vitro fertilization. The first case of limb-body wall complex (a combination of a body wall defect, neural tube defect, and limb abnormalities) after IVF is described. This is the third reported patient with this complex anomaly associated with complete absence of external genitalia. The possible pathogenic mechanisms are discussed. 
A single case of Huntington's disease simultaneously occurring with obstructive hydrocephalus. A case of simultaneously occurring Huntington's disease and obstructive hydrocephalus is presented. Huntington's and other neurodegenerative diseases have been described with normal-pressure hydrocephalus; however, no such description with obstructive hydrocephalus has been reported. The obstructive hydrocephalus displays a familial tendency in its presentation. 
Spontaneous electromyographic potentials in chronic spinal cord injured patients: relation to spasticity and length of nerve. Nine patients with complete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) had their vastus medialis, tibialis anterior, and gastrocnemius muscles evaluated with an electromyographic (EMG) examination in the acute (four to eight weeks) and chronic (more than one year) phases. The hypothesis that spontaneous EMG activity changes with time was assessed. During the chronic phase evaluation, a conduction study was performed to rule out peripheral nerve damage, and the amount of reflex activity was assessed on a scale of 0 to 5 (0 = areflexia; 5 = greater than 5 beats of clonus) to estimate the amount of spasticity. Subjects demonstrated normal conduction through the sensory (sural nerve) and/or motor segments of the peroneal and tibial nerves. In the acute phase, each muscle had spontaneous activity with no significant variation between different muscles of the same patient. In the chronic phase, there was a positive correlation between the degree of spontaneous activity in a muscle and the length of its axon (p less than .01) and a negative correlation between the amount of spontaneous activity and the degree of reflex activity (p less than .01). Specifically, the lower motor neuron in the chronic phase of an SCI seems to behave much like an axonopathy where the degree of spontaneous EMG activity is dependent on the length of the axon, with the additional concept that spontaneous activity is inhibited by spasticity. 
Biological correlates of mental activity studied with PET. The development of newer imaging techniques that allow direct investigation of the function of the human brain under normal and pathological conditions has affected the way in which we conceive of the mind/brain relation. In this report the authors use examples from findings obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) to illustrate the highly interactive organization of the brain. Because operations in the brain require the participation of various brain areas, a model that does not require a one-to-one relationship between the physical and mental, but rather allows an association between clusters of physical processes and one or more mental phenomena, may reflect better the relation between physical brain phenomena and mental activities. 
Infarction in the anterior rostral cerebellum (the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery). We report 9 patients with an isolated infarct of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum, ie, the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery. Clinicoanatomic correlations are based on CT, MRI, or both in 8 patients and on pathologic data in the ninth. The main clinical features were ipsilateral dysmetria and axial lateropulsion, dysarthria, and unsteadiness. In 1 patient, the clinical presentation mimicked a lacunar stroke (dysarthria and clumsy hand syndrome). There were no edematous cerebellar infarcts with signs of brainstem compression, and all patients spontaneously improved without significant sequellae. Angiography in 2 patients and pathologic examination of arteries in 1 patient disclosed no occlusion in the vertebrobasilar system. Six patients had a cardiac source of emboli. In conclusion, infarcts of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum can be regarded as a benign condition in which there is, frequently, a cardiac source of emboli. 
Olfactory identification deficits in HIV infection. OBJECTIVE: Impaired odor identification is described in a number of CNS disorders, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infects the CNS in a large percentage of patients. To evaluate whether impaired olfaction may indicate CNS disease, the authors measured odor identification in patient groups defined along a continuum of progressive immunodeficiency and in a comparison group. METHOD: Most of the 42 HIV-infected patients in the study were outpatients in a clinic specializing in treatment of HIV-infected individuals. The comparison subjects were 37 healthy age- and sex-matched individuals who were recruited from hospital and medical school personnel. Ten of the patients were HIV-seropositive but had no symptoms, 24 had clinical evidence of immunocompromise, and eight had HIV dementia. All subjects were given the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test, which presents common odorants and requires the subject to identify the odor from a four-item word list. The data were analyzed by using analysis of variance after arc-sine transformation and Scheffe post hoc analysis. RESULTS: All patients scored significantly lower on the Smell Identification Test than did the comparison subjects. The patients with HIV dementia had significantly lower scores than did the other two groups of patients. CONCLUSIONS: Clinically, impaired olfaction might serve as a marker of early CNS HIV involvement. Future studies should attempt to match comparison and experimental populations for socioeconomic status and HIV risk behavior. 
Management of meralgia paresthetica Meralgia paresthetica is a syndrome of pain or dysesthesia, or both, in the anterolateral thigh caused by entrapment or neurinoma formation of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. Conservative treatment was successful in relieving symptoms in 91% of 277 patients with this syndrome; however, 24 patients required surgical treatment for intractable symptoms. Although neurolysis with transposition is the most common procedure, sectioning of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve was performed in 24 cases and was successful in 23. One patient had early symptomatic relief, but subsequently developed different neurological signs and symptoms because of an undetected pelvic neoplasm. Anatomical variations of the nerve and neurinomas, which occur frequently, are easily handled with sectioning but may lead to recurrence with neurolysis and transposition. 
Tension pneumocephalus: treatment with controlled decompression via a closed water-seal drainage system. Case report. The successful treatment of a patient with tension pneumocephalus by controlled decompression via external drainage is described. The advantage of the technique includes the immediate release of high pressure and the capability of maintaining constant low pressure to enable and facilitate sealing of dural tears. The method has been used in three other patients, leading to resolution of the tension pneumocephalus without recurrence or other complications. 
Cotton-wool spots and retinal light sensitivity in diabetic retinopathy. In 14 eyes of 14 patients with diabetic retinopathy the light sensitivity of retinal cotton-wool spots was studied by computerised perimetry, and the visual field data were accurately correlated with the corresponding morphology as seen on fundus photographs and fluorescein angiograms. In 12 of the eyes the examinations were repeated within one year in order to follow changes in retinal light sensitivity during the evolution of the lesions. Retinal cotton-wool spots were in all eyes associated with localised non-arcuate scotomata in the visual field. In four eyes the cotton-wool spots disappeared within three months of the first examination, and in two of these cases the corresponding scotomata disappeared together with the morphological lesions. In eight eyes the cotton-wool spots (and the corresponding scotomata) had not resolved one year after the first examination. The mean blood pressure showed no significant difference between the patients in whom the lesions resolved within three months and the patients in whom the lesions persisted longer. 
Alzheimer's disease and related disorders in state mental hospitals: data from a nationwide survey. Notwithstanding three decades of transferring of the elderly to nursing homes, geriatric patients continue to reside in state mental hospitals. Many of these patients, perhaps one-third or more, are thought to suffer from Alzheimer's disease and related disorders (ADRD). This study reports data from a nationwide survey of state hospitals that provides an exploratory look at the ADRD patients currently served in state hospitals. Admission trends, reasons for admission, and sources of referral are described. Civil commitment of nursing home patients with dementing illnesses and the place of the state hospital in the continuum of care for ADRD patients are discussed. 
The absolute number of nerve cells in substantia nigra in normal subjects and in patients with Parkinson's disease estimated with an unbiased stereological method. Using an unbiased stereological technique, the total numbers of pigmented and non-pigmented neurons were estimated in the substantia nigra of seven patients with Parkinson's disease and seven control patients. Compared with the controls, in which the average total number of pigmented neurons was 550,000, the number of neurons was reduced by 66% in the patients. The average total number of non-pigmented neurons was 260,000 in controls and reduced by 24% in the patients. A significant correlation (r = 0.81) existed between the total numbers of pigmented and non-pigmented neurons in the controls, whereas a similar correlation (r = 0.72) in the patients fell just short of statistical significance. The stereological estimates made in this study are unbiased, in that they are independent of nerve cell size, section thickness and of dimensional changes in brain tissue induced by histological procedures. The stereological method is considerably more efficient than previous conventional methods. 
Post-traumatic epilepsy: cellular mechanisms and implications for treatment. Epilepsy complicates severe head trauma. Development of persistent seizures appears to correlate with the extent of trauma. Although early reports suggested that prophylactic administration of antiepileptic drugs would prevent epileptogenesis, controlled studies have failed to corroborate this assumption. Head trauma initiates a sequence of responses that includes altered blood flow and vasoregulation, disruption of the blood-brain barrier, increases in intracranial pressure, focal or diffuse ischemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, necrosis, and disruption of fiber tracts. The presence of an intracranial hematoma has a robust association with the development of post-traumatic epilepsy. Extravasation of blood is followed by hemolysis and deposition of heme-containing compounds into the neuropil, initiating a sequence of univalent redox reactions and generating various free radical species, including superoxides, hydroxyl radicals, peroxides, and perferryl ions. Free radicals initiate peroxidation reactions by hydrogen abstraction from methylene groups adjacent to double bonds of fatty acids and lipids within cellular membranes. Intrinsic enzymatic mechanisms for control of free radical reactions include activation of catalase, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase. Steroids, proteins, and tocopherol also terminate peroxidative reactions. Tocopherol and selenium are effective in preventing tissue injury initiated by ferrous chloride and heme compounds. Treatment strategies for prevention or prophylaxis of post-traumatic epilepsy must await absolute knowledge of mechanisms. Antioxidants and chelators may be useful, given the speculation that peroxidative reactions may be an important component of brain injury responses. However, potential treatment strategies involving gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonists, NMDA receptor antagonists, and barbiturates need further scientific assessment. 
Standard and controlled-release levodopa/carbidopa in patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease on a protein redistribution diet. A preliminary report. Ten patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with motor fluctuations that responded to a protein redistribution diet were studied. All 10 patients were receiving standard Sinemet (levodopa/carbidopa). Five randomly selected patients were changed from standard Sinemet to a controlled-release form of Sinemet. The other five patients continued to receive standard Sinemet. To maintain the same degree of control of PD in the five patients switched to the controlled-release form of Sinemet, the daily levodopa intake increased. While receiving optimal therapy (standard Sinemet or controlled-release Sinemet) and a protein redistribution diet, all 10 patients then underwent hourly videotaping and blood sampling (for plasma levodopa levels) during 2 consecutive days. Videotapes were blindly reviewed for PD disability, dyskinesia, and the time required to walk a measured distance. Comparing the two groups, standard Sinemet with controlled-release Sinemet, respectively, mean levodopa requirements were 505 and 1895 mg, plasma levodopa levels were 6.1 and 17.6 mumol/L, and abnormal involuntary movement scale scores were 14 and 26. Their mean PD disability scores did not differ statistically or clinically. Also no statistically significant differences were noted in either their mean walking times or their mean daily dose frequencies. 
Clinical diagnosis of Binswanger's disease. To aid in the prospective study of Binswanger's disease, a poorly understood form of vascular dementia, a standardised criteria for its antemortem diagnosis was proposed. These criteria include dementia, bilateral radiological abnormalities on computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and at least two of the following three clinical findings: A) a vascular risk factor or evidence of systemic vascular disease; B) evidence of focal cerebrovascular disease; and C) evidence of "subcortical" cerebral dysfunction. These criteria were validated in two ways. First, by retrospectively applying them to a series of 30 demented patients with various pathological diagnoses. Second, by prospectively applying them to a series of 184 patients with clinically typical Alzheimer's disease. The sensitivity and specificity of the criteria appear adequate for use in clinical research. 
Plasma antiepileptic drug concentrations during pregnancy. Steady-state plasma antiepileptic drug (AED) concentrations were measured at intervals throughout pregnancy and during the postnatal period in 105 women who underwent 134 pregnancies. Phenytoin (PHT) dosage had to be increased in 85% of pregnancies in which the drug was received, carbamazepine (CBZ) dosage in 70%, and phenobarbital (PB) or methylphenobarbital (MPB) dosage in 85%, in an attempt to prevent or correct a fall in plasma concentrations of the respective drugs as pregnancy progressed. The altered disposition of the AEDs usually began in the first 10 weeks of pregnancy (often before epileptic pregnant women are referred for neurological supervision), and had returned to baseline value within 4 weeks of childbirth in two thirds of the women receiving PHT. The return to the nonpregnant situation appeared to be slower for CBZ, PB, and MPB. In women studied during more than one pregnancy, the changes in AED dosage to plasma concentration ratios tended to be greater in the first than in the subsequent pregnancies. Full seizure control prior to pregnancy was associated with a more favorable outcome for freedom from seizures during pregnancy. However, the plasma level monitoring-dosage adjustment policy produced no marked improvement in overall seizure control in pregnancy. This may have occurred because some patients were seen too late in their pregnancies for the policy to have been applied optimally. 
Immunologic aspects of carbamazepine treatment in epileptic patients. Immune abnormalities have been found in epileptic patients receiving antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Phenytoin (PHT) produces a decrease in serum IgA and IgM levels and a decrease in blastic transformation of circulating lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemoagglutinin (PHA). The effects of carbamazepine (CBZ) on the immune response are still conflicting. To elucidate the effects of CBZ on some immunologic parameters, serum concentrations of IgA, IgG, IgM, the phagocytosis and killing properties of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs), the cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells and the response of lymphocytes to mitogenic agents were studied. Forty healthy individuals and 39 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine (CBZ) monotherapy (age range 18-40 years) entered the study. Student's t test was used to evaluate the data. CBZ had no effect on the serum immunoglobulin concentrations or on lymphocytic reactivity to phytohemoagglutinin (PHA) mitogen. CBZ produced a significant enhancement of phagocytosis and killing properties of PMNs and an increase in natural killer (NK) cell activity. Therefore, a negative effect of CBZ therapy on the immune system was not observed in this study. 
Saphenous nerve entrapment caused by pes anserine bursitis mimicking stress fracture of the tibia. Numerous studies have addressed saphenous nerve entrapment at the level of the adductor canal. In this case, we report an entrapment syndrome located further distally occurring as part of an athletic overuse injury. Distal tibial pain, initially managed as a stress fracture, resolved when a pes anserine bursitis was treated. This was associated with return of saphenous nerve potentials along the tibia. 
Bimanual simultaneous motor performance and impaired ability to shift attention in Parkinson's disease. The ability to share time and to shift attention between bimanual simultaneous motor tasks were studied in 18 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 19 age- and intelligence-matched controls. The task consisted of drawing triangles with the dominant hand and squeezing a rubber bulb with the nondominant hand. Motor performance was measured using the variables: amplitude of squeezing, frequency of squeezing and velocity of drawing triangles. After eliminating variance due to baseline differences in single-handed performance, the bimanual simultaneous performance of PD and controls turned out to be similar to the frequency of squeezing and the velocity of drawing triangles. The amplitude of squeezing, however, differed between the two groups: it was significantly reduced in PD. Arguably the disturbance in the bimanual performance of PD patients was not due to a disorder of time sharing, but to a decreased ability to shift attention from the visually cued task to the non visually cued task. The results agree with current evidence that PD patients are more impaired when they have to rely upon internal control for the regulation of shifting attention than when external cues are available. 
Serum creatinine: an independent predictor of survival after stroke. We prospectively studied the relationship between serum creatinine and survival among 492 elderly subjects admitted for stroke and monitored for a mean period of 18 months post-stroke. In multivariate proportional hazards models, serum creatinine remained an independent predictor of mortality (P = 0.0001) after accounting for other important predictors such as level of consciousness. Mini-Mental State Score, age, leucocyte count, presence of heart disease, diabetes, heart failure, atrial fibrillation and use of cardiovascular medication. This association between elevated serum creatinine and mortality was also found in patient subgroups with CT-proven infarction and intracerebral haematoma. It is concluded that serum creatinine is an independent predictor of survival after stroke. Further studies are required to confirm this relationship and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. 
Does primary fibromyalgia exist? Twenty-one of 25 consecutive primary fibromyalgia or fibrositis patients, identified during a 5-year period in a tertiary care day-ward for pain syndromes, were re-examined. Fifteen fulfilled criteria for fibromyalgia but unexpectedly, all cases had either psychiatric disturbance or thyroid dysfunction. Of the four patients not seen at follow-up, two had developed neurological diseases, another rheumatoid arthritis and one other hypothyroidism. Thus, after 5 years no patient fulfilled the criteria for primary fibromyalgia. Women occupied as manual workers were over-represented. Most patients reported beneficial effects of physiotherapy. None of the patients has been able to return to full time work. 
Actigraphic home-monitoring sleep-disturbed and control infants and young children: a new method for pediatric assessment of sleep-wake patterns. Two studies were conducted to evaluate actigraphic home-monitoring for the assessment of infants' and children's sleep patterns. In the first study, 11 children (aged 12 to 48 months) were monitored in the laboratory by traditional polysomnography and by actigraphy for one night. Actigraphic automatic sleep-wake scorings were compared with those of the polysomnograph; total agreement rate was 85.3%. In the second study, sleep patterns of 63 sleep-disturbed and 34 control healthy children (aged 9 to 27 months) were compared. These children were home-monitored by actigraph for a mean of 4.45 nights (total 482 nights). Actigraphic data were analyzed by an automated scoring procedure. Sleep quality of the sleep-disturbed children, measured by actigraphically derived sleep percent and number of longer-than-5-minute wakings, was significantly lower than that of the control subjects (P less than .0001). Sleep measures showed significant night-to-night stability in both groups. The stability of specific measures and their age trends were different between the groups. Actigraphic sleep measures alone could discriminate between sleep-disturbed and control children with a highly correct assignment rate of 79.4% and 91.2%, respectively. 
Lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis. We describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis, but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus. It is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a 'frozen shoulder', since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed. A radiograph of the entire humerus, or an isotope bone scan, may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment. 
Auditory-evoked responses in benign intracranial hypertension syndrome. In this study, auditory brainstem-evoked responses were conducted on 28 patients with otologic symptoms (pulsatile tinnitus, hearing loss, aural fullness) secondary to benign intracranial hypertension syndrome. Abnormalities consisting mainly of prolonged interpeak latencies were detected in one third of these patients. It is speculated that the pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for these auditory brainstem-evoked abnormalities are stretching-compression of the cochlear nerve and brainstem caused by the intracranial hypertension and/or primary edema of the same structures due to the benign intracranial hypertension syndrome itself. Normalization or improvement was noticed in the majority of the patients after management. Since the number of patients in this study is small, it is felt that the diagnostic and prognostic value of this test needs further evaluation. 
Seizure disorders in Down syndrome. The prevalence, onset, and type of seizure disorders, as well as seizure control, were studied in a large cohort of 405 individuals with Down syndrome (age range, 6 months to 45 years). The evaluation of a questionnaire completed by the subjects' parents and of the patients' medical records indicated that 33 (8.1%) of 405 persons with Down syndrome had seizure disorder. With regard to the onset of seizures, a bimodal distribution was noted: 40% of patients began having seizures before the age of 1 year, and another 40% started with seizure activity in the third decade of life. In the younger age group, primarily infantile spasms and tonic-clonic seizures with myoclonus were observed, and the older patients often had partial simplex or partial complex seizures as well as tonic-clonic seizures. 
Intrapalatine resection (IPR) in the treatment of sleep apnea and snoring. A conservative surgical technique is proposed as an alternative to the classical uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring. The resection is strictly intrapalatine, and careful suturing in three planes seems to lead to complete disappearance of the often unbearable postoperative pain. The soft palate is shortened but nonetheless still resembles a normal soft palate. Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) was described by Ikematsu in 1952. This method has taken on a new lease of life in recent years. Its efficacy is generally accepted, and its use, especially in cases of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, is the only treatment of the palatal velum at present practiced. In addition to aesthetic problems, this method generally gives rise to complications in the shape of temporary--but sometimes considerable--pain, nasal regurgitation, and a nasal voice. In a small percentage of patients, some of these disorders may prove irreversible. In my series of eight patients, five were obese and presented with hypertension. Three of them also were suffering from obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. The three others were ordinary snorers who caused considerable inconvenience to sleeping partners. 
Sensorineural hearing loss: a reversible effect of valproic acid. We report 2 patients over the age of 70 who, while on valproate (VPA) for complex partial seizures, developed sensorineural hearing loss. Following discontinuation of VPA for nonaudiologic reasons, the patients reported improved hearing which was confirmed by audiometry. These findings represent VPA-induced sensorineural hearing loss, possibly in preexisting presbycusis. 
Motor neuron disease (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is an insidiously developing, adult-onset, progressive anterior horn cell degeneration with associated degeneration of descending motor pathways. It has been recognized as an important clinical syndrome since the middle of the 19th century. Despite increasing clinical and research interest in this condition, its cause remains obscure, even in the broadest terms. Epidemiologic characteristics of the disease have been interpreted as evidence of both genetic and environmental causes. A major change in the view of this disease is the widely developing perception that it is a disease of elderly persons more than of middle-aged adults as was previously taught. Etiologic hypotheses encompass a broad range of postulated pathophysiologic mechanisms, and we review these in detail. The clinical limits of the disease can now be better defined by using modern diagnostic techniques. Although interest in supportive symptomatic therapy is growing, no intervention has yet been shown to modify the biologically determined motor system degeneration. 
Gilles de la Tourette syndrome is not linked to D2-dopamine receptor. Gilles de la Tourette syndrome has an important genetic component; the pathophysiology of this disorder may involve the dopamine system. We tested a D2-dopamine receptor (locus DRD2, recognized by probe hD2G1) for genetic linkage with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. Using a genetic linkage map of the region of DRD2 on the long arm of chromosome 11 and restriction fragment length polymorphism data from a total of four markers (DRD2 itself, D11S84, D11S29, and PBGD), we were able to exclude linkage of this candidate gene and Gilles de la Tourette syndrome in two extended kindreds segregating for Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. This rules out causation of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome by mutation in DRD2 in the kindreds studied under the genetic assumptions we employed; use of the map and multipoint linkage analyses also allowed us to exclude a Gilles de la Tourette syndrome susceptibility locus from a larger genetic region. 
Soccer injuries to the brain. A neuropsychologic study of former soccer players. Thirty-seven former soccer players of the National Football Team of Norway were individually examined with an extensive battery of psychologic tests. The neuropsychologic examination demonstrated mild to severe deficits regarding attention, concentration, memory, and judgment in 81% of the players. This may indicate some degree of permanent organic brain damage, probably the cumulative result of repeated traumas from heading the ball. 
The blink reflex in cluster headache. To investigate the involvement of the trigeminal system in cluster headache, in twelve subjects the electrically-elicited blink reflex during a symptomatic period was examined. In eleven cases, the amplitude of the contralateral R2 response on the symptomatic side was significantly lower, at the same stimulus intensity, than on the asymptomatic side (p = 0.005). The blink reflex can be useful to evaluate biological and drug-induced phenomena in cluster headache. 
Multiple muscle enzyme release with psychiatric illness. Associations (p less than .001) between serum concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) were observed in physically well patients with mania (N = 100, r = .70), depression (N = 138, r = .51), chronic schizophrenia (N = 85, r = .68), and schizoaffective or atypical psychosis (N = 39, r = .52) discharged from 1978 through 1981. In contrast, there was a negligible association between these enzymes in 90 nonpsychiatric inpatient control subjects. Patients with mania (229.0 +/- 106.1 IU/l) showed significantly (t = 3.16, p less than .002, two-tailed) higher lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels than control subjects (191 +/- 41.7 IU/l) and a 14% incidence of abnormally high serum LDH levels vs. 1% among control subjects. Results were unchanged when patients taking neuroleptics were excluded. These results indicate that psychiatric illness, especially mania, induces release of LDH and SGOT, occasionally to unusually high levels. This is similar to previous reports of muscle creatine phosphokinase release in psychiatric patients. Presumably, these enzymes are released from skeletal muscle in association with agitation, with muscle tension, or with blood stasis and local tissue hypoxia consequent to hypoactivity. 
The role of HTLV in HIV-1 neurologic disease. We performed a serologic survey for antibodies to HTLV-I/II in the course of a longitudinal study of the neurologic complications of HIV-1 infection. Nine (3.7%) of 242 HIV-1 seropositive subjects and none of 60 HIV-1 seronegative control subjects had antibodies to HTLV-I/II by ELISA. Western blot and polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of HTLV-I in 2 subjects and HTLV-II infection in 2 others. Both HIV-1/HTLV-I coinfected subjects and 1 HIV-1/HTLV-II coinfected subject had a slowly progressive myelopathy clinically identical tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (TSP/HAM). The presence of a myelopathy resembling TSP/HAM in the coinfected subjects suggests that HIV-1 may enhance the expression of neurologic disease caused by HTLV. Patients with a progressive myelopathy occurring in association with HIV-1 infection should be serologically tested for the presence of HTLV. Establishing dual infection has therapeutic and prognostic import as 1 of the HIV-1/HTLV-I subjects substantially improved with corticosteroids and the HIV-1/HTLV-II subject with myelopathy had a marked improvement in the absence of therapeutic intervention. 
Putative neuroexcitation in cerebral ischemia and brain injury. Involvement of neuroexcitatory mechanisms in cerebral ischemia and brain injury was explored in experimental models of repetitive forebrain ischemia by temporary occlusion of carotid arteries in gerbils and cryogenic injury to the cerebral cortex in rats and gerbils. Our observations in these models revealed a pattern of injury that involved some anatomic structures outside the areas of direct ischemic or traumatic insult. Such foci of injury revealed conspicuously abnormal uptake of 45Ca associated with slight or moderate neuronal alteration, whereas severely injured areas showed no 45Ca uptake. Electron microscopic observations revealed a characteristic presence of calcium in swollen dendrites, closely resembling pictures obtained in neuroexcitatory conditions such as epileptic seizures. Abnormal uptake of 45Ca was associated with apparent blood-brain barrier changes characterized by intracytoplasmic uptake of extravasated albumin into the neurons. Protein synthesis assayed by in vivo [3H]leucine incorporation was reduced in regions showing calcium accumulation. Our observations suggest that neuroexcitation may play an important role in development of secondary and chronic changes after ischemic or traumatic brain insults. 
Spontaneous decompression of syringomyelia: magnetic resonance imaging findings. Case report. The case of a 30-year-old woman with Chiari I malformation and a cervicothoracic syrinx is presented. The patient was followed clinically over a 2 1/2-year period. Spontaneous and complete resolution of the syrinx, as documented by serial magnetic resonance studies, was accompanied by only a minimal change in objective symptomatology. 
Help for the hurting elderly. Safe use of drugs to relieve pain. Pharmacologic management of pain in elderly patients is a common and difficult clinical problem. Because of altered drug metabolism and pharmacodynamics in the elderly, the drugs of choice are different than in younger patients and side effects occur more often. However, with judicious use and monitoring for toxicity, oral medications given as part of a multimodality approach can achieve adequate analgesia in most elderly patients. 
A randomized, controlled trial of the use of music during laceration repair. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine whether music significantly reduces the pain and anxiety associated with laceration repair in the emergency department. PARTICIPANTS AND SETTING: Adult patients presenting to the ED at an urban teaching hospital for laceration repair. Exclusion criteria included patients less than 18 years old, having received analgesics, with suspected alcohol or substance intoxication, and in whom laceration repair was complicated by treatment of a more serious medical condition. DESIGN AND INTERVENTIONS: This was a randomized, controlled trial. After giving informed consent, patients were randomly assigned to receive standard laceration repair without music (control) or standard laceration repair with music. Patients assigned to the music group chose an audio tape from 50 available styles and artists. Patients received the music through a headset, and they controlled the volume. Intradermal lidocaine was used in all patients. Data were collected on heart rate, blood pressure, and respirations just before and immediately after wound repair. Psychological variables included the state subscale of the Spielberger State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), a visual analog pain scale rating, and a brief questionnaire. STAI and pain scale ratings were analyzed with Wilcoxon's rank-sum test with an alpha error of .05. RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (19 per group) completed the protocol. Pain scores were significantly (P less than .05) lower in the music group (mean, 2.09) than in controls (mean, 3.31). Anxiety after the procedure was reduced in both groups, but STAI reduction scores were not significantly different between groups (music, 17.7; control, 18.5). Seventeen of 19 patients (89%) rated music "very beneficial," and 100% said they would use music again. CONCLUSION: Music provides a safe, inexpensive, and effective adjunct for the management of pain in the ED but does not significantly affect anxiety. 
An implantable neurocybernetic prosthesis system. The neurocybernetic prosthesis (Cyberonics, Inc.) is an implantable, multiprogrammable pulse generator that delivers constant current electrical signals to the vagus nerve for the purpose of reducing the frequency and/or severity of epileptic seizures. The device is implanted in a subcutaneous chest pocket just below the clavicle, similar to cardiac pacemaker placement. The stimulation signal is transmitted from the prosthesis to the vagus nerve through a stimulation lead. The prosthesis can be programmed using any IBM-compatible personal computer with programming software and a programming wand. The electrodes used in the first group of patients were found to break at an unacceptable rate. Design modifications appear to have resolved this problem. 
Lumbar puncture frequency and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in the neonate. A prospective study was performed to assess the frequency and diagnostic utility of lumbar punctures in neonates both during their first week of life and thereafter. During the two 6-month periods from January 1, 1985 to June 30, 1985, and February 1, 1986 to July 31, 1986, 712 neonates underwent 728 lumbar punctures during their first week of life primarily as part of the evaluation for suspected infection, either congenital or postnatal. There were eight patients with positive spinal fluid cultures in the first week of life, but only one patient simultaneously had a positive blood culture and a clinical course consistent with meningitis. In contrast, a considerably higher yield, approximating five times that of the first week of life, was obtained in patients undergoing a lumbar puncture after the first week of life. 
Experiential phenomena of temporal lobe epilepsy. Facts and hypotheses. Experiential phenomena that occur in temporal lobe seizures and can be reproduced by electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures typically encompass perceptual, mnemonic and affective features, either in combination or in isolation, which commonly relate to the patient's individual past experience. These phenomena raise interesting questions concerning brain mechanisms involved in human psychophysiology. The anatomical substrates for the evocation of these phenomena are widely distributed within the temporal lobe and include temporal isocortex and limbic structures (amygdala, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus). Arguments are presented which indicate that experiential phenomena are positive expressions of temporal lobe and limbic function and do not result from its ictal paralysis. Recent concepts of parallel distributed processing (Rumelhart and McClelland, 1986) and the importance of parallel distributed cortical networks for higher cognitive functions (Goldman-Rakic, 1988a, b) provide a theoretical framework on which a hypothesis explaining experiential phenomena can be based. In conformity with these concepts the hypothesis assumes that temporal lobe epileptic discharge or electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures can induce the elaboration of patterns of excitation and inhibition in widely distributed neuronal networks, some of which are capable of forming a specific matrix representing the substrate of a given experience. Neuronal networks engaged in parallel distributed processing (1) have the capacity to recreate the totality of a given experience when only a fragment of the network is activated, and (2) they tolerate a great deal of degradation by random inactivation of its components or by interference through random noise without serious loss of information content. These features are compatible with the assumption that localized epileptic neuronal discharge or electrical stimulation involving some temporal lobe structures could create a matrix representing features of individual experience of the kind activated in the course of temporal lobe seizures. Such an experience could, up to a certain limit, resist the degrading influence of mounting noise which inevitably must attend seizure discharge. 
Three-dimensional reconstructed MR imaging of the inner ear. The three-dimensional Fourier transform fast imaging with steady precession (FISP) technique was used to obtain high-resolution magnetic resonance (MR) images of the temporal bone region and to generate three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear. The three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear were directly synthesized from two-dimensional images of the temporal bone region by means of an external processing computer. With use of three-dimensional reconstructed images and stereoscopic observations, structures inside the temporal bone region and the positional relationship among them were easily recognized. These structures are difficult to demonstrate with two-dimensional images. This three-dimensional method was also shown to be useful for recognition of disease and anatomic malformations in the temporal bone region. 
Lidocaine potentiation of cocaine toxicity. STUDY HYPOTHESIS: The toxic effects of cocaine are enhanced in the presence of lidocaine. STUDY POPULATION: Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200 to 300 g. METHODS: Animals received intraperitoneal injections of cocaine (10, 20, 35, or 50 mg/kg), lidocaine (30 or 40 mg/kg), or a combination of all doses of cocaine given simultaneously with 30 or 40 mg/kg lidocaine. The incidence and time to seizure and death were recorded in these groups and compared by chi 2 and analysis of variance analyses, respectively. RESULTS: At doses of 30 or 40 mg/kg, lidocaine does not induce seizures or death. The effect of simultaneous injection of both cocaine and lidocaine was to dramatically increase the incidence of both seizures and death over that of cocaine alone. The incidence of seizures in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone was 10%; this increased to 50% and 80% with the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (P less than or equal to .05; P less than or equal to .01). Death did not occur in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone; the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine resulted in death in 30% and 60% of animals, respectively (P less than or equal to .01 each group). Similarly, in rats receiving 50 mg/kg cocaine, the incidence of death increased from 0% to 60% and 80% with 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (P less than or equal to .01). CONCLUSION: In the rat, overall toxicity of cocaine is significantly increased with simultaneous exposure to lidocaine. 
Progressing cerebral infarction in relation to plasma glucose in gerbils. We studied neurologic morbidity and its evolution during hyperglycemia induced immediately after permanent unilateral common carotid artery ligation in Mongolian gerbils. A total of 60 animals were divided into five groups: one experiencing severe hyperglycemia for 1 hour after the onset of ischemia (brief hyperglycemia group, n = 13), a normoglycemic control group for the brief hyperglycemia group (n = 12), a group with severe hyperglycemia for 4 hours after the onset of ischemia (prolonged hyperglycemia group, n = 11), a normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group (n = 13), and a hyperosmolar normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group (n = 11). Neurologic morbidity and mortality were higher in the two hyperglycemic groups than in the three normoglycemic control groups. The neurologic deficit progressed according to the duration of severe hyperglycemia. In the three normoglycemic control groups neurologic status stabilized 120 minutes after the onset of ischemia, in the brief hyperglycemia group stabilization occurred at 210 minutes, and in the prolonged hyperglycemia group neurologic deficit progressed for approximately 360 minutes, coinciding with the death of all but one gerbil, in which the neurologic deficit remained stable until death 23 hours after ischemia. We suggest that hyperglycemia is another cause of progressing cerebral infarction. 
Health locus of control, gender differences and adjustment to persistent pain. Locus of control (LOC) beliefs, long thought important in adjustment to persistent pain, were studied among 160 subjects (67 males and 93 females) referred to a comprehensive pain rehabilitation program. The subscale structure of the Multidimensional Health Locus of Control (MHLC) was factorially replicated in our sample. Three unique MHLC profile clusters were identified for both males and females. Among men, cluster assignment was related to age only. The younger male patients reported a stronger internal attributional style. Older male patients relied more heavily on both chance and powerful other factors. Among women, cluster assignment was related to the use of coping strategies. For example, patients with high internal scores only, reflecting a strong internal orientation towards self-management of health care needs, were more likely to utilize Information-Seeking, Self-Blame, and Threat Minimization coping strategies than patients with high scores on both the Internal and Powerful Other factors. It appears that the presence of both Internal and Powerful Other health attributional styles is associated with less frequent use of cognitive self-management techniques. In understanding the LOC scores it is important to rely on pattern analysis of scores. Implications for clinical treatment are discussed. 
High risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease. Although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90% effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease, it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued. To address this question, we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years (range 5 to 12 years). Before the transfusions were discontinued, patients were examined by cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging of the head, neuropsychologic testing, electroencephalography, and a complete neurologic examination. Within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped, 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event. Three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected. Two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage, including one on the contralateral side of original involvement. An additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes. Of the four remaining patients, three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped. The studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke. The risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10% in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy (p = 0.002). This adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised. 
Extrapyramidal features in advanced Down's syndrome: clinical evaluation and family history. Extrapyramidal, frontal release, and other neurological signs were studied in 54 demented and non-demented patients with Down's syndrome (DS). Fourteen patients were demented and five showed extrapyramidal signs, mainly of the rigid-hypokinetic spectrum and similar to Parkinsonian features in advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD). None of the non-demented patients had Parkinsonian signs. The mean age of the demented DS patients with extrapyramidal signs was significantly higher than that of the patients without. Frontal release signs were present in demented and non-demented patients. A questionnaire showed no increase in either the proportion of early- or senile-onset dementia or Parkinsonism among first- and second-degree relatives of DS patients. Parkinsonian signs appear to be present at a lower frequency in DS than in advanced AD. A speculative hypothesis about a gene dosage effect of Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase in preventing toxic radical formation in the substantia nigra of DS patients is presented. 
Patient perception of tics and other movement disorders. To determine the subjective perception patients have of abnormal movements, 170 patients with various hyperkinesias were interviewed with questions directed at the "voluntary" or intentional versus "involuntary" aspects of their symptoms. One hundred and two of 110 patients with non-tic disorders thought that the abnormal movements were entirely involuntary. Forty-one of 60 tic disorder patients stated that all their motor and phonic tics were intentionally produced. Fifteen others had both voluntary and involuntary components, usually with the former predominating. A "voluntary" response could be used to predict the correct diagnostic category (tic versus non-tic) in 8 of 9 patients for whom the referral category was incorrect. These results suggest that a large proportion of the motor and phonic symptoms experienced by tic patients are irresistibly but purposefully executed, more akin to compulsions than to the other "involuntary" hyperkinesias with which they are commonly discussed. 
Cerebral venous oxygen content as a measure of brain energy metabolism with increased intracranial pressure and hyperventilation. In order to test the hypothesis that the cerebral arteriovenous oxygen difference (AVDO2) and venous oxygen content (VO2) could be used to monitor brain energy metabolism in the setting of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). 12 cats were studied with 31P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy. six cats were subjected to intracranial hypertension by cisternal infusion of saline. Energy failure occurred at an average AVDO2 of 8.4 +/- 3.2 vol% (+/- standard deviation) (range 4.7 to 14.7 vol%). The VO2 at the point of metabolic failure averaged 1.45 +/- 0.6 vol% and extended over a narrower range (1.0 to 2.9 vol%). In an additional six cats, ICP was raised to the threshold of metabolic failure and hyperventilation was then instituted (pCO2 10 to 18 torr). Five of the six cats experienced a drop in VO2 with hyperventilation. In two of these animals, hyperventilation resulted in a VO2 of 1.1 vol% or less and in metabolic failure as evidenced by a fall in phosphocreatine. It is concluded that a VO2 of less than 2 vol% is correlated with brain ischemia and that the safety of hyperventilation in the setting of increased ICP can be monitored by the use of VO2. 
Postictal psychosis after partial complex seizures: a multiple case study. Bouts of unusually frequent partial complex seizures originating in the temporal lobe, that sometimes became secondarily generalized, induced psychotic episodes in 9 patients. In 7, the increase in seizures occurred at a time when antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were being reduced during intensive EEG monitoring with a view to surgical treatment of intractable epilepsy. According to DSM-III-R criteria, the postictal psychosis resembled an organic delusional syndrome which was paranoid in 7 and schizophreniform in 1 and an organic mood syndrome in 1. A high incidence of ictal fear, of bilateral independent epileptogenic discharge, and of small foreign tissue lesion were unexpected findings and appeared to represent risk factors, especially in patients otherwise handicapped by an epileptic personality disorder. Recognition of postictal psychosis in this setting and in others is important both prognostically and therapeutically. Postictal psychosis does not constitute a contraindication to surgical treatment of epilepsy. 
Respiratory failure and unilateral caudal brainstem infarction. We report clinicotopographic correlations in 2 patients with central hypoventilation and unilateral infarct in the caudal brainstem. One patient had nearly complete loss of ventilation involving both automatic and voluntary components. He showed no ventilator response during a CO2 retention test (PaCO2 62 mm Hg, PaO2 82 mm Hg), while consciousness was preserved until death. The infarct involved the reticular formation, nucleus tractus solitarius, nucleus ambiguus, and nucleus retroambiguus on the right but spared the dorsal motor nucleus of the tenth cranial nerve, and sensory and corticospinal tracts. The second patient showed hypoventilation more selectively involving automatic responses (Ondine's curse). The infarct involved the medullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus but spared the nucleus tractus solitarius. We suggest that unilateral involvement of pontomedullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus is sufficient for generating loss of automatic respiration, while associated lesion of the nucleus tractus solitarius may lead to more severe respiratory failure involving both automatic and voluntary responses. 
Early-onset autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa with severe hyperopia. We studied a four-generation family with early-onset autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, severe hyperopia, and axial eye lengths of less than 20 mm. The affected members had decreased vision, night blindness, typical peripheral retinal pigmentary changes, and electroretinographic abnormalities characteristic of retinitis pigmentosa. This pedigree suggests there is another variant of retinitis pigmentosa associated with hyperopia besides Leber's congenital amaurosis and preserved para-arteriole retinal pigment epithelium. 
Bacterial or viral meningitis? Measuring lactate in CSF can help you know quickly. Measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lactate is a useful test when properly applied to the appropriate clinical situation and can offer information other CSF parameters cannot provide. Except for Gram's stain of CSF, lactate level is the most important CSF parameter in the early differentiation of viral (aseptic) and bacterial purulent meningitis. 
Ischemic brain damage: reduction by sodium-calcium ion channel modulator RS-87476. A novel sodium-calcium ion channel modulator, RS-87476, reduced cerebral infarct size in cats subjected to permanent unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Cerebral injury was assessed in vivo with a combination of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and spectroscopy for 5-12 hours after occlusion and was compared with the area of histochemically ischemic brain tissue. Compared with infarcts in placebo-treated animals, infarcts in cats given RS-87476 were reduced by an average of 70% at the lowest dose, 75% at the intermediate dose, and 88% at the highest dose. Tissue edema, observed as areas of signal hyperintensity on diffusion- and T2-weighted spin-echo images, was confined to small regions of the parietal cortex and basal ganglia in drug-treated animals. Mean plasma levels of RS-87476 at the lowest dose were 13 ng/mL initially, falling to maintenance levels of 3-5 ng/mL; at the intermediate and highest doses, plasma levels of drug were approximately five- and 20-fold greater. The drug was only slightly hypotensive. At least part of the potent cerebroprotective effects of RS-87476 result from its ability to stabilize metabolic energy reserves, reduce lactate formation in ischemic tissues, and attenuate intracerebral edema. 
Valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis. To investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait, two groups of patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and with gait analysis in the laboratory. Group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and Group 2, of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot. In Group 2, the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in Group 1. There was no evidence of muscular imbalance, equinus contracture, valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint, or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior (such as weakness, tenosynovitis, or rupture of the tendon) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity. In the patients who had valgus deformity, quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased, apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot. Gait studies revealed decreases in velocity, stride length, and single-limb-support time, as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups, but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity. The results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint. These forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet. Radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis. 
Toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris in a patient with hemophilia A-associated AIDS. Case report. Toxoplasma gondii has been reported to be the most common cause of focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). A case of intramedullary toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris is reported in a patient with hemophilia A-associated AIDS. The diagnosis is discussed, with particular emphasis on the magnetic resonance imaging appearance. 
Dissociation between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache. The relationship between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache was studied in 54 patients whose attack always recurred on the same side, and in 7 others whose attack had affected either side on different occasions. In one of these seven patients, facial flushing and ocular sympathetic deficit was observed on the original side of headaches. In most patients, the orbital region was warmer on the painful side but in three cases this region was cooler during and between attacks. Lacrimation and rhinorrhoea were more common in severe attacks, and the temperature difference between the orbits increased with increasing severity of pain. These findings support the view that certain autonomic disturbances in cluster headache are provoked by pain. Residual autonomic dysfunction could influence autonomic activity during cluster headache. If so, residual dysfunction on the pain-free side could explain the dissociation between autonomic disturbances and pain observed in a few cases. 
Late juvenile-onset Krabbe's disease. Krabbe's disease is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy characterized by a lack of galactocerebroside beta-galactosidase activity. In contrast to the classic early infantile-onset form of Krabbe's disease, less recognized, late-onset variants exist. The authors present a case of late juvenile-onset Krabbe's disease, including the associated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. Most patients with late-onset Krabbe's disease present with visual loss due to optic atrophy. Associated gait abnormalities and parental consanguinity should increase the clinician's suspicion that a child may have late-onset Krabbe's disease. Because of the prolonged survival in late-onset Krabbe's disease, the recent development of bone marrow transplantation for these patient makes diagnosis of this disorder particularly important. 
Localization of 3H-dihydroergotamine-binding sites in the cat central nervous system: relevance to migraine. Dihydroergotamine (DHE) is the treatment of choice in aborting the acute attack of migraine. Although its efficacy has been known for 40 years, its mechanism of action is still disputed. Data regarding the site of action of dihydroergotamine may provide an insight into its mechanism of action and thus identify a locus of potentially abnormal pathophysiology in migraine. By using in vitro and ex vivo autoradiographic techniques, the localization of specific binding sites for 3H-dihydroergotamine in the cat brain has been examined. Binding was seen in the dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord, in the medulla, associated with the nucleus of the tractus solitarius, area postrema, and descending spinal trigeminal nucleus, and in the mesencephalon and the cerebral cortex. The highest density of binding sites was found in the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei of the midbrain. Furthermore, these same brain regions were also labeled after intravenous administration of 3H-dihydroergotamine. It is important that the brain areas specifically labeled are key nuclei involved in cranial pain transmission, suggesting that dihydroergotamine may act at these central sites in migraine. 
Axial loading injuries to the middle cervical spine segment. An analysis and classification of twenty-five cases. Injuries to the cervical spine at the C3-C4 level involving the bony elements, intervertebral disks, and ligamentous structures are rare. We present 25 cases of traumatic C3-C4 injuries sustained by young athletes and documented by the National Football Head and Neck Injury Registry. Review of the cases reveals that the response of energy inputs at the C3-C4 level differ from those involving the upper (C1-C2) and lower (C4-C5-C6-C7) cervical segments. Specifically, the C3-C4 lesions appear to be unique with regard to the infrequency of bony fracture, difficulty in effecting and maintaining reduction, and a more favorable recovery following early, aggressive treatment. In the majority of instances, injury at this level results from axial loading of the cervical spine. Lesions were distributed into specific categories: 1) acute intervertebral disc herniation (N = 4), 2) anterior subluxation of C3 on C4 (N = 4), 3) unilateral facet dislocation (N = 6), 4) bilateral facet dislocation (N = 7), and 5) fracture of vertebral body C4 (N = 4). Analysis of these 25 cases suggests that traumatic lesions of the cervical spine in general can be classified as involving the upper (C1-C2), middle (C3-C4), or lower (C4-C7) segments. This is based on our observations from this series that C3-C4 lesions 1) generally do not involve fracture of the bony elements; 2) acute intervertebral disc herniations are frequently associated with transient quadriplegia; 3) reduction of anterior subluxation of C3 on C4 is difficult to maintain; 4) reduction of unilateral facet dislocation is difficult to obtain by skeletal traction and is best managed by closed manipulation and reduction under general anesthesia; and 5) reduction of bilateral facet dislocation is difficult to obtain by skeletal traction and is best managed by open methods. The more favorable results observed in this series of immediate reduction of both unilateral and bilateral facet dislocations deserves emphasis. In two cases of unilateral facet dislocation reduced within 3 hours of injury and subsequently fused anteriorly, significant neurologic recovery occurred. The other four patients, two who underwent an open reduction and laminectomy and two treated closed with skeletal traction, remained quadriplegic. In the four instances of bilateral facet dislocation where reduction was achieved by either closed or open methods, although there was no neurologic recovery, all four patients survived their injuries. However, the three patients who were not successfully reduced died. 
A new diagnostic test for carpal tunnel syndrome. A new test, called the carpal compression test, consists of application of direct pressure on the carpal tunnel and the underlying median nerve. The results of the Tinel percussion test, the Phalen wrist-flexion test, and the new test were evaluated in thirty-one patients (forty-six hands) in whom the presence of carpal tunnel syndrome had been proved electrodiagnostically, as well as in a control group of fifty subjects. For the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome, the carpal compression test was found to be more sensitive and specific than the Tinel and Phalen tests. 
Transcranial Doppler in acute hemispheric brain infarction. We studied cerebrovascular anatomy using intra-arterial digital angiography, and blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) using transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography in 42 patients with acute hemispheric ischemic brain infarction. We compared angiography with TCD and the clinical findings within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms. The location and extent of the chronic ischemic brain damage was assessed by CT performed 1 to 3 months after the ictus. Abnormal TCD, as manifested by either an unobtainable MCA flow signal or a significantly depressed MCA flow velocity, was highly associated with proximal MCA occlusions demonstrated by angiography. Abnormal TCD predicted both larger chronic CT lesions and more extensive ischemic change within the MCA territory. These data demonstrate that early TCD conveys useful information concerning cerebral tissue prognosis following hemispheric ischemia. 
Cerebral hemodynamics in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus: correlation between cerebral circulation time and dementia. Regional cerebral blood flow and regional cerebral circulation time were measured in 13 demented patients with chronic hydrocephalus, mostly normal pressure hydrocephalus. The average hemispheric, frontal, and temporal cerebral blood flows were significantly reduced. The average regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly prolonged in the frontal, temporal, and thalamic regions, most markedly in the frontal white matter, where periventricular lucency was observed on computed tomography. Clinical improvement was obtained in all patients after operation. While postoperative regional cerebral blood flow values did not change compared with preoperative ones, postoperative regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly reduced in all the regions measured, and most markedly in the frontal white matter. The present results suggest that microcirculation in the frontal lobe is closely correlated with dementia in association with pressure exerted on the nerve fibers in the frontal white matter in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus. 
Sphenoid sinusitis, a cause of debilitating headache. We present a case of sphenoid sinusitis resulting in a debilitating headache refractory to both oral and intramuscular analgesics. Despite an aggressive evaluation in the emergency department, the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment were delayed. Recognition of sphenoid sinusitis, the complications associated with it, and the need for aggressive management are addressed. 
Results of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists in perinatal cerebral asphyxia therapy. Perinatal cerebral asphyxia, which results in significant neurologic and cognitive disabilities in infants and children, remains a major health problem. Potential neurologic sequelae include cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and epilepsy. Over the next few years, neuroprotective agents that prevent asphyxial neuronal injury and death are likely to be developed. These agents may also be effective in prophylaxis and treatment of chronic neurologic disorders, including epilepsy and neurodegenerative disorders, such as Huntington disease. 
Wide cavum septum pellucidum: a marker of disturbed brain development. A wide cavum septum pellucidum defined as a separation of greater than 1 cm of the leaves occurs uncommonly. Nine children with wide cavum septum pellucidum were studied; 8 were abnormal. Observed abnormalities included cognitive impairment (8), seizures (4), hypoplasia of the corpus callosum (4), optic nerve hypoplasia (2), and growth failure (4). The incidence of intellectual dysfunction, the association with midline anomalies of the brain, and growth failure all suggest that wide cavum septum pellucidum may represent part of a spectrum of midline brain anomalies. 
Dreams and epilepsy. The relationship between dreams and epilepsy is illustrated by two patients whose awake epileptic seizures and recurrent dreams during night sleep had similar content. In both of our cases the EEG showed right anterior temporal spike discharge, suggesting a role for the temporal lobe in the association between dreams and seizures. 
Evaluation of treatment protocols on minimal to moderate spasticity in multiple sclerosis. Thirty men and women diagnosed with definite multiple sclerosis (MS) were treated for ten weeks in a blinded, cross-over study. Patients with minimal to moderate spasticity were randomized to one of three sequences to evaluate the effects on MS-related spasticity of baclofen alone, stretching regimen with placebo, placebo alone, and stretching regimen with baclofen. The Cybex II isokinetic unit, timed gait, Ashworth scale, and subject's assessment of function were objective and subjective measures used to evaluate changes in hypertonicity. There was significant correlation between the Cybex and Ashworth as methods of measuring spasticity. Overall, treatment with baclofen alone significantly improved moderate quadriceps spasticity as measured by Cybex flexion scores. A trend, indicative of enhancing the beneficial effects of baclofen, was noted when stretching exercises were added to the treatment. 
Clinical judgments in pain management. From research reports published over the last 20 years, it appears that moderate to severe uncontrolled pain may be the norm for hospitalized patients despite recent advances in the management of pain. Research on the extent of under-management of pain and the factors associated with it is examined and summarized in this paper. Methodological imperfections of the research are identified. Several explanations for pain under-management have been proposed and these are reported. A clinical decision making model is also reviewed and it is suggested that this model could be applied to pain management problems. Further, it is suggested that this model may be very useful in developing educational interventions to improve health practitioners' clinical skills in pain management. 
Sick building syndrome. "Sick building syndrome" (SBS) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings. Core symptoms include lethargy, mucous membrane irritation, headache, eye irritation, and dry skin. To prompt a diagnosis of SBS, these otherwise common symptoms must be "excessively" reported and primarily "work-related." The World Health Organization now estimates that 30% of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of SBS, and that between 10% and 30% of the occupants of these buildings are affected by SBS. Despite such figures, SBS remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood. The following review provides the clinician an overview of SBS that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when SBS is not quickly recognized. 
Infantile spasms. Infantile spasms are a seizure disorder in young infants with diverse etiologies, suggesting that they arise from any disturbance of central nervous system function during susceptible periods of development. The prognosis for normal intellectual and neurologic development parallels that of the underlying etiology. Early and appropriate treatment with ACTH may lead to seizure control in a majority of patients. The treating physician must anticipate the side effects of this modality. 
The UCLA-University of Utah epidemiologic survey of autism: the etiologic role of rare diseases. Twelve rare diseases known to cause CNS pathology were found in 26 (11%) of 233 autistic probands identified during a recent epidemiologic survey of Utah. These 26 probands had significantly lower mean IQs than the remaining patients (43 versus 60) but similar sex distribution and prevalence of abnormal EEGs and seizures. The rarity and diversity of these 12 diseases make it highly unlikely that they randomly occurred with autism. Their presence in this epidemiologic survey is the most compelling evidence to date to support the hypothesis that different diseases producing different types of CNS pathology can play an etiologic role in autism. 
Levels of mRNA for a putative kainate receptor are affected by seizures. In situ hybridization and RNA blot-hybridization techniques were used (i) to examine the regional distribution of mRNA for a putative kainate receptor in adult rat brain and ii) to test the possibility that seizures affect expression of the receptor gene. The highest densities of hybridization were distributed within hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells, medial habenula, Purkinje cells and the molecular layer of cerebellum, and olfactory bulb. Recurrent limbic seizures caused a massive, delayed, and reversible reduction in levels of the kainate receptor mRNA in dentate gyrus; lesser decreases were found in pyramidal cell fields of hippocampus and superficial cortex. These findings provide evidence that unusual patterns of physiological activity can alter genomic expression for a subclass of glutamate receptors in brain. 
Cerebral vein thrombosis shown by MRI. A 46 year old man with a short history of left facial pain and numbness, and subsequently headaches, had a normal physical examination and a normal CT scan of head. Lumbar puncture yielded normal CSF under increased pressure. MRI showed thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus, subsequently confirmed by angiography. MRI is a sensitive test for detecting intracranial venous thrombosis, and may be the investigation of choice when this disorder is suspected. 
Intracarotid hydroxyethyl methacrylate solution causing stroke in dogs. Hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA) has been advocated as a polymerizing solution with which to prevent deflation of detachable balloons in interventional neuroradiology. It is pertinent to know if unpolymerized HEMA would have untoward effects if accidentally released into the carotid artery by balloon rupture or deflation. Seven mongrel dogs underwent transfemoral catheterization of the common carotid artery and subsequent injection of HEMA solution in volumes of 1 cc in five dogs, 2 cc in one, and 4 cc in one. Angiography performed at the time of injection revealed evidence of intravascular thrombosis as well as possible spasm. Three surviving animals were sacrificed at 48 hours; the brains were fixed and examined histopathologically. One brain was normal and one was autolyzed and could not be examined. Five of the seven animals had histopathologically documented cerebral infarctions of varying size. No foreign substance was seen within the blood vessels to suggest intravascular polymerization. The animals injected with 2 or 4 cc HEMA solution did not survive 48 hours. Literature review reveals little documentation of the toxicology of intravascular HEMA. With its increasing popularity as a compound for polymerization in detachable balloons introduced into the brain, further investigations are warranted to understand the physical properties of the compound and potential risks of its use. 
Effects of physostigmine on spatial attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. We tested patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and control subjects on a task of visuopatial attention. Targets preceded by cues on the same side were termed validly cued; and those on the opposite side, invalidly cued. For all subjects, validly cued targets were responded to faster than those that were invalidly cued. The difference between reaction times for invalidly and validly cued targets, which is hypothesized to measure attentional movement, was significantly increased for the patients. The performance of the controls on certain neuropsychological tests was correlated with their attentional ability. These correlations were altered by progressive supranuclear palsy. Physostigmine treatment of the patients induced a speeding of responses to invalidly cued targets as a function of the duration of the disease. These studies show defects in cognition and attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and demonstrate that physostigmine reduces some of the abnormal visual attentional performance. 
Thigh muscle function after partial tear of the medial ligament compartment of the knee. The purpose of the study was to assess the isokinetic and isometric strength and power profile of the knees of 48 patients who had a previous second-degree sprain (partial tear) of the medial ligament compartment, the most common knee ligament injury in sports. The CYBEX II isokinetic dynamometer was used in the measurements. On an average of 8 yr after the injury, the mean strength deficit of the injured knees was minimal: 4 +/- 5% (range 0-28%) in extension and 2 +/- 4% (0-20%) in flexion. The average strength score (max. 100 points) was 90 +/- 11 (56-100), representing an excellent classification. In hamstrings, the relative strength deficit increased significantly with a higher speed of isokinetic movement (P less than 0.05). Compared with the strength parameters (peak torques), the other functional parameters of the injured knees (total work, average power, and peak torque acceleration energy) showed some but not significantly greater deficits (hamstrings 9-11%, quadriceps 6-8%). In conclusion, the general thigh muscle function in knees with old second-degree sprain of the medial ligament compartment appears good and acceptable, but the strength deficits are systematically greater in higher speeds of isokinetic movement. Therefore, rehabilitation utilizing high speed extension and flexion exercises is recommended. 
Humor, aggression, and aging. Humor response to aggressive cartoons was investigated by using ratings of pain and funniness of cartoons by 154 young and elderly men and women. No significant age differences were found; however, sex differences were found. For both young and elderly females, an inverted-U described the relationship between pain and funniness ratings. For young and elderly males, there was no relationship between pain and funniness. This is a preliminary step in exploring age differences in humor but may be relevant for those working with elderly persons. 
Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema complicating massive diltiazem overdose. Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema has not been previously described in calcium channel blocker overdose. We describe a case of non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema occurring during the course of therapy for massive diltiazem overdose in a young patient with anorexia nervosa. Review of the current literature suggests that major and minor pulmonary complications occur with some frequency in the setting of calcium channel blocker overdose although their exact incidence remains unclear. 
Neuropsychological performance in medicated and unmedicated patients with Tourette's disorder. OBJECTIVE: To date, there have been no formal investigations of neuropsychological performance in patients with Tourette's disorder who are taking psychotropic medications. The authors conducted this study to provide such information. METHOD: They examined the neuropsychological performance of 96 patients 6-18 years old who met DSM-III-R criteria for Tourette's disorder; 51 of these patients were taking neuroleptic medications and 45 were not. The groups were well matched with regard to age, sex, education, and duration of symptoms. Each group was given a complete neuropsychological test battery as well as instruments rating symptoms of Tourette's disorder, obsessive-compulsive characteristics, and other behavioral disturbances. RESULTS: The patients taking medications did not differ from those not taking medications on any of the neuropsychological, intellectual, or educational measures. In addition, the groups did not differ with regard to level of Tourette's disorder symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this investigation suggest that patients with Tourette's disorder who do not experience intolerable side effects from neuroleptic medications are able to perform on educational, intellectual, and neuropsychological tests at a level comparable to that of unmedicated patients. These results have positive implications for patients with Tourette's disorder who respond to neuroleptic medications. 
Signs distinguishing spasmus nutans (with and without central nervous system lesions) from infantile nystagmus. Clinical findings as well as eye and head movement recordings were analyzed from 23 patients with spasmus nutans without central nervous system (CNS) changes, 10 patients with spasmus nutans-like disease (head nodding, intermittent nystagmus associated with intracranial anomalies or visual pathway disorders), and 25 patients with infantile nystagmus. Ten diagnostic signs were established to differentiate between the patient groups. Although they were helpful in separating patients with infantile nystagmus from those with spasmus nutans, no difference was found between the patients with spasmus nutans with and without CNS lesions. This study indicates that eye and head movement recordings do not allow differentiation between benign spasmus nutans and spasmus nutans-like disease. The differentiation must be made on the basis of neuroimaging. 
Physiologic responses to prolonged electrically stimulated leg-cycle exercise in the spinal cord injured. This study determined the physiologic responses to prolonged functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS) leg-cycle exercise in seven quadriplegic and seven paraplegic subjects. Each subject completed 30 minutes of continuous FNS leg cycling during which open-circuit spirometry, impedance cardiography, auscultation, and fingertip capillary blood sampling were used to assess metabolic and hemodynamic responses. Compared with resting values, oxygen uptake, carbon dioxide production, respiratory exchange ratio (RER), pulmonary ventilation, heart rate (HR), left ventricular stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (Qt), and blood lactate (La) concentration were significantly (p less than .05) elevated, whereas plasma volume, bicarbonate concentration, and pH were significantly decreased in both groups during prolonged FNS leg-cycle exercise. Mean arterial pressure remained unchanged in quadriplegic and paraplegic subjects during the prolonged FNS leg-cycle exercise bout. Persons with quadriplegia elicited significantly lower MAP and tended to have lower SV and Qt responses than persons with paraplegia, probably due to a higher degree of sympathetic dysfunction and circulatory hypokinesis during FNS leg-cycle exercise. All other physiologic variables responded similarly between groups. We speculate that the relative increases observed for HR (33% to 60%), SV (45% to 69%), and Qt (113% to 142%) during prolonged FNS leg-cycle exercise create a sufficient cardiac-volume load to promote central cardiovascular conditioning in persons with both quadriplegia and paraplegia. The La accumulation (4.7 to 5.2 mmol.L-1) in the spinal cord injured during prolonged FNS leg cycling is unusually high for the power output attained (5.2W and 6.1W for quadriplegia and paraplegia, respectively). 
Prediction of free phenytoin levels based on [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios. Potential errors with hypoalbuminemia. Therapeutic monitoring of the pharmacologically active (free drug) fraction of protein-bound medications (e.g., phenytoin) represents a major diagnostic challenge in clinical and laboratory medicine. While free drug levels may be beneficial in many clinical situations, current methods for predicting free phenytoin concentrations are unreliable and not recommended for general use. The authors have demonstrated a linear relationship (r2 = 0.98) between serum levels of total and bound phenytoin in 56 patients with seizure disorders. No significant correlations were observed when total phenytoin and albumin levels were compared independently to measured concentrations of free phenytoin or percent free phenytoin. A good correlation (r2 = 0.89) existed between free phenytoin levels and [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios in patients with normal or elevated albumin levels, but significantly weaker correlations were found in patients with hypoalbuminemia. Thus, [total phenytoin]/[albumin] ratios may have clinical value in predicting free phenytoin levels in uncomplicated patients without hypoalbuminemia. 
Psychosocial, functional, and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, and lower extremity amputation. One hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life, as measured by the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scale (AIMS) and the Psychosocial Adjustment to Illness Scale (PAIS). A self-administered PAIS for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others. A final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation. The PAIS scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients (p less than .05). The presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in AIMS and PAIS scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients (p less than .05). Subscale analysis of AIMS scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem: osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients. The PAIS detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups. The most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure. The amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment. Differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis, pain, status of fracture healing, and timing of amputation. 
Use of a central 10 degrees field and size V stimulus to evaluate and monitor small central islands of vision in end stage glaucoma. In a retrospective review of 24 clinically stable eyes with small central islands of vision due to end stage glaucoma the combined use of a central 10 degrees program and size V stimulus (10-2 with V) measured visual function undetected on a central 30 degrees field tested with both the standard size III and non-standard size V stimuli. Furthermore, the mean sensitivity of the 10-2 with V remained stable on serial field testing (mean 3.9 examinations) on long term follow-up (mean 22.2 months). This study suggests that in end stage glaucoma the size V target is the stimulus of choice and a central 10 degrees field may be the program of choice of evaluating and monitoring small central islands of vision. 
Adipsic hypernatremia in two sisters. We describe two sisters with chronic hypernatremia, lack of thirst, and inappropriate osmoregulated vasopressin secretion. Only one sister, who presented with microcephaly and developmental delay, showed signs of dysplasia of the midline structures (ie, septum pellucidum and corpus callosum) and a large intracranial cyst. Neither sister showed any signs of thirst, even when osmolality exceeded 337 mmol/kg. In both patients, the vasopressin secretion did not respond to either osmotic or nonosmotic stimuli or was suppressed by a water load. Plasma osmolality values returned to normal after treatment with forced hydration and a vasopressin analogue, desamino-D-arginine vasopressin. These findings indicate a severe defect in the hypothalamic osmoreceptors that control thirst and vasopressin secretion. To our knowledge, this is the first report of such a disorder in two sisters. 
Ischaemic brain lesions diagnosed at birth in preterm infants: clinical events and developmental outcome. In 232 newborn babies of less than 32 weeks' gestational age ultrasound brain scans were carried out shortly after birth, daily for the first week of life, and at least twice weekly thereafter. Periventricular echogenicity associated with or progressing to periventricular leukomalacia (ischaemic brain lesions) was present in nine babies within two hours of birth (early onset); 30 other babies subsequently developed similar lesions (late onset). Babies with early onset lesions were more likely to have a history of intrauterine growth retardation and to have recurrent apnoea in the first few hours after birth. By contrast, late onset lesions were associated with hyaline membrane disease. In later childhood four of six survivors with early onset periventricular leukomalacia, and seven of 14 survivors with late onset periventricular leukomalacia, had various disabilities including spastic diplegia, impaired vision, squints, sensorineural hearing loss, and developmental delay. In a third of the children with disabilities ischaemic brain lesions were noted within two hours of birth, raising the possibility that some of this damage had taken place before or during birth. 
A protocol for butalbital, aspirin and caffeine (BAC) detoxification in headache patients. The abuse of the combination drug containing butalbital 50 mg, aspirin 325 mg and caffeine 40 mg (or BAC), is commonly recognized by headache specialists as causing headaches. Despite this widespread problem, there is not a published treatment regimen for the BAC detoxification of patients. I describe such a protocol which was used four times in three patients. These patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of the IHS Headache Classification for headaches induced by chronic substance abuse (8.2) and analgesics abuse headache (8.2.2). These patients took between 150 and 420 BAC/month for 2-15 years. Two patients had previously undergone inpatient detoxification. One patient unsuccessfully tried detoxification twice as an outpatient. All patients were required to have psychological support prior to hospitalization for this protocol. BAC was discontinued. A pentobarbital challenge test corroborated butalbital dosage. The patients were given phenobarbital and caffeine which were tapered over several days. Dihydroergotamine (DHE) with metoclopramide was used (Raskin). Propranolol 60 mg bid was started. No narcotics were permitted. After hospital discharge, patients were allowed to continue subcutaneous DHE, as needed. One patient restarted BAC use after 8 months without it. The other two patients were still BAC free 18 and 14 months after detoxification. 
Lens opacity as a predictor of visual field impairment due to cataract. The contribution of cataract to the decrease of visual field in patients with glaucoma is difficult to ascertain. To attempt to quantitate the change in visual field due to cataract, we examined 27 eyes of 26 patients before and after cataract extraction. The examination consisted of measurement of best refraction with visual acuity, visual field testing with the pupil dilated, measurement of lens opacity, determination of the intraocular pressure, and evaluation of the character of the cataract before surgery and of the posterior capsule after surgery. The results reaffirmed the detrimental effect that cataract may have on the visual field but also showed that the heterogeneity of cataracts limits the usefulness of the lens opacity meter in quantitating the extent of visual field loss due to cataract. 
Cystocerebral syndrome. Acute urinary retention presenting as confusion in elderly patients. The diagnosis of acute mental status changes in the elderly patient is often very difficult. Many causes are possible, and there is often little history obtainable. The physical examination occasionally provides the essential clues needed to discover the source of the sudden deterioration. We have recently evaluated four episodes of acute delirium in three elderly patients who presented with no readily apparent cause for these changes. On further evaluation, the patients were found to have marked bladder distention associated with acute urinary retention. None of these patients complained of discomfort, and none had any awareness or recollection of their deterioration. Each patient had rapid resolution of symptoms on bladder decompression. To our knowledge, this "cystocerebral syndrome" has not been previously described, and we suggest that it be considered in the evaluation of acute confusional states in elderly men. 
The distribution of cerebral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo in patients with dementia. A controlled study with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography. A high-affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist, 123IQNB (3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate labeled with iodine 123), was used with single photon emission computed tomography to image muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in 14 patients with dementia and in 11 healthy controls. High-resolution single photon emission computed tomographic scanning was performed 21 hours after the intravenous administration of approximately 5 mCi of IQNB. In normal subjects, the images of retained ligand showed a consistent regional pattern that correlated with postmortem studies of the relative distribution of muscarinic receptors in the normal human brain, having high radioactivity counts in the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and insular cortex, low counts in the thalamus, and virtually no counts in the cerebellum. Eight of 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease had obvious focal cortical defects in either frontal or posterior temporal cortex. Both patients with a clinical diagnosis of Pick's disease had obvious frontal and anterior temporal defects. A region of interest statistical analysis of relative regional activity revealed a significant reduction bilaterally in the posterior temporal cortex of the patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. This study demonstrates the practicability of acetylcholine receptor imaging with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography. The data suggest that focal abnormalities in muscarinic binding in vivo may characterize some patients with Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease, but further studies are needed to address questions about partial volume artifacts and receptor quantification. 
Measurement and treatment in cerebral palsy: an argument for a new approach. This article describes the need for a shift in our therapeutic strategies for patients with cerebral palsy. Changes in functional abilities must be stressed in therapy. Coincident with this emphasis must be the development of functional assessments to be used when documenting intervention outcomes. Research on functional arm movement using kinematic analysis is described for this patient group. 
Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation as a probe in elderly subjects. The effects of a 2-night rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation (RSD) procedure on electroencephalographic sleep and mood were examined in 15 healthy elderly control subjects, 14 elderly patients with endogenous depression, and 15 patients with primary degenerative dementia. Compared with control subjects, both patient groups maintained a higher amount of REM sleep time and REM activity during RSD. Unexpectedly, depressed patients showed little rebound in visually scored or automated REM sleep measures following RSD, and they showed stability of REM activity temporal distribution from baseline to recovery conditions. This contrasted with the rebound in REM sleep activity seen in control subjects, and the more modest increase in demented patients. The RSD was fairly specific, with some impact on delta sleep during the procedure but not during recovery sleep. Mood ratings were unaffected by RSD. These findings demonstrated a greater plasticity of REM sleep regulation in the healthy elderly control subjects and suggested a higher REM "pressure" with a "ceiling effect" in depressed patients. Patients with dementia appeared to have an impaired capacity to respond to the challenge of RSD. 
Solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma. Case report. A case of solitary dorsal intramedullary schwannoma diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated surgically is reported. The authors review the previously published cases. The possible etiology of the tumor as well as some difficulties encountered in the diagnostic procedure and treatment are discussed. 
Diagnostic criteria for neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus: the results of a consensus meeting. The Ad Hoc Neuropsychiatric Lupus Workshop Group. Definitions and classifications proposed for the neuropsychiatric complications of systemic lupus erythematosus (NP-SLE) indicate a wide range of approaches taken by different researchers and clinicians. A meeting of investigators was convened to begin a consensus process for standardizing its classification. We found that the level of agreement among raters on the importance of elements to the diagnosis of NP-SLE increased significantly as indicated by an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.05 before the conference to 0.60 after the conference. The results of such studies can be used to generate and test the utility of diagnostic criteria for NP-SLE in multicenter trials. 
Structure, expression and function of a schwannoma-derived growth factor. During the development of the nervous system, cells require growth factors that regulate their division and survival. To identify new growth factors, serum-free growth-conditioned media from many clonal cell lines were screened for the presence of mitogens for central nervous system glial cells. A cell line secreting a potent glial mitogen was established from a tumour (or 'schwannoma') derived from the sheath of the sciatic nerve. The cells of the tumour, named JS1 cells, were adapted to clonal culture and identified as Schwann cells. Schwann cells secrete an autocrine mitogen and human schwannoma extracts have mitogenic activity on glial cells. Until now, neither mitogen has been purified. Here we report the purification and characterization of a mitogenic molecule, designated schwannoma-derived growth factor (SDGF), from the growth-conditioned medium of the JS1 Schwann cell line. SDGF belongs to the epidermal growth factor family, and is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, Schwann cells and fibroblasts. 
Pain management in the orthopedic patient. Pain is a familiar phenomenon to all orthopedic nurses. As Dunwoody said, "Few things we do for patients are more fundamental to the quality of life than relieving pain." We as orthopedic nurses are in a position to contribute to the positive management of pain by using a comprehensive approach to pain management that involves the participation of the patient. We need to believe the patient's pain, try new approaches, and help our patients achieve pain relief. 
Research in physical medicine and rehabilitation. XII. Measurement tools with application to brain injury. There are basic principles and techniques of measurement that are relevant across biomedical disciplines. The purpose of this article is to explain some of the most important of these for medical rehabilitation, to illustrate how to use them to choose assessment instruments and to describe the nature of measurement in medical rehabilitation by examples in brain injury rehabilitation. Reliability is basic to any scientific measure. Validity, the ultimate criterion, is closely associated with the purpose of the measure. Content validity, criterion validity and construct validity are explained. Sensitivity to rehabilitative interventions and significance in patients' real lives (ecological validity) are emphasized. Measures of functional outcomes (disability) may show improvement after rehabilitation even when impairment measures do not. An extensive but selected list of measures of coma, global status, disabilities, communicative and cognitive impairments, and handicaps is presented, and their main uses are illustrated. Examples illustrate how to choose measures to study comprehensive program-level outcomes, to study learning-based interventions and to develop a general purpose database. Although there are many measures of activities of daily living and mobility, little published evidence of reliability and validity could be found even for some well-known scales. Ecologically valid and sensitive outcome measures are especially needed. Studies of the clinical utility of measures were also scarce. Many of these gaps can be spanned by clinical researchers with limited resources. Physical medicine and rehabilitation will benefit from formal studies of the reliabilities and validities of both its old and its new measurement instruments and by increased sophistication in choice of measures. 
Racial differences in the anterior circulation in cerebrovascular disease. How much can be explained by risk factors? The entry characteristics of 1367 patients enrolled into the Extracranial/Intracranial Bypass Study were examined to determine if site differences in intracranial and extracranial arterial lesions among racial groups could be explained by differences in risk factors. Blacks were more often hypertensive, diabetic, or cigarette smokers, while whites had higher systolic blood pressure and hemoglobin values. Orientals had the lowest prevalence of vascular risk factors. Despite these differences in risk factors, multivariate analysis showed race to be an independent and strong predictor of the location of cerebrovascular lesions. To our knowledge, this study is unique in documenting risk factors prospectively and systematically in three racial groups simultaneously. Although generalization is limited by possible biases related to patient selection, the results affirm previous tentative conclusions about the role of race in determining the location of cerebrovascular disease. 
Syringomyelia secondary to compression of the cervical spinal cord by an extramedullary lymphoma. A case of syringomyelia secondary to an extramedullary cervical spinal cord compression by a non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is described. After radiotherapy, the syrinx was no longer seen. The pathogenesis of this type of syrinx is discussed, and the potential benefit of radiotherapy in these cases is suggested. 
Nerve root avulsion of birth palsy: comparison of myelography with CT myelography and somatosensory evoked potential. Findings at myelography and computed tomographic (CT) myelography were reviewed in 21 patients (22 limbs) with birth palsy; nerve root shadows were the focus of this study. Myelography demonstrated 51 completely avulsed roots (78%) and 14 incompletely avulsed roots (22%). A traumatic meningocele was detected at 38 roots on myelograms and 51 roots on CT myelograms. Thirteen avulsed roots (eight completely and five incompletely avulsed roots) (20%) were not associated with a meningocele. In nine patients who underwent brachial plexus exploration, myelographic findings were compared with root somatosensory evoked potential (SEP). SEP was not induced at 22 of 25 completely avulsed roots and was induced at all seven incompletely avulsed roots. Myelography and SEP were consistent in 29 of 32 roots (91%). It is concluded that myelography is indispensable for preoperative evaluation of cervical nerve root avulsion of birth palsy, because CT myelography is not sensitive to nerve root avulsion without a traumatic meningocele, and SEP cannot enable one to discriminate incomplete avulsion from intact roots. 
Identification of a highly polymorphic microsatellite VNTR within the argininosuccinate synthetase locus: exclusion of the dystonia gene on 9q32-34 as the cause of dopa-responsive dystonia in a large kindred. Dopa-responsive dystonia is a clinical variant of idiopathic torsion dystonia that is distinguished from other forms of dystonia by the frequent occurrence of parkinsonism, diurnal fluctuation of symptoms, and its dramatic therapeutic response to L-dopa. Linkage of a gene causing classic dystonia in a large non-Jewish kindred (DYT1) and in a group of Ashkenazi Jewish families, to the gelsolin (GSN) and arginino-succinate synthetase (ASS) loci on chromosome 9q32-34, respectively, was recently determined. Here we report the discovery of a highly informative (GT)n repeat VNTR polymorphism within the ASS locus. Analysis of a large kindred with dopa-responsive dystonia, using this new polymorphism and conventional RFLPs for the 9q32-34 region, excludes loci in this region as a cause of this form of dystonia. This provides proof of genetic heterogeneity between classic idiopathic torsion dystonia and dopa-responsive dystonia. 
Nasal and oral flow-volume loops in normal subjects and patients with obstructive sleep apnea. Because flow-volume loops (FVLs) are clinically useful in evaluating upper airway (UA) obstruction and the fact that patency of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway is important to the prevention of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), the present study examined the role of nasal compared with oral FVLs in evaluating patients with OSA. Fourteen obese male patients 56 +/- 3 yr of age with a mean apnea plus hypopnea index (AHI) of 51 +/- 9/h were studied along with 14 nonobese, healthy, age- and sex-matched control subjects whose mean AHI was 6 +/- 1/h. Nasal and oral FVLs obtained in the normal subjects indicated the nose behaved like a variable resistor, with flow limitation during inspiration but not during expiration. In the patient group, flow limitation was observed during expiration as well as inspiration indicating nondistensibility of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway in the patients compared to the control subjects. A change in body position from upright to supine in the OSA group was associated with small reductions in expiratory but not inspiratory flow rates. The area under the nasal supine flow-volume loop (FVLANaSup) was found to be highly correlated with awake resting PaO2 (r = 0.80) and PaCO2 (r = -0.83) in the patient group. In addition, multiple linear regression analysis revealed that PaO2 and the area under the nasal FVLs independently contributed to the prediction of AHI with a multiple R of 0.89. These results suggest that limitations to ventilation via the nasopharynx may significantly influence both gas exchange and the frequency of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with OSA. 
Systemic amyloidosis in transgenic mice carrying the human mutant transthyretin (Met30) gene. Pathologic similarity to human familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, type I. To analyze the pathologic processes of amyloid deposition in type I familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (FAP), mice were made transgenic by introducing the human mutant transthyretin (TTR) gene. In these transgenic mice, amyloid deposition started in the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular system, and kidneys 6 months after birth and extended to various other organs and tissues with advancing age. At age 24 months, the pattern of amyloid deposition was similar to that observed in human autopsy cases of FAP, except for its absence in the choroid plexus and in the peripheral and autonomic nervous systems. Amyloid deposition was shown to be composed of human mutant TTR and, in addition, mouse serum amyloid P component. These results clearly indicate that human variant TTR produced in transgenic mice deposits is a major component of amyloid fibrils in various organs and tissues. Thus this animal model is useful for analyzing how amyloid deposition initiates and proceeds in FAP. 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: fasting plasma levels of cysteine and inorganic sulfate are normal, as are brain contents of cysteine. Recent reports suggest that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is caused by one or more unidentified neurotoxins that are poorly metabolized in patients to less toxic and more readily excreted compounds, and that a genetically determined defect in cysteine degradation and in inorganic sulfate production is the mechanism underlying a failure to metabolize xenobiotics normally in ALS. We measured concentrations of total cysteine and of inorganic sulfate in the plasma of age-matched groups of ALS patients and healthy control subjects and found no differences. L-Cysteine, a putative endogenous neurotoxin in ALS, was present in equal concentrations in autopsied brain from ALS patients and controls. 
T cell receptor peptide therapy triggers autoregulation of experimental encephalomyelitis. Encephalitogenic T cells specific for myelin basic protein share common V beta 8 peptide sequences in their T cell receptor (TCR) that can induce autoregulatory T cells and antibodies that prevent clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). It is not known, however, if TCR peptides can treat established disease. To test its therapeutic value, TCR-V beta 8-39-59 peptide was injected into rats with clinical signs of EAE. This treatment reduced disease severity and speeded recovery, apparently by boosting anti-V beta 8 T cells and antibodies raised naturally in response to encephalitogenic V beta 8+ T cells. These results demonstrate that synthetic TCR peptides can be used therapeutically, and implicate the TCR-V beta 8-39-59 sequence as a natural idiotope involved in EAE recovery. Similarly, human TCR peptides may be effective in enhancing natural regulation of autoreactive T cells that share common V genes. 
Recovery time of independent function post-stroke. Stroke patients undergoing physical rehabilitation were monitored daily to determine the length of time needed to recover independent function. Of the 93 patients admitted, there were 45 who could not attain the sitting position independently, 75 who could not walk independently and 75 who could not negotiate the stairs independently. By discharge, 25 of 45 patients (55.6%) were able to attain sitting from supine independently, 35 of 75 patients (46.7%) achieved the ability to walk independently but only 25 of 75 patients (33.3%) learned to negotiate stairs independently. The time from admission to achievement of independent function and the time from onset of stroke to achievement of independent function was modeled in relation to explanatory variables: age, sex, side of lesion, comorbidity, the presence of depression and the extent of impairment in perception, cognition, auditory comprehension and verbal expression. Four variables were found to influence recovery time: age influenced the rate of recovery of walking and stair climbing; perceptual impairment influenced the rate of achieving independent sitting and stair climbing; and depression and comprehension influenced walking. 
Epilepsy with continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and its treatment. Five children with epilepsy with "continuous spike-waves during slow sleep" (CSWS) are reported. The main clinical features of CSWS include (a) onset between 5 and 7 years of age, (b) the occurrence of several types of seizure (i.e., partial motor, generalized motor, and atypical absence), and (c) the presence of language disturbances and abnormal behavior based on emotional impairment. The EEG findings were characterized by sleep tracings showing almost continuous (greater than 95%), diffuse slow spike and wave activity. After treatment with valproate (VPA) (or ethosuximide, ESM) and clonazepam (CZP), the spike and wave complex status disappeared. Symptoms and signs of the CSWS also decreased. We suggest that combined treatment is an appropriate treatment for CSWS. 
Spatiotemporal contrast sensitivity differs in normal aging and Parkinson's disease. We measured contrast sensitivity for static and laterally drifting vertical gratings in 12 young adults, 7 normal elderly adults, and 8 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We compared static and motion contrast sensitivity for spatial frequencies of 0.25, 1, and 4 cycles per degree (cpd), and temporal frequencies of 1, 3, and 9 Hz. Results show that normal aging leads to a reduction of motion sensitivity for the spatial frequency of 0.25 cpd. Compared with elderly controls, PD patients do not present specific abnormalities in this domain. However, for spatial frequencies of 1 and 4 cpd and temporal frequencies of 1 and 3 Hz, motion sensitivity is worse than static sensitivity in PD patients and not in elderly controls. These findings suggest a specific deficit of motion perception in PD, and possible dopaminergic involvement in the control of visuospatial behavior. 
A randomized comparison of manipulation of the fractured nose under local and general anaesthesia. Reduction of simple nasal fractures may be performed under local or general anaesthesia: the latter is by far the most popular method in Britain, though why is hard to define. We have attempted to compare the 2 approaches by means of a randomized, prospective trial. Fifty consecutive, adult patients with radiologically proved fractures of the nasal bones were randomized to a local or general anaesthesia group and underwent manipulation with Asch's and Walsham's forceps between 7 and 15 days post-injury. Analysis of results at 4 h and 8 weeks post-operatively showed no significant benefit conferred by fracture reduction under general anaesthesia as opposed to local anaesthesia with respect to post-operative airway patency or cosmesis. It is suggested that significant benefits can be obtained in terms of patient convenience and cost effectiveness if nasal fractures are reduced under local anaesthesia as an outpatient procedure. 
Dementia in institutionalized elderly: relation to sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is characterized by transient hypoxemias which are thought to affect mental functioning. Accordingly, speculation and research have focussed on relationships between sleep apnea and dementia. We studied 235 nursing home (ie institutionalized) patients (152 women with a median age of 83.5; 83 men with a median age of 79.7) with portable sleep recording equipment. The Mattis Dementia Rating Scale and the Geriatric Depression Scale were given to each. Seventy percent of the patients had five or more respiratory disturbances per hour of sleep and 96 percent showed some dementia. Sleep apnea was significantly correlated with all subscales on the dementia rating scale. There were trivial differences in dementia ratings between those with mild-moderate apnea and those with no apnea. There were significant differences, however, between the latter two groups and those with severe apnea. In particular, items reflecting attention, initiation and perseveration, conceptualization, and memory tasks on the DRS distinguished between those with and without severe sleep apnea. Among those patients with no depression, all patients with severe sleep apnea were also severely demented. Our data suggest that there is a strong relationship between dementia and sleep apnea when the sleep apnea and dementia are severe. Although causality cannot be inferred from associations, our hypothesis for study is that sleep apnea causes deficits in brain function, possibly due to global effects rather than any particular cortical or subcortical structure. 
Compliance, reliability, and validity of self-monitoring for physical disturbances of Parkinson's disease. The Parkinson's Symptom Diary. Previous clinical research in Parkinson's disease has recognized the value of self-monitoring procedures in which patients observe and record the frequency and severity of their own symptoms as these occur within the patient's social and work environment. We discuss issues of methodology and report a study of compliance, test-retest reliability, and validity with a new self-monitoring instrument, the Parkinson's Symptom Diary. Two recordings of frequency (loss of balance, hesitation-freezing) and two ratings of severity (tremor, difficulty walking) were made four times daily for one week by patients (N = 73) who were without apparent loss of cognitive or memory functions. A total of 91% of the diaries received (97% of requested) met strict compliance criteria so that independent sampling over days could be assumed. Test-retest stability over one month was demonstrated for each score (all Spearman rho greater than .85) in a representative subsample of 28 patients. Criterion validity was demonstrated for each score by an expected pattern of correlations with independently obtained observer ratings of the same or related indices of disease, and by comparison with Hoehn and Yahr disability stages. By its simplicity, this self-assessment device can be an invaluable complement to traditional methods of clinical and laboratory assessment in the care and evaluation of Parkinson patients. 
The occurrence of motor fluctuations in parkinsonian patients treated long term with levodopa: role of early treatment and disease progression. The aim of this study is to evaluate what factors influence the risk of occurrence of motor fluctuations in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with particular reference to the role of early or delayed introduction of levodopa therapy during the course of the disease. One hundred twenty-five consecutive newly diagnosed patients with PD started levodopa treatment at the time diagnosis and were followed for 2 to 10 years. During follow-up, 60 patients had wearing-off or early morning akinesia. We estimated the cumulative time-dependent risk of motor fluctuation occurrence through a multivariable analysis. The risk was lower for patients with tremor-predominant PD, for those with shorter disease duration prior to levodopa, and for those who were relatively older at levodopa initiation. Our results suggest that, as far as motor fluctuations are concerned, disease prognosis is not influenced by early levodopa treatment. These observation support the introduction of levodopa as soon as there is a subjective need for the patients to maintain their level of social and work performance. 
Lack of change in neurochemical markers during the postepileptic phase of intrahippocampal tetanus toxin syndrome in rats. The chronic epileptic syndrome induced by injecting tetanus toxin into rat hippocampus causes functional changes that essentially are permanent, outlasting the period of active seizures by at least 1 year. These long-term changes have been characterized by an impaired performance on a range of behavioral tasks, which in turn have been associated with a physiologic depression of hippocampal evoked responses but not with any discernible histopathology. In the present study, we examined the hippocampi of rats in the postseizure phase of the tetanus toxin model and observed no significant changes in the concentration of neurochemical markers for six neurotransmitters. Therefore, the long-term reduction in hippocampal excitability cannot be attributed to any major loss of afferents or hippocampal neurons using aspartate, acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, norepinephrine (NE), or serotonin as their transmitters. 
Phenotypic heterogeneity of spinal muscular atrophy mapping to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3 (SMA 5q). We made phenotypic analysis of 14 families with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) linking to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3 (SMA 5q), and 2 that may not map to this locus, to assess clinical symptoms among SMA families known to result from mutation at the identical gene/locus. Although the current number of families is still small, the correlation of clinical phenotype and molecular genotype supports 2 observations. First, SMA mutations at the 5q locus present with a broad continuum of clinical abnormalities, and 2nd, the single clearly unlinked family presents with an unusual phenotype characterized by relatively late onset and early death. Thus, there are as yet no unambiguous cases of typical SMA families that are clearly unlinked to the locus at 5q-ie, no clear cases of nonallelic heterogeneity. Analysis of SMA 5q families supports the view that, with certain exceptions, there is little phenotypic intrafamilial variability. When families were ranked by severity of disease there was a strong correlation with age of onset. Onset within the 1st few months was associated with early death, but not in all cases. With rare exception, onset after 1 year of age was associated with less severe disease and greater longevity. 
Timing and topography of cerebral blood flow, aura, and headache during migraine attacks. Ten years of study has resulted in considerable but fragmented knowledge about regional cerebral blood flow in migraine with aura (classic migraine). In the present study, the number of repeatedly studied patients (n = 63) was large enough to determine statistically significant sequences of events and statistically significant spatial relations. The first observable event was a decrease of regional cerebral blood flow posteriorly in one cerebral hemisphere. Further development of this pathological process was accompanied by the aura symptoms. Thereafter headache occurred while regional cerebral blood flow remained decreased. During the headache phase, regional cerebral blood flow gradually changed from abnormally low to abnormally high without apparent change in headache. In some patients headache disappeared while regional cerebral blood flow remained increased. Although regional cerebral blood flow reduction and aura symptoms in the great majority of patients were unilateral, one-third had bilateral headache. Unilateral headache usually localized to the side on which regional cerebral blood flow was reduced and from which the aura symptoms originated (i.e., aura symptoms were perceived to occur contralaterally but presumably originated in the hypoperfused hemisphere). Our results suggest a simple model for migraine attacks: A pathological disturbance in one cerebral hemisphere causes the aura symptoms and after a time delay, it also causes the headache by stimulating local vascular nociceptors. Bilateral headache caused by a unilateral cerebral disturbance may be explained by recent neuroanatomical and neurophysiological findings. 
Effects of nimodipine on infarct size and cerebral acidosis after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of nimodipine on infarct development and local brain pH after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. Female Fischer-344 rats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery by electrocoagulation. After 6, 12, or 24 hours, brains were frozen, and infarct size, degree of edema formation, and local brain pH were quantified by standard histology or the umbelliferone technique, respectively. In control rats, cortical infarct size was increased from 29.5 microliters at 6 hours to 72.5 microliters at 24 hours after vessel occlusion. In striatum only, an insignificant increase from 15.2 to 24.7 microliters in infarct volume was observed during this period. Edema increased from 7% to 22% in cortical and from 4% to 39% in the striatal infarct areas during this time. Nimodipine (0.1 mg/kg s.c.), given 45 minutes before and again 8 and 16 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion, did not alter infarct size at 6 hours but considerably improved outcome at later times. Edema formation was lower at 12 hours in the group treated with the calcium antagonist (p less than 0.05). By contrast, effects on local brain pH were seen as early as 6 hours after the vessel occlusion. Nimodipine greatly reduced the areas exhibiting the lowest pH values beyond pH 6.0 (p less than 0.05). Similar effects by nimodipine on brain pH were observed in the 12-hour series, whereas at 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion, a shift to more alkalotic values was noted with no overt differences between control and drug-treated groups. 
Prospective payment system and impairment at discharge. The 'quicker-and-sicker' story revisited Since the introduction of the prospective payment system (PPS), anecdotal evidence has accumulated that patients are leaving the hospital "quicker and sicker." We developed valid measures of discharge impairment and measured these levels in a nationally representative sample of patients with one of five conditions prior to and following the PPS implementation. Instability at discharge (important clinical problems usually first occurring prior to discharge) predicted the likelihood of postdischarge deaths. At 90 days postdischarge, 16% of patients discharged unstable were dead vs 10% of patients discharged stable. After the PPS introduction, instability increased primarily among patients discharged home. Prior to the PPS, 10% of patients discharged home were unstable; after the PPS was implemented, 15% were discharged unstable, a 43% relative change. Efforts to monitor the effect of this increase in discharge instability on health should be implemented. 
Initial therapy of patients with Wilson's disease with tetrathiomolybdate. Patients with Wilson's disease who present with acute neurological symptoms often become clinically worse when initially treated with penicillamine. Other available anticopper drug therapies do not appear to offer a solution to this treatment problem. We are developing and evaluating a new drug, ammonium tetrathiomolybdate for this purpose. Theoretically, tetrathiomolybdate has optimal properties, including an immediate blockade of copper absorption and the property of forming complexes with copper in the blood, rendering the copper nontoxic. In this article, we present results from six patients treated with tetrathiomolybdate for up to 8 weeks as initial therapy. None of the five patients who had presented with acute neurological symptoms worsened. Also presented are methods of assay, preliminary stability studies, and methods of evaluating therapeutic end points with respect to copper metabolism. 
Neuroexcitatory plasma amino acids are elevated in migraine. To investigate the role of glutamic (Glu) and aspartic acid (Asp) in migraine, we measured the plasma amino acids in migraine patients with and without aura, between and during attacks, and compared the profiles with the plasma amino acid profiles of tension headache patients and healthy controls. Between attacks, migraineurs (notably with aura) had substantially higher plasma Glu and Asp levels than did controls and tension headache patients. In addition, patients with migraine without aura showed low plasma histidine levels. During migraine attacks, Glu (and to a lesser extent Asp) levels were even further increased. The results suggest a defective cellular reuptake mechanism for Glu and Asp in migraineurs, and we hypothesize a similar defect at the neuronal/glial cell level, predisposing the brain of migraineurs to develop spreading depression. 
The influence of warning signal timing and cognitive preparation on the aversiveness of electric shock. Many medical and dental procedures are noxious. Finding an optimal way of warning patients concerning the aversive procedures could help them to cope better. A model for the effective use of a warning signal in coping with pain posited that a person needs enough time to be able to react and should possess the skills necessary to utilize the time effectively. It was felt that a very short warning period, e.g., 5 sec, could not be long enough, while a 180 sec warning period would in and of itself become aversive. Reactions to electric shock were obtained from 36 paid, volunteer subjects who were each tested on a within-subject, counterbalanced order at 4 different warning periods: 5, 30, 60, and 180 sec. The subjects were divided into 3 groups: (1) the experimental group was provided with a pretested self-instructional booklet to learn a variety of pain control techniques; (2) the placebo group was provided with a self-instructional booklet on citizenship; (3) the control group waited quietly for 13 min. No significant results were obtained for the different pain-coping conditions. Significant differences, however, were obtained for the various warning periods. Maximum skin resistance changes, higher ratings of pain and of anxiety were obtained for the 60 and 180 compared to the 5 and 30 sec warning periods. Maximum heart rate was obtained for the 30 sec warning. Results were discussed in terms of the psychological meaning of the various measures as well as their clinical implications. 
The supraspinal anxiolytic effect of baclofen for spasticity reduction. Recent studies in the psychiatric literature indicate that baclofen has an anxiolytic action in certain psychopathologic conditions. Clinical observation has shown that manifestations of spasticity are increased in anxious individuals, implicating a supraspinal site of mediation for these responses. The purposes of this study were to determine if baclofen reduced anxiety in individuals with traumatic spinal cord lesions and whether that reduction was correlated with decreased spasticity from the baclofen. Five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injury were randomly assigned to the study protocol. A double-blind, repeated measures, multiple base-line, single-case research design was employed. The independent variable was dose of medication with the three levels being placebo, 40 mg/day of baclofen and 80 mg/day of baclofen, in four evenly divided doses. The dependent variable was the score obtained on the Beck Inventory-A anxiety scale (BIA). The subjects were administered the BIA twice per week for a nine-week period of time, during which they received the doses of medication as described. Quantitative measurements of spasticity were also taken at each session. Visual inspection analysis of the data showed that two subjects had no measurable anxiety of the BIA throughout the study. Three subjects had measurable anxiety on the BIA during the base-line/placebo phase. They showed a decreased level of their BIA scores with 40 mg/day of baclofen, and a further level reduction with 80 mg/day of baclofen. The reduction in BIA scores was statistically significant using the standard deviation band test in one of these subjects. These data indicate that BIA probably has an anxiolytic effect for individuals status post-traumatic spinal cord injury. 
Fatal or severely disabling cerebral infarction during hospitalization for stroke or transient ischemic attack. Six (1%) of 578 patients admitted for cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack (TIA) suffered a fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction following a period of stabilization or improvement lasting more than 1 day. These infarctions were characterized by the sudden onset of stupor or coma and subsequent development of transtentorial herniation due to carotid or middle cerebral artery territory infarction, or widespread brain-stem infarction due to basilar occlusion. Only one patient survived. Four patients had large-vessel disease documented by Doppler, angiography, or at autopsy. Each of these six infarcts occurred during the morning hours, 4-9 days after the initial event, 3-8 days after initiation of intravenous heparin, and within 4-8 h after intravenous heparin had been discontinued. No coagulation abnormalities were documented. We believe that these cases indicate that among patients admitted for cerebral infarction or TIA, fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction after a period of stabilization or improvement may occur in patients having an initially mild to moderate clinical deficit, that those suffering large artery disease may be at greater risk, and that there may be a relationship between heparin withdrawal and cerebral infarction in some patients. 