Catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction To assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy, catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending (n = 100 patients), right (n = 100), and circumflex (n = 50) coronary arteries. The groups of patients were similar for age (left anterior descending coronary artery, 59 years; right coronary artery, 58 years; circumflex coronary artery, 62 years), patients with multivessel disease (left anterior descending coronary artery, 55%; right coronary artery, 55%; circumflex coronary artery, 64%), and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow (left anterior descending coronary artery, 79%; right coronary artery, 84%; circumflex coronary artery, 90%). Cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, four with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery. Major catheterization laboratory events (cardioversion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension, and urgent surgery) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, eight with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery (16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients, p less than 0.001). There was one in-laboratory death (shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery). 
Effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia: a study using microdialysis. Previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous GABA suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats. In this study, microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of GABA within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure. In anesthetized rats, local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5, 10 and 40 mM nipecotic acid, an inhibitor of GABA uptake, caused concentration-related increases in GABA and taurine in the extracellular space, but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure. Similar perfusion with 37.5, 75 and 150 mM KCl caused concentration-related increases in GABA as well as aspartate, glutamate, taurine, glycine and alanine. Only modest, variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium. In conscious rats, unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mM nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol (88 pmol/250 nl) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of GABA in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus. Neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate, although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular GABA. These results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous GABA in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress. 
Radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung. Congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities. Embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies. Clinical, radiographic, and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed. 
The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry: overview of acute hemodynamic results and procedural complications. Between December 1, 1986 and October 30, 1987, balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed in 492 patients with aortic stenosis (mean age 79 +/- 8.4 years) enrolled in the Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry. All procedures were performed from a femoral approach (92%), brachial approach (6%) or transseptal approach (2%) and utilized either a single balloon technique (72%) or a double balloon technique (28%). Valvuloplasty resulted in a significant improvement in aortic valve area (0.50 +/- 0.18 cm2 to 0.82 +/- 0.30 cm2), mean aortic valve gradient (60 +/- 23 mm Hg to 30 +/- 13 mm Hg) and cardiac output (3.86 +/- 1.26 to 4.05 +/- 1.31 liters/min). Serial aortography demonstrated a moderate or severe increase in aortic insufficiency in only 2.1% of patients. Statistical analysis of the procedural factors affecting acute valvuloplasty results demonstrated significant correlations of single versus double balloon technique, total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with respect to the absolute change in mean aortic valve gradient occurring during the valvuloplasty procedure. In addition, there was a significant correlation between the maximal time of valvuloplasty balloon inflation with aortic valve area measured after valvuloplasty, and there were significant correlations of the total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with the aortic valve mean gradient measured after valvuloplasty. The overall complication rate for the procedure was 20.5%, including vascular injury in 11%, embolic phenomenon in 2.2%, ventricular perforation resulting in tamponade in 1.8%, massive aortic insufficiency in 1%, nonfatal arrhythmia in 0.8% and myocardial infarction in 0.2%. 
Cardiac rhythm disturbances early after orthotopic heart transplantation: prevalence and clinical importance of the observed abnormalities. To precisely define the incidence, type and consequences of cardiac arrhythmias early after heart transplantation, 25 cardiac transplant recipients were monitored continuously for 728 days from the day of surgery to discharge or death. A subset of 15 patients had sinus node function studies with overdrive suppression performed weekly at the time of endomyocardial biopsy. Results revealed sinus bradycardia in 10 patients (40%) and junctional bradycardia in 6 (24%). Supraventricular tachycardia in the form of atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter occurred in 11 patients (44%). Ventricular tachycardia occurred in 15 patients (60%) and was nonsustained in all. Cardiac pacing for 1,403 h was used in nine patients with a pulse rate less than 50 beats/min; seven recovered and permanent pacing was instituted in two. In the subgroup that had sinus node function studies, seven patients were identified with clinical bradyarrhythmia; each had abnormal sinus node recovery time (greater than 1,400 ms) and abnormal corrected sinus node recovery time (greater than 525 ms) in at least one study. These seven patients also had a significantly prolonged ischemic time (236 +/- 26 versus 159 +/- 68 min, p less than 0.01). In conclusion, cardiac arrhythmias, particularly ventricular tachycardia and bradyarrhythmia, occur more commonly early after orthotopic heart transplantation than has previously been reported. Sinus node dysfunction due to prolonged organ ischemic time, antiarrhythmic drug use or surgical trauma, alone or in combination, may contribute to these arrhythmias. 
Underestimation of treatment effect in crossover trials. In crossover trials each subject serves as his own control. For the study of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and angina pectoria, properly designed crossover studies are preferred to parallel studies. There is a considerable between-subject variability of symptoms in some of these conditions. Bias due to this is eliminated by the use of a crossover design. However, a problem is the so-called treatment-by-period interaction. The present study analyzes the potential influences of this on the outcome of the trial. Physical carryover effect, defined as a physical effect of the first treatment period carrying on into the second, tends to minimize differences between two consecutive treatment periods. So does the frustrating experience of an inactive agent in the first treatment period. Outside influences such as the change of the seasons may affect lengthy crossover trials in a similar way. The author concludes that the treatment effect in a crossover trial tends to be underestimated. The current concept that reports of clinical trials are generally biased toward an exaggeration of treatment effects does not seem to apply to crossover trials. 
Alarm reaction and serum K+ in hypertensive patients. The effect of serum K+ of the alarm reaction induced by the participation to an experimental noninvasive study was evaluated in 35 subjects with borderline hypertension and in 18 essential hypertensives. A group of 44 inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling served as a control. Serum K+, blood pressure and heart rate were measured before (casual) and after (baseline) 20 min of rest in the recumbent position. Baseline serum K+ values were significantly higher than casual values in patients participating to the experimental protocol while no change was observed in inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling. The increase in serum K+ induced by relaxation was significantly related to heart rate decrease (r = 0.73). After relaxation 75% of patients had an increase in serum K+ with a change greater than 10% in about 35% of patients. In a subgroup of patients who repeated the same test three times, the alarm reaction was still evident and not reproducible within each patient. These data suggest that when potassium levels are measured in outpatients undergoing diagnostic or experimental procedures falsely reduced levels can be found in a large proportion of subjects. 
A rheolytic system for percutaneous coronary and peripheral plaque removal. A method for plaque dissolution has been identified that percutaneously delivers a pulsatile high-velocity stream of saline to the site of an atheromatous lesion within a coronary or peripheral artery. In vitro evaluation and in vivo canine and porcine testing were performed using this 'rheolytic' system to determine its feasibility in ablating calcified plaque and soft thrombotic tissue. A prototype rheolytic guidewire capable of providing 30,000 psi of internal pressure was designed to fit within the guidewire lumen of a standard percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty catheter. An additional over-the-wire rheolytic catheter was fabricated to follow a standard .014-inch guidewire. The rheolytic devices were tested in vitro with simulated atheromatous and thrombotic lesions to evaluate the size and quantity of the particulate effluent. The particulate was then sterilized, mixed with saline, and introduced percutaneously into the animal kidney and heart for evaluation. The in vitro studies demonstrated that the rheolytic catheter and guidewire were able to follow both a coronary and femoral arterial model and successfully ablate the simulated lesions. The particle size for osseous, muscular, and cartilagenous tissue ranged from 2 to 6 micrometers; for fresh human plaque the particles ranged from 2 to 15 micrometers. Injection of cartilagenous and plaque particles into the animal model caused very slight regions of necrosis but no clinical sequelae. Applications of the rheolytic devices to the animal femoral artery demonstrated that both devices could ablate and cross calified or soft thrombosed lesions without damage to the vessel wall; the rheolytic catheter provided a debulking of the plaque. 
Epidemiology of heart failure. Analysis of 34 years of follow-up of Framingham Study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence, incidence, secular trends, prognosis, and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample. Heart failure was found to be highly prevalent, affecting about 1% of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10% of persons in their 80s. The annual incidence also increased with age, from about 0.2% in persons 45 to 54 years, to 4.0% in men 85 to 94 years, with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age. Women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages. Male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease, which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure. Heart failure, once manifest, was highly lethal, with 37% of men and 33% of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis. The 6-year mortality rate was 82% for men and 67% for women, which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age. Sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28% of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14% in women with heart failure. Hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80% of all clinical events. Factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure. These include low vital capacity, sinus tachycardia, and ECG evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale: a difficult antemortem diagnosis [published erratum appears in Mayo Clin Proc 1991 Apr;66(4):439] Microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose. The most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea, and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram. Another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities. In general, pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli, but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans. The diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology, a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography. Herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death. These cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis. 
The association between Type A behavior and change in coronary risk factors among young adults. The association of Type A/B behavior pattern and changes in blood pressure, total serum cholesterol, serum triglyceride, body mass, and smoking was estimated in a cohort of 375 young Black and White men and women from a rural county in Central Kentucky between 1978-79 and 1985-88. Type A participants experienced significant increases in systolic (2.90 +/- 1.29 mmHg) and diastolic (3.80 +/- 1.17 mmHg) blood pressure and in cigarette smoking (3.26 +/- 0.89 cigarettes per day) over the eight-year follow-up period, but Type B participants experienced no change. Type A and B individuals showed similar changes in total serum cholesterol, serum triglyceride, or body mass. Differences between behavioral types in blood pressure were present for women but not men, and for Blacks but not for Whites. These findings suggest a possible significance of the Type A pattern for the development of cardiovascular risk of young adults. 
Effect of Bay U 3405, a new thromboxane antagonist, on collagen-induced thromboembolism in rabbits. Bay U 3405 [(3R)-3-(4-fluorophenylsulfonamido)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9- carbazolepropanoic acid] potently inhibits platelet aggregation, thromboxane A2-induced contraction of smooth muscles, and coronary artery thrombosis. We have previously demonstrated inhibition of arachidonic acid-induced sudden death by Bay U 3405. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of Bay U 3405 on thromboembolism provoked by collagen. Collagen fibrils dissolved in an isotonic glucose solution were injected into a marginal ear vein of anesthetized rabbits. Sudden death occurred within a few minutes due to elevated thromboxane A2 levels causing intravascular platelet aggregation and myocardial ischemia. In the vehicle-treated group, 100% of the animals died. One of the most prominent parameters was the massive fall in blood pressure. All animals pretreated with 10 mg/kg orally Bay U 3405 survived, showing only a transient hypotensive effect. Tracings of the electrocardiogram and heart rate were unchanged. Bay U 3405 will therefore be useful to elucidate the role of thromboxane A2 in various cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. 
Lipoprotein (a) and coronary heart disease: a prospective case-control study in a general population sample of middle aged men. OBJECTIVE--To examine the association between the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration and subsequent coronary heart disease. DESIGN--Prospective case-control study based on a six year follow up of a general population sample of men aged 50 at baseline in 1983-4. Serum samples were frozen at the time of the baseline examination and kept at -70 degrees C for six years, after which the lipoprotein (a) concentrations in the samples were measured in cases and controls. SETTING--City of Gothenburg, Sweden. SUBJECTS--26 Men, from a general population sample of 776 men, who had sustained a myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease during the six years and 109 randomly selected controls from the same sample who had remained free of myocardial infarction. In neither cases nor controls was there a history of myocardial infarction at baseline. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Proportion of myocardial infarction or deaths from coronary heart disease, or both, in relation to the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration. RESULTS--Men who suffered coronary heart disease had significantly higher serum lipoprotein (a) concentrations than controls (mean difference 105 mg/l; 95% confidence interval 18 to 192 mg/l). Men with the highest fifth of serum lipoprotein (a) concentrations (cut off point 365 mg/l) suffered a coronary heart disease rate which was more than twice that of men with the lowest four fifths of concentrations. Logistic regression analysis showed the serum lipoprotein (a) concentration to be significantly associated with coronary heart disease independently of other risk factors. CONCLUSION--The serum lipoprotein (a) concentration in middle aged men is an independent risk factor for subsequent myocardial infarction or death from coronary heart disease. 
Discrepancies in the measurement of isovolumic relaxation time: a study comparing M mode and Doppler echocardiography. Mitral valve cusp separation on M mode echogram, the mitral valve opening artefact, and the onset of forward transmitral flow recorded by Doppler echocardiography have all been taken to mark the end of isovolumic relaxation, while its onset has been taken either as the aortic closure sound (A2) recorded phonocardiographically or the aortic closure artefact determined by Doppler technique. Possible differences in the measurement of the isovolumic relaxation time were studied when these landmarks were used in 44 healthy people, 14 patients with mitral stenosis, 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, and 24 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy by recording M mode echograms of the mitral valve, and pulsed and continuous wave Doppler spectra of transmitral flow, with simultaneous electrocardiograms and phonocardiograms. A2 was effectively synchronous with the aortic artefact. However, when the onset of Doppler flow was regarded as the end of isovolumic relaxation, the interval was significantly longer than when mitral cusp separation on M mode echograms was used: by 25 (10) ms in healthy individuals, by 25 (15) ms in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, and by 50 (35) ms in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. In patients with mitral stenosis the interval was only 5 (5) ms longer. The mitral valve opening artefact consistently followed the onset of flow and corresponded much more closely to the E point on the M mode echogram. This shows that it occurred during the rapid filling period and well beyond isovolumic relaxation by any definition. Thus isovolumic relaxation time measured from A2 to the onset of transmitral flow or the mitral valve opening artefact differs from that derived from A2 to mitral valve cusp separation. These intervals cannot be used interchangeably to measure "isovolumic relaxation time". 
Endothelin family in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. To clarify whether endothelin may be present in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and, if it exists, to compare its molecular forms with those of endothelin in human plasma, we analyzed pooled human CSF and plasma by high performance liquid chromatography with specific enzyme immunoassays for each endothelin peptide. Of the four human endothelin peptides hitherto identified, big endothelin-1 was the major molecular form of endothelin present in human CSF. In addition, there was a small but significant amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in CSF, while endothelin-2 was not detectable. Similarly, big endothelin-1, endothelin-1, and endothelin-3 were identified in human plasma. Although big endothelin-1 was the most abundant, a substantial amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 was found in plasma with a resultant lower molar ratio of big endothelin-1 to endothelin-1 than in CSF. In all CSF samples from 17 patients requiring diagnostic lumbar puncture or lumbar anesthesia, endothelin was detectable, with a preponderance of big endothelin-1 relative to endothelin-1 and endothelin-3. The mean concentrations of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in simultaneously collected plasma were significantly (P less than 0.01) higher than those in CSF, while there was no significant difference between the mean big endothelin-1 concentration in plasma and that in CSF. There was no significant correlation among concentrations of big endothelin-1, endothelin-1, and endothelin-3 in each paired sample. These results indicate that endothelin is present in human CSF that is differently processed from endothelin in vascular endothelial cells and suggest a possible role for endothelin as a modulator of neuronal functions. 
Angiotensin II levels in hypertensive and normotensive pregnancies. We measured circulating angiotension II by radioimmunoassay in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension (n = 54), and compared these values with those obtained in women with normal pregnancy (n = 18) and in non pregnant women (n = 20). Pregnant women had statistically significantly higher plasma angiotensin II [mean (SD): 41.3 (12.6) pg/ml] than non-pregnant women [29.2 (11.3) pg/ml; P less than 0.004]. Angiotensin II concentrations in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension [mean (SD): 31.7 (16.2) pg/ml] were, on average, 25% lower than in normal pregnancy (P less than 0.003) and resembled those obtained in non-pregnant women. The lowest angiotensin II levels were found in women with more severe forms of pregnancy-induced hypertension, such as proteinuric or superimposed pregnancy-induced hypertension. Review of the published studies on angiotensin II and our data suggest that the conflict among studies on angiotensin II levels in pregnancy-induced hypertension is largely due to the heterogeneity of the study populations in the various reports. 
Role of ultrasonic tissue characterization to distinguish reversible from irreversible myocardial injury. Tissue characterization reflects structural and functional integrity of tissues. Inasmuch as reversible ischemia causes no structural damage and irreversible ischemia results in persistent structural myocardial damage, we postulated that ultrasonic tissue characterization can distinguish the two types of injuries. Anesthetized open chest dogs underwent 15 minutes (group 1, n = 5) and 90 minutes (group 2, n = 8) of acute total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, followed by 3 hours of reperfusion. Myocardial ischemia-infarction was confirmed with segment shortening, electronmicroscopic examination, and triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining. Integrated backscatter Rayleigh 5 (IBR5), a measure of ultrasonic backscatter, and Fourier coefficient of amplitude modulation (FAM), an index of cardiac cycle dependent variation in backscatter, were measured at baseline, during ischemia, and after reperfusion. Group 1 (reversible ischemia) showed an increase in IBR5 from -48 +/- 1.2 dB at control to -45 +/- 1.0 dB (p less than 0.01) during ischemia, which returned to baseline after reperfusion (-47 +/- 1.3 dB). FAM was blunted during ischemia (6.2 +/- 1.0 dB during control versus 1.2 +/- 1.0 dB during ischemia, p less than 0.01) and recovered completely during reperfusion. Segment shortening was abolished during ischemia (18% +/- 3% during control versus -12% +/- 5% during ischemia, p less than 0.01) and recovered partially during reperfusion (4% +/- 5%). The group 2 animals with irreversible myocardial injury showed an increase in IBR5, from -49 +/- 1.2 dB during control to -44 +/- 1.0 dB during ischemia (p less than 0.01) and paradoxical bulging of the ischemic region (17% +/- 3% to -7% +/- 3%, p less than 0.01) during ischemia. 
Mechanical factors in large artery disease and antihypertensive drugs. Hypertension may induce early alterations in large arteries by 2 mechanical stresses: one related to intravascular pressure, the other to blood flow dynamics. Distending pressure force acts in a circumferential direction, inducing decreased arterial distensibility. Arterial distensibility can be evaluated in humans by measurement of arterial compliance and pulse-wave velocity. It is well established that in chronic hypertension age and elevated pressure act together to increase arterial rigidity. Blood flow dynamics induce frictional forces in the endothelial surfaces of arteries. These forces, expressed by shear stress, are proportional to the viscosity of the blood and to the velocity gradient at the arterial wall. Measurement of blood viscosity and evaluation of velocity profile in the brachial arteries of hypertensive subjects have shown a reduction in wall shear rate and stress despite the elevation in blood viscosity. Several studies have shown that drug therapy that successfully reduces blood pressure does not necessarily improve arterial compliance. In contrast, few data are available on the effects of antihypertensive medication on arterial wall shear in humans. Arterial compliance and wall shear stress are 2 main therapeutic targets of potential importance in the physiopharmacologic approach to the effects of hypertension on atherogenesis. 
Intraoperative transesophageal color-coded Doppler echocardiography for evaluation of residual regurgitation after mitral valve repair. Because mitral valve competence after mitral valve reconstruction is awkward to assess during this procedure, we evaluated in this respect transesophageal color-coded Doppler echocardiography in 23 patients undergoing mitral valve reconstruction for severe mitral regurgitation. Transesophageal echocardiographic examinations were performed after induction of anesthesia but before sternotomy (baseline), after mitral valve repair before decannulation, and at sternal closure, all at similar mean aortic pressure and echocardiographic instrument settings. The degree of mitral regurgitation by transesophageal color Doppler flow mapping was visually quantified on a 5-point scale (0 to 4), pending the left atrial extent of the regurgitant jet. This was compared with the degree of mitral regurgitation by left ventricular cineangiography performed within several weeks after operation and also visually quantified on a 5-point scale (0 to 4), with use of the right anterior oblique projection. There was good correlation between the two methods (r = 0.83; p less than 0.001). We conclude that residual mitral regurgitation, as assessed by transesophageal color flow mapping in the operating room, highly correlates with the ultimate mitral regurgitation by cineangiography. Therefore transesophageal echocardiography can be helpful for evaluation of mitral valve competence during mitral valve reconstruction, and hence, in case of repair failure, allow valve replacement in the same surgical session, thus avoiding reoperation. 
Left ventricular regional wall stress in dilated cardiomyopathy. Left ventriculography with simultaneous pressure micromanometry was performed in 11 normal control subjects and 17 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Left ventricular silhouettes in the right anterior oblique projection were divided into eight areas, and regional wall stress was computed by Janz's method in each area excluding the two most basal areas. Wall stress was higher in DCM patients than in control subjects (p less than 0.01). The percent area changes from end diastole to end systole in each area were lower in DCM patients than in control subjects (mean for six areas, 22 +/- 14% versus 54 +/- 9%, respectively, p less than 0.01), but the coefficient of variation for the percent area changes in the six areas of the left ventricle in DCM patients was greater than that in control subjects (32 +/- 17% versus 15 +/- 4%, respectively, p less than 0.01), indicating regional differences in hypokinesis. There was a significant negative correlation between end-systolic regional wall stress and percent area change (r = -0.60 to -0.86, p less than 0.05) in each area. Thus, excessive regional afterload may play an important role in causing regional hypokinesis in DCM. 
Spontaneous changes in ventricular tachycardia cycle length. Understanding spontaneous fluctuations in ventricular tachycardia cycle length is required to develop algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination. Variations in cycle length, time to stable cycle length and the range of RR intervals during ventricular tachycardia were analyzed in 74 episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in patients not taking antiarrhythmic medication. Linear regression demonstrated cycle length variability to decrease over time (41 +/- 24 to 17 +/- 19 ms, p less than 0.001). Slower ventricular tachycardia had more cycle length variability than faster ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.001). Ventricular tachycardia that was initially more variable tended to remain more variable (p less than 0.001). Fifty-four percent of episodes stabilized within the first 15 beats, 75% by 30 beats and 93% by 50 beats. The number of beats to stable cycle length was independent of ventricular tachycardia rate. The average range in cycle length per episode was 127 +/- 72 ms; 12% of ventricular tachycardia episodes varied by less than 50 ms and 45% by less than 150 ms. The maximal range in RR intervals from a single episode of ventricular tachycardia was 290 ms. Therefore, ventricular tachycardia demonstrates a wide range of cycle lengths and has time-dependent changes in variability and stability. These cycle length changes should be considered in the algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination by automatic antitachycardia devices. 
Infrarenal abdominal aortic disease: a review of the retroperitoneal approach. Transabdominal exposure is the most widely used surgical approach to the infrarenal aorta. Over the last 30 years a number of surgeons have championed the retroperitoneal approach for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and aortoiliac occlusive disease using a variety of incisions. Several studies attest to the clinical superiority of this approach over the transabdominal route and recent evidence demonstrates reduced physiological disturbance with this technique. The retroperitoneal approach is suitable for all elective operations on the abdominal aorta, particularly in patients with high-risk aneurysms and in selected patients with symptomatic and ruptured aneurysms. 
Percutaneous angioscopy during coronary angioplasty using a steerable microangioscope. The feasibility of using a flexible, steerable angioscope to perform coronary angioscopy before and after percutaneous coronary angioplasty was tested. The microangioscope fits through an 8F coronary angioplasty guiding catheter and contains a multifiber viewing bundle incorporated into the body of a 4.3F balloon catheter with a central lumen for distal flushing and guide-wire passage. Angioscopy was performed without complications 45 times in 24 patients, including 6 patients with stable and 18 with unstable angina. Circumferential visualization of the target lesion was successful in 20 (83%) of the 24 patients and improved with operator experience. Excellent visualization of the target lesion was achieved in 16 (94%) of the last 17 patients. Plaque, thrombus and dissection were among the abnormal findings in the 20 patients (4 with stable, 16 with unstable angina) in whom circumferential viewing of the target lesion was achieved. In four patients with restenosis after angioplasty, the lesion morphology was distinctly different from that of lesions in arteries without prior angioplasty. In patients with stable angina, no thrombus or dissection was seen by angiography or angioscopy before angioplasty. In patients with unstable angina, thrombus was detected more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (8 versus 2 of 16) and after (15 versus 2 of 16) angioplasty. Intimal dissection was also seen much more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty (7 versus 0 of 16) and after angioplasty (16 versus 7 of 16). It is concluded that high resolution percutaneous coronary angioscopy can be performed safely in conjunction with balloon angioplasty. Further investigation is needed before this diagnostic tool can be applied clinically. 
Fluosol: an oxygen-delivery fluid for use in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Fluosol (20% intravascular perfluorochemical emulsion) is an oxygen-carrying emulsion used to deliver oxygen to ischemic myocardium during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Fluosol is composed of two perfluorochemicals, perfluorodecalin and perfluorotripropylamine. It has a high capacity for oxygen solubility, a low viscosity, and a small particle size. Following administration, the perfluorochemicals in fluosol are not metabolized. Rather, most are expired as gaseous particles through the lungs; the remainder are taken up by the organs of the reticuloendothelial system and later expired. When administered during balloon inflation in PTCA, fluosol preserves ventricular wall motion and global left ventricular ejection fraction. In addition, it minimizes ST segment changes and preserves cardiac output. Fluosol may be especially useful in patients who have poor contractile reserve, multivessel disease, or serious underlying illness. Other uses under investigation include limitation of myocardial infarct size and chemosensitization or radiosensitization of malignant tumors. Adverse effects secondary to the use of fluosol include ventricular arrhythmias, pruritus, bradycardia, chest pain, dyspnea, and increased respiratory rate. Fluosol must be thawed, admixed, warmed to body temperature, and oxygenated prior to intracoronary administration. The usual administration rate is 60 mL/min during each balloon inflation. 
Transaortic endarterectomy of renal visceral artery lesions in association with infrarenal aortic surgery. The complexity of infrarenal aortic reconstruction increases when bypass grafts to revascularize associated renal and visceral arteries are needed. Lesions in these vessels, however, are usually limited to their aortic orifices and therefore are amenable to retroperitoneal transaortic endarterectomy. A combined infrarenal aortic reconstruction and transaortic endarterectomy of the renal/visceral vessels was used in 18 (16%) of 120 patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2-year-period. Transaortic endarterectomy was performed primarily for renal preservation in 11 patients with bilateral, high-grade renal artery stenoses and abnormal renal function (serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.9 mg/dl). In seven patients transaortic endarterectomy was performed as a secondary procedure during the course of complex reconstruction of aneurysmal or occlusive aortic disease. Mean serum creatinine, which was elevated preoperatively in 14 (78%) patients (3.3 mg/dl), decreased significantly after the operation (2.0 mg/dl, p less than 0.01). A single death occurred in the 18 patients undergoing transaortic endarterectomy. Renal function preservation can be achieved by renal revascularization in patients with bilateral renal artery stenoses and decreased renal function. The retroperitoneal approach to aortic reconstruction and the use of transaortic endarterectomy allows correction of most renal/visceral vessel involvement in complex aortic revascularization procedures. 
The effects of epidural anesthesia on the Doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor. To study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia, we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks' gestation. Seven had preeclampsia, eight had chronic hypertension, and ten had no complications. Doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade. Maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously. After epidural block, mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups, but no maternal hypotension was observed. Mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged. After epidural block, mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic (S-D) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups, but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group. Umbilical artery S-D ratios did not change in any group. In preeclamptic pregnancy, epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being. 
Mechanisms of reoxygenation injury in cultured ventricular myocytes To investigate factors contributing to reperfusion and reoxygenation myocardial injury, we exposed layers of cultured chick ventricular myocytes to severe hypoxia for up to 3 hours in the presence of 20 mM 2-deoxyglucose, zero glucose, and 5 mM pyruvate, and then exposed the myocytes to reoxygenation. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release was moderately increased during 3 hours of hypoxia but was increased markedly during reoxygenation. Coincident changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and cell motion were also measured during hypoxia and reoxygenation. During hypoxia, [Ca2+]i increased to more than 1 microM, and with reoxygenation, [Ca2+]i abruptly decreased slightly but remained elevated more than 1 microM. Cells developed a stable rigor after 30 minutes of hypoxia. Reoxygenation caused a marked hypercontracture within 5 minutes. Pretreatment of myocytes with either 2,3-butanedione monoxime, which inhibits Ca2(+)-dependent force development, or cyanide inhibited reoxygenation hypercontracture. LDH release after reoxygenation was also significantly reduced in the presence of 2,3-butanedione monoxime. Treatment of myocytes with superoxide dismutase and catalase during hypoxia also resulted in a decrease in LDH release during reoxygenation. We conclude that an abrupt increase in [Ca2+]i during reoxygenation does not account for reoxygenation injury. However, in the presence of elevated [Ca2+]i, reoxygenation and the resulting probable resynthesis of ATP causes [Ca2+]i-dependent myofilament crossbridge cycling, and the resulting hypercontracture contributes to myocyte damage. The generation of oxygen free radicals after reoxygenation also appears to contribute to cell injury in this system. 
Coronary flow and mental stress. Experimental findings. The hemodynamic, electrocardiographic, and coronary flow responses to a psychological test were studied in 13 pigs both in the absence (group 1, n = 8) and the presence (group 2, n = 5) of a transient occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The psychological test consisted of presenting food to a fasting but restrained animal for 3 minutes. In group 1, stress increased the heart rate from 128 +/- 5 to 176 +/- 8 beats/min (mean +/- SEM) and arterial pressure from 93 +/- 4 to 112 mm Hg. Comparing the individual increase in rate-pressure product with the increase in coronary conductance during the test, a parallel response was found in only two animals, whereas a relatively lower coronary conductance was observed in the remainder, suggesting vasoconstriction. Clinical signs of ischemia or life-threatening arrhythmias were never observed in this group of animals. Each group 2 animal underwent two occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery, randomly performed on separate days both in the presence and the absence of the food deprivation stress. When the latter was applied in the presence of occlusion, all animals developed ventricular fibrillation in less than 2 minutes (mean, 81.4 seconds). Conversely, only one animal had ventricular fibrillation when a 3-minute occlusion was performed without exposure to stress. This occurred despite the fact that more severe ischemia (as detected by an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and decreases in dP/dt and systolic pressure) was recorded at 3 minutes of occlusion. 
Surgical repair of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome complicated with myocardial bridging. Myocardial bridging causes myocardial ischemia during supraventricular tachycardia. We present a case of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome combined with myocardial bridging. The patient complained of angina pectoris during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia because of severe constriction of the left anterior descending coronary artery during systole. A myocardial scintigram revealed myocardial ischemia in the anteroseptal wall during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Myotomy to prevent myocardial bridging and interruption of the accessory conduction pathway was successfully accomplished in a one-stage operation. 
Hemodynamic determinants of subdiaphragmatic venous return during closed-chest CPR in a canine cardiac arrest model. OBJECTIVE: To assess the hemodynamic determinates of peripheral subdiaphragmatic venous-to-right-heart return during closed-chest CPR. MODEL: Seven anesthetized dogs subjected to electrically induced ventricular fibrillation for five minutes. INTERVENTIONS: Conventional closed-chest CPR and closed-chest CPR with continuous abdominal binding at a chest compression rate of 60 per minute, a compression-to-relaxation ratio of 50:50, and a ventilation-to-compression ratio of 1:5. METHODS: Solid-state catheters were positioned in the ascending aorta, right atrium (RA), and inferior vena cava (IVC). Cannulating electromagnetic flow probes were inserted into the IVC and a carotid artery. Analog-to-digital conversion was performed electronically. Five minutes after ventricular fibrillation was induced, interventions were performed in an alternating sequence. Systolic, diastolic, and mean pressures and flows were measured and compared. STATISTICAL METHODS: Two-tailed, unpaired t test applied to equal sample size, linear regression analysis, and multiple regression analysis. RESULTS: Abdominal binding during CPR significantly increased (P less than .05) all measured systolic and diastolic CPR intravascular pressures compared with CPR without abdominal binding but did not affect IVC-to-right-heart venous return. During conventional CPR without abdominal binding, venous return was dependent on the diastolic IVC pressure (r = .86, P = .014), mean IVC pressure (r = .80, P = .03), and carotid blood flow (r = .99, P = .001) but not on the IVC-to-RA pressure gradient. With abdominal binding, venous return was not correlated with any study hemodynamic variable, including the peripheral venous-to-RA pressure gradient. CONCLUSION: Venous return from the subdiaphragmatic venous bed during CPR is dependent on venous pressure, not on the peripheral venous-to-right-heart pressure gradient. Abdominal binding during CPR does not affect venous return. Venous return during CPR diastole is highly dependent on central venous capacitance (left heart outflow during CPR systole). 
Plaque and structural characteristics of the descending thoracic aorta using transesophageal echocardiography. The in vivo acoustic and structural characteristics of atherosclerosis in the descending thoracic aorta have not been well delineated. We prospectively evaluated the descending thoracic aorta of 147 patients (35 women and 112 men; age, 61 +/- 14 years) who underwent clinically indicated transesophageal echocardiography. Patients with suspected disease of the aorta were excluded. Thirty-eight patients (26%) had protruding plaques (men, 25%; women, 29%). Six patients had mobile intimal densities with the mobile area ranging up to 1 cm2. As expected, aortic lumen area was decreased (plaque-free, 3.53 cm2; plaque, 3.19 cm2; p less than 0.05) and wall area was increased (plaque-free, 1.51 cm2; plaque, 1.92 cm2; p less than 0.05) in the regions of the plaque. However, total arterial area was not increased (plaque-free, 5.04 cm2; plaque, 5.09 cm2; difference not significant) in a compensatory manner as observed in other arterial beds. Plaque gray scale was less than the gray scale of plaque-free wall (plaque-free, 141.2; plaque, 122.7; p less than 0.05) when compared at the same level of the descending thoracic aorta or with a second aortic plaque-free level (plaque-free, 150.4; plaque, 122.7; p less than 0.05). Standard deviation of gray scale level was similar between plaque and normal regions. Unsuspected protruding plaques in the descending thoracic aorta occurred in one quarter of the patients referred for routine transesophageal examination. Plaques tended to have lower echogenicity and were differentiated from plaque-free walls within patients. Plaque formation did not result in increased total arterial area. These data suggest that the degree or character of compensatory atherosclerotic remodeling in the highly elastic descending thoracic aorta may differ from other arterial beds. 
Ultrasonographic diagnosis of a large placental intervillous thrombosis associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level. A placental lesion associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level and a positive Kleihauer-Betke test is reported. Serial ultrasonograms showed a progressive increase in the echogenicity of the lesion that corresponded to a large intervillous thrombosis after delivery. This case illustrates the importance of detailed ultrasonographic and pathologic placental investigations in pregnancies with unexplained elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein. 
Hypertension with concomitant conditions: the changing role of beta-adrenoceptor blockade. Hypertension often is associated with concomitant conditions such as chronic obstructive lung disease, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, and peripheral vascular disease. Moreover, other cardiovascular risk factors, including dyslipidemias and abnormalities of glucose and insulin metabolism, are common in patients with hypertension. Conventional beta-blockers used for antihypertensive therapy can have adverse effects in patients with airway disease, diabetes, and peripheral vascular disease, and can exaggerate the other risk factors. Newer beta-blockers such as celiprolol, which have selective partial agonist activity expressed at beta 2-receptors, appear to avoid these problems. Celiprolol exhibits antianginal and antihypertensive efficacy without adversely effecting left ventricular systolic function or exercise performance. It also may cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy. The stimulatory action of celiprolol on vascular beta 2-receptors enhances regional flow and may increase walking distance in patients with claudication. The reduction in renal vascular resistance demonstrated by this drug is associated with preservation of renal blood flow and function. Spirometric measurements of airway function are unchanged during celiprolol treatment. Similarly, there are no adverse effects on lipid or glucose concentrations. These new developments in beta-blocker pharmacology indicate that this class of agents could be used in patients with hypertension with concomitant diseases or risk factors other than high blood pressure. 
Pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. After pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries. Our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion. We retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. New postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients. The incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had (1) normal preoperative angiographic findings, (2) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion, and (3) not been entered at the time of surgery. Postoperative angiograms, available in 15 of 33 patients, documented the nonembolic, nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects. The most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy, namely, a pulmonary vascular "steal.". 
Exercise echocardiography and technetium-99m MIBI single-photon emission computed tomography in the detection of coronary artery disease. To compare the relative diagnostic value of exercise echocardiography with perfusion technetium-99m metoxyisobutylisonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in detecting coronary artery disease (CAD), 75 patients with suspected CAD but a normal electrocardiogram (ECG) at rest were included in a prospective correlative study. Both the exercise echocardiograms and SPECT studies were performed in conjunction with the same symptom-limited bicycle exercise test. The development of either a new wall motion abnormality or a reversible perfusion defect after exercise, or both, were regarded as a positive test for the exercise echocardiographic and SPECT studies, respectively. The results of these 2 diagnostic tests were compared with coronary arteriography. Exercise echocardiography identified 35 (71%) and SPECT 41 (84%, p = 0.13) of the 49 patients with significant CAD (defined as greater than 50% diameter stenosis). Twenty-five of the 26 patients (96%) without significant coronary stenosis had negative exercise echocardiographic results and 23 of 26 (88%) had negative SPECT results. Exercise-induced new wall motion abnormalities showed a good correlation with reversible perfusion defects, and the results of the 2 methods were concordant in 65 of 75 patients (agreement = 88%, kappa = 0.75 +/- 0.14). Both the diagnostic accuracy of exercise echocardiography and SPECT were significantly higher than the exercise ECG (81 vs 64%, p less than 0.02 and 88 vs 64%, p less than 0.005). The sensitivity and specificity for detecting individual diseased vessels were 60 and 95% for exercise echocardiography and 67 and 94% for SPECT. 
Spinal extradural cavernous hemangioma. Three cases of isolated spinal extradural cavernous hemangiomas are reported, two in the thoracic and one in the lumbar region. One of them manifested as acute cord compression, the other two as chronic progressive myelopathy or radiculopathy. A total excision or subtotal excision with irradiation was performed. All of them had good functional recovery. The clinical picture, radiological diagnosis, and optimal method of treatment are discussed. The relevant literature is reviewed. 
Admission and mid-stay MedisGroups scores as predictors of death within 30 days of hospital admission. We examined the ability of MedisGroups, a severity measure based on clinical data abstracted from the medical record, to predict mortality 30 days following admission. MedisGroups measures severity both on admission and approximately one week into the hospital stay. The data base was a random sample of 20,985 admissions of Medicare beneficiaries with one of six conditions from 833 hospitals in seven states between January 1985 and May 1986. In all six conditions, higher admission and mid-stay severity scores were generally associated with higher risk of death. Across the six conditions, the R-squared values for predicting death using admission scores ranged from 0.01 to 0.16; R-squared values using mid-stay scores ranged from 0.03 to 0.34; and R-squared values from combining admission and mid-stay scores ranged from 0.05 to 0.41. Admission MedisGroups score was thus only modestly predictive of 30-day mortality. While the mid-stay score was more powerful, it may not be an appropriate severity adjuster to screen for quality using hospital mortality rates because it could be influenced by substandard care. 
Comparison of SPECT using technetium-99m agents and thallium-201 and PET for the assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability. This report reviews the applications of tomographic imaging with current and new tracers in assessing myocardial perfusion and viability. Multiple studies with thallium-201 (TI-201) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) have demonstrated high sensitivity, high rates of normalcy and high reproducibility. In assessing viability, fixed defects are frequently detected in viable zones in 4-hour studies with TI-201 imaging. Redistribution imaging performed 18 to 72 hours after injection or reinjection of TI-201 before 4-hour redistribution imaging has been shown to improve accuracy of viability assessment. TI-201 SPECT studies are limited by the suboptimal physical properties of TI-201, which result in variable image quality. The 2 new technetium-99m (Tc-99m) - labeled myocardial perfusion tracers offer the ability to inject much higher amounts of radioactivity, making it possible to assess ventricular function as well as myocardial perfusion from the same injection of radiotracer. Tc-99m sestamibi has very slow myocardial clearance, which allows for prolonged imaging time and results in image quality superior to that obtained with TI-201 and Tc-99m teboroxime. The combination of minimal redistribution of Tc-99m sestamibi and high count rates makes gated SPECT imaging feasible, and also permits assessment of patients with acute ischemic syndromes by uncoupling the time of injection from the time of imaging. The combination of high image quality and first-pass exercise capabilities may lead to a choice of this agent over TI-201 for assessment of chronic CAD. 
Inability to demonstrate physiologic correlates of subjective improvement among patients taught the relaxation response. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether the regular elicitation of the relaxation response produces sustained physiologic changes coincident with symptomatic relief or improved psychological state. DESIGN: Prospective, cohort pilot study. SETTING: Clinical research center within a teaching hospital. PATIENTS: Thirteen athletic men, mean age 44.8 years, with borderline or labile hypertension, taking no medication. All 13 completed the study. INTERVENTIONS: Three baseline assessments of psychological state, symptom checklist, and assessment of autonomic response to infusion of beta agonist (isoproterenol). Daily relaxation response exercises for five consecutive weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters. Discontinuation of relaxation exercises for subsequent five weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters. Measurements and main results: After eliciting the relaxation response, subjects demonstrated significant decreases in anxiety (p less than 0.014) and somatic symptoms (p less than 0.02). Psychological and somatic variables returned toward baseline after the subsequent discontinuation of relaxation exercises. No significant concomitant change in urinary catecholamines, heart rate response to isoproterenol, blood pressure, pulse rate, or serum cholesterol was demonstrated. CONCLUSION: The regular elicitation of the relaxation response can improve psychological performance and reduce symptoms. However, the physiologic mechanism whereby these psychological and symptomatic improvements occur remains poorly understood and warrants further investigation. 
Infectious intracranial aneurysms: comparison of groups with and without endocarditis. A series of 12 patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms is presented, and a number of unusual features of the disorder are emphasized. A comparison of characteristics of the aneurysms and clinical course is made between patients with and without infective endocarditis. Most of the unusual characteristics of infectious aneurysms, including rare locations, causative organisms, and predisposing medical conditions, occurred in the group without endocarditis. The relationship of atypical features of infectious aneurysms to the etiology of aneurysm formation is discussed, and an approach to treatment is presented. 
Left ventricular end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in aortic and mitral regurgitation with normal ejection fraction. To evaluate the left ventricular contractile state in regurgitant valvular disease with normal ejection fraction, we analyzed the end-systolic stress-volume index relationship (ESSVR) by means of cineangiography in 15 normal subjects, 11 patients with aortic regurgitation (AR), and 10 patients with mitral regurgitation (MR) whose ejection fraction (EF) was 60% or more. The end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in normal subjects was 5.57 +/- 0.60 kdyne/cm5/m2 (mean +/- standard deviation), and we defined the range including +/- 2 standard deviations of the ratio as the normal ESSVR range. Six patients with AR and five patients with MR placed inside the normal ESSVR range, termed AR IN and MR IN, but the remaining five patients with AR and MR placed to the right of the normal range, termed AR OUT and MR OUT. EF did not differ between patients with AR IN and AR OUT (69.4 +/- 5.4 verus 70.7 +/- 6.1%) and between MR IN and MR OUT (71.6 +/- 3.6 versus 71.1 +/- 7.9%). The EF of the subdivided groups with AR and MR also did not differ from that of normal subjects (70.7 +/- 7.3%). This finding showed that the left ventricular contractile state was depressed in patients with AR OUT and MR OUT despite a normal EF. In AR and MR the end-systolic stress and end-systolic volume index of OUT did not differ from those of IN, but the end-diastolic volume index of OUT was larger than that of IN (AR OUT 156.8 +/- 27.9 versus AR IN 110.8 +/- 24.1 ml/m2, MR OUT 160.5 +/- 44.7 versus MR IN 101.0 +/ 16.6 ml/m2; both p less than 0.05), and the regurgitant fraction of OUT was higher than that of IN (AR OUT 52.6 +/- 13.6 versus AR IN 29.7 +/- 13.3%, MR OUT 52.9 +/- 10.2 versus MR IN 30.2 +/- 11.4%; both p less than 0.05). In addition, there was a linear inverse correlation between the end-systolic stress-volume index ratio and the end-diastolic volume index in all subjects (r = -0.82, n = 36). In normal subjects there was a linear inverse correlation between end-systolic stress and the EF (r = -0.91, n = 15), but this relationship failed to separate patients with OUT from those with IN. Results of the present study suggest that some patients with AR and MR whose EF was normal had a depressed contractile state, and these patients had a large end-diastolic volume index and a high regurgitant fraction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Significance of the number of stimuli to initiate ouabain-induced arrhythmias in the intact heart. Ouabain-induced arrhythmias are a well-known model used to study triggered activity resulting from delayed afterdepolarizations. In the intact heart, initiation of these arrhythmias is promoted by pacing, especially at fast rates. However, the relevance of the number of stimuli is unknown. In conscious dogs with formalin-induced atrioventricular block, we investigated the effect of variations in pacing mode on 1) the behavior of nonsustained triggered rhythms at progressive levels of ouabain intoxication, and 2) the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). Twenty experiments were analyzed. Ouabain was administered as a bolus of 40 micrograms/kg followed by continuous infusion. Every 15 minutes the pacing protocol was repeated, with a maximum of 10, until completion or induction of VT. When VT could not be initiated, the experiment was repeated at least 1 week later, adding 5-10 micrograms/kg ouabain to the bolus and increasing the infusion rate correspondingly. This was repeated until VT could be induced. Four interstimulus intervals (200, 400, 600, and 800 msec) and seven numbers of stimuli (5, 10, 20, 35, 50, 100, and 150) were given in two pacing protocols. The effect of these protocols on 1) the number of induced beats per stimulation train, 2) their first postpacing interval, and 3) induction of VT were studied. Initiation of VT occurred after 75 +/- 42 minutes. The bolus of ouabain needed to induce VT was inversely related to the body weight of the animals. Progression of ouabain intoxication resulted in 1) a significant increase in the number of induced beats per stimulation train and 2) a significant shortening of the first postpacing interval. Stimulation at a faster rate and/or more stimuli resulted in 1) a significantly pronounced increase in the number of induced beats at the higher levels and 2) a significantly shorter first postpacing interval at successive levels of ouabain intoxication. 
Transcranial Doppler determination of cerebral perfusion in patients undergoing CPR: methodology and preliminary findings. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To correlate cerebral arterial blood velocity measurements as determined by transcranial Doppler ultrasound with various resuscitation maneuvers performed in an uncontrolled manner in a series of cardiac arrest patients undergoing standard resuscitation. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Any patient undergoing resuscitation for a nontraumatic cardiac arrest was eligible for the study. INTERVENTIONS: Resuscitation was carried out while flow velocities were monitored in various intracranial arteries by transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Vessel identification was based on the angle and depth of insonation. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The internal carotid artery was located more consistently than either middle cerebral or ophthalmic arteries and provided superior waveforms for analysis. Alterations in flow velocity were noted and correlated to various therapeutic interventions. Flow velocities were 70% of normal during the early phase of resuscitation but deteriorated over time until there was no evidence of net forward flow. Even early in CPR, flow was demonstrated only during systole. CONCLUSION: Transcranial Doppler ultrasound appears to be a potentially promising means of determining cerebral flow in patients undergoing CPR. 
Comparison of early versus late experience with percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty. The immediate outcome of the first 150 patients (Group 1) and the last 161 patients (Group 2) who underwent percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty was compared. There was no difference between the two groups in age, gender, New York Heart Association functional class, presence of calcification, atrial fibrillation, degree of mitral regurgitation, mean pulmonary artery pressure, left atrial pressure, cardiac output, pulmonary vascular resistance, mitral valve gradient and mitral valve area. Fewer patients in Group 1 than Group 2 had an echocardiographic score less than or equal to 8 (62% versus 69%, respectively, p = 0.02). The atrial septum was dilated with an 8 mm balloon in 74% of patients in Group 1 and with a 5 mm balloon in all patients in Group 2. Ratio of effective balloon dilating area to body surface area was larger in Group 1 than in Group 2 (4.05 +/- 0.07 versus 3.7 +/- 0.03 cm2/m2, p = 0.0001). A good result (mitral valve area greater than or equal to 1.5 cm2) was obtained in 77% and 75% in Groups 1 and 2, respectively (p = NS). After percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, a greater than or equal to 2 grade increase in mitral regurgitation was noted in 12% of Group 1 and 6% of Group 2 (p = 0.02) and a left to right shunt was detected in 22% of Group 1 and 11% of Group 2 (p = 0.0001). There were three procedure-related deaths in Group 1, but none in Group 2. 
Prevention of paraplegia during aortic operations. Ischemic spinal cord injury after aortic cross-clamping may be produced by a steal phenomenon. The present study investigates this possibility by directly measuring the oxygen tension on the spinal cord surface in pigs. After simple clamping of the aorta, oxygen tension decreased significantly distal to the clamping site both after occlusion of the thoracic aorta at T3-4 (group 1) and after occlusion of the abdominal aorta at L-1 (group 2). Exclusion of the thoracic aorta by a second clamp at T-13 restored oxygen tension almost to the original level, whereas segmentation of the abdominal aorta up to S-1 hardly affected oxygen tension in the area of the artery of Adamkiewicz in most of the animals. We conclude that after aortic cross-clamping, blood tends to drain away from the spinal cord rather than supplying it longitudinally. Without knowledge of the position of the Adamkiewicz artery in humans as well as of the competence of the collateral circulation in the excluded segment, it is necessary to develop a new strategy for repair of the aorta. We describe and discuss two surgical techniques for the prevention of paraplegia after aortic cross-clamping: the counterocclusion technique and the bypass fractionated technique. 
Renal effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in congestive heart failure. Some studies report that inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) improves renal function in patients with congestive heart failure, whereas others report that renal deterioration is a frequent complication of treatment with ACE inhibitors. This article explores the mechanisms by which antagonism of the renin-angiotensin system improves kidney function in some patients while causing harm in others. ACE inhibition may alter renal blood flow, glomerular perfusion pressure, basement membrane activity and renal tubular function both directly and indirectly. In most patients, renal function is maintained as other neurohormonal mechanisms compensate for the negative effects and permit the positive effects (such as improved renal flow) to predominate. However, when physiologic characteristics or iatrogenic interventions (such as volume reduction or prostaglandin inhibition) limit the effectiveness of neurohormonal compensation to maintain renal autoregulation, clinically important deterioration in renal function may occur. An understanding of the renal effects of ACE inhibitors permits their safe and effective use in most patients with congestive heart failure. 
A 5.3-kb deletion including exon XIII of the protein S alpha gene occurs in two protein S-deficient families. Genomic DNA samples from 12 protein S-deficient families with hereditary thrombophilia were analyzed by Southern hybridization using protein S cDNA probes. Protein S-deficient members of families A and B possessed identical restriction fragment length polymorphisms, which suggest the absence of 5.3 kb from one of their protein S alpha alleles. The abnormal alleles from individuals A7 and B1 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using a forward primer in intron K and a reverse primer in exon XIV. The amplified DNA was cloned and sequenced. Sequence comparison with the normal protein S alpha gene showed that most of intron L (roughly 4.7 kb), the entire exon XIII (151 bp), and about a quarter of intron M (407 bp) were missing from both the A7 and B1 clones. Exon XIII contains all three potential N-glycosylation sites in human protein S. This deletion may result in RNA transcripts in which exon XII is spliced to exon XIV. Such an arrangement would generate a stop codon at position 463 and consequently produce a nonglycosylated protein S molecule truncated by 173 amino acids. 
Application of time series analysis to circadian rhythms: effect of beta-adrenergic blockade upon heart rate and transient myocardial ischemia. Circadian variations of transient myocardial ischemia and heart rate have been identified, but the rhythms and their response to beta blockade have not been fully characterized. Time-series analysis, a mathematical technique to describe oscillatory activity occurring within a continuous data set was used, to address these issues. Nine men with coronary artery disease underwent 72 hours of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring during therapy with placebo or metoprolol. During administration of placebo, ischemic time and heart rate showed a primary peak with a periodicity of approximately 24 hours with a tight coupling between the 2 variables and a secondary peak with a periodicity of 5 to 8 hours. During metoprolol therapy, heart rate and ischemic variation were reduced and the 24-hour periodicity for heart rate only remained. The 24-hour periodicity for ischemia was eliminated, but the data with 5- to 8-hour periodicity became the major component of the signal. 
Sequential gradient pneumatic compression enhances venous ulcer healing: a randomized trial. The treatment of venous ulcers has remained largely unchanged for centuries. The application of properly applied graduated compression bandages, the use of graduated compression stockings, and surgery have been shown to achieve healing. However, some ulcers persist despite appropriate management. A randomized study was undertaken to compare two regimens of treatment for such patients. Both regimens included ulcer debridement, cleaning, nonadherent dressing, and graduated compression stockings. In one regimen, sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression was applied for 4 hours each day. Only one of 24 patients in the control group had complete healing of all ulcers compared with 10 of 21 patients healed in the intermittent pneumatic compression group. The median rate of ulcer healing in the control group was 2.1% area per week compared to 19.8% area per week in the intermittent pneumatic compression group. The results indicate that sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression is beneficial in the treatment of venous ulcers. 
Management of renovascular disease. A surgical perspective. The role of surgical revascularization in the management of patients with renal artery disease has changed in recent years. This has occurred due to the advent of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty as an effective method of treatment for certain patients, improved results of surgical revascularization in older patients with atherosclerosis, an enhanced appreciation of advanced atherosclerotic renal artery disease as a correctable cause of renal failure, and the development of more effective surgical techniques for patients with severe aortic atherosclerosis and branch renal artery disease. Surgical revascularization is currently the treatment of choice for patients with branch renal artery disease, ostial atherosclerotic renal artery disease, a renal artery aneurysm, and patients in whom renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been unsuccessful. Excellent clinical results continue to be achieved with surgical revascularization in properly selected patients. 
New developments in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Since the last revision of the American Heart Association's guidelines in 1985, several new developments of clinical importance have occurred in the field of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. These include enhanced access to and earlier use of defibrillation, the use of high-dose epinephrine when standard doses fail, the assessment of resuscitative efforts with end-tidal CO2 monitoring and the addition of two new drugs, amiodarone (for refractory ventricular fibrillation) and adenosine (for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia). Time will determine the ultimate role of these advancements in the management of cardiac arrest. 
Thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. The 1980s has been a critical decade for the management of acute myocardial infarction (MI) because of the concentration in a very short time span of innovative results produced by a new generation of trials, in which thrombolysis has been the preeminent topic. The message coming from the results in the more than 50,000 patients included in the five key trials is simple and clear: thrombolysis, of any type, is the cornerstone of acute treatment of MI, and it works well to produce a very favorable epidemiologic picture. In the GISSI-2 trial, the nationwide adoption of a package of recommended treatments centered on thrombolysis for the overall population of patients with an acute MI has produced a relevant modification of the natural history of the disease, reducing the in-hospital mortality by about 40% in few years (from 13% to 8.8%). In particular, in the great majority of cases (patients aged less than 70 years in Killip class I with a first acute MI), the mortality has gone down to 3%, making a further reduction very hard to obtain with new drugs or strategies. In this context, we will discuss the concept of the relevance for clinical practice of obtaining even greater patency rates with new thrombolytic agents (hopefully more efficient and safe) or with new combinations of traditional agents. 
Risk factors for carotid artery stenosis: an epidemiological study of men aged 69 years. Four hundred and seventy-eight men born in 1914 and residing in the city of Malmo, Sweden, underwent ultrasonic Doppler examination of the carotid arteries in 1982/83. The known risk factors for vascular disease--blood pressure, lipids, glucose, hematocrit, alcohol consumption and Body Mass Index were also measured. A moderate stenosis (diameter reduction 30-59%) of the internal carotid artery was found in 95 men (20%); 15 men (3%) had a greater than or equal to 60% stenosis of the internal carotid artery, while 7 (1.5%) had complete unilateral occlusion. Smoking was found to be significantly related to severe carotid artery disease. There was also a significant correlation between maximum flow velocity in the internal carotid artery and triglycerides. Those quitting smoking before the age of 50 had the same incidence of internal carotid artery disease as non-smokers, while those quitting later in life had a slightly higher incidence than life-long smokers. 
Biobehavioral factors in Cardiac Arrhythmia Pilot Study (CAPS). Review and examination. The behavioral studies component of the multicenter Cardiac Arrhythmia Pilot Study (CAPS) was designed to examine the relation of biobehavioral factors and frequency of ventricular premature complexes (VPCs), efficacy of antiarrhythmic therapy, and disease end points in a study population that had experienced recent myocardial infarction and significant ventricular ectopy. Biobehavioral factors included both psychosocial (depression, anxiety, social support, type A behavior, mood, defensiveness, and anger expressiveness) and psychophysiological (heart rate and blood pressure reactivity to a videogame stressor) variables. Data were collected at baseline and at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-ups. Of the 502 patients enrolled in CAPS, 353 participated in the behavioral studies component. At baseline, assessments of psychosocial variables revealed the CAPS study population to be generally similar to other heart disease populations, and no relation between these variables and psychophysiological reactivity or arrhythmias was found. At follow-up among patients assigned to the placebo condition, biobehavioral variables were not related to levels of VPCs or VPC suppression. Cox regression analyses revealed that type B behavior, depression, and reduced heart rate reactivity were associated with increased clinical events, even after controlling for baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, myocardial infarction before the qualifying event, use of beta-blockers, use of digitalis, Q wave of qualifying myocardial infarction, and presence of unsustained ventricular tachycardia on baseline electrocardiogram. It is hypothesized that the relation among reduced heart rate reactivity, depression, and clinical events is mediated by diminished cardiac vagal tone. 
Acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin. We report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure. Among the differential diagnoses, the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized. 
Primary repair for complete atrioventricular canal: recommendation for early primary repair. Forty patients with complete atrioventricular canal (CAVC) underwent primary repair at Fukuoka Children's Hospital in Fukuoka, Japan, between August 1, 1981 and July 31, 1989. The age at repair ranged from 2 months to 6 years (mean 19 months); weight ranged from 2.3 to 22 kg. The surgical mortality was 2.5%. Justification for early primary repair was examined. Eleven patients underwent repair before 6 months of age (Group 1), 12 patients, between 7 and 11 months of age (Group 2), and 17 patients, after 12 months of age (Group 3). Degenerative changes in the atrioventricular valve increased significantly as age at repair increased (p less than 0.05 Group 1 versus Group 3). The incidence of residual mitral regurgitation tended to increase in the order of Group 1, 2 and 3, though the degree ranged from trivial to mild. Study of the left atrium/aorta ratio by echocardiography revealed that stable values of around 1.1 in Groups 1 and 2 and around 1.3 in Group 3 continued during the follow-up period of 3 years. Assessment of the diameter of the repaired mitral valve in the mean interval of 26 months in groups 1 and 2 revealed normal growth of the mitral valve annulus. The angle between the repaired mitral valve and ventricular septum, which can be affected by the growth of the ventricular septum, converged to normal range in the mean interval of 26 months. Postoperative pulmonary vascular resistance in Groups 2 and 3 was higher at 4.4 +/- 2.3 and 6.3 +/- 2.2, respectively, than in Group 1 at 3.3 +/- 2.2 (p less than 0.01 versus Group 3). 
Comparison of lisinopril versus atenolol for mild to moderate essential hypertension. The antihypertensive effects and safety profiles of lisinopril (10 to 40 mg) and atenolol (50 to 100 mg) were compared in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial in 144 patients with essential hypertension. After 8 weeks of therapy, seated blood pressure (BP) decreased by 26/15 mm Hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm Hg with atenolol. Lisinopril produced a greater reduction (p less than 0.05) in sitting systolic BP than did atenolol. Standing BP decreased by 25/15 mm Hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm Hg with atenolol. No important changes in hematologic and biochemical profiles were seen with either drug. Eleven patients, 7 receiving lisinopril and 4 receiving atenolol, were withdrawn because of adverse experiences; another 3 patients defaulted during treatment, 1 in the lisinopril group and 2 in the atenolol group. Both drugs were well-tolerated and are therefore suitable for first-line therapy in essential hypertension. 
Mapping of the locus for X-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria (Barth syndrome) to Xq28. X-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy, skeletal myopathy, recurrent bacterial infections, and growth retardation. We analyzed linkage between the disease locus and X-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers, four patients, and eight unaffected sons of carriers. Highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for St14.1 (DXS52, TaqI) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpX67 (DXS134) at a recombination fraction of zero. Multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of St35.691 (DXS305). The most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers II-10 (DXS466) and DX13 (DXS15). These data indicate the location of the mutated gene at Xq28. 
Impact of nonoperative therapy on the clinical management of peripheral arterial disease. Nonoperative therapy includes conservative noninterventional modalities and the endovascular interventional modalities of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and a variety of laser systems and atherectomy devices. The role and impact of all nonoperative treatments are considered in the perspectives of the natural history of lower-extremity arteriosclerosis and its present surgical (operative) treatment. Nonoperative treatments may replace and/or facilitate surgical treatment in operative candidates. Nonoperative methods may also justify treatment in patients who cannot or should not be subjected to surgery. Facts and opinions relating to these uses of nonoperative treatments are presented, and the qualifications and credentialing of individuals who should be treating patients with lower-extremity ischemia resulting from peripheral arteriosclerosis are discussed. 
Frequency and severity of mitral regurgitation one year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty. Mitral regurgitation (MR) was evaluated by Doppler echocardiography in 59 patients with mitral stenosis before, immediately after and 1 year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty (BMV). The severity of MR was graded on a scale from 1+ to 4+. Echocardiographic and hemodynamic variables were analyzed to study the potential factor(s) that might predict the long-term persistence of MR. Echocardiographic variables were mitral valve thickness and motion, subvalvular change, left atrial dimension, commissural calcification and effective balloon/mitral anular diameters. Hemodynamic variables were mitral pressure gradient, pulmonary arterial pressure, ejection fraction, mitral valve area index, age, gender and cardiac rhythm. Mitral valve area index increased from 0.9 +/- 0.5 to 1.5 +/- 0.8 cm2/m2 immediately after BMW, and to 1.4 +/- 0.3 cm2/m2 at 1 year follow-up (p less than 0.01). Immediately after BMV, MR grading did not change in 30 patients (51%), increased by 1+ in 23 patients (39%), by 2+ in 2 patients (3.3%) and by 3+ in 2 patients (3.3%), and decreased by 1+ in 2 others. At 1-year follow-up, only 1 patient with severe MR required valve replacement. Fifty-one patients (88%) had no change in the extent of MR (less than or equal to 1+) and 6 patients (10%) had a 1-grade decrease in their MR; only 1 patient had a 1-grade increase in MR. No clinical or hemodynamic variables or morphologic characteristics of the mitral valve could predict the development of significant MR after BMV. It is concluded that an increment in MR severity less than or equal to 2+ is frequently seen after BMV. 
A composite driving system for LVAS and IABP: practical and effective driving and weaning. We have devised a new method, termed alternate synchronous driving (ASD), to wean patients from a left ventricular assist system (LVAS) to a pressure assist intraaortic balloon pump (IABP). We have built a new drive unit, VCT200, to apply ASD easily and automatically. After IABP insertion in the final weaning stage, this method drives the LVAS and IABP alternately, with electrocardiogram (ECG) synchronization. The pumping ratio of IABP increases while that of LVAS decreases according to recovery of natural heart function. In in vitro studies, ASD was effective when bypass flow (BF) was less than 50% of total flow (TF) (TF:BF + cardiac output [CO]), and its advantages increased under lower BF conditions. Mean aortic pressure (mAP) and CO increased 10 mmHg and 15%, respectively, with this method (IABP:LVAS = 1:1) when BF was 30% of TF. During in vivo studies, mAP increased 75.7 +/- 6.7 mmHg to 80.1 +/- 3.6 mmHg (p less than 0.001), and the CO increased from 3.1 +/- 0.5 L/min to 3.3 +/- 0.5 L/min (p less than 0.001), while the endocardial viability ratio (DPTI/TTI) increased 20-30%. This method was used in a 62-year-old man in which LVAS was applied after ventricular aneurysmectomy, BF was reduced from 2.2 L/min to 1.1 L/min by using ASD without any change in systemic perfusion. This reduction of BF could not be achieved with LVAS alone. From these data, this system could wean patients from LVAS and then switch to IABP smoothly, easily, and automatically, without hemodynamic instability. 
Long-term function of persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in the inner city. Long-term function of 24 elderly persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in an inner city for at least six months after the second amputation, was determined. Twenty-one (87.6%) subjects were living at home; three were living in nursing homes. Fourteen (70%) of 20 subjects who received bilateral prostheses were ambulators. At interview, the mean age was 75.2 years; 4.87 years was the mean time since the second amputation. Ten (50%) subjects remained ambulatory. Among the other ten who received prosthesis, loss of ambulation occurred mostly due to medical factors, at an average of 3.47 years after the second amputation. Those no longer ambulatory were older and "sicker," and the interval between amputations was shorter. Fifteen (62.5%) subjects were independent in dressing, 14 (58.4%) in toileting, and only nine (33.3%) in bathing. All but one subject required housekeeping assistance. The anticipated effect on function of environmental and socioeconomic factors could not be demonstrated in this sample. Survival time and retention of ambulatory skills for an average of nine years after the second amputation in eight (33.3%) subjects who died before the end of the study was longer than previously described. The high rate of success in rehabilitation and in maintenance of ambulatory skills fully justifies intensive restorative efforts for this group of amputees. 
False aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation. An infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation, after which mediastinal infection occurred. Continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days. After that, the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times. At the time of the second hemorrhage, greater omental transfer was performed. On postoperative day 109, false aneurysm was recognized, having developed from both great arteries. Successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110. 
Differential light scattering cuvettes for the measurement of thromboemboli in high shear blood flow systems. Newly developed optical scattering cuvettes were constructed as a modification of our existing 1.0 mm and 3.0 mm internal diameter (ID) cuvettes to facilitate the measurement of platelet microemboli ranging from 20 microns to 1,000 microns diameter in whole blood in 0.9 mm ID flows ranging from 250 to 4,000 ml/min. A perturbation solution to the one-speed radiative transport equation was used in the design and calibration of these cuvettes. A series of tests were performed with these cuvettes in an extracorporeal left ventricular assist device bovine model, and in a recirculating closed-loop flow system containing anticoagulated whole baboon blood, to determine to what extent they affect platelet and erythrocyte function ex vivo and in vitro. Serial hemolysis tests, thromboxane radioimmunoassay measurements, platelet counts, and activated partial thromboplastin times were measured. All of these tests with cuvettes in the extracorporeal and in vitro circuits were statistically indistinguishable from baseline measurements, suggesting the usefulness of this system for the measurement of microemboli in blood-contacting materials of extracorporeal circuits and cardiac assist devices. 
Selective vasopressin inhibition in rats with heart failure decreases afterload and results in venodilatation. The hemodynamic effects of selective inhibition of arginine vasopressin (AVP) with a V1 antagonist, (CH2)5yreAVPa CL-1-4A, were studied in normal rats (n = 17) and in rats 4 weeks after coronary artery ligation with large myocardial infarctions and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures (n = 22). In normal rats AVP inhibition with a 35-micrograms/kg bolus of AVP V1 antagonist did not change heart rate, right atrial, left ventricular systolic, left ventricular end-diastolic or aortic pressures. There were also no changes in mean circulatory filling pressure, unstressed vascular volume, blood volume or venous compliance. In rats with infarction and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures, AVP inhibition did not change heart rate, right atrial pressure, mean circulatory filling pressure or blood volume, but mean aortic pressure decreased from 103 +/- 3 to 88 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than .001), venous compliance increased (P less than .001) from 2.17 +/- 0.07 to 3.04 +/- 0.11 ml/mm Hg/kg and unstressed vascular volume decreased from 42.3 +/- 3.1 to 34.7 +/- 2.6 ml/kg (P less than .05). We conclude that inhibition of AVP with a specific V1 antagonist had no effect on the venous or arterial circulations in normal rats, but in rats with left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure after chronic myocardial infarction, AVP inhibition decreased arterial pressure and caused venodilatation. 
The role of neutrophils and platelets in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke. Cerebral ischemia is accompanied by many of the cardinal features of acute inflammation such as neutrophil and platelet activation and accumulation. We sought to determine whether circulating neutrophils or platelets contribute to brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke that includes a fixed duration of superimposed systemic hypotension. We randomized 18 rabbits to receive either antineutrophil antiserum (n = 6), antiplatelet antiserum (n = 5), or nonimmune serum (n = 7). We assessed brain ischemia by measuring cerebral blood flow, intracranial pressure, and infarct size. Following the intracarotid administration of an autologous clot, cerebral blood flow in all groups fell to less than 5 ml/100 g/min during induced hypotension. After restoration of baseline blood pressure, mean cerebral blood flow in neutropenic animals recovered to 20-30 ml/100 g/min while that in control and thrombocytopenic rabbits remained at less than 10 ml/100 g/min. Intracranial pressure in control animals rose steadily to a final value of 241% of baseline, while a much smaller increase (148% of baseline) was noted in the thrombocytopenic group; no change from baseline was evident in the neutropenic group. Infarct size was significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced in the neutropenic group but not in the thrombocytopenic group. These results suggest that neutrophils may be important contributors to ischemia-induced brain injury whereas the role of platelets is more subtle. 
Precertification for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in Medicare beneficiaries: a melting pot or a need for better national standards? The Health Care Financing Administration has contracted with state peer review organizations (PROs) in its effort to assure the quality of services and eliminate unreasonable and inappropriate care provided Medicare beneficiaries. By law, each state PRO must select 10 procedures for precertification. Coronary angioplasty has been chosen by 45 PROs for precertification and criteria in each state were developed with the advice of local physicians. This report describes the findings of a survey of these precertification criteria in an effort to determine their variability and to compare the PRO criteria to published national criteria created by expert panels. Current precertification criteria of Medicare beneficiaries show significant variability in the priorities and the clinical practice of cardiologists in performing coronary angioplasty, despite established and published guidelines for its safe and efficacious use. It is likely that the establishment of locally based criteria for coronary angioplasty will be geographically uneven and probably have a less than expected impact on the care provided to Medicare beneficiaries. 
Diabetic cardiomyopathy. The purpose of this article was to review the clinical and experimental features of diabetic cardiomyopathy, with particular relevance to the Black population. One hundred thirty-seven studies were identified, of which 57 were selected as references for this article. Diabetes is associated with the development of cardiomyopathy, independent of coronary atherosclerosis. Pathological studies show myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis; microvascular pathology is also present, but all of these pathological findings have an uncertain relationship to myocardial failure. Hemodynamic findings of both congestive and restrictive cardiomyopathy have been described. Noninvasive studies revealed abnormal systolic and diastolic function in many diabetic subjects, particularly in the presence of diabetic complications and/or hypertension. Experimental studies have focused on the mildly diabetic dog and the severely diabetic rat. One year of diabetes in dogs resulted in decreased left ventricular compliance and increased interstitial connective tissue. Studies in the diabetic rat showed a marked slowing of contraction and relaxation. Chronic insulin therapy reversed the changes in the rat model. Combining hypertension with diabetes in the rat resulted in increased myocardial and coronary microvascular pathology and greater changes in isolated muscle function, electrophysiology, and contractile protein biochemistry. Many hypertensive diabetic rats died spontaneously, showing signs of congestive heart failure. Diabetic cardiomyopathy is a significant cause of heart failure in diabetic subjects and occurs more frequently in those with microvascular complications and/or hypertension. Clinical studies are needed to clarify the natural history of this disorder, focusing on the benefits of tight control of hyperglycemia and treatment of associated hypertension. Experimental studies will clarify the pathophysiology and contribute to improved therapy. The high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in Blacks makes these considerations especially relevant to this population. 
The relationship between sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in healthy adult men. The objective of this study was to clarify the complex and uncertain relationship between endogenous sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels in healthy men. Fifty-five healthy adult men were consecutively recruited from an ongoing cross-sectional study of cardiovascular disease risk factors from a lipid research clinic at the University of Washington, Seattle. Subjects receiving medication were excluded. Multiple linear regression analysis identified several factors that correlated highly significantly with HDL cholesterol levels, including alcohol intake; frequency of strenuous exercise; age; levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride; and carbohydrate intake. Nearly 80% of the heterogeneity in HDL cholesterol levels could be accounted for by these factors. Despite finding significant correlations with factors known to influence HDL cholesterol levels, no correlation with estradiol level, testosterone level, or the ratio of estradiol to testosterone levels was apparent. In conclusion, endogenous sex hormones do not appear to influence HDL cholesterol levels in healthy adult men. Alternatively, a large proportion of the heterogeneity in HDL levels in this group of men can be accounted for by environmental factors. The disparity between this conclusion and others may be partially due to differences in accounting for these confounding variables. 
Initial CT findings in 753 patients with severe head injury. A report from the NIH Traumatic Coma Data Bank. In this prospective multicenter study, the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography (CT) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury. When the CT findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death, the most important characteristics of the scans were: midline shift: compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns: and the presence of subarachnoid blood. Diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension. 
Downslope claudication in eosinophilic fasciitis: a fourth type of claudication--case presentations. Two patients who presented with discomfort in the calves while walking down a slope were diagnosed as suffering from eosinophilic fasciitis of the lower limbs. Following therapy of the underlying disease, this peculiar discomfort remitted concomitantly with the disappearance of the subcutaneous abnormalities. The authors posit that downslope claudication of the calves in eosinophilic fasciitis constitutes an additional variant of claudication of the lower limbs. 
Digitalis-like activity in human plasma: relation to blood pressure and sodium balance. PURPOSE: On the assumption that renal tubular cells are more important as the target cells for a natriuretic factor than blood cells, we used a well-characterized cultured renal tubular cell line, Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK), cells to monitor the circulating digitalis-like factor in human plasma and examine its role in the regulation of blood pressure and sodium balance. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We investigated the effects of plasma on binding of radioactive ouabain to monolayered MDCK cells in order to determine the level of a circulating digitalis-like factor. First, we measured specific 3H-ouabain binding to MDCK cells in the presence of plasma from 71 outpatients (34 normotensive subjects and 37 hypertensive patients) after incubation for 4 hours. Second, we measured specific 3H-ouabain binding after incubation of cells with plasma from 16 hospitalized subjects (eight normotensive subjects and eight hypertensive patients) receiving low and high sodium diets. RESULTS: In Study 1, ouabain binding was lower by 30% with plasma from hypertensive patients than with plasma from normotensive subjects (p less than 0.01). There was a significant negative correlation between individual subject's systolic or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding (r = -0.34, p less than 0.01 or r = -0.29, p less than 0.01). In Study 2, ouabain binding was also significantly reduced by 25% in the presence of plasma from hypertensive subjects as compared with plasma from normotensive subjects irrespective of sodium intake (p less than 0.01). A significant negative correlation was also found for all subjects between either systolic, diastolic, or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding (r = -0.58, p less than 0.01, r = -0.51, p less than 0.01, or r = -0.55, p less than 0.01, respectively). With the changes from low to high sodium intake, there was a corresponding decrease in ouabain binding (p less than 0.01) and an increase in sodium excretion (p less than 0.01). A significant negative correlation was observed between these two parameters (r = -0.47, p less than 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that a circulating digitalis-like factor, which may act on renal tubular cells as the ouabain-displacing compound, is increased in patients with essential hypertension and also demonstrate that plasma levels may be influenced by changes in dietary sodium intake. 
Early beneficial effect of streptokinase on left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction. The effect of intravenous streptokinase therapy on the time course of functional recovery was investigated in a controlled study of 64 patients randomized within 3 hours after the onset of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Contrast ventriculography was performed 1 to 4 days after AMI and repeated 5 weeks later. Wall motion was analyzed by the centerline method in the central infarct, peripheral infarct and noninfarct regions. In patients with ventriculographic data at the early catheterization, streptokinase-treated patients had less severe hypokinesia in the central infarct region than control patients (-2.9 +/- 0.9 [n = 29] vs -3.4 +/- 0.7 standard deviations below normal [n = 21], p less than 0.05). The benefit of streptokinase was more marked in the peripheral infarct region (-1.5 +/- 0.7 vs -2.1 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.001). As a result, the ejection fraction was slightly higher in treated versus control groups (46 +/- 10 vs 43 +/- 7%, respectively; difference not significant). At 5 weeks, function in the streptokinase and control groups had diverged further because of continued improvement in the streptokinase-treated patients. This study shows that streptokinase benefits left ventricular (LV) function by 1 to 4 days after AMI, earlier than previously reported. The benefit was not limited to the peripheral infarct region, where ischemia might have been less severe, but was also seen in the central infarct region. The implication is that thrombolytic therapy can improve LV function during the period of myocardial stunning, while myocardial function is still recovering. 
Impact of echocardiography on the management of patients with mitral valve prolapse OBJECTIVE: To determine whether echocardiography affects the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse (MVP). DESIGN: Retrospective review of echocardiograms and clinical records. SETTING: Military tertiary care hospital. PATIENTS: 127 patients with clinically suspected MVP (105) or incidentally discovered MVP (22). MAIN RESULTS: Beta blockers were used more often in patients with suspected MVP and positive echocardiograms (45%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (13%, p less than 0.001). Bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis was recommended more often in patients with suspected MVP and positive echocardiograms (65%) than in patients with normal echocardiograms (11%, p less than 0.001). Presence or absence of a murmur did not influence the decision to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. Patients in whom MVP was incidentally discovered were unlikely to receive either beta blockers or the recommendation for bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis. CONCLUSIONS: The results of echocardiography affect the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with suspected MVP. 
Enalapril and renal injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain develop kidney damage that resembles the nephropathy seen in some cases of human essential hypertension. Previous studies with a triple drug antihypertensive regimen indicated that proteinuria and glomerular histopathology in spontaneously hypertensive rats might develop despite long-term effective control of systemic blood pressure. To investigate further the relation between hypertension and kidney disease, a group of spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril at 15 weeks of age. Blood pressure, protein excretion, and kidney function were measured in those rats at regular intervals during the next year and a half and were compared with untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto parent strain. Kidney tissue samples from all three groups, collected at autopsy, were stained by immunohistochemical and conventional methods to assess the relative severity and nature of kidney damage. Although enalapril therapy was completely effective in controlling the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats, it only postponed the onset of kidney disease. Enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats eventually exhibited albuminuria as severe as that found in hypertensive rats. Kidney vessel pathology was completely prevented with enalapril, but the abnormal accumulation of mononuclear cells in tubulointerstitial and periglomerular sites was the same as in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats. We have concluded that elevated protein excretion in rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is not a secondary consequence of systemic hypertension. Structural abnormalities of renal vessels also do not appear to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of albuminuria in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Other explanations must be sought to account for the close link between spontaneous hypertension and kidney damage in this animal model. The clear dissociation of kidney disease from systemic hypertension exhibited by spontaneously hypertensive rats may also be relevant for human disease. 
Right ventricular dysfunction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Evaluation and management. Cor pulmonale is an important consequence of COPD. Although the incidence is not precisely known, it is seen more frequently in patients with hypoxemia, CO2 retention and severely reduced FEV1. When present, it limits peripheral oxygen delivery, increases shortness of breath, and reduces exercise endurance. It is also associated with higher mortality rates independent of other prognostic variables. Numerous factors may contribute to the development of cor pulmonale in patients with COPD, but its primary cause is chronic alveolar hypoxia resulting in pulmonary vasoconstriction, vascular remodeling and pulmonary hypertension. The physical exam, chest radiograph and ECG may be helpful in detecting the presence of cor pulmonale, but because of anatomic changes that occur in the chest, these tests are often insensitive in patients with COPD. Noninvasive diagnostic techniques utilizing Doppler echocardiography and radionuclide angiography allow for detection of RV dysfunction at an earlier stage and in most cases, preclude the need for right heart catheterization. LTO2 is the only therapy shown to improve survival in patients with COPD. However, statistical proof correlating improvements in pulmonary hemodynamics with increased survival is lacking. Bronchodilators, such as the beta 2 agonists and especially theophylline, may have beneficial effects on pulmonary hemodynamics in addition to their effect on respiratory function and are useful in COPD when RV dysfunction is present. Diuretics and phlebotomy are also useful in improving symptoms in appropriate patients. Vasodilators such as calcium channel blockers and ACE-inhibitors may improve pulmonary hemodynamics acutely, but may lower arterial PO2 by worsening ventilation-perfusion matching or blunt the improvement in pulmonary hemodynamics seen with supplemental oxygen. The long-term benefits of these agents have not been proven and their routine use in patients with cor pulmonale due to COPD cannot be recommended. 
Use of arterial compliance for evaluation of hypertension. Arterial compliance describes a change in the volume of arteries following a change in blood pressure. The physical basis of the compliance concept and experimental procedures in animals both indicate that the relation between arterial compliance and blood pressure pattern is often unclear. Compliance is pressure-dependent because of the biphasic elastin and collagen composition of arteries and, hence, decreases when blood pressure increases. Compliance also determines the pulsatile amplitude of the pressure wave by regulating the buffering function of an artery's face to the cardiac pump and, accordingly, its reduction induces a selective increase in systolic level. The questions are whether these theoretical and experimental phenomena can be extrapolated to human hypertension and whether they can be assessed from indirect measurement of arterial compliance by means of a time-domain analysis of arterial pressure and flow waves via various models of the arterial tree. Whatever the method and site of measurement, arterial compliance was found to be decreased in different forms of hypertension. This low compliance can be considered to have a causal role in elderly patients with isolated systolic hypertension. In contrast, in patients with systolo-diastolic hypertension physiologic and pharmacologic arguments exist against the fact that low arterial compliance may be the pure consequence of mean blood pressure elevation. Moreover, it is suggested that aging acts in concurrence with pressure elevation to decrease arterial compliance, and that in certain hypertensive patients additional factors, perhaps atherosclerotic in nature, contribute to impair the elastic properties of arteries. 
Deprivation in infancy or in adult life: which is more important for mortality risk? Previous ecological studies have suggested that early life factors are important causes of adult cardiovascular and respiratory disease, by showing geographic correlations between past infant mortality rates and present adult mortality rates. However, these studies inadequately take account of the fact that areas which were severely deprived earlier this century remain the most deprived today. Thus the ecological relation between infant and adult mortality rates could simply reflect persistence in the geographic distribution of poor socioeconomic circumstances. To explore this hypothesis further infant mortality rates for 1895-1908 for 43 counties in England and Wales were correlated with cause-specific adult mortality for 1969-73 in people aged 65-74 years, with and without adjustment for present-day social deprivation and social class. The strong simple correlations found between infant mortality in 1895-1908 and adult mortality from various causes in 1969-73 were generally much attenuated or abolished by controlling for indices of present-day socioeconomic circumstances. Our results suggest that previous studies give no strong support for any direct influence of factors acting in early life on adult coronary heart disease mortality risk. Studies which gather data about infancy, childhood, and the full course of adult life are required to clarify this issue. 
Results of the arterial switch operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries and abnormalities of the mitral valve or left ventricular outflow tract. Between January 1983 and October 1989, 290 patients underwent an arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries; 30 (10.3%) of the patients had abnormalities of the left ventricular outflow tract or mitral valve, or both. These abnormalities included isolated pulmonary valve stenosis (n = 9), septal (dynamic) subpulmonary stenosis (n = 5), anatomic (fixed) subpulmonary stenosis (n = 7), abnormal mitral chordae attachments (n = 2) or a combination of abnormalities (n = 7). There were two early deaths, one of which was due to previously unrecognized mitral stenosis and a subpulmonary (neo-aortic) membrane and one late death due to presumed coronary obstruction. Of the nine patients with pulmonary valve abnormalities due to either a bicommissural (n = 5) or a thickened tricommissural (n = 4) valve, only one underwent valvotomy. Peak systolic ejection gradients in these nine patients measured preoperatively ranged from 0 to 50 mm Hg. At follow-up study 5 to 30 months postoperatively, the neo-aortic valve gradient was less than or equal to 15 mm Hg in all patients; three patients had mild neo-aortic regurgitation. Preoperative gradients may overestimate the degree of obstruction because of the increased pulmonary blood flow present in transposition. No patient with "dynamic" subpulmonary obstruction before the arterial switch operation had a surgical procedure performed on the left ventricular outflow tract; none had evidence of subaortic obstruction after the arterial switch. 
Influence of hypoxia on adrenergic modulation of triggered activity in isolated adult canine myocytes. Although findings from several reports suggest that nonreentrant or focal mechanisms contribute to the genesis of arrhythmias during early ischemia, the contribution of triggered activity arising from early or delayed afterdepolarizations has not been resolved. We have previously demonstrated that beta- but not alpha-adrenergic stimulation induces afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in isolated normoxic myocytes. In the present study, the influence of the extent of cellular derangements as well as increases in [K+]o on alpha- and beta-adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity was evaluated. Adult canine myocytes were exposed to one of the following experimental conditions with simultaneous intracellular transmembrane action potential recordings: 1) low PO2 (less than 10 mm Hg, obtained using a specially designed hypoxic chamber) and low (6.8) pH; 2) low PO2, low pH, and high extracellular potassium ([K+]o) (10 mM); or 3) severe metabolic inhibition with cyanide (10(-6) M). Cells from each group were superfused with either the alpha-agonist phenylephrine (10(-5) or 10(-7) M, with 10(-5) M nadolol) or the beta-agonist isoproterenol (10(-6) M). Moderate changes in the action potentials were observed under conditions 1 and 2 (moderate hypoxia), whereas marked but reversible changes were observed with cyanide (severe metabolic inhibition). During moderate hypoxia in normal [K+]o, delayed afterdepolarizations or triggered activity were elicited by both alpha- (12 of 13 cells) and beta-adrenergic (five of five cells) stimulation. Increasing [K+]o during moderate hypoxia completely abolished the afterdepolarizations induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation and prevented the occurrence of triggered activity. In contrast, the influence of beta-adrenergic stimulation was only attenuated by an increase in [K+]o. Exposure to cyanide completely prevented the induction of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity by both alpha- and beta-adrenergic stimulation. Our findings indicate that moderate hypoxia in normal [K+]o is associated with the development of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity. In contrast, accumulation of [K+]o or severe impairment of cellular metabolism is accompanied by inhibition of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity. 
Conservative management of aortic lacerations due to blunt trauma. Three patients with angiographically documented thoracic aortic lacerations were managed conservatively over 8 years due to the nonthreatening appearance of the injuries in two and the presence of an associated major closed head injury in a third. The lesion(s) resolved in one, diminished in another, and remained unchanged in the third. At least ten other cases managed similarly are recorded in the literature. In certain selected circumstances this approach may represent a viable alternative to the current standard of immediate surgical correction of aortic injuries. 
Role of leukotriene B4 in granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic feline intestine. Several studies have demonstrated that granulocytes accumulate in the intestinal mucosa following ischemia/reperfusion. It has been suggested that leukotriene B4 may be released during ischemia/reperfusion and consequently may promote granulocyte infiltration into the mucosa. The objectives of this study were to determine whether (a) leukotriene B4 is produced in the gut mucosa during ischemia and reperfusion, and (b) inhibition of leukotriene B4 attenuates granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic intestinal mucosa. Isolated segments of cat intestine were subjected to 3 hours of ischemia and 1 hour of reperfusion. Mucosal samples were obtained during baseline, ischemia at 3 hours and reperfusion at 1 hour. Leukotriene B4 production was determined by radioimmunoassay. Tissue-associated myeloperoxidase activity was used to quantitate granulocyte accumulation in the mucosal samples. In untreated animals, mucosal leukotriene B4 concentration was higher at reperfusion compared with baseline levels. The reperfusion-induced increase in mucosal leukotriene B4 was entirely prevented by pretreatment with either nordihydroguaiaretic acid (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) or L663,536 (Merck-Frosst, Montreal, Quebec, Canada), two potent lipoxygenase inhibitors. Both lipoxygenase inhibitors, as well as leukotriene B4 antagonist (SC-41930) significantly attenuated the reperfusion-induced infiltration of granulocytes. These results indicate that leukotriene B4 plays an important role in mediating the granulocyte accumulation elicited by reperfusion of the ischemic bowel. 
Tension pneumopericardium as a complication of single-lung transplantation. Tension pneumopericardium is distinctly uncommon in the adult population. We present a case of tension pneumopericardium as a complication of lung transplantation in a 54-year-old woman with thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension who underwent single-lung transplantation. 
Listerial myocarditis in cardiac transplantation. Clinical signs of heart failure developed in two cardiac transplant recipients and were interpreted initially as graft rejection. Morphologic examination of explanted hearts revealed myocarditis with abscess formation and necrosis consistent with a bacterial process; Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from myocardial tissue in the first case and from blood in both. The first patient also developed signs of meningoencephalitis, but the second had no signs of infection outside the heart. Antimicrobial therapy and retransplantation were successful in eradicating listeriosis. The differential diagnosis of heart failure in cardiac transplant recipients includes infectious myocarditis due to L. monocytogenes. 
Effect of captopril injection in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. The effect of intravenous captopril was studied in 24 white patients who had moderate to severe hypertension. Patients received incremental doses of 1 to 10 mg delivered at 10 min intervals over 50 to 80 min. Blood pressure (BP) was lowered within 5 to 10 min after the initial dose was administered and continued to decline, reaching a maximum response after 20 min (2 to 4 mg). At this time group mean BP fell from 175 +/- 3/111 +/- 1 to 166 +/- 3/97 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.01). Additional dose increments to an average cumulative dose of 40 mg did not increase the initial effect. No adverse side effects or symptomatic hypotension occurred in any subject. There was a significant correlation between diastolic BP decreases observed in response to intravenous captopril and subsequent long-term oral captopril therapy. The addition of hydrochlorothiazide increased the proportion of patients reaching normotension. We conclude that small intravenous bolus injections of captopril appear to be effective rapidly and are well tolerated in moderate to severe essential hypertension. Short-term intravenous administration seems to predict the response to chronic oral captopril therapy. 
Restenosis after directional coronary atherectomy: differences between primary atheromatous and restenosis lesions and influence of subintimal tissue resection. Rates of restenosis were evaluated in 70 patients (74 lesions) after successful directional coronary atherectomy. The extent of vascular tissue resection was correlated with restenosis rates for coronary (n = 59) and vein bypass graft (n = 15) lesions. After 6 months, the overall restenosis rate was 50% (37 of 74 lesions); it was 42% (15 of 36 lesions) when intima alone was resected, 50% (7 of 14 lesions) when media was resected and 63% (15 of 24 lesions) when adventitia was resected. Subintimal tissue resection increased the restenosis rate for vein grafts (43% with intimal resection versus 100% with subintimal resection, p = 0.01) but not for coronary arteries (50% versus 48%). There was no overall difference in restenosis rates after atherectomy between primary lesions and restenosis lesions that occurred after balloon angioplasty (46% versus 54%). Among postballoon angioplasty restenosis lesions, a higher rate of restenosis after atherectomy was found with subintimal than with intimal resection (78% versus 32%, p = 0.01). Tissues from patients undergoing a second atherectomy for restenosis after initial atherectomy (n = 8) demonstrated neointimal hyperplasia that appeared histologically identical to restenotic tissue developing after balloon angioplasty (n = 37). These data suggest that the cellular response to directional coronary atherectomy is characterized by neointimal proliferation similar to that which may develop after balloon angioplasty. The extent of fibrous hyperplasia appears to be related to the depth of tissue resection in vein graft lesions and coronary artery restenosis lesions that occur after balloon angioplasty but not in primary atheromatous coronary artery lesions. 
Pharmacologic activity of bepafant (WEB 2170), a new and selective hetrazepinoic antagonist of platelet activating factor. The hetrazepine WEB 2170 (international nonproprietary name: bepafant), a thieno-triazolodiazepine that is structurally related to the recently described platelet activating factor (PAF) antagonist WEB 2086, is a potent and selective PAF antagonist both in vitro and in vivo. WEB 2170 inhibited PAF-induced human platelet and neutrophil aggregation in vitro (IC50 values: 0.3 and 0.83 microM, respectively) but had little or no inhibitory action against aggregation induced by other agonists. The potency in vitro was comparable to that described recently for WEB 2086 (Casals-Stenzel, J., Muacevic, G. and Weber, K.H.: J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 241: 974-981, 1987). When guinea pigs were given i.v. infusions of PAF at 30 ng x kg-1 x min-1, oral (0.005-0.5 mg/kg) as well as intravenous (0.005-0.05 mg/kg) treatment with WEB 2170 abrogated the intrathoracic accumulation of 111In-labeled platelets, the bronchoconstriction and the hypotension as well as the finally occurring death in a dose-dependent fashion. Oral (0.01-1 mg/kg) and intravenous (0.005-0.1 mg/kg) WEB 2170 shared with the beta 2 agonist fenoterol and the steroid dexamethasone the property of protecting elderly NMRI mice from the lethal effect of PAF. In anesthetized rats, intravenous (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) and oral (0.05-1 mg/kg) WEB 2170 inhibited PAF-induced hypotension in a dose-related manner. Coadministration of WEB 2170 inhibited PAF-induced increase of vascular permeability in rat skin very effectively. The half-time of duration of action in the rat was estimated to be about 5 to 6 h after oral administration and about 1.1 to 2.3 h after intravenous application. In conclusion, the hetrazepine WEB 2170 is a strong and selective PAF antagonist, which is in vitro more or less equipotent to WEB 2086. In contrast, in vivo oral WEB 2170 is--depending on the species and considered parameter--about 5 to 40 times more potent against exogenous PAF-induced alterations than the recently described hetrazepine WEB 2086. Particularly in mice and rats, oral WEB 2170 is by far superior to WEB 2086. 
Efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. Analysis of 149 consecutive studies. To evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery, 149 consecutive patients were studied since 1985. Left ventricular function was assessed by measurement of left ventricular dimension and ejection fraction in patients with valvular disease. This monitoring was useful in detecting the changes in left ventricular performance in patients with volume overload and in managing patients in the early postoperative period. Cardiac tamponade was clearly demonstrated before changes in electrocardiogram and hemodynamic data. In 27 patients, transesophageal color Doppler echocardiography was used to confirm that there was no residual regurgitation immediately after valvular reconstructive surgery. Transesophageal color Doppler echocardiography was also useful in detecting the entry of false lumen before surgery in 7 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm. There were no unsuccessful introductions, no traumatic or thermal injuries, 18 patients (12.1%) with hoarseness and 5 patients (3.4%) with transient arrhythmia. In conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography provides a good imaging window to the heart and great vessels perioperatively. This expedient, safe informative imaging method can be used more routinely in patients during surgery. 
The natural history of peripheral vascular disease. Implications for its management. The durability and the eventual complication rate of endovascular therapy (percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, laser-assisted angioplasty, and atherectomy) are not yet entirely clear, especially with respect to the treatment of atherosclerotic lesions in the femoropopliteal or distal arterial segments. Therefore, the indications for its use have not been firmly established and must take into consideration the natural history of the occlusive disease itself. Although some type of procedural intervention clearly is warranted in the presence of ischemic rest pain or tissue necrosis, intermittent claudication is the only complaint in approximately 70% of patients who present with either aortoiliac or femoropopliteal involvement. Most nondiabetic patients experience substantial symptomatic improvement with a daily exercise program, and their long-term risks for either abrupt deterioration (20-25%) or amputation (less than 10%) are relatively low. In comparison, the 5-year mortality rate ranges from 20-40% even in claudicants, and as many as 40% of those with clinical indications of associated coronary artery disease have been shown angiographically to be candidates for myocardial revascularization. These observations suggest that traditional indications for surgical treatment (truly disabling claudication and/or limb salvage) also should be applied to endovascular therapy until its success is confirmed beyond speculation, and that incidental coronary disease deserves particular attention in patients with lower extremity ischemia. 
Spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty. An experimental study in piglets. Paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta. The problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty. The aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min. Twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact, whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic. The clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings. 
Immunohistochemical study of vascular lesions in severe hypertension induced by DOCA and salt administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats. In order to evaluate whether immunoglobulin deposition in vessels plays some role in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension, an immunohistochemical study was performed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), to which deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) and salt were administered. DOCA and salt rapidly induced severe hypertensive vascular lesions, including necrotizing arteriolitis and productive endarteritis. In these rats, considerable deposits of IgG and IgM were found in the small arteries and arterioles of the kidneys. These deposits were accompanied by complement (C3), and could be eluted by acid incubation. They were localized in periodic acid-Schiff-positive insudative lesions, which were thought to be an early phase of the hypertensive vascular lesions. These results suggest that the immunoglobulins might be bound to an unknown antigen in the vascular lesions and that some immunological mechanism mediated by the immunoglobulins is involved in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension. 
Focal scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy. Patient report and brief review. A 21-month-old infant presented with simultaneous localized scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy with heart failure. Cardiac abnormalities and serological changes (positive rheumatoid factor assay, elevated IgM and IgG levels, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate) reverted to normal with prednisone therapy, and there was substantial, though incomplete, resolution of her skin changes during the same period. To our knowledge, this is the first patient with definite, clinically significant cardiac involvement associated with focal scleroderma. The possibility of internal organ involvement, including cardiac involvement, must be considered with focal scleroderma as well as with progressive systemic sclerosis. 
Red cell Na+/Li+ countertransport in non-insulin-dependent diabetics with diabetic nephropathy. Genetic predisposition to essential hypertension, as indicated by increased maximal velocity of Na+/Li+ countertransport in red cells, has been suggested as a marker for the risk of developing diabetic nephropathy. To evaluate the validity of this concept in non-insulin-dependent diabetics, we measured the maximal velocity of Na+/Li+ countertransport in red cells in 18 male diabetics suffering from proteinuria due to biopsy proven diabetic glomerulosclerosis (GFR: 51 [range 27 to 146] ml/min/1.73 m2), 17 male diabetics with normoalbuminuria, and in 18 sex-, age-, and body mass index-matched healthy control subjects. Na+/Li+ countertransport was identical in patients with and without diabetic nephropathy, 0.43 (0.24 to 0.92) versus 0.44 (0.20 to 0.83) mmol/(liter cells x hr), but was elevated compared to control subjects, 0.32 (0.09 to 0.73; P less than 0.05). Arterial blood pressure was elevated in patients with nephropathy (162/92 +/- 21/9 mm Hg) compared to normoalbuminuric patients (132/82 +/- 15/7) and control subjects (133/83 +/- 14/7 mm Hg; P less than 0.001). Our study does not support the hypothesis that the risk of diabetic nephropathy in non-insulin-dependent diabetes is associated with a genetic predisposition to hypertension. Diabetes per se seems to enhance Na+/Li+ countertransport activity. 
Production of thrombi on intact endothelium by use of antiheparin agents in vivo. It had been suggested that antithrombin activity on the surface of intact endothelial cells may play a role in inhibiting platelet adhesion and thrombus formation. The antithrombin activity may be due to thrombomodulin or to activation of antithrombin III by glycosaminoglycans or thrombomodulin, or possibly a combination of these. This inhibitory activity has been shown to be affected by such antiheparin agents as protamine, hexadimethrine bromide (Polybrene; Aldrich Chemical Co., Milwaukee, Wis.) and platelet factor 4, as well as by such enzymes as heparinase and heparitinase. We have used a hamster cheek pouch preparation to observe thrombus formation in vivo in a normal vascular flow, to determine whether the production of thrombi by thrombin can be enhanced by antiheparin agents. After intra-arterial injection or topical application of protamine or hexadimethrine bromide, platelet adhesion and thrombus formation on intact arteriolar endothelium was produced by a dose of thrombin, which when injected alone had no effect. No thrombi were found in venules or capillaries. Injection of heparin before or after the antiheparin agents necessitated a larger dose to enhance the action of thrombin. On electron microscopy the thrombi were found to consist primarily of platelets adherent to an intact endothelium. The possible clinical implications of these observations are discussed. 
Early diagnosis and surgical intervention of acute aortic dissection by transesophageal color flow mapping. To determine whether transesophageal color Doppler echocardiography (TEE) is useful for the early diagnosis and surgical intervention in acute aortic dissection, 57 serial patients with acute aortic dissection were examined. These patients were evaluated by TEE with either the single-plane probe (39 patients) or the biplanar probe (18 patients) just after admission. The intimal flap was detected in all patients, and there were 18 patients with type A dissection and 39 patients with type B dissection. The entry was visualized in 83% of type A dissection cases and in 90% of type B dissection cases. In two of 18 patients examined with the biplanar probe technique, the entry was detected in the longitudinal view only. Emergency operations were performed in 18 patients with type A dissection and in 10 patients with ruptured type B dissection. Twenty-nine of 39 patients with type B dissection were treated conservatively. The operative mortality rate of patients with type A dissection was 22%, and that of patients with ruptured type B dissection was 60%. The major advantage of TEE is its ease of application at the bedside or in the operating room, which allows immediate and accurate diagnosis of acute aortic dissection for emergency surgical intervention. Biplanar TEE provides additional acoustic windows, ease of spatial orientation, and more accurate visualization of entry. TEE is a useful and powerful diagnostic tool for acute aortic dissection, and by using this method, one may achieve a more rapid and aggressive surgical approach for patients with acute aortic dissection. 
Management of hypertension by reduction in sympathetic activity. The sympathetic nervous system may initiate or maintain hypertension, and a range of approaches that reduce sympathetic activity is often of value in management. These may include nonpharmacological methods, such as the various forms of behavioral therapy (e.g., meditation, relaxation, and biofeedback techniques); weight reduction and avoidance of particular foods and agents that stimulate sympathetic activity (including caffeine and alcohol), and regular physical exercise. Pharmacological therapy includes centrally acting drugs such as alpha-methyldopa, clonidine, and reserpine; ganglionic blockers such as hexamethonium; agents acting on sympathetic nerve terminals such as guanethidine and debrisoquine; and drugs that may act at multiple sites, such as the beta-adrenergic blockers. The role of reducing sympathetic activity in the current management of hypertension and its complications is considered in this overview. 
An analysis of outcome following percutaneous transluminal coronary artery angioplasty. An autopsy series. We analyzed autopsy findings on 26 patients who died following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Twenty-one patients died within 3 weeks of undergoing PTCA; demonstrable cardiac complications were found in 19 patients: platelet-fibrin thrombi (10 patients [48%]), coronary artery dissections (17 patients [81%]), thromboemboli (13 patients [62%]), atheroemboli (seven patients [33%]), and myocardial infarcts (17 patients [81%]). An increased incidence of coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi was noted when compared with a non-PTCA cardiac autopsy population (five of 53 patients). Apparently there was an increased incidence of coronary atheroemboli and thromboemboli in the patients with coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi (eight patients) when compared with patients who did not have platelet-fibrin thrombi (five patients), although this was not statistically significant. There was no evidence of a systemic hypercoagulable state or of disseminated intravascular coagulation. The pathogenesis of this is unclear; however, vasospasm and a disruption of the endothelial surface induced by PTCA with subsequent platelet activation are possible causes. Although not statistically significant, there was a proponderance of female subjects (seven patients) and an increased incidence of diabetes mellitus (six patients) and hypertension (13 patients) when compared with a control population of all patients undergoing PTCA at The Cleveland (Ohio) Clinic Foundation in 1987, suggesting that diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and female sex may be clinical risk factors for fatal complications following PTCA. 
Effect of stress on diagnosis of hypertension. Blood pressure assessment by a physician elicits an alerting reaction and a pressor response in the patient. The magnitude and time course of this response are described for a large number of hypertensive subjects in whom the assessments were performed during ambulatory intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring. In nearly all of the subjects, the physician's visit was accompanied by blood pressure and heart rate increases that peaked within 4 minutes and then declined. The response was characterized by a relatively high average value; a large between-subject variability; no relation with patient age, baseline hemodynamic values, and responses to laboratory stressors; and no attenuation with multiple repetition of the physician's visit. On the other hand, the increase in blood pressure was considerably less when blood pressure assessment was made by a nurse than when it was made by a physician; in both instances, a 10-minute wait was associated with marked reduction of the initial response. Thus, the stress inherent in usual blood pressure-measuring procedures is responsible for considerable overestimations of patients' blood pressures. There are means by which this can be minimized, although a residual error is likely to remain in most subjects. Whether the stress-devoid blood pressure is a better prognostic index than the stress-related one remains unknown. 
Treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm by exclusion and bypass: an analysis of outcome. Abdominal aortic aneurysm is conventionally treated by aneurysmorrhaphy with inlying graft. Alternatively, division of the aorta, with suture closure of the distal aorta and outflow vessels (exclusion of the aneurysm), and end-to-end proximal to distal bypass may be performed. However, the long-term fate of this operation has not been determined. Specifically, concern exists that the excluded blood filled aneurysm may not thrombose or may be the source of late sepsis. During an 8-year period we have treated 280 abdominal aortic aneurysms (urgent and elective) by exclusion of the abdominal aortic aneurysm sac and bypass via the posterolateral retroperitoneal approach. Mean age was 70 years (range, 44 to 88), with 217 men and 63 women. Preoperative CT scanning and aortography were performed to assess arterial anatomy. Seventy tube grafts and 260 bifurcation grafts were used. Thirty-day mortality rate was 4%. Estimated blood loss was 731 +/- 52 ml; mean transfusion requirements were 456 +/- 82 ml. The minor complication rate was 6%, and it is of great interest that there were no cases of ischemic colitis requiring colectomy. Aneurysm sacs thrombosed except in two anticoagulated patients who required further treatment. No late infections occurred. Five-year bypass patency rate was 98%. These data demonstrate that this method of treatment effectively minimized operative dissection and blood loss and therefore is a viable alternative for the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms. 
Raynaud's syndrome. Using a range of therapies to help patients. Raynaud's syndrome is a common medical problem. Approach to diagnosis must involve a search for underlying causes. Treatment includes avoidance of precipitating factors, biofeedback, and possibly pharmacologic therapy, after careful consideration of risks. 
Hemodynamic influence of LVAD on right ventricular failure. Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) pumping has hemodynamic and anatomic influences on right ventricular performance. A total artificial heart (TAH) model was employed to better understand the hemodynamic influence of an LVAD on the failing right ventricle. Biventricular failure was simulated by reducing both ventricular drive pressures of the TAH. After getting hemodynamic data, LVAD pumping in the case of right ventricular failure was simulated by increasing just the left ventricular drive pressure. In the LVAD-simulating condition, cardiac output increased and right atrial pressure decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) compared with the biventricular failure condition, whereas right ventricular function and minute work were the same in these two conditions. Even though changes were accompanied by adaptive increases in pulmonary resistance, substantially lower pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures resulted in the LVAD-simulating condition. From a hemodynamic perspective, these results indicate that an LVAD can increase right ventricular volume work by decreasing right ventricular pressure work, whereas right ventricular net pressure-volume work is unchanged and right ventricular failure is not worsened. 
Postural hypotension: pressor effect of octreotide not mediated by norepinephrine. Orthostatic hypotension of the Shy-Drager syndrome is a chronic incapacitating condition characterized by lack of an appropriate increase in the plasma norepinephrine level in response to standing. Recently, the somatostatin analogue octreotide has been reported to induce a pressor response in patients having this syndrome. We have reported a case of Shy-Drager syndrome in which octreotide was effective, but the rise in blood pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the plasma norepinephrine level. Hence, the pressor effect of octreotide is not mediated by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system, but probably through splanchnic vasoconstriction. 
Practicalities of lipids: ICU patient, autoimmune disease, and vascular disease. Although the use of lipids should be individualized, certain generalizations are appropriate. 1. Lipid infusion should be limited in the fulminately septic patient to 10% of total calories in an effort to reduce immunosuppression. 2. The stressed, nonseptic patient with difficulties in ventilator weaning or TPN-induced hepatic dysfunction may reap benefit from a reduction in dextrose calories and the provision of daily lipids. 3. Patients with severe autoimmune disease have had mild amelioration of symptoms with PUFA supplementation. The relative benefits of omega-6 vs omega-3 continue to be examined. 4. Dietary immunomodulation in transplant and burns remains an area of active investigation. 5. Patients with fat-free TPN show transient declines in serum lipids. The development of a "fat-solubilizer" remains in the experimental realm. 6. The provision of fish oil, high in W-3 EPA, has shown promise in atherosclerosis and immunomodulation. The changes in the relative amounts of each prostaglandin class depend on precursor prevalence. 
Contractility and stiffness of noninfarcted myocardium after coronary ligation in rats. Effects of chronic angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. BACKGROUND. Previous studies have shown that global left ventricular function is depressed after myocardial infarction. However, little is known about the effects of myocardial infarction on contractility and the passive-elastic properties of residual myocardium. METHODS AND RESULTS. We evaluated isometric function and passive myocardial stiffness in isolated, noninfarcted left ventricular papillary muscle from rats 6 weeks after sham operation or myocardial infarction. Maximal developed tension and peak rate of tension rise (+dT/dt) were significantly decreased in untreated rats with large myocardial infarction compared with controls (3.3 +/- 1.1 versus 4.3 +/- 0.6 g/mm2 and 49.5 +/- 17.5 versus 72.5 +/- 10.5 g/mm2/sec, respectively). Time to peak tension was prolonged (120 +/- 8 versus 102 +/- 4 msec) and myocardial stiffness was increased in untreated myocardial infarction rats compared with controls (35.2 +/- 4.9 versus 24.2 +/- 3.7). Rats with smaller myocardial infarctions differed from controls only with respect to a prolongation of time to peak tension. Papillary muscle myocyte cross-sectional area was increased by 44% (p less than 0.05), and myocardial hydroxyproline content was increased by 160% (p less than 0.05) in rats with large myocardial infarctions compared with controls. To determine whether treatment that improves left ventricular function after myocardial infarction also improves myocardial function, rats were treated with captopril beginning 3 weeks after myocardial infarction and continuing for 3 weeks. Treatment with captopril attenuated the prolongation in time to peak tension in the myocardial infarction rats; however, developed tension, +dT/dt, and muscle stiffness remained abnormal. Compared with untreated myocardial infarction rats, captopril-treated myocardial infarction rats had a 9% decrease in myocyte cross-sectional area (p = 0.1) but a persistent increase in myocardial collagen content. In summary, large myocardial infarction in rats causes contractile dysfunction, increased stiffness, myocyte hypertrophy, and increased collagen content in the residual noninfarcted myocardium. Treatment with captopril alters the process of cardiac remodeling and hypertrophy and improves one parameter of contractility in noninfarcted myocardium; however, myocardial collagen content and myocardial stiffness remain abnormal. CONCLUSIONS. These findings suggest that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in the rat infarct model of heart failure improves global cardiac performance via combined effects on myocardial function and the peripheral circulation. 
Left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials. In the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy, the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear. Left ventricular ejection fraction, which has been commonly used as a surrogate, is problematic due to missing values, technically inadequate studies, and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date. In this paper, we present a composite clinical end point that includes, in order, severity of adverse outcome death, hemorrhagic stroke, nonhemorrhagic stroke, poor ejection fraction (less than 30%), reinfarction, heart failure, and pulmonary edema. Such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30,000 patient enrollment. 
Intravenous enalaprilat therapy for hypertension. The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril is available for intravenous administration in the form of enalaprilat. Intravenous enalaprilat is indicated for the management of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. However, there are no reports of intravenous enalaprilat therapy exceeding one week in duration. We report the case of a critically ill, 39-year-old woman who received intravenous enalaprilat for the management of hypertension for a period of 21 days. The patient's blood pressure and heart rate were controlled adequately on a regimen of enalaprilat 1.25 mg iv piggyback q6h without any apparent adverse effects. 
Differential histopathology of primary atherosclerotic and restenotic lesions in coronary arteries and saphenous vein bypass grafts: analysis of tissue obtained from 73 patients by directional atherectomy. Vascular tissue obtained using a directional percutaneous atherectomy device was examined microscopically. Tissue was obtained from coronary arteries without prior instrumentation (primary lesions, n = 31), aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafts with primary lesions (n = 8), coronary arteries with lesions developing after prior balloon angioplasty or mechanical atherectomy (restenotic lesions, n = 30) and vein bypass grafts with restenotic lesions (n = 4). Primary lesions were characterized by dense intimal fibrosis with necrotic debris (83% of intimal tissue) and foam cells typical of atherosclerosis. These lesions frequently contained cholesterol crystals (45% of coronary arteries, 50% of vein grafts) and calcium deposits (65% of coronary arteries, 38% of vein grafts). Restenotic lesions were characterized by an increased proportion of loose fibroproliferative tissue (45% of coronary artery intima, 35% of vein graft intima). Immunohistochemical stains confirmed this proliferative tissue to be primarily smooth muscle cells. Thrombus was rarely observed. Comparison of resected tissues indicated that dense fibrosis and necrosis are significantly more common in primary than in restenotic lesions (83% versus 56% of intimal tissue, p = 0.0005), whereas smooth muscle cell hyperplasia is more common in restenotic than in primary lesions (44% versus 17% of intimal tissue, p less than 0.0005). Partial-thickness resection of medial tissue or full-thickness resection of media with associated adventitial tissue occurred in 27 (56%) of 39 primary atheromatous lesions and 16 (47%) of 34 restenotic lesions; subintimal tissue obtained from primary lesions appeared identical to that obtained from restenotic lesions. These data indicate that the histopathologic characteristics of the neointimal layer of restenotic lesions differ from those of the intimal layer of primary atherosclerotic lesions. 
Relation of serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels to presence and severity of angiographic coronary artery disease. To assess the relation of lipid levels to angiographic coronary artery disease (CAD), lipid profiles were obtained on 125 men and 72 women undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography. CAD, defined as greater than or equal to 25% diameter narrowing in a major coronary artery, was present in 106 men (85%) and 54 women (75%). Multiple regression analyses revealed that only high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level in men, and age and total/HDL cholesterol ratio in women, were independently associated with the presence of CAD after adjustment for other risk factors. HDL cholesterol level and age were significantly correlated with both extent (number of diseased vessels) and severity (percent maximum stenosis) of CAD in men. In women, age was the only independent variable related to severity, whereas age and total/HDL cholesterol ratio were related to extent. Of 71 patients with total cholesterol less than 200 mg/dl, 79% had CAD. With multiple regression analyses, HDL cholesterol was the only variable independently related to the presence and severity of CAD in these patients after adjustment for age and gender; extent was significantly associated with age and male gender, and was unrelated to any of the lipid parameters. With use of multiple logistic and linear regression analyses of the group of 197 patients, HDL cholesterol was the most powerful independent variable associated with the presence and severity of CAD after adjustment for age and gender. HDL cholesterol was also an independent predictor of extent. Age was independently associated with each of the end points examined, and was the variable most significantly related to extent. These data add to the growing body of information demonstrating an important association between HDL and CAD. 
Calcium channel blockers versus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: renal effects. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers are two classes of antihypertensive agents with novel effects on renal function. In both experimental and clinical studies, calcium channel blockers tend to increase renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, and urinary sodium excretion in essential hypertension. ACE inhibitors have similar effects on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in essential hypertension, but they tend to cause sodium retention. ACE inhibitors can cause marked reductions in glomerular filtration rate in renovascular hypertension, making them a problematic choice for the treatment of this form of hypertension. In chronic, progressive renal diseases, ACE inhibitors have been shown to decrease protein excretion and morphologic evidence of glomerulosclerosis. The relationship of the decrease in protein excretion to the progression of renal disease has not yet been established. 
Magnitude and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism during oral amiodarone therapy. To examine the presence and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism produced by amiodarone, the heart rate, QT interval and arrhythmia frequency in response to graded doses of isoproterenol were evaluated in eight patients treated with oral amiodarone for sustained ventricular tachycardia. Measurements were made before and every 2 days after beginning oral amiodarone therapy (600 mg twice daily). Isoproterenol was given in doses of 12.5, 25 and 50 ng/kg body weight per min. The mean heart rate at rest decreased from 73.1 +/- 17.8 beats/min on day 0 to 57.8 +/- 15.0 beats/min after 12 days of amiodarone therapy. A significant linear decline in heart rate at rest was observed until day 6 (p less than 0.05 for all comparisons). On all days isoproterenol produced a progressive increase in heart rate that reached 115.5 +/- 20.2 beats/min on day 0 and 94.2 +/- 18.5 beats/min on day 12. Amiodarone blunted the heart rate increase produced by isoproterenol on days 2 to 12 (p less than 0.05 versus day 0). This effect was present by day 2 and did not change significantly thereafter. The mean corrected QT (QTc) interval increased from 430 +/- 30 ms on day 0 to 449 +/- 63 ms on day 12. A significant linear increase in QTc interval was observed until day 6 (p less than 0.05 for all comparisons). There was no systematic effect of isoproterenol on the QTc interval. Five of eight patients had a significant number of isoproterenol-induced premature ventricular complexes. Ventricular ectopic activity in response to isoproterenol was abolished after 4 days of amiodarone therapy. 
Treatment of postoperative infection of ascending aorta and transverse aortic arch, including use of viable omentum and muscle flaps. Postoperative infection of the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 40 patients was treated by antibiotic therapy alone (4 patients) or by operation and lifelong suppressive antibiotic therapy (36 patients). Complications of infection included antibiotic-resistant infection, infected false aneurysm, rupture of suture line, aortocutaneous fistulas, aortic-right ventricular fistulas, arterial embolus, aortic valve insufficiency, aortobronchial fistula, mediastinal abscess, and chest wall problems. These were treated by a variety of operations including composite valve-graft replacement, graft replacement, patch-graft closure of false aneurysm, simple suture of disrupted suture lines and false aneurysm, and debridement of mediastinum and chest wall. The area of reconstruction was covered, and mediastinal dead space was reduced by mobilization of viable tissue, including local tissue and distant structures such as flaps of muscle and omentum. Thirty-three patients (83%) were early survivors, and 28 patients (70%) were alive and well at last follow-up 4 months to 6.5 years after operation. 
Renal vein renins: inability to predict response to revascularization in patients with hypertension. To determine whether the captopril-stimulated renal vein renin ratio (CSRVRR) could enable identification of patients with hemodynamically significant renovascular lesions who would respond to revascularization, the authors measured CSRVRRs in 143 consecutive patients with hypertension who had been selected because of clinical features suggestive of renovascular hypertension. All patients underwent conventional renal arteriography. Renovascular hypertension was the final diagnosis if revascularization resulted in cure or improvement in blood pressure. Complete data were available for 133 patients. Twenty patients had renovascular hypertension; CSRVRR was greater than 1.5 in 13 of these 20 patients (sensitivity, 65%). However, it was also greater than 1.5 in 54 of the 113 patients without renovascular hypertension (false-positive rate, 47.8%). The positive predictive value of CSRVRR was 18.6%; the negative predictive value, 89.3%. It is concluded that CSRVRR is not sufficiently sensitive to enable prediction of which patients will respond to revascularization and is not specific enough to exclude patients who do not have renovascular hypertension. 
Hemodynamics in internal carotid artery occlusion examined by positron emission tomography. Using positron emission tomography in nine patients with minor strokes, unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion, and good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of Willis, we analyzed regional cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen, oxygen extraction fraction, and cerebral blood volume. These studies allowed quantification of the regional hemodynamic status, especially in relation to watershed areas. Compared with eight normal controls, the patients had significantly (p less than 0.01) decreased regional cerebral blood flow in the middle cerebral artery territory and the surrounding watershed areas of the occluded hemisphere. The oxygen extraction fraction rose with the distance from the anterior portion of the circle of Willis, attaining the highest value in the superior parietal and posterior temporo-occipital watershed area. A concomitant decrease in the cerebral blood flow/cerebral blood volume ratio suggested reduction in the mean blood flow velocity, whereby elevated blood viscosity would be more liable to reduce cerebral blood flow. These findings suggest hemodynamic vulnerability of the watershed areas after internal carotid artery occlusion in persons with good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of Willis. Our results also emphasize the importance of systemic hemodynamic factors such as blood pressure and circulating blood volume in the genesis of watershed infarction. 
Optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia. Continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure. The purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention. Optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients. Factors common to series with excellent results, such as patient selection and operative technique, are examined, and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease, which continue to plague even the best surgical series, are discussed. 
Perioperative methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin (M-VAC) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group pilot study. A total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy. Radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients (94%) with a pathological partial response in 3 (17%) and a pathological complete response in 2 (11%), for an over-all response rate of 28% (95% confidence limits 10 to 53%). At 23-month median followup 9 patients (50%) remained without evidence of recurrent disease, while 9 (50%) died of metastatic bladder cancer. Average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78%. Hematological toxicity was moderate, with no septic deaths or bleeding complications. However, 4 thromboembolic events occurred. While downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings. The incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome. 
Direct monitoring of capillary perfusion following normovolemic hemodilution in an experimental skin-flap model. The effects of normovolemic hemodilution on skin flap survival are studied in a recently developed skin-flap model (homozygous hairless mouse ear) in which nutritional capillary flow is monitored directly by means of intravital microscopy from the time of flap creation throughout the establishment of necrosis. Two diluting agents (dextran 60 and hydroxyethyl starch 200) are utilized. Our quantitative findings demonstrate that the amount of nonperfused tissue following flap creation in both the dextran (n = 23) and starch (n = 13) groups was significantly decreased as compared with controls (n = 19). Our qualitative observations suggest that improved hemorrheologic properties at the microcirculatory level are responsible for the observed decreased necrosis. Various mechanisms by which hemodilution may act to prevent necrosis are discussed. 
Effect of a calcium-entry blocker, nicardipine, on intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension. The effects of a calcium-entry blocker, nicardipine, on intrarenal hemodynamics were studied in essential hypertension. A 4-week study was performed in eight patients with essential hypertension who were given a regular sodium diet in the first and third weeks, and a sodium-restricted diet in the second and fourth weeks. Nicardipine, 60 mg/d, was administered in the third and fourth weeks. The urinary sodium excretion rate (UNaV) was plotted on the y-axis against the mean arterial pressure (MAP) on the x-axis before and after the administration of nicardipine. Assuming the difference between MAP and the x-intercept of this renal function curve represents the effective filtration pressure across the glomerular capillaries, the intrarenal hemodynamics such as afferent arteriolar resistance (RA) and efferent arteriolar resistances (RE), glomerular pressure (PG), and gross filtration coefficient (KFG) were calculated. Although the MAP on regular salt diet was lowered from 125 +/- 3 to 109 +/- 2 mm Hg by nicardipine, neither the renal blood flow rate (RBF) (670 +/- 40 mL/min) nor the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (79 +/- 2 mL/min) was altered. The RA was estimated to be reduced from 9,300 +/- 900 to 7,400 +/- 700 dyne.s.cm-5 (P less than 0.01), while no changes were noted in RE (4,900 +/- 400 dyne.s.cm-5), PG (50 +/- 1 mm Hg), or KFG (0.180 +/- 0.041 [mL/s]/mm Hg). Essential hypertension has been characterized by a prominent increase in RA, resulting in maintenance of normal PG. This Ca-entry blocker worked to normalize intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension by dilating afferent arterioles alone. 
Unusual opening of coronary sinus in atrioventricular septal defects. The coronary sinus is an important landmark for the position of the atrial component of the atrioventricular conduction axis and, thus, assumes special relevance to the surgeon in the operating room. We describe here 2 patients with atrioventricular septal defect characterized by an unusual termination of the coronary sinus within the left atrium. We discuss the potential importance of this finding to the disposition and surgical avoidance of the conduction tissues. 
Comparison of clinical and electrophysiologic features of preexcitation syndromes in patients presenting initially after age 50 years with those presenting at younger ages. Although patients may develop arrhythmias due to preexcitation syndromes at any time from the prenatal period to late adulthood, presentation in late adulthood is considered uncommon and has not been well studied. From June 1981 to June 1989, 73 patients were documented to have preexcitation syndromes on the basis of electrophysiologic studies. Those whose initial arrhythmias appeared at an age greater than 50 years (group 1, n = 13) were compared with the remaining 60 patients (group 2). All group 1 patients presented in the setting of acute medical or surgical diseases (n = 7), or chronic cardiac disease (n = 6) commonly associated with middle age and often with atrial arrhythmias; only 13 group 2 patients had underlying illnesses (p = 0.0001). Almost two-thirds of group 2 patients were evaluated because of narrow complex orthodromic tachycardia or palpitations and electrocardiographic evidence of preexcitation. Wide complex tachycardia was more often a reason for referral of older patients (7 of 13 vs 11 of 60, p less than 0.05), among whom atrial fibrillation/flutter also tended to be more frequent (4 of 13 vs 11 of 60, difference not significant). The PR and QRS intervals of group 1 patients were within the normal range and differed significantly from those of group 2 patients (PR, 0.15 +/- 0.04 vs 0.11 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001; QRS, 0.09 +/- 0.01 vs 0.12 +/- 0.03 second, p less than 0.001), making electrocardiographic identification of preexcitation more difficult in group 1. Several factors likely contributed. 
Stress and sudden death. The case of the long QT syndrome. The idiopathic long QT syndrome (LQTS) represents a unique clinical example of stress-related sudden cardiac death. LQTS is characterized by the association of several distinctive electrocardiographic features, among which prolongation of the QT interval is the best known, with life-threatening arrhythmias that usually occur under conditions of physical or psychological stress. Effective therapies exist and are represented by antiadrenergic interventions; beta-adrenergic-blocking agents are the treatment of choice. When they fail, left cardiac sympathetic denervation has also proven to be very effective. The latter result suggests a role for alpha-adrenergic mechanisms in the arrhythmias of LQTS. The stressors more frequently associated with syncopal events in LQTS patients include fear, exercise fraught with emotions, swimming, and awakening because of a loud noise. Experimentally, life threatening arrhythmias have been induced during a highly emotional situation in conscious cats with normal hearts in which right stellate ganglia have been ablated, resulting in QT interval prolongation. This selective denervation creates a sympathetic imbalance of the type proposed by one of the pathogenetic hypotheses for LQTS. 
Are ioxaglate and iopamidol equally safe and well tolerated in cardiac angiography? A randomized, double-blind clinical study. A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study was performed in 50 patients undergoing left ventriculography and coronary arteriography to evaluate ECG changes and the effects on left ventricular function of a low-osmolar ionic contrast agent, ioxaglate, as compared with a low-osmolar nonionic contrast medium, iopamidol. Twenty-five patients received ioxaglate (group 1) and 25 patients received iopamidol (group 2). All patients underwent 48 hours of continuous ECG recording beginning 24 hours before the cardiac catheterization. Left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressure, peak positive dp/dt, and dp/dt/P ratio were measured immediately before and after left ventriculography and 3 minutes later. Left ventricular systolic pressure did not change after injection of either contrast medium. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased by 30% in group 1 (p less than 0.01) and by 22% in group 2 (p less than 0.01) immediately after left ventriculography. A further increase by 45% in group 1 (p less than 0.01) and by 24% in group 2 (p less than 0.01) was observed 3 minutes later. No differences were observed between values obtained in the two groups. Peak positive dp/dt did not change immediately after injection of either contrast medium but decreased by 5% (not significant) in group 1 and by 7% (p less than 0.02) in group 2 three minutes after left ventriculography. There were no significant differences between the two groups. Analysis of continuous 48-hour ECGs showed that both ioxaglate and iopamidol induced a slight increase (by 8% and 7%, respectively; p less than 0.05) in heart rate during injection with early and complete recovery. 
US-assisted aspiration thrombectomy: in vitro investigations. The authors describe the use of a new ultrasound (US)-aspiration thrombectomy technique. An oscillating US probe was inserted into a thin-walled, large-bore aspiration catheter. Experiments tested the ability of the new device and other catheter combinations to remove clot material from a Petri dish, as well as from small and large vessel models made of silicone and glass tubes, respectively. Results of the experiments demonstrated that an oscillating 1.0-mm US probe inserted into an aspiration catheter (7-9 F in diameter) promoted clot fragmentation and allowed continuous aspiration of thrombi of any size. When compared with simple large-bore catheter aspiration and with mechanical fragmentation by means of a US probe within a catheter that was flushed to cool the probe, US-assisted aspiration thrombectomy demonstrated significantly better results for percutaneous transcatheter removal of fresh thrombi. 
Concealed entrainment as a guide for catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in patients with prior myocardial infarction. Fifteen consecutive patients with drug-refractory, recurrent, sustained, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and a history of remote myocardial infarction underwent catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia. Shocks of 100 to 300 J were delivered to sites at which pacing during ventricular tachycardia resulted in concealed entrainment, in which the ventricular tachycardia accelerated to the pacing rate, there was a long stimulus to QRS interval and there was no change in the configuration of the QRS complex during pacing at several rates compared with the configuration during ventricular tachycardia, thus identifying a zone of slow conduction in the reentrant circuit. Concealed entrainment was demonstrated in nine (60%) of 15 patients, and the stimulus to QRS intervals were 90 to 400 ms. At sites of concealed entrainment, the endocardial activation time relative to the QRS complex during ventricular tachycardia ranged from -125 to +50 ms, the timing of the local electrogram relative to the QRS complex was the same during entrainment as during ventricular tachycardia and the pace map during sinus rhythm was discordant with that of the ventricular tachycardia in seven patients. In the six patients in whom a site of concealed entrainment could not be identified, the target site for ablation was selected on the basis of identification of an isolated mid-diastolic potential, activation mapping and pace mapping. The mean (+/- SD) cumulative number of joules delivered to the target site was 306 +/- 140. A successful long-term clinical outcome was achieved in 9 of the 15 patients (mean follow-up 20 +/- 7 months). The clinical success rate was the same whether the target site was selected on the basis of concealed entrainment (five of nine, 56%) or on the basis of the other mapping techniques (four of six, 67%). In conclusion, the responses to pacing suggest that sites at which there is concealed entrainment may be located within a zone of slow conduction in the ventricular tachycardia reentry circuit, although not necessarily in an area critical for the maintenance of reentry. The long-term clinical efficacy of catheter ablation targeted to sites of concealed entrainment is about 60%, similar to the results achieved when conventional mapping techniques are used. 
Surgical treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. From 1980 to 1989, 53 patients with renovascular hypertension underwent surgical treatment after initial unsuccessful management with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Renal artery stenosis was due to fibrous dysplasia in 17 patients and atherosclerosis in 36. The reasons for failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty were inability to dilate the stenotic lesion (32 patients), acute renal arterial occlusion (2) or dissection (8) from attempted percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and the development of recurrent renal artery stenosis after initially successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (11). Three patients underwent nephrectomy due to the finding of a nonviable kidney at operation. Successful surgical revascularization was achieved in 50 patients. There was no significant fibrosis or inflammation around the previously dilated renal artery. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty necessitated performance of a more complicated revascularization operation in only 1 patient. If the kidney is viable at operation in patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty renovascular reconstruction is not more technically difficult than when done primarily and the same excellent results can be achieved. 
Putative mechanism of blood pressure reduction induced by increases in dietary calcium intake. An increase in dietary calcium intake lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in some patients with arterial hypertension. The mechanisms by which this decrease come about are not clear. A membrane-stabilizing effect wrought by an increase in extracellular calcium would appear unlikely, since the increases in extracellular calcium concentration with increased dietary intake are minimal. Calcium regulatory hormones may be the mediators, and a cybernetic framework has been suggested. Striking defects have been reported in the calcium handling and hormonal household of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. However, a clear cut relationship in terms of a hormonal "template" has not yet been identified in prospective experiments. Data have been presented to show that increased calcium intake has a direct effect on regulatory areas in the brain. However, the mechanisms by which such a response would be mediated are entirely unknown. Increased calcium intake may induce natriuresis. It has been suggested that increased calcium intake helps the "salt sensitive"; however, prospective studies to this effect have not been presented. Increased calcium intake may induce phosphaturia. However, the evidence that blood pressure lowering effects are mediated by phosphate depletion are unconvincing. Some evidence suggests that increased calcium intake may influence local regulatory processes which in turn influences cell integrity and growth. At this point, a unifying hypothesis is not available. However, the clues to various possibilities are intriguing. 
Adjunctive use of beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists and other therapies in coronary thrombolysis. The availability of thrombolytic agents for use in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is an important step in the management of a common, often debilitating, and potentially lethal disorder. However, despite the proven benefits of coronary thrombolysis, the importance of adjunctive treatment modalities is being increasingly recognized. Beta-adrenergic blockers, calcium antagonists, nitrates, magnesium, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors each exert favorable cardiovascular properties that may offer additional benefits. Clinical trials combining thrombolytic and adjunctive pharmacologic agents offer hope for further advances in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. 
Experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989: determinant factors of long-term patency. From 1981 to 1989, 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed. Indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia (n = 335, 93%), popliteal aneurysm (n = 15, 4%), and claudication (n = 11, 3%). Outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 (32%) and tibial artery in 245 (68%) of bypasses. At 6 years primary patency was 63% and secondary patency was 81%. During the performance of the in situ bypass procedure, 86 (24%) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure (n = 49, 13%) or an inadequate vein segment (n = 37, 10%). Secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72% compared to 84% for bypasses not modified (p less than 0.05). Atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy, patch angioplasty, or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years (69%) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction (46%, p less than 0.02). In the follow-up period, 95 (26%) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure. Bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68% compared to 88% for bypasses not revised (p less than 0.02). The first 179 cases (1981 to 1985) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases (1986 to 1989). The secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half (92%) compared to the first half (80%) of the experience was significantly improved (p less than 0.02). The secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved (p less than 0.02) for the latter half (n = 142, 97%) compared to the first half (n = 124, 83%) of the series. Long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience, quality of the venous conduit, and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction. Meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency. 
Quantitative assessment of ultrasonic myocardial reflectivity in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy The purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between acoustic properties of the myocardium and magnitude of left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. An on-line radio frequency analysis system was used to obtain quantitative operator-independent measurements of the integrated backscatter signal of the ventricular septum and posterior free wall in 25 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 25 normal age-matched control subjects. The integrated values of the radio frequency signal were normalized for the pericardial interface and expressed in percent. Tissue reflectivity was significantly increased in the hypertrophied ventricular septum, as well as in the nonhypertrophied posterior free wall, in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (58 +/- 15% and 37 +/- 12%, respectively) compared with values in normal subjects (33 +/- 10% and 18 +/- 5%, respectively; p less than 0.001). Furthermore, measurements of reflectivity of the septum or posterior free wall, or both, were beyond 2 SD of normal values in greater than 90% of the patients and were also abnormal in each of the five study patients who had only mild and localized left ventricular hypertrophy. No correlation was identified between myocardial tissue reflectivity and left ventricular wall thickness in the patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (correlation coefficient r = 0.4; p = NS). These findings demonstrate that myocardial reflectivity is abnormal in most patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and is largely independent of the magnitude of left ventricular hypertrophy. Moreover, quantitative analysis of ultrasonic reflectivity can differentiate patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy from normal subjects independently of clinical features and conventional echocardiographic measurements. 
Significance of discordant ST alternans in ventricular fibrillation. With the use of epicardial mapping, we investigated the electrical alternans of the ST segment during acute myocardial ischemia and studied the difference in ST alternans between dogs with resultant ventricular fibrillation and those without it. During the 7-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery below its first diagonal branch, 60 epicardial unipolar electrograms were recorded simultaneously at 1-minute intervals by a computerized mapping system. ST alternans was found in the eight dogs we observed. The amplitude of ST alternans (difference in the ST segment elevation of two consecutive electrograms) was greater in dogs with ventricular fibrillation (n = 4) than in those without it (n = 4) (3.92 +/- 1.24 versus 0.58 +/- 0.49 mV, p less than 0.05). Three of the four dogs with ventricular fibrillation demonstrated discordant ST alternans (i.e., adjacent leads were out of phase). Results from the present study indicate that an increased amplitude and discordance of ST alternans during acute myocardial ischemia are related to ventricular fibrillation and act as indicators of time and spatial unevenness of ventricular repolarization. 
Proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulating middle cerebral artery occlusion. We describe 12 cases of acute stroke in which clinical features of proximal posterior cerebral artery occlusion simulated the clinical syndrome of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The majority of patients developed contralateral hemiparesis, homonymous hemianopia, hemispatial neglect, and sensory loss or sensory inattention. All 8 patients with dominant hemisphere lesions were aphasic. Accurate diagnosis in each case was achieved only after a head CT, showing occipital lobe, thalamic, and inferomesial temporal lobe infarction. "Cortical" signs are probably explained by thalamic involvement. Recognition of this syndrome has implications for management and prognosis. 
Electrocardiographic J waves after resuscitation from cardiac arrest. A patient was monitored prior to, during, and after cardiac arrest with a Holter monitor and an electrocardiograph. The arrest occurred without any premonitory signs on the ECG. At the onset of the arrest, torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia occurred, which quickly degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. After a successful second defibrillation, the patient developed Osborn waves, which subsided within a few minutes. 
Lobular pattern of choriocapillaris in pre-eclampsia with aldosteronism. We report a case of geographic or mosaic pattern yellowish opaque foci in the left eye of a 36-year-old woman who suffered from severe pre-eclampsia. Though the geographic lesions resulted in chorioretinal atrophy, the mosaic lesion led to no significant atrophy. These two findings were both diagnosed as manifestations of choroidal ischaemia, the former due to choroidal artery occlusion, the latter to transient insufficiency of choroidal circulation, which reflects the lobular pattern of the choriocapillaris. 
Clinical, autonomic and therapeutic observations in two siblings with postural hypotension and sympathetic failure due to an inability to synthesize noradrenaline from dopamine because of a deficiency of dopamine beta hydroxylase. A brother and sister with long-standing symptoms of postural hypotension are described. They were considerably worse in the morning, after exercise and in warm weather. In the male, erection was unaffected but ejaculation was prolonged or absent. Both had nocturia, but there were no urinary bladder, bowel or sweating abnormalities. Autonomic function tests confirmed sympathetic adrenergic failure with spared sympathetic cholinergic and intact parasympathetic function. There were no other neurological abnormalities. Noradrenaline and adrenaline were undetectable in the plasma, but plasma dopamine was elevated. Urinary levels of noradrenaline and adrenaline metabolites were below detection limits, but dopamine metabolites were normal or elevated. Dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was undetectable in the plasma. Immunohistochemical studies of perivascular cutaneous tissue confirmed normal peptidergic and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, with absent dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity. The findings were consistent with an enzymatic deficit in the conversion of dopamine to noradrenaline. The parents were clinically and biochemically normal. Treatment of both patients with the synthetic amino acid, d-l-threo-dihydroxyphenylserine, which contains a hydroxyl group and is converted to noradrenaline by dopa-decarboxylase, reduced symptoms and signs of postural hypotension and increased levels of plasma noradrenaline and its urinary metabolites. In the male, ejaculation became possible. Behavioural changes included a feeling of confidence and optimism, with a tendency to be argumentative. The laevo isomer also raised blood pressure and plasma noradrenaline levels. The drug had no direct pressor effects, as its actions were prevented by the dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor, carbidopa. 
Deep venous thrombosis. Implications after open heart surgery. We reviewed the cases of 10,638 cardiac surgical patients to determine the incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) after open heart surgery (OHS). Seventy-seven patients (0.7 percent) had DVT. Group 1 included 36 patients who had DVT without pulmonary embolism (PE). Occurrence was equal in either leg. Anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin sodium (Coumadin) was employed as treatment. Extension of hospital stay was 10.8 days. Group 2 consisted of 41 patients who experienced PE 9.9 days after OHS. Sixteen patients had known DVT and were receiving heparin. In 25 patients, PE was the first event. Risk factors for PE included perioperative myocardial infarction (16 percent), atrial fibrillation (41 percent); blood type A (70 percent) (p less than 0.05), and coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) (98 percent). Twenty-four patients were treated with anti-coagulation alone. Six died of recurrent PE; mortality was 25 percent. Seventeen patients received anticoagulation plus inferior vena cava (IVC) interruption using a Hunter balloon. There were no recurrent PEs and there was one death from myocardial infarction (6 percent). Deep vein thrombosis and PE are rare complications of OHS. Routine prophylaxis with either heparin or warfarin is unnecessary. Patients with DVT, atrial fibrillation (AF), and perioperative myocardial infarction are at high risk of PE. Aggressive diagnosis to identify major venous thrombi along with anticoagulation and early consideration of IVC interruption are recommended for these patients. Patients who have undergone OHS and who have PE are at an unusually high risk for recurrent PE with death and are more safely treated with IVC interruption and anticoagulation than anticoagulation alone. 
Angiographic assessment of the culprit coronary artery lesion before acute myocardial infarction. Serial angiographic studies of patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina suggest that the culprit plaque underlying a thrombus need not have produced severe luminal obstruction before onset of the event. An atherosclerotic coronary artery lesion can, therefore, have 2 important characteristics. First, it may be obstructive. Second, it may be "vulnerable" in that it has the potential to become thrombogenic if exposed to the appropriate triggering stimulus. A lesion need not be obstructive to become thrombogenic, nor do all obstructive lesions have thrombogenic potential. The cause of an infarction may thus be rupture of a nonobstructive plaque leading to occlusive thrombus formation. Because it may be difficult to predict the site of a subsequent occlusion from a coronary angiogram, coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty directed only at discernible stenotic lesions may not be effective for preventing subsequent myocardial infarctions. Appropriate therapy may need to be directed at the entire coronary tree. Such therapy might include cholesterol lowering, beta blockade and aspirin. 
Intravascular ultrasound imaging of human coronary arteries in vivo. Analysis of tissue characterizations with comparison to in vitro histological specimens. BACKGROUND. Intravascular ultrasound imaging was performed in 27 patients after coronary balloon angioplasty to quantify the lumen and atheroma cross-sectional areas. METHODS AND RESULTS. A 20-MHz ultrasound catheter was inserted through a 1.6-mm plastic introducer sheath across the dilated area to obtain real-time images at 30 times/sec. The ultrasound images distinguished the lumen from atheroma, calcification, and the muscular media. The presence of dissection between the media and the atheroma was well visualized. These observations of tissue characterization were compared with an in vitro study of 20 human atherosclerotic artery segments that correlated the ultrasound images to histological preparations. The results indicate that high-quality intravascular ultrasound images under controlled in vitro conditions can provide accurate microanatomic information about the histological characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques. Similar quality cross-sectional ultrasound images were also obtained in human coronary arteries in vivo. Quantitative analysis of the ultrasound images from the clinical studies revealed that the mean cross-sectional lumen area after balloon angioplasty was 5.0 +/- 2.0 mm2. The mean residual atheroma area at the level of the prior dilatation was 8.7 +/- 3.4 mm2, which corresponded to 63% of the available arterial cross-sectional area. At the segments of the coronary artery that appeared angiographically normal, the ultrasound images demonstrated the presence of atheroma involving 4.7 +/- 3.2 mm2, which was a mean of 35 +/- 23% of the available area bounded by the media. CONCLUSIONS. Intravascular ultrasound appears to be more sensitive than angiography for demonstrating the presence and extent of atherosclerosis and arterial calcification. Intracoronary imaging after balloon angioplasty reveals that a significant amount of atheroma is still present, which may partly explain why the incidence of restenosis is high after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. 
Fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count are major risk factors for ischemic heart disease. The Caerphilly and Speedwell collaborative heart disease studies BACKGROUND. Recent studies have suggested that hemostatic factors and white blood cell count are predictive of ischemic heart disease (IHD). The relations of fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count to the incidence of IHD in the Caerphilly and Speedwell prospective studies are described. METHODS AND RESULTS. The two studies have a common core protocol and are based on a combined cohort of 4,860 middle-aged men from the general population. The first follow-up was at a nearly constant interval of 5.1 years in Caerphilly and 3.2 years in Speedwell; 251 major IHD events had occurred. Age-adjusted relative odds of IHD for men in the top 20% of the distribution compared with the bottom 20% were 4.1 (95% confidence interval, 2.6-6.5) for fibrinogen, 4.5 (95% confidence interval, 2.8-7.4) for viscosity, and 3.2 (95% confidence interval, 2.0-4.9) for white blood cell count. Associations with IHD were similar in men who had never smoked, exsmokers, and current smokers, and the results suggest that at least part of the effect of smoking on IHD is mediated through fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count. Multivariate analysis shows that white blood cell count is an independent risk factor for IHD as is either fibrinogen or viscosity, or possibly both. Jointly, these three variables significantly improve the fit of a logistic regression model containing all the main conventional risk factors. Further, a model including age, smoking habits, fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count predicts IHD as well as one in which the three hemostatic/rheological variables are replaced by total cholesterol, diastolic pressure, and body mass index. CONCLUSION. Jointly, fibrinogen, viscosity, and white blood cell count are important risk factors for IHD. 
Secondary prevention of acute myocardial infarction with beta-blocking agents and calcium antagonists. The discovery that beta blockers possess clinically useful hypotensive, antianginal and antiarrhythmic properties has attracted the interest of clinicians, researchers and the pharmaceutical community alike. In addition, minor differences in a variety of ancillary properties have led to speculation that specific classes of drugs might have advantages over other classes. The enthusiasm that greeted reports from the first small trials, which showed that beta blockers reduced the postmyocardial infarction mortality rate, attracted the commercial support necessary to evaluate different beta blockers in this clinical setting. The plethora of beta blockers that subsequently became available for study led to considerable improvement in both the design and implementation of large clinical trials. Despite apparent discrepancies in the results of various trials, meta-analysis indicates that most, if not all, beta blockers reduce postinfarction mortality. However, because meta-analysis cannot recommend a particular drug or specific dose for use in an individual patient, clinical practice must be based on the results of individual trials, not on the conclusions of meta-analysis. The clinical utility of beta blockers in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction, coupled with experimental evidence that calcium antagonists reduce infarct size, led to a series of large studies designed to establish whether calcium antagonists have any effect on reducing mortality in patients with myocardial infarction. Lessons learned from the beta-blocker trials permitted a more rapid evaluation of the efficacy of calcium antagonists in this setting. It is clear that, unlike beta blockers, calcium antagonists are not effective in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction. 
Simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse and systolic anterior motion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This report describes the simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) and systolic anterior motion (SAM) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC). In 25 patients (aged 7 to 62 years, mean 29), 15 (60%) of whom were male, distal portions of the anterior or posterior mitral leaflets approached or made midsystolic contact with the ventricular septum, whereas the proximal portion of the mitral leaflets showed marked cephalad excursion into the left atrium, 5 to 15 mm beyond the mitral annular plane. Three mitral valves that were available for gross visual inspection were not morphologically typical of patients with primary MVP. Clinical features and natural history (1 to 14 years [mean 6] of follow-up), cardiac dimensions, and distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy defined in the study patients did not appear to differ distinctly from those in the overall referral population of patients with HC evaluated at our institution. Hence, patients with HC may show a striking pattern of mitral valvular motion involving SAM into the left ventricular outflow tract, as well as MVP; this prolapse motion is probably due to anatomic disproportion between the mitral valve and the small left ventricular cavity rather than to the coexistence of 2 separate disease entities. Such patients further define the great diversity evident within the broad clinical spectrum of HC. 
Preoperative evaluation and surgical treatment for tricuspid regurgitation associated with acquired valvular heart disease. The Kay-Boyd method vs the Carpentier-Edwards ring method. This study compared the results of annuloplastic repair of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) using Doppler echocardiography. Sixty-three patients who underwent tricuspid annuloplasty were studied. Thirty-four patients received Kay-Boyd annuloplasty and 29 Carpentier-Edwards ring annuloplasty. A new classification of TR based on the direction and area of regurgitation flow on Doppler echocardiogram was applied preoperatively. In the Kay-Boyd group, 10 cases showed massive TR and 24 cases showed localized TR preoperatively. Localized TR was well controlled in all cases, but 8 of 9 cases of massive TR showed grade III residual TR. In the C-E group, 21 cases showed massive TR and 8 cases showed localized TR. All cases were well controlled postoperatively. We conclude that (1) although the Kay-Boyd method is acceptable for localized TR, the C-E method should be employed for massive TR; (2) analyzing the regurgitant pattern of TR by Doppler echocardiogram is useful in selecting an appropriate surgical technique. 
Evaluation of preload reserve during isometric exercise testing in patients with old myocardial infarction: Doppler echocardiographic study. To estimate the preload reserve in response to an increase in afterload in patients with old myocardial infarction, the relation between the Doppler echocardiographic inflow velocity pattern and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was investigated during isometric handgrip exercise testing. The study population consisted of 16 normal subjects and 40 patients with old myocardial infarction. The 40 patients were subdivided into two groups according to left ventricular end-diastolic pressure at rest: group I (22 patients), less than 18 mm Hg; group II (18 patients), 18 mm Hg or more. At rest, the ratio of peak velocity in atrial contraction phase to peak velocity in early diastolic filling phase (A/E) was significantly higher in the patients with old myocardial infarction than in normal subjects; values in the two subgroups of myocardial infarction did not differ significantly. The A/E ratio and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly during exercise in group I. Conversely, the change in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure during exercise in group II was significantly greater than that in group I, and was associated with a decrease in the A/E ratio. Thus, an atrial compensatory mechanism operated effectively in response to the increase in afterload in patients with a normal left ventricular filling pressure, whereas this compensatory mechanism deteriorated in patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure due to a limited preload reserve. 
Sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in Virginia in 1988. A review of medical examiners' autopsy records revealed that in 1988, 33 residents of Virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication. The subjects were 19 to 45 years old; most were men, used cocaine intravenously, and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine. 
Combined aortic and visceral arterial reconstruction: risks and results. The indications, morbidity, and efficacy of combined reconstruction of the abdominal aorta and visceral arteries (renal and superior mesenteric; excluding suprarenal aortic aneurysms) were analyzed retrospectively in 29 consecutive patients who underwent surgery from June 1984 through February 1990. Seventeen men and 12 women ages 32 to 76 years (mean, 66 years) were studied. Follow-up was complete in all patients to either death or calendar year 1989 to 1990 (mean, 31.9 months; range, 2 to 66 months). All patients underwent bypass of angiographically proven severe lesions of one renal artery (19 patients), both renal arteries (8 patients), or the superior mesenteric artery and renal arteries (2 patients), in concert with synthetic distal aortic replacement for occlusive disease (10 patients) or aneurysm (19 patients). Indications for renal artery repair included severe hypertension in 13 patients, ischemic renal insufficiency in 8 patients, and lesion morphology alone in 8 patients. Operative mortality rate was 3 of 29 (10.3%), and each death was the result of multisystem organ failure. Nonfatal complications occurred in 11 of the 26 survivors (42%), and this group differed significantly from the uncomplicated 15 patients only in having a higher mean preoperative serum creatinine (2.5 +/- 1.1 mg/dl vs 1.6 +/- 0.9 mg/dl, p = 0.04, t test). The mortality rate of patients with preoperative serum creatinine greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl, was 15.4% (2/13 patients), compared to 6.2% (1/16) in patients with creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dl. Three late deaths occurred (2 stroke, 1 cancer). Hypertension control improved in 64% of patients overall, and in 7 of 9 patients whose major operative indication was renovascular hypertension. Renal function remained stable or improved in 12 of 15 patients (80%) with renal insufficiency, but 3 patients progressed to require dialysis. Long-term graft patency was demonstrated by angiography or on duplex scan in all studied survivors (21 patients). Although operative risks are clearly increased compared to less complex vascular procedures, careful patient selection and management will yield a favorable outcome in most patients with such combined lesions. 
Load dependence of left ventricular diastolic pressure-volume relations during short-term coronary artery occlusion. We evaluated the effect of altered loading conditions on left ventricular (LV) diastolic pressure-volume relations during acute coronary artery occlusion that was produced by inflation of an intracoronary balloon. Open-chest anesthetized dogs (n = 18) were instrumented so that LV pressure (micromanometer) and LV volume (conductance) could be measured without disturbing the pericardium. The effects of brief periods of occlusion (1-2 minutes) were assessed under steady-state conditions before and after dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent and during vena caval occlusion. Under steady-state conditions before dextran infusion with the pericardium removed, at an LV end-diastolic pressure (EDP) of 8.4 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, occlusion resulted in a rightward shift in the diastolic portion of the LV pressure-volume loop (delta LVEDP, 2.7 +/- 2.3 mm Hg; delta LVEDV, 6.3 +/- 4.7 ml, both p less than 0.05 versus control). After dextran infusion (LVEDP, 20.9 +/- 6.0 mm Hg), occlusion resulted in a rightward and upward shift in the diastolic portion of the LV pressure-volume loop (delta LVEDP, 5.8 +/- 4.4 mm Hg; delta LVEDV, 4.2 +/- 3.0 ml, both p less than 0.05 versus control). At low cardiac volumes before dextran infusion, the intact pericardium did not affect the response to occlusion. By contrast, after dextran infusion in the presence of an intact pericardium, LVEDP significantly increased (delta, 6.4 +/- 3.6 mm Hg, p less than 0.05) but LVDEV did not (delta, 0.7 +/- 1.5 ml, p = NS). There was a parallel upward shift in the diastolic portion of the LV pressure-volume loop that was eliminated by removal of the pericardium. Thus, the change in LV diastolic pressure and volume during occlusion varied and depended on the baseline cardiac volume and presence of the pericardium. Before dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent, coronary artery occlusion did not alter the LV diastolic chamber stiffness parameter, which was calculated from the diastolic interval of an averaged steady-state beat (0.040 +/- 0.019 versus 0.036 +/- 0.015 mm Hg/ml, p = NS). After dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent, coronary artery occlusion increased the LV diastolic chamber stiffness parameter (0.057 +/- 0.034 and 0.074 +/- 0.034 mm Hg/ml, both p less than 0.05 versus controls, respectively). Vena caval occlusion eliminated the shifts in the diastolic portion of the LV pressure-volume loop with the pericardium present and absent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Dissection of the aorta and dissecting aortic aneurysms. Improving early and long-term surgical results. We report the improving surgical results in a consecutive series of 690 patients referred to one of us (E.S.C.) for aortic dissection between December 1956 and September 1989, a substantial portion of whom had dissection as a complication of either previous aortic (n = 113, 16) or previous cardiac (n = 54, 8%) operation. Our initial operation of choice in patients requiring multiple operations in this group of 690 patients was based on the most life-threatening or symptomatic aortic segment involved, which was ascending aorta and/or aortic arch (Asc/Arch) in 301 (44%) patients, descending thoracic aorta (Desc) in 195 (28%) patients, and thoracoabdominal aorta (TaA) in 194 (28%) patients. As detailed below, considerable improvement occurred in the 30-day survival rates over time, particularly for acute dissection: [table; see text] The independent determinants of both early and long-term mortality were identified. Independent determinants of late fatal rupture, reoperation, and neuromuscular dysfunction for distal dissectors were also identified. In our experience, continued aggressive surgical intervention for aortic dissection with modern operative techniques has resulted in markedly improved 30-day operative survival (approaching 95% including those patients with acute dissection) and significant improvement in late results. 
Intra-arterial urokinase as the initial therapy for acutely ischemic lower limbs Acute ischemia of the lower limb remains a significant risk to both life and limb. Mortality rates of approximately 10-30% and amputation rates of the same magnitude in the survivors are repeatedly reported despite advances in medical and surgical techniques. Our experience, which utilized percutaneous intra-arterial thrombolysis as the initial treatment in 72 instances (63 patients), has resulted in a markedly lower mortality rate of 1.6% and a lower amputation rate of 8.5% in the survivors. Careful categorization by clinical degree of ischemia indicates that 82% of the cases were either threatened or irreversible limb ischemia. The initial treatment with thrombolysis did not preclude subsequent prompt surgical treatment when necessary; in these cases, thrombolysis promoted improved surgical results (100%) when it was successful. It markedly reduced the need for urgent surgery, usually simplified the subsequent surgical approach, diminished the overall need for surgery, and often accomplished a successful outcome alone (31%). Significant bleeding was not noted during subsequent surgical procedures and was noted in only 2.8% of the cases. Confirmation of these results and further improvements in technique might justify the use of an initially high-dose urokinase transcatheter infusion regimen as the initial treatment of choice for acute lower-limb ischemia. 
Prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication. There is no consensus about the most appropriate management of the patient with intermittent claudication due to a superficial femoral artery occlusion. To evaluate the natural history of prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal (AKFP) bypass, 200 operations for intermittent claudication were reviewed. One hundred AKFP bypasses were done with PTFE and 100 with dacron. In the 30 day postoperative period, four PTFE and three dacron grafts occluded without consequence and only one patient died. Analysis of results by the life-table method demonstrated statistically similar primary graft patency rates at five years (PTFE 65% SE +/- 6.5, dacron 57% +/- 6.2) and ten years (PTFE 31% +/- 18/9, dacron 32% +/- 13.2) (p greater than 0.10). Redo procedures (e.g., thrombectomy, angioplasty) were necessary on 21 grafts (12 PTFE, 9 dacron) and "secondary" patency rates at five years were 76% PTFE and 62% dacron; no grafts which required a redo procedure were patent at ten year follow-up. Major amputations during ten year follow-up were necessary in 16 (8%) patients; all amputations were in diabetic patients. Survival rates were 79% at five and 42% at ten years. An anticipated, the leading cause of death was cardiac related (25 patients); 28 (14%) patients underwent aortocoronary bypass during follow-up. A prosthetic AKFP bypass graft is a safe and durable operation which provides relief from the symptoms of intermittent claudication while allowing for the preservation of the saphenous vein for use later in the coronary or infrapopliteal circulations, should the need arise. These results indicate that the risk of amputation after AKFP is no greater than the natural history of untreated claudication; however, AKFP offers a significant improvement in life-style. 
Malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction. A case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported. Intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report. 
Isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly: an epidemiologic review. Isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) is usually defined as a systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure less than 90 or 95 mm Hg. Systolic blood pressure has been found to increase with age in most populations studied and thus the prevalence of ISH can be expected to increase with age. ISH is more prevalent in elderly women than in elderly men. Estimates of the prevalence of ISH vary according to its definition and the number of blood pressure measurements. There is evidence that the prevalence of ISH is decreasing. Results of a survey of the prevalence of ISH in 11 countries are presented; the estimates among men aged 60 to 69 years ranged from 1% in Israel to 24% in Norway. Only a prospective standardized survey conducted in several countries will reveal the true prevalence of ISH. 
Rapid and correct diagnosis of myocardial infarction: standardized case history and clinical examination provide important information for correct referral to monitored beds. The value of thorough examination of the case history as a diagnostic tool on hospitalization of patients with suspected myocardial infarction was investigated in three independent prospective studies. Use of a limited number of pain-related elements (= 'criteria'), that had already been obtained in the emergency room, could improve the decision on whether or not to admit patients to the coronary-care unit. As an example, in one of the studies, use of such criteria would have reduced the number of 'unnecessary' coronary-care-unit admissions from 298 to 162, a 46% reduction (P less than 0.001). In the same patient sample, use of the criteria could have reduced the number of patients with definite acute myocardial infarction, admitted to the general wards, from 47 to 22, a 53% reduction (P less than 0.01). These favourable results were confirmed in the two independent, smaller-scale studies. 
Should family doctors screen asymptomatic children for high blood pressure? Whereas the United States Task Forces on Blood Pressure Control in Children have recommended annual blood pressure screening in all children, a working party of the British Hypertension Society has formed the opposite opinion. Relevant literature is reviewed here, and the conclusion reached that on epidemiological and ethical grounds, screening children for hypertension cannot at present be justified. 
White coat versus "sustained" borderline hypertension in Tecumseh, Michigan During a survey of young subjects not receiving treatment for hypertension in Tecumseh, Michigan, clinic and self-monitored blood pressures taken at home (14 readings in 7 days) were obtained in 737 subjects (387 men, 350 women, average age 31.5 years). Hypertension in the clinic was diagnosed if the clinic blood pressure exceeded 140 mm Hg systolic or 90 mm Hg diastolic. In the absence of firm criteria for what constitutes hypertension at home, subjects whose average home blood pressure was in the upper decile of the whole population were considered to have hypertension at home. By these criteria, 7.1% of the whole population had "white coat" hypertension (i.e., high clinic but not elevated home readings). The prevalence of "sustained" hypertension (i.e., high readings in the clinic and at home) was 5.1%. Subjects with white coat and sustained borderline hypertension in Tecumseh were very similar. Both groups showed, at previous examinations (at ages 5, 8, 21, and 23 years), significantly higher blood pressure readings than the normotensive subjects. As young adults (average age 33.3 years), the parents of both hypertensive groups had significantly higher blood pressure readings than the parents of normotensive subjects. Both hypertensive groups had faster heart rates, higher systemic vascular resistance, and higher minimal forearm vascular resistance. Both hypertensive groups were more overweight, had higher plasma triglycerides, insulin, and insulin/glucose ratios than normotensive subjects. The white coat hypertensive group also had lower values of high density lipoprotein than the normotensive group. White coat hypertension is a frequent condition. 
A new method for quantification of regurgitant flow rate using color Doppler flow imaging of the flow convergence region proximal to a discrete orifice. An in vitro study. While color Doppler flow mapping has yielded a quick and relatively sensitive method for visualizing the turbulent jets generated in valvular insufficiency, quantification of the degree of valvular insufficiency has been limited by the dependence of visualization of turbulent jets on hemodynamic as well as instrument-related factors. Color Doppler flow imaging, however, does have the capability of reliably showing the spatial relations of laminar flows. An area where flow accelerates proximal to a regurgitant orifice is commonly visualized on the left ventricular side of a mitral regurgitant orifice, especially when imaging is performed with high gain and a low pulse repetition frequency. This area of flow convergence, where the flow stream narrows symmetrically, can be quantified because velocity and the flow cross-sectional area change in inverse proportion along streamlines centered at the orifice. In this study, a gravity-driven constant-flow system with five sharp-edged diaphragm orifices (ranging from 2.9 to 12 mm in diameter) was imaged both parallel and perpendicular to the direction of flow through the orifice. Color Doppler flow images were produced by zero shifting so that the abrupt change in display color occurred at different velocities. This "aliasing boundary" with a known velocity and a measurable radial distance from the center of the orifice was used to determine an isovelocity hemisphere such that flow rate through the orifice was calculated as 2 pi r2 x Vr, where r is the radial distance from the center of the orifice to the color change and Vr is the velocity at which the color change was noted. Using Vr values from 54 to 14 cm/sec obtained with a 3.75-MHz transducer and from 75 to 18 cm/sec obtained with a 2.5-MHz transducer, we calculated flow rates and found them to correlate with measured flow rates (r = 0.94-0.99). The slope of the regression line was closest to unity when the lowest Vr and the correspondingly largest r were used in the calculation. The flow rates estimated from color Doppler flow imaging could also be used in conjunction with continuous-wave Doppler measurements of the maximal velocity of flow through the orifice to calculate orifice areas (r = 0.75-0.96 correlation with measured areas). 
Blood pressure level, trend, and variability in Dunedin children. An 8-year study of a single birth cohort In a birth cohort of children in the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study in New Zealand, resting blood pressures were recorded biennially five times from age 7 to 15 years. Using previously described methods, we examined the level, trend, and variability of blood pressures in those children with at least three readings. The level, trend, and variability of height, weight, and body mass index were compared among six separate groups of children. Two groups were categorized on the basis of high systolic pressure levels, one with low variability and the other with high variability, which was thought to resemble adult labile hypertension. Two additional groups were categorized on the basis of increasing and decreasing blood pressure trends; the fifth group had consistently low blood pressures, and the sixth group consisted of the remaining children. There were significant differences among the groups for the level of all the physical measurements and for the trend of body mass index. No significant differences were found among the groups for gender or socioeconomic status. A parental history of high blood pressure, stroke, or heart attack was significantly more common in the first two groups. 
Femoral artery cannulation for monitoring in critically ill children: prospective study. Seventy-seven attempted percutaneous femoral artery cannulations were prospectively evaluated in 74 children. Artery cannulation was successfully accomplished in 73 (95%) cases and lasted for a mean of 6 days. Sixty percent of the catheters were inserted on the first attempt. Fifty-two (71%) patients weighed less than 10 kg and 55 (75%) patients were less than 12 months old. Fifty-one (70%) patients received inotropic support at the time of cannulation, and 27 (37%) eventually died from causes unrelated to catheter insertion. There was one episode each of line-associated infection and transient distal ischemia not resulting in tissue loss, and two episodes of catheter malfunction. In eight (11%) patients, signs of distal vascular insufficiency developed shortly catheter placement and resolved after catheter removal. The development of this complication correlated significantly (p less than .05) with younger age (5.5 vs. 22.3 months). We conclude that femoral artery cannulation has a high degree of success in very small, critically ill children. It should be considered an acceptable alternative to small-vessel cannulation when the latter is not technically achievable, or in the unstable patient where rapid establishment of reliable arterial access is necessary. 
Duchenne's cardiomyopathy in a canine model: electrocardiographic and echocardiographic studies. Thirteen dogs affected with X-linked Duchenne's muscular dystrophy and 11 female carrier dogs were studied by electrocardiography (ECG) and echocardiography. Twelve of the affected dogs were studied as immature animals and followed at 1 to 6 month intervals until they were 7 to 46 months of age. Compared with control dogs, affected dogs had significantly increased (p less than 0.02) Q/R ratios in ECG leads II, III, aVF, CV6LL (V2) and CV6LU (V4). Carrier dogs had significantly increased (p less than 0.02) Q/R ratios in leads V2 and V4. The Q/R ratio increased in three of six dogs followed up from age 6 months to greater than 2 years. The PR intervals were significantly shorter (p less than 0.02) in affected dogs. Ventricular arrhythmias were identified in four of six mature affected dogs. Two-dimensional echocardiography revealed distinctive hyperechoic lesions in 12 of the 13 affected dogs and in 6 of the 11 carrier dogs. Hyperechoic lesions corresponded to calcified myocardium and surrounding dense connective tissue. This study establishes the dog affected with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy as an animal model of Duchenne's cardiomyopathy and demonstrates that the heart in carrier dogs is affected by the dystrophic process. 
An evolutionary perspective on salt, hypertension, and human genetic variability. Natural selection for electrolyte conservation has likely been the norm throughout human evolutionary history. However, the current patterns of excessive dietary salt intake create the potential for salt overload. Under these conditions, hypertension may be considered an expected pathological response to an evolutionarily new constraint. The transatlantic Middle Passage may have created a genetic bottleneck for salt conservation in African-Americans. Although the initial consequences of this important historical event probably constricted genetic variability and further magnified the potential for salt-sensitive hypertension, the Middle Passage undoubtedly also served as a more generalized major source of environmental stress and may have stimulated subsequent hereditary diversity in the survivors of this holocaust and their descendants. Accelerated rates of mutation, genetic recombination, and transposable genetic elements in conjunction with enhanced opportunities for gene flow, new selective pressures, and drift have all contributed to the tremendous heterogeneity of contemporary African-Americans. It is unlikely that a single genetic event, even of the severity of the Middle Passage, can account comprehensively for the apparent susceptibility of this macroethnic group to high blood pressure and hypertension. 
Protamine-heparin-induced pulmonary hypertension in pigs: effects of treatment with a thromboxane receptor antagonist on hemodynamics and coagulation. Adverse hemodynamic reactions after protamine neutralization of heparin are an infrequent but important clinical problem. Pre-treatment of swine with a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist has been reported to prevent the pulmonary hypertensive response occasionally seen after protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation. In the current study, a control group of pigs (n = 9) received intravenous heparin (300 IU/kg), followed after 10 min by a neutralizing dose of protamine (3 mg/kg). A treatment group of pigs (n = 11) was treated identically, except that the thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist L-670596 (2 mg/kg) was infused intravenously 2 min after the protamine infusion. Hemodynamic and coagulation profiles were monitored during these procedures. Pulmonary hypertension developed and reached a peak within 2 min of protamine administration, often at the same time that L-670596 was administered in the treatment group. There was no statistical difference between control and treatment groups' peak pulmonary arterial pressure and peak pulmonary vascular resistance. However, the interval for return of mean pulmonary artery pressure from peak to baseline values was 11.6 +/- 3.1 versus 5.5 +/- 1.9 min (mean +/- SD) for control and treatment groups, respectively (P less than 0.01). Thromboxane B2 plasma concentrations increased in both groups and were correlated with the pulmonary hypertensive response (r = 0.86, P less than 0.01). Platelet aggregation to collagen was inhibited by the thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist (P less than 0.05). Bleeding time was prolonged beyond normal range in 50% of L-670596-treated pigs. All other coagulation tests in both groups returned to baseline after reversal of heparin with protamine and were unaffected by L-670596. 
Surgical treatment of aneurysm or dissection involving the ascending aorta and aortic arch, utilizing circulatory arrest and retrograde cerebral perfusion. Recently we replaced the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 8 patients with aneurysm or dissection, using profound hypothermic circulatory arrest with retrograde cerebral perfusion. There were no operative deaths. Open aortic anastomosis facilitated repair of the aortic arch without clamping the arch tributaries, and embolism due to particulate debris from clamping of the arch vessels was eliminated. Retrograde cerebral perfusion during profound hypothermic circulatory arrest is a simplified technique that may protect the brain. This method offers advantages over previously described methods, particularly in obviating dissection of the arch tributaries and the clamping thereof, and in protecting the central nervous system. 
Seven-pathogen tricuspid endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser. Pitfalls in laboratory diagnosis. Polymicrobial endocarditis is being reported with increasing frequency in drug abusers. However, the full extent of infection may be unrecognized with routine blood culture techniques because of the overgrowth of more fastidious organisms by other pathogens. This report documents an intravenous drug abuser with the first reported case of tricuspid valve endocarditis involving seven pathogens, discusses pitfalls of routine blood cultures and examines the role of the laboratory in microbiologic diagnosis. 
Changes in cerebral blood flow velocity after release of intraoperative tourniquets in humans: a transcranial Doppler study. The effect of release of intraoperative thigh tourniquets on velocity of blood flow in the middle cerebral artery was examined in five patients given general anesthesia with controlled ventilation for lower extremity orthopedic procedures using transcranial Doppler sonography. Middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity increased significantly from 52 +/- 6 (SEM) to 82 +/- 24 cm/s (an increase of 58% +/- 13%) within 4 +/- 1 min after tourniquet release and remained significantly elevated for 7 min. A positive linear correlation was found between middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity and PETCO2 on each occasion (0.97 greater than or equal to r greater than or equal to 0.84, 0.001 greater than P greater than 0.0001) after tourniquet deflation. Assuming a linear relationship between flow velocity and flow, these findings suggest that significant increase in cerebral blood flow can occur after intraoperative tourniquet release and that this increase appears to be mostly CO2-dependent. 
Myocardial metabolic and hemodynamic effects of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine with and without metoprolol in patients with unstable angina. We tested the usefulness of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine and a combination of nifedipine and metoprolol in the early management of 14 patients with unstable angina pectoris. After a 24-hour run-in period, nifedipine was titrated in a stepwise fashion (mean dose 27 +/- 7 micrograms/min). After nifedipine treatment coronary blood flow increased from 150 +/- 66 to 183 +/- 74 ml/min (p less than 0.05), whereas double product, myocardial oxygen consumption, and both arterial and coronary sinus (nor)epinephrine levels were unchanged. Myocardial lactate uptake increased from 3.4 +/- 26.1 to 31.3 +/- 26.6 mumol/min (p less than 0.005) and free fatty acid uptake from 7.2 +/- 22.1 to 34.5 +/- 33.7 mumol/min (p less than 0.05). A small nonsignificant improvement in amino acid metabolism was observed. Metoprolol was added in seven patients and led to a decrease in double product (-2.2 +/- 1.6 x 10(3); p less than 0.01) and myocardial oxygen consumption (-3.2 +/- 3.8 ml/min; p less than 0.05). The lactate uptake/oxygen uptake ratio increased by 18% after metoprolol (p = NS). The number of episodes of chest pain decreased from 2.4 +/- 1.1/24 hours to 0.1 +/- 0.2 in the nifedipine group and from 2.9 +/- 1.1/24 hours to 0.3 +/- 0.5 in the nifedipine plus metoprolol group (both p less than 0.01). We conclude that in the acute phase of unstable angina, intravenous nifedipine can be carefully titrated to improve coronary blood flow and oxidative metabolism. The addition of metoprolol is also associated with a reduction in myocardial oxygen demand. This treatment results in significant hemodynamic stability. 
An increase in plasma cholesterol independent of thyroid function during long-term amiodarone therapy. A dose-dependent relationship. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a rise in plasma cholesterol, and, if so, to analyze its relation with thyroid function. DESIGN: Consecutive entry trial, including cardiac patients who initiated amiodarone medication but excluding those with abnormal thyroid function (defined as peak thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH] response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone [TRH] less than 2.8 or greater than 22.0 mU/L) either before or during amiodarone treatment. PATIENTS: Twenty-three patients who remained euthyroid were studied. INTERVENTION: Oral administration of amiodarone (mean duration of treatment, 17 months; range, 6 to 30 months). MEASUREMENTS: Fasting plasma lipids, thyroid hormones, and peak TSH to TRH values were recorded before and every 6 months during amiodarone treatment. RESULTS: Plasma cholesterol gradually increased from 5.1 +/- 0.2 mmol/L before treatment to 6.9 +/- 0.8 mmol/L after 30 months of amiodarone medication (P less than 0.001); the peak TSH response to TRH did not change. When age- and sex-specific reference values were applied, 30% of the patients had cholesterol values above the 75th percentile before treatment; this number rose to 69% after 2 years of treatment. The rise in plasma cholesterol was associated with an equal increase in apoprotein B. Plasma cholesterol was not related to the daily dose of amiodarone or to plasma concentrations of amiodarone, desethylamiodarone, thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), or reverse triiodothyronine (rT3). Linear regression analysis indicated a positive relation between plasma cholesterol and the cumulative dose of amiodarone (r = 0.25, P less than 0.05). CONCLUSION: Long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a dose-dependent increase in plasma cholesterol that is independent of thyroid function. 
Comparison of exercise performance in left main and three-vessel coronary artery disease. From a consecutive series of patients who underwent rest and exercise radionuclide angiography over several years, we retrospectively identified 34 patients with left main coronary artery disease and 103 patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease who did not have significant left main disease. The results of gated equilibrium radionuclide angiography were compared in these 2 groups. Multiple exercise hemodynamic, exercise electrocardiographic, and exercise radionuclide angiographic parameters were considered in an attempt to separate the 2 groups. The only parameter that was significantly different between the 2 groups was exercise heart rate. However, no value of the exercise heart rate could meaningfully separate the 2 groups. Despite their known difference in prognosis, patients with left main and three-vessel disease had very similar exercise performance and could not be distinguished from one another by exercise electrocardiography or exercise radionuclide angiography. The inability to distinguish these two groups is a clear limitation of noninvasive exercise modalities. 
Relation between leisure-time physical activity and blood pressure in older women. Although there is some evidence that physical activity may decrease blood pressure in young and middle-aged women, the physical activity-blood pressure association in older women has rarely been studied. As part of an ongoing community-based study of chronic disease, 641 Caucasian women between the ages of 50 and 89 years had blood pressure measured following the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program protocol. They also answered selected Health Interview Survey questions about their leisure-time activity and were classified into categories of light (58%), moderate (24%), heavy (6%), or no physical activity (12%) by the estimated metabolic rate required for each activity. Women who engaged in any physical activity were significantly younger and thinner than sedentary women and had lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels. They did not differ in alcohol consumption, cigarette use, or prevalence of coronary heart disease or diabetes. Rates of systolic and diastolic hypertension were significantly lower in women participating in light, moderate, or heavy physical activity compared with sedentary women. Blood pressure levels decreased with each increase in reported activity intensity (p less than 0.005 for trend), with systolic blood pressure approximately 20 mm Hg lower in the heaviest activity group compared with systolic blood pressure in sedentary women. Intergroup differences remained statistically significant after adjustment for age and body mass index. Although physical activity was associated with lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels (p less than 0.01 for trend), adjustment for insulin levels did not alter blood pressure differences among activity groups. 
Interleukin-2-induced lung permeability is mediated by leukotriene B4. Interleukin (IL)-2 therapy leads to respiratory dysfunction due to increased vascular permeability. This study examines the role of the chemoattractant, immunomodulator, and permeability-promoting agent leukotriene (LT) B4 in this setting. Sheep with chronic lung lymph fistulae were given IL-2, 10(5) U/kg as an IV bolus (n = 6). Within 2 hours this led to a significant increase in LTB4 levels in both plasma and lung lymph. The mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP) rose while the pulmonary artery wedge pressure was unchanged. Arterial oxygen tension (PaO2) fell. Lung lymph flow (QL) was tripled (P less than 0.05) at 3 hours, coinciding with an increase in the lymph/plasma (L/P) protein ratio (P less than 0.05) resulting in an increase in the lymph protein clearance (P less than 0.05), data documenting increased microvascular permeability to protein. Mild leukopenia and thrombocytopenia (P less than 0.05) occurred. Body temperature rose and shaking chills were common. Pretreatment with the lipoxygenase inhibitor diethylcarbamazine (DEC; n = 6) reduced baseline plasma LTB4 levels and prevented the IL-2-induced increases in LTB4 in plasma and lung lymph (P less than 0.05). In contrast to IL-2 treatment alone, DEC blunted the increase in MPAP and prevented the rises in QL (P less than 0.05), L/P protein ratio (P less than 0.05), and lymph protein clearance (P less than 0.05). DEC also prevented the IL-2-induced leukopenia, the fall in platelet count, and the rise in body temperature (P less than 0.05, respectively). Infusion of IL-2 excipient control (n = 5) did not affect plasma or lymph LTB4 levels but there were mild increases in MPAP (P less than 0.05). The QL also rose but this occurred while the L/P protein ratio fell (P less than 0.05). Body temperature rose moderately. The PaO2, leukocyte, and platelet counts were unaffected. These data indicate that IL-2 administration leads to pulmonary dysfunction manifest by pulmonary hypertension and increased vascular permeability, events associated with LTB4 synthesis and prevented by DEC. Leukotriene B4 appears therefore to mediate the IL-2-induced lung injury. 
Coronary angiographic patterns in hypertensive compared with normotensive patients. Patients in this study were assessed by coronary angiography because of classic effort angina and a positive exercise test. Of these patients, 320 had untreated primary hypertension and 320, similar in age and gender distribution, were normotensive. In all patients coronary angiography documented that at least one major epicardial branch was restricted by 50% or more. Prevalence of single- and double-vessel disease in the fourth and fifth decades of life was similar in the two populations and in both tended to decline with age. Prevalence of triple-vessel disease was also similar in the two populations in the fourth and fifth decades; in either population it rose with age and reached a peak at the seventh decade of life. The percentages of hypertensive patients in the sixth and seventh decades with triple-vessel disease was significantly (p less than 0.01) greater (40% and 50%, respectively) than the corresponding values in normotensive individuals (25% and 31%, respectively). The left main coronary artery was not significantly more involved in the high blood pressure group. Pressure was moderately and similarly raised at any age in hypertension; serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels, blood glucose, and smoking habits were comparable in the two populations. These results suggest that hypertension does not accelerate the appearance of significant coronary narrowing or multiple vessel involvement. Starting from the sixth decade, the natural age-related evolution of coronary disease seems to be aggravated in hypertensive subjects, as reflected by an augmented number of diseased vessels. This process is probably related to high blood pressure in itself; whether the severity of hypertension might also exert an influence is not deducible from this study. 
Large arteries involvement in scleroderma--a case report. The authors describe a thirty-nine-year-old woman patient presenting with progressive systemic sclerosis and an unusual angiographic picture of an impairment of large arteries, which in their opinion is due to the primary disease. The review literature reports about similar arterial involvement in scleroderma. 
Angioplasty of coronary bifurcation stenoses: immediate and long-term results of the protecting branch technique. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA) of coronary stenoses involving major bifurcations carries a small but significant risk of side branch occlusion which can be avoided by simultaneously using multiple dilatation systems. Among 1,275 PTCA procedures performed between 1984 and 1988 in 1,035 consecutive patients, 42 double wire procedures were applied (4%) to protect and/or dilate major coronary side branches. A total of 80 coronary stenoses were attempted of which 76 were located on a bifurcation and 4 on other segments. In the first 11 patients (group A), 2 guiding catheters were used and PTCA of each vessel was successfully performed by means of separate double lumen over-the-wire balloon catheters. In the next 31 patients (group B), 2 guidewires were advanced through a single guiding catheter and PTCA was attempted using "Monorail" balloon catheters sequentially advanced over the wires. In group B, a successful PTCA was obtained in 29 patients (93%) but twisting of the wires hampered balloon progression in 5 cases, such that dilatation could only be performed by stepping back to a single wire technique. The procedure time in group B was significantly shorter than in group A: 144 +/- 30 versus 230 +/- 52 minutes (p = .01). Repeat angiography was performed in 35 out of 40 patients (87%) after a mean of 180 +/- 46 days following successful PTCA. Angiographic restenosis was present in 37% (24/65) of bifurcation segments which, in our experience, is not significantly different from the angiographic restenosis rate in less complex lesions (248/740; 34%; NS). 
Results of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. The influence of multivessel coronary artery disease on the outcome of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction has not been fully characterized. Direct coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy was performed during evolving myocardial infarction in 285 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease at 5.2 +/- 4.2 h after the onset of chest pain. Two vessel disease was present in 163 patients (57%) and three vessel disease in 122 (43%). An anterior infarct was present in 123 patients (43%), cardiogenic shock in 33 (12%) and age greater than or equal to 70 years in 59 (21%). Angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel was successful in 256 patients (90%), including 92% with two vessel and 88% with three vessel disease (p = NS). Emergency bypass surgery was needed in six patients (2%). In-hospital death occurred in 33 patients (12%), including 13 with two vessel and 20 with three vessel disease (p less than 0.05). The mortality rate was only 4% in the subgroup of 101 patients who met entry criteria for thrombolytic trials. The in-hospital mortality rate was 45% in patients in shock and 7% in patients not in shock (p less than 0.01). Logistic regression analysis identified shock and age greater than or equal to 70 years as independently associated with in-hospital death. In 135 patients who underwent predischarge left ventriculography, global ejection fraction increased from 50% to 57% (p less than 0.001) and regional wall motion in the infarct zone improved in 59% of patients. Follow-up data were available in 251 patients (99%) at a mean of 35 +/- 19 months. 
Mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure. Inexcitability, metabolite accumulation, or vascular collapse? The basis of early ischemic contractile failure was investigated in perfused ferret hearts at 27 degrees C. Isovolumic left ventricular developed pressure fell by more than 50% within 30 seconds of the onset of total global ischemia and reached zero by 5 minutes. Monophasic action potential recordings revealed no decrease in excitability during this period. Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectra obtained at 30-second resolution showed no significant changes in inorganic phosphate or phosphocreatine during the first 30 seconds of ischemia. Intracellular pH (pHi) and ATP changed even more slowly; therefore, none of these metabolites could account for the rapid fall in force. To gauge the contribution of intravascular pressure, we compared ordinary aortic flow occlusion with tissue-level ischemia induced by massive coronary microembolization at the level of the precapillary arterioles. Functional depression developed significantly more slowly in the microembolized hearts, despite accumulation of inorganic phosphate and protons comparable with that in ordinary ischemia. After microembolization, the time course of functional depression reflected much more closely the concomitant inorganic phosphate and pHi changes. Thus, our results provide novel evidence supporting the importance of vascular collapse in the mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure. 
Dose-dependent reduction of myocardial infarct size with the perfluorochemical Fluosol-DA. The perfluorochemical Fluosol-DA has been shown to reduce infarct size. However, the dose-response relationship of the agent is unknown. Because perfluorochemicals (PFC) can potentially saturate the reticuloendothelial system and decrease carbon clearance as well as cause a transient elevation in liver enzymes, the present study was conducted to determine the lowest effective dose. New Zealand White rabbits (n = 73) were randomly selected prior to infarction to receive 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 ml/kg PFC or an equivalent volume of 5% dextran (control) intravenously. Animals underwent 30 minutes of coronary artery occlusion with PFC or dextran infused over a 30-minute period starting at 20 minutes into the occlusion. Animals were put to death at 24 hours and infarct size was determined histologically and quantitated by computerized planimetry. Neutrophil infiltration into the ischemic myocardium was evaluated semiquantitatively. No hemodynamic differences were noted within groups. Infarct size was similar to that of controls in animals treated with 10 or 15 ml/kg PFC. Significant infarct size reduction, however, was noted in animals treated with 20, 25, and 30 ml/kg PFC versus controls; (p = 0.05, 0.04, and 0.02, respectively). Maximal infarct size reduction was seen with 30 ml/kg PFC (35%). Neutrophil infiltration was significantly decreased in all groups treated with PFC. These results show that intravenous Fluosol-DA significantly reduces infarct size at a minimal dose of 20 ml/kg. 
The effect of abdominal surgery on the serum concentration of the tumour-associated antigen CA 125. The CA 125 assay is used to monitor the course of disease in women with adenocarcinoma of the genital tract. We measured serum CA 125 levels longitudinally in three different groups of patients who had normal serum CA 125 levels (less than or equal to 16 U/ml) before extensive intraperitoneal abdominal surgery (group 1, second-look laparotomy in 28 women with ovarian cancer; group 2, radical hysterectomy in 42 patients with cervical cancer; group 3, 13 men and one woman who had aortic surgery for atherosclerotic occlusive disease or aneurysm formation). Following surgery, rising serum CA 125 levels were observed in 69 out of the 84 patients (82%), irrespective of the primary diagnosis, type of operation or sex. The highest levels were found during the second week after the operation (range 3-336 U/ml) and decreased gradually thereafter, to become normal at 8 weeks after surgery. It was concluded that abdominal surgery interferes with the specificity of CA 125 as a tumour marker during the early postoperative period. 
Influences of angiotensin on renal function in renal vascular hypertension. The scope and the magnitude of the roles which angiotensin plays in the generation and maintenance of elevated blood pressure in models of renal vascular hypertension are continuing to expand. It is now clear that specific angiotensin dependent mechanisms contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension and altered renal function in models of two-kidney, one clip hypertension in rats. The generation of angiotensin in the local intrarenal environment of the kidney is a new and potentially important mechanism contributing to altered renal function in these models. Application of antagonists of the renin-angiotensin system to rat models of renal vascular hypertension indicate that the effects of angiotensin attenuate renal hemodynamic and excretory behavior, particularly in the nonclipped kidney. Further, angiotensin may attenuate the efficiency of autoregulation of renal hemodynamics in the nonclipped kidney. Evidence that inhibition of angiotensin reverses or improves these altered hemodynamic and excretory functions indicate that angiotensin may contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension in these models by altering or impairing the ability of the nonclipped or normal kidney to excrete sodium and volume. 
Apical aortic cannulation: application of an old method with new paraphernalia. An instrument assembly consisting of a special aortic cross-clamp and double-lumen perfusion cannula is presented. The application of these instruments allows occlusion of the ascending aorta traversed by the perfusion cannula inserted directly or through the apex of the heart as well as simultaneous left ventricular venting. 
Grinspan's syndrome: a drug-induced phenomenon? Three cases of apparently drug-induced Grinspan's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension are reported. Because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa, the question arises as to whether Grinspan's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome. 
Timing and triggers of transient myocardial ischemia. Use of exercise tolerance testing and new techniques of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring to more objectively measure myocardial ischemia have enabled clinicians to better recognize the magnitude, timing and variable characteristics of transient ischemic events. These commonly occurring events in patients with coronary artery disease have a diurnal pattern strikingly similar to that reported for catastrophic cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death and stroke. Whether those factors that contribute to reversible ischemic events are similar to those causing infarction and sudden death has not been resolved. However, the parallel increase in morning activity for these related phenomena suggests that a better understanding of the triggers of reversible myocardial ischemia may help improve understanding of the causes of myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death. 
Occlusion of an "accessory" distal anterior cerebral artery during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Report of two cases. Two cases are presented in which clip occlusion of a third distal anterior cerebral artery segment occurred during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Case histories, angiograms, operative descriptions, and postmortem findings are presented. The incidence of this anomalous vessel is reviewed. Preoperative and intraoperative vigilance in determining the presence of this anomaly prior to clip placement is emphasized. 
Progression of native coronary artery disease at 10 years: insights from a randomized study of medical versus surgical therapy for angina. Repeat coronary angiography was performed in 42 patients 10 years after randomization to medical (n = 21) or surgical (n = 21) therapy for chronic angina. The native coronary arteries were classified into 15 angiographic segments and 3 arterial trunks for analysis of progression of coronary artery disease. The incidence rate of disease progression in coronary segments was 24% and 28% in medically and surgically treated patients, respectively (p = NS). Grafted segments showed a 38% rate of disease progression, which was higher than the 18% rate of for nongrafted segments (p less than 0.001) and the overall rate of 24% for medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). Similarly, 29 (94%) of 31 grafted arteries exhibited disease progression compared with 19 (59%) of 32 nongrafted arteries (p less than 0.01) and 42 (67%) of 63 arteries in medically treated patients (p less than 0.01). In grafted vessels, disease progression occurred more often in arteries proximal (84%) to the anastomosis than in arteries distal (16%) to graft insertion (p less than 0.001). Progression occurred in 46% of proximal segments compared with 23% of distal segments (p less than 0.02). Progression was seen in 23 (55%) of 43 segments with an occluded graft compared with 30 (31%) of 96 segments with a patent graft (p less than 0.02). Ten years after randomization, medically and surgically treated patients showed a comparable rate of disease progression in coronary segments. However, surgical therapy appeared to significantly accelerate atherosclerotic progression in the grafted vessels, especially in the proximal portions. Occluded grafts also correlated with an adverse effect on disease progression. 
Molecular biology in cardiology: recent developments and opportunities for clinical applications. The revolution in molecular biology that has taken place in the last decade has provided powerful research methods that are changing our understanding of cardiovascular physiology and disease. This editorial commentary will highlight several areas of current research activity within the broad and expanding field of molecular cardiology, with a special emphasis on prospects for clinical applications in cardiovascular medicine. 
Survey of the use of thrombolysis for acute limb ischaemia in the UK and Ireland. A total of 156 vascular surgeons from the UK and Ireland responded to a postal questionnaire on the use of thrombolysis in acute limb ischaemia. Almost half had used thrombolysis in the previous 12 months. Low dose intra-arterial streptokinase (89 per cent) was the regimen most frequently used, but 33 per cent had used intravenous streptokinase. Detailed results for 103 patients (limb salvage rate 60 per cent, amputation rate 35 per cent, mortality rate 5 per cent) were similar to those of previously published reports. Complications in most series were infrequent, but in the entire survey there were six bleeding-related deaths and one death from anaphylaxis. A total of 67 per cent of surgeons with working experience indicated that selected patients with acute arterial thromboses were most suitable for thrombolysis, particularly if there was no neurological deficit and no run-off for surgical bypass. Distal or late emboli and graft occlusions were regarded as appropriate by some surgeons. This study demonstrated that many vascular surgeons currently use thrombolysis, although sparingly and in selected cases. Patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by experienced vascular surgeons who are aware of the new therapeutic alternatives, an ideal supported by almost three-quarters of respondents to this survey. 
The effect of local temperature versus sympathetic tone on digital perfusion in Raynaud's phenomenon. Matched groups of 7 to 8 patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon, systemic sclerosis, and undifferentiated connective tissue disease and cold-tolerant normal control subjects were studied by simultaneous digital strain gauge plethysmography and laser Doppler capillary velocimetry during two controlled cycles of hand warming and cooling with and without addition of central cooling and during clinical maneuvers to evoke sympathetic tone. Transient vasoconstrictor responses of comparable degree could be evoked in all patient groups and in both the arterial and microvascular beds. While the addition of central cooling had little influence on arterial flow, patients with systemic sclerosis manifested a failure to maintain nutritive perfusion at finger temperatures associated with Raynaud's phenomenon. Linear regression and multivariate analysis suggested that finger temperature was the principal determinant of arterial flow in systemic sclerosis and that arterial flow was the principal determinant of microvascular perfusion. The inability of patients with systemic sclerosis to maintain nutritive flow in the face of either reflex or cold-induced proximal arterial constriction is consistent with their clinical propensity to ischemic tissue injury and separates these patients physiologically from other forms of Raynaud's phenomenon. 
Reduction in incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia after myocardial infarction by treatment with streptokinase during infarct evolution. The aim of this study was to determine whether intravenous streptokinase administered with or without oral aspirin to patients with evolving myocardial infarction reduces the inducibility of ventricular tachycardia at electrophysiologic study and thus the risk of sudden death in infarct survivors. Of 159 patients randomized at Westmead Hospital to the multicenter Second International Study of Infarct Survival (ISIS-2) after streptokinase and aspirin in acute myocardial infarction, 87 underwent electrophysiologic testing 6 to 28 days after infarction to determine their risk of subsequent ventricular arrhythmias (streptokinase 20 patients; aspirin 25 patients; streptokinase and aspirin 21 patients; both placebos 21 patients). Patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing had similar clinical characteristics to those of patients who did not. The stimulation protocol comprised up to and including four extrastimuli applied to the right ventricular apex at twice diastolic threshold. An abnormal result was defined as ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length greater than or equal to 230 ms lasting greater than or equal to 10 s. Ventricular tachycardia was inducible at electrophysiologic study in 8 patients who received placebo streptokinase, but in no patient who received active streptokinase (8 of 46 versus 0 of 41; p = 0.005, Fischer's exact test). Ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 4 patients who received aspirin therapy and 4 who did not (4 of 41 versus 4 of 46; p = NS). During a mean follow-up period of 39 +/- 9 months, there were no spontaneous episodes of ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation or witnessed sudden death in the streptokinase-treated group compared with three such events in the placebo-treated group (p = 0.13). When compared with placebo therapy, intravenous streptokinase substantially reduced the incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia in infarct survivors. No similar benefit was attributable to aspirin therapy. 
Studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. III. Models of ischemic and hypoxic/ischemic injury in the immature puppy heart. This study compares the metabolic and functional effects of three different models of ischemia in the immature heart. The intent was (1) to develop a model of energy-depleted and functionally depressed heart to be used in subsequent studies of myocardial protection and (2) to characterize the biochemical changes following different interventions. Forty-five minutes of normothermic global ischemia produced severe depletion of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate (greater than 70%) but was associated with 85% +/- 10% recovery of left ventricular function. Postischemic functional depression (less than 30% recovery) could be produced by either (1) extending the ischemic duration to 60 minutes or (2) preceding 45 minutes of ischemia by 60 minutes of hypoxic stress (oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm Hg). Neither of these more severe interventions caused more profound depletion of adenosine triphosphate or creatine phosphate, but hypoxic stress produced marked tissue depletion of glutamate (52%) and aspartate (48%) before aortic clamping. Longer ischemia or preceding hypoxia led to greater myocardial accumulation of lactate (greater than 250 versus 104 mumol/gm dry weight) and succinate (18 versus 11 mumol/gm dry weight) during aortic clamping, p less than 0.05 versus 45 minutes of ischemia) and greater postischemic depression and amino acid (greater than 65% aspartate depletion) and carbohydrate (greater than 50% glycogen depletion) metabolism, p less than 0.05 versus simple ischemia. These findings suggest that more severe ischemic/hypoxic models are needed in immature hearts to produce functional depression, and the biochemical analyses suggest the characteristics of metabolic defects that must be corrected to resuscitate these hearts during surgical correction of congenital defects. 
Hemodynamic and electrophysiologic evaluation of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surviving cardiac arrest. Hemodynamic and electrophysiologic studies were performed in 30 survivors of sudden cardiac arrest with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) to determine responsible factors. Electrophysiologic abnormalities alone were present in 27 patients (90%): sinus node dysfunction in 14 (47%), delayed atrio-ventricular nodal conduction in 1 (3%), abnormal His-Purkinje conduction in 7 (23%), an inducible atrial tachycardia in 7 (23%), and inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia in 21 (70%). Sustained ventricular arrhythmia was polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) in 18 patients (86%), monomorphic VT in 2 patients (7%) and ventricular fibrillation in 1 patient (3%). In 1 patient the arrhythmia recorded during an episode of cardiac arrest and induced at electrophysiologic study was polymorphic VT. VT was induced with less than or equal to 2 extra-stimuli in only 1 patient (3%) but with less than or equal to 3 extra-stimuli in 20 patients (97%). Potential causes of sudden cardiac arrest were found in all patients and were multiple in 13 patients (43%). These were (1) ventricular electrical instability in 21 patients (70%), (2) severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in 8 patients (27%), (3) bradycardia in 5 patients (17%), (4) myocardial ischemia associated with hypotension in 5 patients (17%), and (5) atrial tachycardia resulting in hypotension in 4 patients (13%). Of the 21 patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia, 17 received an implantable defibrillator device and 4 were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. Seven patients underwent left ventricular septal myectomy. 
Quantitative relationships between left ventricular ejection and wall thickening and geometry. The quantitative relationships that exist between left ventricular (LV) wall shortening, wall thickening, and geometry during LV ejection are not well defined. We used a mathematical model to measure these parameters in 40 patients with various LV geometries studied by echocardiography. As opposed to wall shortening, the percent contribution of wall thickening to LV ejection (% delta Vh) was 25 +/- 2% in normal subjects; in all the patients, it varied from 18 to 45% and was inversely correlated (r = 0.94) to the midwall radius-to-wall thickness ratio (R/h) of the ventricle at end diastole. On the other hand, the ratio of the quantity of blood ejected per unit of LV wall volume magnitude of delta V/V omega magnitude of varied from 0.20 to 1.20 (normal subjects 0.83 +/- 0.11) and was directly correlated (r = 0.94) to R/h; using independent data in the literature, we also found a similar relationship (r = 0.80) between the ratio of quantity of blood ejected per unit of LV mass (magnitude of delta V/M omega magnitude of) and R/h. Patients with presumably abnormal myocardial function did not satisfy the relationship between magnitude of delta V/V omega magnitude of or magnitude of delta V/M omega magnitude of and R/h. 
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease--more than a renal disease. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common genetic disease, affecting a half million Americans. The clinical phenotype can result from at least two different gene defects. One gene that can cause ADPKD has been located on the short arm of chromosome 16. This discovery has made possible new methods for diagnosing the disorder in gene carriers prior to the development of renal cysts. Although renal cysts are clearly an important manifestation of the gene defect, other systemic manifestations are both common and clinically important. Cardiac valvular lesions, intracranial aneurysms, hepatic cysts, and diverticula are included in the array of systemic manifestations. Moreover, renal cysts are only one of a myriad of renal manifestations. Although ADPKD was long considered an adult cystic disease, it is also a common cause of childhood cystic disease and must be considered in the differential diagnosis in that setting. 
Sodium-potassium interaction in hypertension and hypertensive cardiovascular disease. Epidemiological evidence suggests that low potassium intake is associated with the probability of occurrence of hypertension and stroke. The short-term response to increased potassium intake is increased sodium excretion as well as increased potassium excretion; the short-term response to increased sodium intake is increased potassium excretion as well as increased sodium excretion. In some experimental studies, increased amounts of potassium have been able to block the noxious influences of sodium. Sodium and potassium must be concomitantly considered in the investigation of the association of either of these cations with hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The chloride ion is also important for sodium's effects; its importance in potassium's effects has not been extensively explored. 
Training increases muscle blood flow in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency. This study investigated the effect of physical training on muscle blood flow (BF) in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency during treadmill running. Bilateral stenosis of the femoral artery of adult rats (300-350 g) was performed to reduce exercise hyperemia in the hindlimb but not limit resting muscle BF. Rats were divided into normal sedentary, acute stenosed (stenosed 3 days before the experiment), stenosed sedentary (limited to cage activity), and stenosed trained (run on a treadmill by a progressively intense program, up to 50-60 min/day, 5 days/wk for 6-8 wk). Hindlimb BF was determined with 85Sr- and 141Ce-labeled microspheres at a low (20 m/min) and high treadmill speed (30-40 m/min depending on ability). Maximal hindlimb BF was reduced to approximately 50% normal in the acute stenosed group. Total hindlimb BF (81 +/- 5 ml.min-1.100 g-1) did not change in stenosed sedentary animals with 6-8 wk of cage activity, but a redistribution of BF occurred within the hindlimb. Two factors contributed to a higher BF to the distal limb muscle of the trained animals. A redistribution BF within the hindlimb occurred in stenosed trained animals; distal limb BF increased to approximately 80% (P less than 0.001) of the proximal tissue. In addition, an increase in total hindlimb BF with training indicates that collateral BF has been enhanced (P less than 0.025). The associated increase in oxygen delivery to the relatively ischemic muscle probably contributed to the markedly improved exercise tolerance evident in the trained animals. 
Cigarette smoking, adiposity, non-insulin-dependent diabetes, and coronary heart disease in Japanese-American men. PURPOSE: Coronary heart disease has been described to be increased with both glucose intolerance and cigarette smoking. All three of these have also been reported to be associated with central adiposity (disproportionate deposition of fat on the trunk compared to the extremities). The purpose of this analysis was to determine the relationship of cigarette smoking to glucose intolerance and coronary heart disease, the relationship of cigarette smoking to risk factors such as adiposity, body fat distribution, and plasma lipoprotein and insulin levels, the relationship of cigarette smoking to these risk factors independent of disease status, and whether these risk factors could account for any of the relationship between cigarette smoking and disease status. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study design was cross-sectional. The study sample contained 219 middle-aged and elderly Japanese-American men: 77 with normal and 74 with impaired glucose tolerance and 68 with type II diabetes. There were 54 men with coronary heart disease. A detailed smoking history was obtained. Glucose tolerance status was established by medical history and a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test. Coronary heart disease was determined by medical history and a resting electrocardiogram. Adiposity and fat distribution measurements were body mass index (kg/m2), skinfold thicknesses, body circumferences, and cross-sectional fat areas by computed tomography. Levels of insulin, C-peptide, cholesterol (total, low-density lipoprotein [LDL], high-density lipoprotein [HDL], HDL2, HDL3, very-low-density lipoprotein [VLDL]), and triglyceride (total, VLDL) were measured in fasting blood specimens. RESULTS: A central pattern of body fat was associated with both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease. Smoking history was related to both adiposity and body fat distribution, and was strongly related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes. Past smokers who had smoked up to a month ago were the heaviest while present smokers who were currently smoking or had smoked within the past month were the leanest. However, although present smokers had reduced amounts of fat, this was attributable to those present smokers without heart disease. Present smokers with heart disease were not as lean and had increased amounts of intra-abdominal fat. Past smokers had the greatest amount of central fat and this was attributable to those with heart disease. By two-way (smoking history and coronary heart disease status) analysis of covariance, smoking history was significantly related only to subcutaneous fat disposition on the chest and abdomen independent of coronary heart disease, while coronary heart disease status was strongly related to plasma levels of insulin C-peptide, VLDL, HDL, HDL2, and HDL3 cholesterol, and total and VLDL triglyceride, independent of smoking history. Further analysis showed that none of the body fat variables could account for the risk of coronary heart disease associated with smoking history. Higher fasting plasma C-peptide levels in past smokers accounted statistically for part of the risk of coronary heart disease associated with cigarette smoking. However, this effect was not mediated by any of the body fat measurements. CONCLUSIONS: Disproportionately increased intra-abdominal fat is related to coronary heart disease but not to smoking history. Smoking history is related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes. Weight gain is associated with smoking cessation and appears to be concentrated in the central subcutaneous regions, especially for those who have coronary heart disease. Weight gain associated with cessation of smoking appears to be unrelated to atherogenic changes in lipids, lipoproteins, or insulin. Other pathogenic processes must be considered in the association between smoking and coronary heart disease. 
Effect of preconditioning ischemia on reperfusion arrhythmias after coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion in the rat. Severe arrhythmias occur predictably on reperfusion after 5 minutes of coronary occlusion in the rat. There is little data available on whether ischemic preconditioning (PC) of hearts can reduce the incidence of such arrhythmias. The effect of PC (three cycles of 2 minutes of coronary occlusion and 5 minutes of reperfusion) on development of arrhythmias after a subsequent 5-minute coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion was studied. Rats (n = 16 each group) underwent 5-minute occlusion and reperfusion alone or preceded by PC; arrhythmias were monitored during ischemia and for 10 minutes of reperfusion, and biopsies were taken for creatine phosphate and adenosine triphosphate in ischemic and nonischemic zones of the left ventricle. PC reduced the incidence of ventricular tachycardia (VT) during occlusion (81% control versus 13% PC, p less than 0.001). On subsequent reperfusion, ventricular fibrillation (VF) developed in zero PC animals versus 13 (81%) of controls (p less than 0.001), and irreversible VF in zero of PC versus seven (44%) of controls (p = 0.007). VT occurred in four (25%) of PC versus all (100%) of controls (p less than 0.001). PC reduced mean duration of VT plus VF from 320 +/- 54 to 5 +/- 1 seconds (p less than 0.001) and delayed arrhythmia onset from 8 +/- 2 to 85 +/- 35 seconds after reperfusion. There was no difference in creatine phosphate levels in the ischemic zone at the end of reperfusion in PC animals compared with controls without irreversible VF (16.2 +/- 4.1 versus 15.5 +/- 3.9 nmol/mg protein, p = NS). 
Left and right ventricular flows by Doppler echocardiography: serial measurements in patients with aortic regurgitation during exercise, cold pressor stimulation, and vasodilation. To test the practicality of Doppler echocardiography to measure serial change, biventricular outputs were measured in 15 patients with aortic regurgitation during control periods and during interventions of bicycle exercise, cold pressor stimulation, and vasodilation. Biventricular stroke volumes were measured in 10 normal subjects for validation of methods and differed by 2.8%. Reading errors were 3.7%. Signal quality improved between the first and last observation (p less than 0.05). Velocity signals were corrected for intercept angles, which averaged 12 and 19 degrees for right heart flows and 31 and 32 degrees for the left side of the heart in all subjects. Negative correlations occurred between intercept angles and the chronologic order in which the patients were studied for left (p = 0.02) and right (p = 0.05) flows. Mean flow areas varied 9% in the left ventricle and 20% in the right ventricle. Total variability for measuring flow determined from control values was 11% to 13%. When twice the variability was used as the detectable level of change, only exercise provoked real increases in biventricular flows in the majority of patients. We conclude that serial measurements of flow by Doppler echocardiographic methods had to exceed 20% to 25% to achieve significant change. Measuring intercept angle, resolving flow area, and learning are variables that need greater emphasis. 
Stunned myocardium and myocardial collagen damage: differential effects of single and repeated occlusions. It has been suggested that collagen loss and damage is responsible for the dysfunction seen in stunned myocardium. To test this hypothesis we compared collagen in canine hearts stunned by repeated occlusion with collagen in hearts stunned by a single occlusion. Regional contractile function was equally depressed in both groups: segment shortening at 1 hour after reperfusion averaged 37% +/- 9% versus 32% +/- 9% of preocclusion values in repeated and single occlusion models, respectively. Midmyocardial collagen content was not different in either single occlusion (10.5% +/- 0.4%) or repeated occlusion models (9.5% +/- 0.7%) when compared with nonischemic hearts (8.5 +/- 0.8%). Collagen damage, which was revealed with polarized light microscopy, was seen in 5 of 6 dogs after repeated occlusion but was not apparent after a single occlusion. Thus although both models of stunned myocardium produce similar dysfunction, there was no apparent collagen loss. Furthermore, collagen damage was only seen after repeated occlusion. Therefore it appears unlikely that collagen damage is a primary mechanism of stunned myocardium. 
A forme fruste of Marfan's syndrome: case history. A thirty nine year old woman presented with multiple aneurysms and dissections of the arterial system secondary to cystic medial necrosis is presented. After assessment of the family history a diagnosis of a forme fruste of Marfan's syndrome was made. Preoperative consideration of this rare diagnosis is important for treatment and surgical management. 
Comparison of intravenous amrinone and dobutamine in congestive heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. A prospective randomized study was performed in 46 consecutive patients with refractory congestive heart failure (CHF) due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to compare the hemodynamic responses to 48-hour infusions of amrinone and dobutamine. Both drugs substantially reduced pulmonary arterial wedge pressure, right atrial pressure and systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac index. Amrinone caused a greater decrease in right atrial pressure than dobutamine (p less than 0.02) and had a positive chronotropic effect not observed with dobutamine (p less than 0.01). The increase in heart rate produced by amrinone correlated inversely with the changes in right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures, suggesting a baroreceptor response to reduced preload. Dobutamine produced a larger increase in stroke volume index than amrinone (p less than 0.01). Ninety-one percent of patients receiving amrinone and only 65% receiving dobutamine had reduction of greater than or equal to 30% in pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (p less than 0.05). Cardiac index increased greater than or equal to 30% in similar numbers of patients given amrinone (74%) and dobutamine (65%). Negative fluid balance was recorded in all patients receiving amrinone and in 78% of patients receiving dobutamine (p less than 0.05). Target hemodynamic criteria were achieved in 83% of patients receiving 10 micrograms/kg/min of amrinone. The effective maintenance dose of dobutamine was extremely variable. No clinically important adverse effects were observed with either drug regimen. Both amrinone and dobutamine are effective and safe agents for short-term parenteral therapy of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy in severe CHF that is unresponsive to oral medication. 
Protecting the vasculature: an eye toward the future. Although calcium antagonists were originally developed for use in the management of patients with angina pectoris, they are now used in the management of other cardiovascular disorders, including hypertension. More recently, the calcium antagonists have been under investigation for their potential protective role in atherosclerosis. Coupled with these new possibilities for therapeutic use are the development of new, long-acting, tissue-specific calcium antagonists. Amlodipine belongs to this group, and although it is a dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist, its pharmacologic profile differs from that of other dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonists. Differences include: different pH optimum for receptor binding, different rates of association and dissociation, and differences in allosteric interaction with the diltiazem and verapamil binding sites. Amlodipine, when given orally to rabbits receiving a high-cholesterol diet, reduces atheroma formation. Evidence of its ability to protect the vasculature is provided by its ability to significantly increase (p less than 0.001) survival in stroke-prone hypertensive rats. 
Hypertension and acculturation in elderly Mexican Americans: results from 1982-84 Hispanic HANES. The purpose of our study was to describe the relationship between acculturation and hypertension in elderly Mexican Americans. Two age groups, 55-64 and 65-74, were examined from data provided in the Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (HHANES). The prevalence of hypertension among subgroups of different acculturation was ascertained based on the modified Cuellar Acculturation Scale. Each age group was also stratified using the HHANES poverty index, with those above the index compared to those below. A stepwise logistic regression was performed among the variables of poverty, gender, age, and acculturation in relation to hypertension. The results indicate that acculturation and age are stronger predictors of hypertension than poverty in elderly Mexican Americans, with acculturation being a stronger predictor among those age 55-64. Factors related to acculturation may have a stronger influence on the prevalence of hypertension in older Mexican Americans than differences related to socioeconomic status. 
Reactivity of eccentric and concentric coronary stenoses in patients with chronic stable angina. Dynamic coronary stenoses may be the cause of a variable angina threshold and rest angina in patients with chronic stable angina. It has been suggested that eccentric but not concentric coronary artery stenoses have the potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli. The vasomotor response of eccentric (asymmetric narrowing) and concentric (symmetric narrowing) coronary stenoses to ergonovine (20 micrograms intracoronary or 300 micrograms intravenous) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 mg intracoronary) was studied in 51 patients with chronic stable angina. Diameter of reference segments (angiographically normal segments proximal to the stenoses) and that of eccentric (n = 30) and concentric (n = 35) coronary stenoses that ranged from 50% to 90% luminal diameter reduction were measured by computerized quantitative angiography before and after ergonovine and isosorbide dinitrate. Ergonovine reduced stenosis diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 80% of eccentric stenoses and 42% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). Mean (+/- SEM) diameter reduction with ergonovine was 19 +/- 3% and 9.5 +/- 2% for eccentric and concentric stenoses, respectively (p less than 0.05). Isosorbide dinitrate increased coronary diameter (by greater than or equal to 10%) in 70% of eccentric and 43% of concentric stenoses (p less than 0.05). Mean diameter of eccentric stenoses increased from 1.15 +/- 0.05 to 1.35 +/- 0.06 mm after nitrate (18.6 +/- 2.5%), whereas diameter of concentric stenoses increased from 1.05 +/- 0.05 to 1.14 +/- 0.05 mm (10 +/- 2.5%) (p less than 0.05). Average dilation of reference segments with administration of isosorbide dinitrate and constriction with ergonovine were not significantly different in patients with concentric and eccentric stenoses. 
Electrocardiographic signs of atrial overload in hypertensive patients: indexes of abnormality of atrial morphology or function? Left atrial electrocardiographic (ECG) abnormalities have been reported as common findings in hypertension; however, their relationships with atrial anatomy are still uncertain. In addition, in arterial hypertension several studies demonstrated an abnormal left ventricular filling. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships of the ECG signs of left atrial abnormality to atrial anatomy and left ventricular filling as evaluated by pulsed-wave (PW) Doppler in a group of patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension. To this end, 53 untreated essential hypertensive patients (age 44 +/- 8 years; blood pressure 160.5 +/- 21.5/104.7 +/- 13.5 mm Hg) underwent a complete 12-lead ECG and a PW Doppler study of the transmitral flow velocities. The ECG criteria of left atrial abnormality were: P wave wider than 0.12 (or 0.10) second or higher than 0.25 mV in lead II; P wave/PR segment ratio (Macruz index) greater than 1.6 in lead II; and P wave terminal forces in lead V1 equal to or more negative than 0.04. Echocardiographic measurements were made according to American Society of Echocardiography (ASE) convention. Doppler parameters of left ventricular filling were measured as E and A peak velocity, A/E ratio, and the ratio between the velocity-time integral under the E peak and that of the whole diastolic flow, which represents the rapid filling fraction (RFF). At least one ECG sign of atrial abnormality was present in 34 patients (64%); the Macruz index gave the most common ECG index of atrial abnormality (31 patients). 
Beta-lactam resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. In vitro and in vivo activity of amoxicillin and penicillin G alone or combined with a penicillinase inhibitor (clavulanate) were tested against five isogenic pairs of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) producing or not producing penicillinase. Loss of the penicillinase plasmid caused an eight times or greater reduction in the MICs of amoxicillin and penicillin G (from greater than or equal to 64 to 8 micrograms/ml), but not of the penicillinase-resistant drugs methicillin and cloxacillin (greater than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml). This difference in antibacterial effectiveness correlated with a more than 10 times greater penicillin-binding protein 2a affinity of amoxicillin and penicillin G than of methicillin and a greater than or equal to 90% successful amoxicillin treatment of experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative MRSA compared with cloxacillin, which was totally ineffective (P less than .001). Amoxicillin was also effective against penicillinase-producing parent MRSA, provided it was combined with clavulanate. Penicillinase-sensitive beta-lactam antibiotics plus penicillinase inhibitors might offer a rational alternative treatment for MRSA infections. 
Impairment of cerebral autoregulation during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage in primates. We studied the impairment of autoregulation of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and its effect on the electrical activity of the brain during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage, using a vasospasm model in primates. Fourteen animals were divided into two groups: a clot group (8) and a sham-operated group (6). To induce subarachnoid hemorrhage, all the animals underwent craniectomy, and in the clot group, the autologous blood clot was located around the arteries dissected free from the arachnoid membrane. Cerebral angiography was performed before subarachnoid hemorrhage and 7 days after (Day 7). On Day 7, regional CBF in the parietal lobe--measured by the hydrogen clearance method--and central conduction time were studied during either graded hypertension or hypotension. In the clot group, the mean vessel caliber of the cerebral arteries on the right side (clot side) of the circle of Willis showed significant (P less than 0.01) reduction (more than 40%) as compared with the values on the contralateral, non-clot side. The values for the bilateral parietal CBF in the sham-operated group and the left parietal CBF in the clot group were fairly constant when the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) was in the range of 60 to 160 mm Hg. In the clot group, right parietal CBF was significantly (P less than 0.05) smaller than that on the left side at an MABP level of 40 to 100 mm Hg, and increased at an MABP level of 180 mm Hg. The right parietal CBF increased as the arterial blood pressure increased, showing impairment of autoregulation. 
Endocardial resection in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia secondary to cardiac trauma. Sustained ventricular tachycardia with left ventricular aneurysm formation is a rare complication following penetrating cardiac trauma. We present an unusual case of serious ventricular tachycardia which developed 35 years after a World War II injury and was successfully treated with aneurysmectomy, map-guided subendocardial resection, and cryoablation. 
Regression of atherosclerosis: what does it mean? Angiographic evidence of coronary artery atherosclerosis regression has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. The significance of this regression appears to depend in a complex way on the degree of atherosclerosis present when a regression regimen is initiated. Angiographic trials indicate that lesion change is a continuum, with a gradual transition from progression to stability and regression. Divergent lesion change can be seen in the same patient with a progression of some lesions and a regression of others. This makes it necessary to perform a comprehensive survey of all visible coronary segments when evaluating angiograms to determine the outcome of a clinical trial. An important finding in clinical trials is that new lesion formation can be reduced. This indicates that effective control of atherosclerosis may be possible with procedures now available, but noninvasive coronary artery imaging methods need to be refined. 
Influence of desflurane on regional distribution of coronary blood flow in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery obstruction. The influence of desflurane on myocardial perfusion measured by a microsphere technique during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant moderate or severe stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery was evaluated in chronically instrumented dogs. Hemodynamics, regional contractile function, and myocardial blood flow were measured during the conscious state and after anesthesia with desflurane (8.2%-9.2% and 12.5%-12.7%) with and without control of arterial pressure. Total left anterior descending occlusion produced in combination with a left circumflex coronary artery stenosis significantly (P less than 0.05) increased heart rate and left ventricular end diastolic pressure in the absence of desflurane anesthesia. Desflurane, administered only in the presence of left anterior descending occlusion and left circumflex stenosis, significantly (P less than 0.05) decreased mean arterial pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure, and left ventricular positive dP/dt50 without change in heart rate. Blood flow to the subendocardium of normal myocardium was reduced during the high concentration of desflurane (P less than 0.05), but perfusion of the subepicardium and midmyocardium was maintained at conscious levels. When the left circumflex stenosis was of moderate severity, only blood flow to the subendocardium distal to the stenosis was reduced by desflurane (P less than 0.05). In the presence of a severe stenosis, perfusion was decreased in the subepicardium, midmyocardium, and subendocardium of the stenotic zone (P less than 0.05). During the reduction in arterial pressure produced by desflurane, collateral blood flow in the left anterior descending region was reduced in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis (P less than 0.05). When arterial pressure and heart rate conditions observed in the postocclusion conscious state were restored during the high concentration of desflurane, myocardial blood flow in all regions returned to those levels present in the conscious state (P less than 0.05). Ratios of flow between occluded and normal zones were decreased when hypotension produced by desflurane was uncontrolled, but when arterial pressure and heart rate were adjusted to conscious postocclusion levels using partial thoracic aorta occlusion and atrial pacing, the ratio remained at conscious control levels regardless of the degree of left circumflex stenosis severity (P less than 0.05). Results of this investigation indicate that desflurane does not redistribute blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions via a "coronary steal" mechanism in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease. 
Clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections: mechanisms of death. Clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined. The mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial. Severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths (15.5%). Pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children (59.2%). Heart failure (8.5%), hypovolemia (4.2%), and nosocomial infection (12.6%) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection. Extensive consolidation, squamous metaplasia, and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children. Patients with severe disease must receive, in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes, individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care. Since these types of care are not available in poor communities, vaccination against measles and vitamin A supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease. 
Doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema. To verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE), we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in HAPE-susceptible subjects (HAPE-S) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed Doppler echocardiography. The HAPE-S were seven men and one woman with a history of HAPE. Six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects. The HAPE-S showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) than did the control subjects, resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) under acute hypoxia both of 15% O2 and 10% O2. We then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed Doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension. Acceleration time (AcT) and right ventricular ejection time (RVET) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract. The ratio of AcT to RVET was correlated to invasively determined mean Ppa (Ppa) and PVR. The results were as follows: (1) AcT/RVET = 0.52 to 0.0047 (Ppa), r = -0.93, SEE = 0.017, p less than 0.001 (HAPE-S); (2) AcT/RVET = 0.55 to 0.0055 (Ppa), r = -0.70, SEE = 0.030, p less than 0.001 (HAPE-S); (4) AcT/RVET = 0.52 to 0.00077 (PVR), r = -0.91, SEE = 0.016, p less than 0.001 (control subjects). We conclude that HAPE-S have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia, which is a possible causative factor of HAPE, and that pulsed Doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the HAPE-S. 
Paradoxical embolism: an underestimated entity. A plea for comprehensive work-up. Forty-one cases of arterial embolism were reviewed. The work-up included M + 2D echocardiography in 29 patients (71%), arteriography in 22 (54%), both echocardiography and arteriography in 19 (46%), and abdominal aortic ultrasound in 18 (43%). The sources of emboli were probable cardiac (8 = 20%)--mural cardiac thrombus detected by echocardiogram; possible cardiac (12 = 29%)--arrhythmias or other cardiac pathology detected without mural thrombus; probable arterio-arterial (7 = 17%)--proximal arterial thrombus detected; probable paradoxical embolism (2 = 5%)--fulfills the Johnson criteria with cardiac defect and right-to-left shunt detected by contrast echo in one patient and cardiac catheterization in the other; possible paradoxical embolism (3 = 7%)--meets two of three Johnson criteria without evidence of other source; and unknown source (9 = 22%)--conventional work-up negative or incomplete. Five of nine patients (56%) less than 50 years old had probable or possible paradoxical embolism, while in two patients (22%), the origin was unknown. Conclusion: (1) A significant proportion of patients with an arterial embolus are discharged with the source of emboli unknown, (2) paradoxical embolism must be considered and contrast saline or transesophageal echocardiogram should be done in patients under 50 years old. 
Dynamic changes in left ventricular outflow tract flow velocities after amyl nitrite inhalation in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Doppler echocardiography was performed in 21 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC), in nine patients with no evidence of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy by two-dimensional echocardiography, and in five patients with systemic hypertension and concentric LV hypertrophy. The LV outflow tract (LVOT) peak velocity was recorded by continuous wave Doppler technique at rest and after amyl nitrite inhalation. The LVOT pressure gradient was calculated by the modified Bernoulli equation. A significant increase in heart rate and a drop in systolic blood pressure were observed in all patients after amyl nitrite inhalation; no adverse effects were encountered. The peak LVOT velocity and pressure gradient increased significantly after provocation in all patients, but the increase was much more pronounced in patients with HC (peak LVOT velocity increased from 2.2 +/- 0.8 to 4.3 +/- 1.0 m/sec and peak gradient increased from 22 +/- 17 to 78 +/- 36 mm Hg). The Doppler spectral signal in patients with HC demonstrated a characteristic contour, with peak velocity occurring in late systole. However, the observed increase in LVOT peak velocity was not statistically different between treated (with beta-blockers and calcium blockers) and untreated patients with HC. We conclude that LVOT peak velocity and pressure gradients in patients with HC can be readily assessed by Doppler echocardiography both at rest and after amyl nitrite inhalation. The dynamic changes in LVOT velocity induced by this provocation have certain characteristic features in obstructive HC but appear to be independent of the medical regimen used, at least in the dosages tested in our study. 
Development of antibodies to thrombin and factor V with recurrent bleeding in a patient exposed to topical bovine thrombin. A 65 year old patient who was exposed to topical bovine thrombin during cardiac surgery developed markedly prolonged clotting times and a severe bleeding diathesis. Mixing studies with normal plasma failed to correct the clotting times. Platelet transfusions, immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies were ineffective, but plasmapheresis was effective in decreasing clotting times and in the resolution of clinical bleeding events. The patient's purified IgG reacted with bovine thrombin by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). However, the IgG reacted minimally with human thrombin. In view of the severe bleeding, a coexisting inhibitor was sought. The patient's factor V activity was 1% of normal and was not corrected by mixing with normal plasma, demonstrating the presence of an inhibitor against factor V. The patient's IgG reacted with both bovine and human factor V. Immunoblotting localized the site of antibody binding to the light chain of activated bovine factor V. Detectable amounts of bovine factor V were found in commercial bovine thrombin preparations by ELISA. The data suggest that patients exposed to topical bovine thrombin may develop antibodies to thrombin and factor V. Anti-thrombin antibodies may mask coexisting factor V inhibitors responsible for clinical bleeding. 
Treatment with deferoxamine during ischemia improves functional and metabolic recovery and reduces reperfusion-induced oxygen radical generation in rabbit hearts BACKGROUND. Iron may play a central role in oxygen radical generation during myocardial ischemia and after reperfusion. Because conditions during ischemia may also liberate iron, we hypothesized that administration of the iron chelator deferoxamine during ischemia would result in improved functional and metabolic recovery after postischemic reperfusion. METHODS AND RESULTS. Isolated, perfused rabbit hearts were studied by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The hearts received one of three treatments: deferoxamine at the onset of 30 minutes of global ischemia (n = 9), deferoxamine as a bolus followed by a continuous 15-minute infusion begun at reflow (n = 9), or standard perfusate (n = 7). Hearts treated with deferoxamine during ischemia showed better recovery of developed pressure than did control hearts (63.2 +/- 7.5% versus 41.2 +/- 2.9% of baseline) (p = 0.02) and better recovery of myocardial phosphocreatine content (92.4 +/- 10.3% versus 68.2 +/- 4.5% of baseline, p less than 0.05). These functional and metabolic benefits were comparable to those obtained with deferoxamine treatment during early reperfusion. In 15 additional hearts, intraischemic treatment with deferoxamine resulted in no reduction in oxygen radical concentrations as measured on frozen tissue by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy at end ischemia, but the treatment eliminated the reperfusion-induced increase of free radical generation observed in control hearts (2.9 +/- 0.01 versus 7.0 +/- 0.07 microM, p less than 0.001). The magnitude of reduction was similar to that when deferoxamine was given at the onset of reflow (2.4 +/- 0.02 microM, p less than 0.001 versus control). CONCLUSIONS. These results demonstrate improved functional and metabolic recovery of myocardium treated with deferoxamine during ischemia, accompanied by a reduction in reperfusion-induced oxygen free-radical generation to the same degree as reflow treatment, confirming the importance of iron in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury. 
Prospective randomized multicenter comparison of in situ and reversed vein infrapopliteal bypasses. We have performed a prospective, randomized, multicenter study to compare in situ and reversed vein grafts for long limb salvage bypasses from the proximal thigh to an infrapopliteal artery. Three hundred eighty-four patients required an infrapopliteal bypass for critical lower extremity ischemia. Of these, 259 were excluded because a short vein bypass was performed or because the vein was considered inadequate. The remaining 125 patients had a randomized vein bypass, 63 reversed, 62 in situ. The two groups were similar with regard to risk factors, indications, graft dimensions, and outflow. Secondary patency at 30 months was similar for both techniques: reversed 67% +/- 9% (+/- SE); in situ 69% +/- 8%. For veins less than or equal to 3.0 mm in minimum distended diameter 24-month patency rates were 61% +/- 22% for 12 in situ veins and 37% +/- 29% for 10 reversed veins (p greater than 0.05). Angiographic evaluation of failing grafts revealed lesions similar in type and frequency in both types of grafts. These included focal (in situ, n = 4; reversed, n = 7) and diffuse vein hyperplasia (in situ, n = 2; reversed, n = 1), and inflow and outflow stenoses (in situ, n = 4; reversed, n = 3). The incidence of wound complications and the mortality rate were similar for the two groups. These data show no significant difference in overall patency rates for the two types of vein grafts at 2 1/2 years. 
Fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy: a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade. We describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis. This otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy, with chemosis, facial swelling, pleural effusions, and pericardial tamponade. The symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy, but over a 2-year course, a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed. No other primary condition was diagnosed, and at autopsy, the patient had striking venulitis throughout, including the pulmonary bed. We believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy. 
Quantitative assessment of cerebral blood volume by single-photon emission computed tomography. We implemented a technique for measuring regional cerebral blood volume using single-photon emission computed tomography and in vivo technetium-99m-labeled red blood cells and then evaluated it in nine normal human volunteers (controls) and seven patients with bilateral occlusion or severe stenosis of the internal carotid artery. We also measured regional cerebral blood flow using single-photon emission computed tomography and intravenous xenon-133 in the same subjects. We studied regional cerebral blood flow, regional cerebral blood volume, and their ratio before and after the intravenous injection of 1 g acetazolamide. Mean +/- SD baseline regional cerebral blood volume was higher in the patients than in the controls (4.1 +/- 0.6 versus 3.2 +/- 0.3 ml/100 g, p less than 0.01), and mean +/- SD baseline regional cerebral blood flow was lower in the patients than in the controls (40.5 +/- 11 versus 55.6 +/- 11 ml/100 g/min, p less than 0.05). Acetazolamide induced similar mean +/- SD increases in regional cerebral blood volume in both the controls and the patients (0.3 +/- 0.1 and 0.3 +/- 0.2 ml/100 g), while the mean +/- SD regional cerebral blood flow reactivity was significantly less in the patients than in the controls (12.6 +/- 7.6 versus 24.5 +/- 9.6 ml/100 g/min, p less than 0.05). Our study shows that single-photon emission computed tomography can provide quantitative estimates of both regional cerebral blood volume and regional cerebral blood flow in humans. 
The cardiovascular effects of cocaine. Cocaine use and abuse continue to overwhelm urban economic, social, and health care systems. Patients frequently present to the emergency department with life-threatening manifestations of cocaine use, including trauma, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, psychomotor agitation, and cardiovascular collapse. Adequate treatment of the cocaine-intoxicated patient requires a critical understanding of the risk-to-benefit ratios for pharmacologic, toxicologic, and surgical or obstetric interventions. The pharmacologic and physiologic bases for the vascular manifestations of cocaine toxicity and experimental evidence for treatment strategies are reviewed. 
Factors related to treatment resistance in hypertension. Hypertension which is resistant to treatment carries a relatively bad prognosis. Factors associated with treatment resistance were examined in a case-control study in a hospital hypertension clinic. Patients with resistant hypertension had more severe hypertension and more frequently had evidence of end-organ damage on presentation to the clinic. The prevalence of accelerated phase hypertension, renovascular disease and impaired renal function was also higher in these patients. Cigarette smoking, and the combination of cigarette smoking and heavy caffeine use, were greater in patients with resistant hypertension. Resistant hypertension did not appear to be associated with older age, obesity, regular alcohol use, various psychological factors or non-compliance. These findings support an aggressive investigation policy in resistant hypertension, and underline the harmful effects of cigarette smoking to hypertensive subjects. 
Hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model. We induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by Pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion. We studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant (p less than 0.05, paired t test) increase in pulmonary artery pressure, a decrease in left atrial pressure, a decrease in cardiac output, and a decrease in mean arterial pressure. No significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation. Balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion. We conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury, lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure. This may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements. 
Clinical efficacy of PTCA and identification of restenosis: evaluation by serial body surface potential mapping. We used serial body surface potential mapping (BSPM) with the departure map technique to evaluate the clinical efficacy of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in various pathophysiologic stages of coronary artery disease, and to detect restenosis. The BSPM was performed prior to, 1 week after, and 1 month after PTCA. A follow-up coronary angiography was performed 3 to 6 months after PTCA, and BSPM was also performed at the same time. The results of BSPM were compared with those of thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (Tl-201 SPECT) and radionuclide ventriculography. After PTCA, BSPM showed a significant reduction in the departure area, the Tl-201 SPECT also showed a significant reduction in the extent and severity scores, and the left ventricular ejection fraction improved significantly. In the cases with restenosis, the departure area, which had decreased in size after PTCA, showed an increase in size. After successful re-PTCA, the size of the departure area again became smaller. We concluded that BSPM, which is a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive method, is useful in the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of PTCA and in the detection of restenosis after successful PTCA. 
Pericardial effusion in primary hypothyroidism. Pericardial effusion is reported to occur in 30% to 80% of subjects with hypothyroidism. However, these earlier studies were conducted when the diagnosis of hypothyroidism was only suspected and was confirmed only in the presence of classic clinical features. In contrast, the diagnosis has recently been established in the early mild stage or more often in an asymptomatic stage because of more frequent or routine determinations of thyroid function tests, especially in the elderly. Thus the subjects in the older studies were severely hypothyroid at the time of diagnosis and may not be representative of the present hypothyroid population. For this reason, 30 subjects with hypothyroidism were evaluated with echocardiography to reassess the evidence of pericardial effusion in this disorder. Only two subjects demonstrated pericardial effusion, and in only one of them with severe disease could the pericardial effusion be attributed to hypothyroidism, since it resolved on the patient's attaining the euthyroid state. Thus the incidence of pericardial effusion was only 3% to 6%, depending on the inclusion of one or both subjects, an extremely infrequent occurrence when compared with that of previous studies. Moreover, the occurrence of pericardial effusion in hypothyroidism appears to be dependent on the severity of the disease. Thus pericardial effusion may be a frequent manifestation in myxedema, an advanced severe stage, as previously found, but a rare association of hypothyroidism, an early mild stage, because of the timeliness with which the latter condition is nowadays detected. 
Detection of myocardial infarction in the presence of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome by QRST isoarea map in dogs. The possibility of detecting myocardial infarction (MI) in the presence of Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome by means of body surface QRST isoarea maps was studied in eight dogs. Eighty-seven body surface ECGs were recorded simultaneously. Recordings were taken during right atrial (RA) and right atrial and right ventricular (RA + RV) sequential pacing, which simulated WPW syndrome, during control periods and at 1-hour intervals for up to 5 hours after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. In ECGs during the RA drive, diagnostic findings of MI such as abnormal Q waves were observed but became obscure during the RA + RV drive. On the contrary, the QRST values over the anterior chest during both drives were positive soon after coronary occlusion, decreased gradually as time passed, and became abnormally negative after 5 hours. The QRST isoarea maps during RA and RA + RV pacing showed quite similar patterns and were highly correlated with each other throughout this study (r greater than 0.95). These findings demonstrate that localized abnormalities resulting from MI are evident in QRST isoarea maps even in the presence of preexcitation and fusion. 
Beta-blocker duration of action and implications for therapy. Two studies were conducted to measure the effect of serum half-life on beta-blocker-related heart rate reduction throughout the 24-hour period. In the first study, nadolol, atenolol and pindolol were associated with significant (p less than 0.01) heart rate reduction even at 24 hours after dose. Nadolol, with a plasma half-life of 15.5 hours, had the most pronounced heart rate-lowering effect 24 hours after the daily dose compared to pindolol, which had a half-life of 5.5 hours. In a randomized, double-blind, crossover study, nadolol and atenolol had similar effects 3 to 4 hours after the daily dose. Nadolol, however, produced greater suppression of heart rate and double product (blood pressure x heart rate) than atenolol (compared to placebo) 24 hours after ingestion of the daily dose. On ambulatory electrocardiography 24 hours after medication administration, 80 to 100% of the heart rate-attenuating effect of nadolol was maintained versus only 20 to 45% of atenolol's effect. Statistically significant (p less than 0.05) reductions in heart rate were produced by nadolol, but not by atenolol, between 4 and 5 A.M., 6 and 7 A.M., 8 and 9 A.M. and 9 and 10 A.M. Furthermore, nadolol remained at 52% of peak blood level at 24 hours, whereas atenolol was at 20%. The data from these 2 studies indicate that significant differences in duration of action exist between beta blockers. 
Prostaglandin modulation of early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced by cesium chloride combined with efferent cardiac sympathetic stimulation in dogs. Prostaglandins inhibit efferent cardiac sympathetic nerve effects by acting at presynaptic sites and may act to suppress some arrhythmias. In the present study, the effects of intravenous administration of prostacyclin (PGI2) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) on early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachycardia induced by cesium chloride (0.5 mmol/liter per kg body weight intravenously) combined with stimulation of bilateral ansae subclaviae in anesthetized dogs were examined. The right atrium was paced at a constant cycle length of 600 ms. A left ventricular endocardial monophasic action potential catheter was used to detect early afterdepolarizations. Prostacyclin (0.2 microgram/kg per min) reduced the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations (39.2 +/- 8.4% of the monophasic action potential amplitude during control study to 28.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 10; p less than 0.001) as well as the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia (11 of 14 dogs during control study to 5 of 14 dogs; p = 0.031). Prostaglandin E2 (0.2 to 0.6 microgram/kg per min) did not significantly reduce the early afterdepolarization amplitude (34.7 +/- 8.9% to 25.1 +/- 10.7%, n = 8; p = 0.085) or the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia (8 of 10 versus 6 of 10 dogs; p = 0.50). Alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade with combined intravenous administration of propranolol (0.5 mg/kg) and phentolamine (0.3 mg/kg) decreased the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations induced by cesium chloride and bilateral ansae subclaviae stimulation from 38.6 +/- 11.2% to 18.8 +/- 3.3% (n = 6; p = 0.005). Additional administration of PGI2 further reduced the early afterdepolarization amplitude from 18.8 +/- 3.3% to 9.8 +/- 4.8% (n = 6; p = 0.001). 
Emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient Neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). These grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture. During the last 3 years, four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service. Each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography. The average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours (range, 1.67-6.5 hours), and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours (range, 0.75-2.5 hours). The condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room, presumably from new bleeding. Each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, definitive aneurysm clipping, and lobectomy for decompression. Temporary clipping was employed in one patient, and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others. Three patients survived but retain significant disability. Emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases. The delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression. 
The effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma. The effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial, with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients. The purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury. From 1980 through 1989, 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the Trauma Service. There were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years (range, 15 to 61). Motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 (94%) of the injuries. Group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl (range, 15 to 380). In Group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age, Abbreviated Injury Severity Score, initial hematocrit, and grade of splenic injury. Hypotension was present in 13 patients (55%) in Group 1 versus six patients (26%) in Group 2 (p less than 0.05). Significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients (25%) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group (p less than 0.05). Blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in Group 1 (mean, 3.9 units) versus Group 2 (mean, 0.5 units) (p less than 0.001). If alcohol was present, there was much less chance for splenic conservation, as 18 patients (75%) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients (30%) in the nonalcohol group (p less than 0.05). There was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct. 
Histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries, neural structures, and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome. Hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in Spain in 1981. The clinical manifestations, now known as the toxic oil syndrome, include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs. Many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness. Because scleroderma involves the heart, in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries, neural structures, and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome. Dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma. Atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus. Small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration. This latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery. Every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves, ganglia, and the coronary chemoreceptor. Both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system. Based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid, we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome, particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids. If this is so, it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals. 
Calcium, parathyroid hormone, and vitamin D in the "prehypertensive" Dahl salt-sensitive rat. The purpose of this study was to determine if alterations of calcium and calcium regulating hormones precede the onset of NaCl-induced hypertension in the Dahl salt-sensitive (S) rat. After a 5-day balance study, serum ionized calcium, parathyroid hormone (PTH), and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D concentrations were measured in Dahl-S and salt-resistant (R) rats that had been maintained on a "normal" (1%) or high (7%) NaCl intake. Blood pressure was higher in Dahl-S than Dahl-R (P less than .01), but was not affected by 5 days of high NaCl. On both NaCl intakes, urine calcium excretion was increased, serum calcium was decreased, and serum PTH and 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D were increased in Dahl-S compared to Dahl-R (P less than .01). On the high NaCl intake, fecal calcium was greater in Dahl-S than in Dahl-R, and net 5-day calcium balance was less positive in Dahl-S (P less than .05). Thus, alterations of calcium, PTH, and vitamin D precede NaCl-induced hypertension in Dahl-S. These alterations may contribute to the development of hypertension in this animal model. 
ST segment alternans during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty--a case report. The occurrence of electrical alternans of the ST segment has been reported in patients with variant angina. The authors encountered a patient with typical electrical alternans of the ST segment in leads V4 through V6, which developed during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of the proximal left anterior descending artery. Hemodynamic pulsus alternans of the aortic pressure tracing was not observed during electrical alternans, and a Ca2+ blocker could not prevent this phenomenon during PTCA. 
Transplant coronary artery disease: histopathologic correlations with angiographic morphology. Accelerated coronary artery disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among cardiac transplant recipients. Ten patients who died or underwent retransplantation within 2 months of coronary angiography had direct correlation of angiographic (normal discrete lesions, diffuse concentric narrowing) with histologic appearance of coronary arteries. Of the 26 angiographically normal segments, 73% showed mild to moderate fibrous intimal thickening by light microscopy. The remainder had intermediate lesions or atheromatous plaques. Discrete stenoses usually corresponded to lipid-rich intermediate or atheromatous disease. In contrast, angiographically diffuse, concentrically narrowed lesions usually were areas of severe fibrous intimal thickening. Fresh or organizing thrombus was most often associated with discrete lesions and accounted for all complete occlusions. Histologic and angiographic comparisons of the degree of luminal narrowing showed generally good correlation for high grade stenoses. Lesions graded as having less than 25% diameter narrowing were often underestimated angiographically as compared with histologic determinations. Transplant coronary artery disease has a heterogeneous histologic and angiographic appearance, with angiographic underestimation of disease in some patients. 
Venous and arterial thrombosis in patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. The records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications. All protocols opened and closed between June 1977 and July 1987. The objectives of the present study were (1) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation, and (2) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi. The frequency of thrombosis, both venous and arterial combined, was 5.4% among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6% among patients on observation (P = .0002). Premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen (2.8% v 0.8%, P = .03). Postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone (8.0% v 2.3%, P = .03) or those who were observed (8.0% v 0.4%, P less than .0001). Premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6% frequency of arterial thrombosis, significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone (1.6% v 0.0%, P = .004). The frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy. In conclusion, patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4% frequency of thromboembolic complications, significantly more than those who were observed. The combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients. 
A possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity. We studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement, and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions. Forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied. Of the whole group, 15 (31%) had antibody levels greater than 2 SD above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 (23%) had a level of greater than 3 SD. There was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between aPL and valve thrombus. The possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed. 
Heart transplantation in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension and increased pulmonary vascular resistance. Irreversibly increased pulmonary vascular resistance is a contraindication for cardiac transplantation. At our hospital patients referred for recipient evaluation with systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50 mmHg and pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 2 Wood units (Wu) are tested with intravenous sodium nitroprusside for reversibility. In 23 patients whose increased systolic pulmonary artery pressure (67.4 +/- 10.4 mmHg) and resistance (4.8 +/- 2.4 Wu) were reduced by nitroprusside, orthotopic heart transplantation was performed without early mortality. Right heart catheterization after transplantation revealed a significant and persistent fall of the elevated pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. We conclude that if severe pulmonary hypertension and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance are reversible with nitroprusside, the patient can safely undergo heart transplantation. 
Risks factors for cerebral infarction in good-grade patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery: a prospective study. A prospective series of 265 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) of Grades I to III (Hunt and Hess classification) upon admission were evaluated as to neurological outcome and computerized tomography (CT) findings 1 to 3 years (mean 1.4 years) after the SAH and surgery. A total of 73 patients underwent acute surgery (within 72 hours after the bleed: Days 0 to 3), 86 were operated on subacutely (between Days 4 and 7), and 91 had late surgery (on Day 8 or later). Fifteen patients died before surgery was undertaken and another 20 patients died during the follow-up period. A total of 104 patients received nimodipine and the rest of the patients received either placebo (109 patients) or no medication (52 patients). A logistical regression analysis revealed the following prognostic factors for cerebral infarction, in order of importance: the amount of blood on the primary CT scan; postoperative angiographic vasospasm; the timing of the operation; and a history of hypertension. The use of nimodipine was associated with a significant reduction of cerebral infarcts visualized by CT scanning in patients who received intermediate or late surgery. In patients who underwent acute surgery no significant difference between the incidence of cerebral infarcts was observed. 
Femoral noninfected anastomotic aneurysms. A report of 56 cases. Fifty-six femoral non infected anastomotic false aneurysms (FAAs) were observed in 49 patients admitted to the Institute of Vascular Surgery, University of Milan, from 1975 to 1988; in 6 patients they were bilateral. These aneurysms developed after primary revascularization procedures at a mean interval of 66 months (range 12 to 156 months); one recurred after reparative surgery. Forty-four FAAs (78.6%) were asymptomatic, whereas 3 (5.3%) were complicated by acute expansion and 9 (16.1%) by thrombosis. Host vessel degeneration was the cause of aneurysm formation in most cases. A history of hypertension was present in 30% of the patients. All anastomotic aneurysms were operated upon except for one small aneurysm that was asymptomatic. In 5 patients aneurysm resection was carried out on both sides. The surgical technique was endoaneurysmectomy in all the cases with insertion of an interposition graft in 48 cases, a fabric patch in 2 cases and prosthesis re-anastomosis in 5 cases. One case of peripheral embolization occurring in the early postoperative period was successfully treated and there was no operative mortality. In our opinion elective repair of these aneurysms should be recommended whenever possible because of their propensity to develop serious complications and the operative morbidity is low. 
Propranolol and the morning increase in sudden cardiac death: (the beta-blocker heart attack trial experience). To provide insight into the protective effect of propranolol on mortality after myocardial infarction observed in the beta-Blocker Heart Attack Trial, the time of occurrence of sudden cardiac death was examined in this population. Between 5 A.M. and 11 A.M., 25 of the 56 total deaths (38%) occurred in the placebo patients compared with 11 of 45 (24%) in the propranolol patients. Excluding this period, there were nearly equal numbers of sudden cardiac deaths in the propranolol and placebo groups. This retrospective analysis suggests that beta blockade is protective during the morning hours when a surge of sympathetic activity may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death. 
Severity of coronary atherosclerosis correlates with the respiratory component of heart rate variability. Decreased vagal activity is frequently observed in coronary artery disease, but the mechanism of this association is unknown. We investigated cardiac autonomic function by relating heart rate spectral components to clinical and angiographic findings in 80 patients who were undergoing coronary angiography. The age- and sex-adjusted magnitude of the respiratory spectral component, which is an index of cardiac vagal tone, showed a significant negative correlation with the extent of coronary atheromatosis (r = -0.43, p less than 0.0001) and a less significant negative correlation with the severity of coronary stenosis (r = -0.30, p = 0.0070). These relationships were independent of previous myocardial infarction and of left ventricular function. Stepwise regression analysis showed that the respiratory spectral component contributed to atheromatosis independently of established coronary risk factors (partial R2 = 9.4%, p = 0.002), but not to stenosis. Our results support the hypothesis that decreased cardiac vagal activity is associated with an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Rib compression of the coronary arteries. This report describes the finding of coronary artery narrowing caused by compression by an overlying rib in two patients with cardiomegaly. There is probably no clinical significance to this finding. The primary differential diagnostic entity is myocardial bridging. 
The incidence of myocarditis in endomyocardial biopsy samples from patients with congestive heart failure. We present the combined experience of three Yugoslavian cardiovascular centers in the application of endomyocardial biopsy for the diagnosis of myocarditis in patients who present clinically with congestive heart failure. The study group comprised 107 patients (mean age, 40.8 years; range, 19 to 61 years). On the basis of patient history and diagnostic tests, the following clinical diagnoses were established: dilated cardiomyopathy (85), myocarditis (16), and alcohol-induced heart disease (6). EMB samples were taken from the left ventricle (95) or both ventricles (12) by use of a King's College bioptome, with a mean of 3.2 samples per patient. Histologic evidence of myocarditis was noted in 10 of 85 patients (12%) with a clinical diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy, in 2 of 6 patients (33%) with alcohol-induced heart disease, and in 12 of 16 patients (75%) with a clinical diagnosis of myocarditis. There was confirmation of the clinically suspected diagnosis in 63% of cases, a change of diagnosis based on histology in 15% of cases, and nonspecific findings in 22%. However, useful information was obtained in 78% of the cases, and there was a 22% incidence of histologically proven myocarditis for the entire group. Our results indicate that endomyocardial biopsy is beneficial in determining the true incidence of myocarditis in patients with a clinical presentation of dilated cardiomyopathy. 
The legal implications of dietary fats: risks of cardiovascular disease and the duty of food manufacturers. The arguments for a warning on foodstuffs open new ground in product liability. Some of the dangers of fat-laden foods have been apparent for many years and are widely known to the public. Other aspects of fat consumption, specifically hidden fats, such as saturated fats, have only recently been explored, and are known to a limited segment of the population at risk. Negligence and warranty theories are too narrow to encompass this situation, wherein the benefits and risks of a product are not well defined and not easily separable. Some warning about the dangers resulting from fat ingestion is necessary, but may be adequately dispensed by ingredient labeling. If consumers are aware of the potential for harm, then they are assuming a substantial portion of the risk. How risk-free can we, or should we, make our society? The marketplace is the appropriate venue for determining the acceptance of saturated-fat-containing products by our society. Clear and open labeling policies will allow consumers to weigh the relative advantages and disadvantages of lower fat intake. Warnings of fat content need not be extreme, but should disclose the possible physiological outcome of the heavy ingestion of saturated fat. 
The syndrome of bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia. Symptoms compatible with vertebrobasilar ischemia have been reported in patients with unilateral or bilateral carotid occlusive disease. Intracranial steal phenomena have been proposed to explain the symptoms. In a review of 54 patients with angiographically documented severe bilateral carotid stenosis (less than or equal to 2 mm residual lumen) or occlusion, eight had symptoms suggesting vertebrobasilar insufficiency. Five patients were identified retrospectively, and the other three were evaluated prospectively. Symptoms included various combinations of hemodynamically mediated, transient bilateral motor, sensory, or visual impairment. Dysarthria, dysphagia, and diplopia were generally absent. Each patient also described additional symptoms compatible with transient hemispheric or retinal ischemia. The anatomic regions subserving the bilateral vertebrobasilar-like symptoms could be correlated with angiographically estimated arterial border zones in both hemispheres and may thus represent bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia rather than brain stem ischemia. An intracranial steal need not be invoked. 
Delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk: treatment with therapeutic embolization. Fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation, a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site. The hemorrhage, caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk, was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles. One year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management. 
Hypertensive heart disease in African-Americans. Hypertensive heart disease is a frequent complication in hypertensive African-Americans because of inadequate high blood pressure control. Moreover, African-Americans may be predisposed to develop LVH earlier in life and more readily than Caucasians, and it may be more malignant. The appearance of both LVH and congestive heart failure are ominous developments in individual patients, and early detection of LVH is mandatory for adequate management and reversal of this complication, if possible. Additional research is needed, and new, sensitive tools for detecting LVH will accelerate such studies. Further investigations are also needed on the reversibility of LVH, preferred antihypertensive agents for accomplishing reversal, and whether expected benefits result. 
Advantages of beta blockers versus antiarrhythmic agents and calcium antagonists in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. Patients who have sustained greater than or equal to 1 myocardial infarcts are at high risk for sudden death or reinfarction; the risk is highest for those with lowest ventricular ejection fraction, continuing myocardial ischemia and asymptomatic high-density and complex premature ventricular contractions. At present, beta blockers when given prophylactically are the only agents that reduce the incidence of sudden death and reinfarction in survivors of myocardial infarction (MI) in the first 2 years. The beneficial effect was shown to correlate with a reduction in heart rate, the effect being absent or deleterious with beta blockers with marked sympathomimetic activity. The effects of beta blockers on ventricular fibrillation appeared to be dissociated from those on premature ventricular contractions. Trials with calcium antagonists indicate that these drugs had no effect or increased the mortality rate. The divergent effect of beta blockers and calcium antagonists is unexplained but may be due in part to a lack of bradycardiac effect of calcium antagonists; there were no differences in effect among different calcium antagonists. Data from trials involving class I antiarrhythmic agents indicate that agents acting by depression of cardiac conduction are either devoid of effect or produce a modest increase in mortality. Results of the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, employing the newer class I agents flecainide and encainide, were used to determine whether the suppression of premature ventricular contractions in the survivors of acute MI reduces mortality. Flecainide and encainide suppressed premature ventricular contractions greater than 80%, but resulted in an increased mortality rate undoubtedly due to a marked proarrhythmic effect. Whether these data can be extrapolated to all class I agents is uncertain. Preliminary data with class III antiarrhythmic agents suggest that these agents, especially amiodarone, similarly to beta blockers, have the potential to reduce mortality in survivors of MI. Evolving data suggest that in the secondary prevention of morbid events in the survivors of acute MI, the focus must shift away from antiarrhythmic agents that delay conduction and toward beta blockers and antifibrillatory actions resulting from a prolongation of refractoriness. 
The role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy. Eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups. Group A received the Nd-YAG laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the CO2 laser for external hemorrhoid. Group B was treated with closed Ferguson hemorrhoidectomy. The need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group A vs. 56 percent in group B (P less than 0.001). The incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group A, vs. 39 percent in group B (P less than 0.05). No enema was required postoperatively in group A, vs. 9 percent in group B; 84 percent of the patients in group A were discharged on the second postoperative day, vs. 83 percent of the patients in group B discharged on the fifth postoperative day. The cost was 20 percent less in the former group. The overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference, except prolonged wound healing in group A was noted. One year follow-up showed satisfactory results. Laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment, but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards. 
Dietary calcium, vascular reactivity, and genetic hypertension in the Lyon rat strain. In order to examine the relationship existing between dietary calcium and the development of hypertension, we developed a long-term study in the Lyon hypertensive rat strain (LH) and two control strains, the Lyon normotensive (LN) and low blood pressure rats (LL) given enriched (HCa, 2.5%), deprived (LCa, 0.03%) and normal (NCa, 0.6%) calcium diets. Evolution of body weight, systolic blood pressure (BP), plasma calcium and magnesium was monitored from 4 to 23 weeks of age. Total cardiovascular reactivity and contractile response of isolated aorta to norepinephrine were measured at 23 weeks of age. LH rats on HCa diet failed to develop hypertension (BP less than 150 mm Hg) whereas LH rats on LCa diet exhibited higher blood pressure levels than their controls fed the NCa diet. Moreover, in LN rats HCa diet slightly decreased BP whereas LCa had no effect. In the LL rats, on the contrary, only LCa diet slightly increased BP. In vivo responsiveness to NE was significantly higher in LH compared to LL and LN rats fed a NCa diet. HCa and LCa diets both induced a significant decrease in this response in LH rats. HCa diet increased the response in LN rats but decreased it in LL. In contrast, at the same age, the in vitro contractile response of isolated aorta to NE was significantly decreased in LH compared to LN and LL rats receiving NCa diet. Moreover in LH and LN rats on HCa diet the contractile response was markedly increased but no significant difference was observed with LCa diet. 
Accelerated arteriosclerosis in heart transplant recipients is associated with a T-lymphocyte-mediated endothelialitis. Accelerated arteriosclerosis has emerged as a major life-threatening complication in long-term survivors of heart transplantation. It has been proposed that accelerated arteriosclerosis is an immune-mediated complication of rejection. We observed a striking endothelialitis in the coronary arteries of two explanted hearts obtained from patients with severe transplant-related accelerated arteriosclerosis. This finding prompted us to review the pathologic changes in the coronary arteries of 23 autopsied patients who had received heart transplants. The infiltrate in these vessels was characterized using immunohistochemical stains for lymphocytes (CD45), macrophages (MAC-387), T lymphocytes (CD45RO), B lymphocytes (L-26), and smooth muscle cells (actin). In addition, a full panel of monoclonal antibodies was used on the fresh-frozen tissue available from one of the two explanted hearts. Ten of the eleven recipients with accelerated arteriosclerosis had a moderate to marked lymphocytic endothelialitis compared to 3 of 14 without transplant-related arteriosclerosis (P less than 0.005). Immunohistochemical staining of the paraffin-embedded material demonstrated that most of the lymphocytes in the subendothelial space of these vessels were T lymphocytes and that this infiltrate was associated with an accumulation of macrophages and a proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the intima. In the explanted heart from which fresh-frozen tissue was available for more detailed cell typing, the T cells marked predominantly as cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD8+, CD2+). These results suggest that accelerated arteriosclerosis may be mediated, in part, by a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-directed endothelialitis. 
Recognition and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris. Atherosclerotic disease of the thoracic aorta is common in the elderly and patients with clinical coronary artery disease. Although embolization can occur from atherosclerotic debris within the thoracic aorta, it is not commonly considered in the differential diagnosis of the source of a systemic embolism. In the current study, the prevalence, clinical significance and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris as detected by transesophageal echocardiography was determined. Intraaortic atherosclerotic debris was identified in 38 (7%) of 556 patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography. An embolic event occurred among 11 (31%) of the 36 study patients with intraaortic atherosclerotic debris. The incidence of an embolic event was higher when the debris was pedunculated and highly mobile (8 [73%] of 11 patients) than when it was layered and immobile (3 [12%] of 25 patients) (p less than 0.002). Among 15 patients undergoing an invasive procedure of the aorta, the incidence of embolism was 27%. In conclusion, in a patient with an embolic event, the thoracic aorta should be considered as a potential source. Transesophageal echocardiography can reliably detect intraaortic atherosclerotic debris, and when it is identified, an invasive aortic procedure should be avoided if possible. 
(A)typical symptoms during single needle dialysis. In 5 elderly patients, an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis. All patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes, bicarbonate dialysate, and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system, on a fistula 14 Gauge catheter-needle. These symptoms were: 1) "angina," resistant to O2 and nitrates, with biochemical stigmata of infarction, but without electrocardiogram (ECG) localization; 2) intractable persistent hypotension, not hypovolemic, lasting 1 or 2 days; 3) esophagal spasms, with inability to swallow solid food. Because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis (biochemically proven by the increase in serum LDH during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin) due to red cell fragmentation (RCF), we switched these patients from fistula dialysis (A) to central catheter dialysis (B), with the same apperture, blood flow, etc. The total number of sessions of A versus B were 512 and 891; the mean LDH ratios (serum LDH postdialysis divided by predialysis) were 1.8 and 1.0 (= no RCF); angina events were 132 (26%) for A, and 25 (3%) for B; persistent hypotension was seen 37 (7%) times in A and 5 (0.6%) times in B; esophagal spasms were noted 65 (13%) times for A, and 0 times for B. This clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae. This study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle. 
Correlation of isomeric fatty acids in human adipose tissue with clinical risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The relationships between the adipose tissue concentrations of 19 geometric and positional fatty acid isomers and 10 cardiovascular disease risk factors were determined in 76 free-living adult males. The percentages for trans isomers (total mean +/- SD 4.14 +/- 0.97%) and cis isomers (total mean +/- SD 2.91 +/- 0.34%) in adipose tissue generally agreed with dietary estimates based on the consumption of hydrogenated oils. A major exception was the percentage of 11c-18:1, which was twofold higher in adipose tissue. The total level of fatty acid isomers in adipose tissue or a factor (derived by factor analysis) that was representative of isomers of dietary origin was not significantly correlated with the cardiovascular risk factors. Only three trans isomers (11t-18:1, 12t-18:1, and 5t-14:1) and three cis isomers (11c-18:1, 13c-18:1, and 7c-16:1) were weakly correlated either positively or negatively with age, body mass index, plasma and lipoprotein cholesterol, and/or blood pressure (P less than 0.05, r greater than 0.231). 
Circulating plasma platelet activating factor in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. Platelet activating factor (PAF) is an endogenous phospholipid mediator that causes pulmonary hypertension and thrombocytopenia in experimental animal models. To investigate circulating PAF in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), we studied PAF and its degradative enzyme, acetylhydrolase. Thirteen neonates with PPHN, diagnosed by routine clinical methods including echocardiography, were compared to six age-matched control patients with respiratory distress. Overall, plasma PAF levels were elevated in patients with PPHN compared to control patients (20.1 +/- 3.9 versus 1.6 +/- 0.7 ng/ml, p less than 0.01). In addition, plasma PAF concentrations in patients with PPHN correlated with the severity of disease as defined by the delta AaPO2 (r = 0.65, p = 0.015). In three patients with elevated PAF levels, as the clinical status improved, the plasma PAF values decreased. Acetylhydrolase activity was similar in both groups (3.96 +/- 0.90 versus 3.78 +/- 1.44 nmol/ml/min, p = NS). We conclude that PAF production is increased in PPHN and that abnormal production of PAF may be associated with pulmonary hypertension. 
Bacterial endocarditis presenting as acute myocardial infarction: a cautionary note for the era of reperfusion. Coronary embolism is a known complication of bacterial endocarditis that sometimes causes acute myocardial infarction. The necessity for rapidly restoring coronary artery perfusion and the time constraints governing clinical decisions may prevent endocarditis from being diagnosed before pharmacologic or mechanical thrombolysis. This report describes the first documented cases of coronary angioplasty in two patients with acute myocardial infarction caused by bacterial endocarditis, and reviews the literature on coronary artery complications of bacterial endocarditis. The first patient developed a coronary artery mycotic aneurysm at the dilatation site; the second experienced a small intracerebral hemorrhage following reperfusion. It is, of course, unwise to generalize from two cases, but we believe that in patients who are most likely to have endocarditis as the cause of acute myocardial infarction, the impulse to follow conventional strategies for coronary reperfusion should be tempered by thoughts of possible consequences. 
Alcohol consumption--a risk factor for hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke. PURPOSE: The risks of alcohol consumption and its association with stroke were studied in 621 patients with stroke and 573 control subjects using case-control methods. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stroke were subdivided into 193 with subarachnoid hemorrhage, 91 with intracerebral hemorrhage, and 337 with cerebral infarction. Data on recent alcohol consumption were obtained by questionnaire in patients with stroke and compared with data from an occupational screening survey in control subjects. RESULTS: Relative risks, adjusted for confounding variables, exhibited J-shaped associations with increasing levels of alcohol consumption classified into four categories--abstainer, 1 to 90 g, 100 to 390 g, and greater than or equal to 400 g weekly). The individual risks were 1, 0.7, 0.5, and 1.3 for subarachnoid hemorrhage; 1.0, 0.6, 0.5., and 2.5 for intracerebral hemorrhage, and 1.0, 0.6, 0.7, and 2.4 for cerebral infarction for men and women combined. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that low levels of alcohol consumption may have some protective effect upon the cerebral vasculature, whereas heavy consumption predisposes to both hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic stroke. 
Depression after acute myocardial infarction. The role of primary care physicians in rehabilitation. Depression is a common problem after myocardial infarction. Diagnosis is facilitated by use of the criteria for depression in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and self-rating questionnaires. Treatment may involve both psychological and pharmacologic interventions. The patient's medical status must be carefully assessed before administration of antidepressant medication. All antidepressants are contraindicated immediately after myocardial infarction. When signs and symptoms of depression are exhibited early in the recovery phase, alprazolam (Xanax) may offer advantages over more traditional antidepressants. Further research is necessary to determine the safety of newer antidepressants. 
Time delays in the diagnosis and treatment of acute myocardial infarction: a tale of eight cities. Report from the Pre-hospital Study Group and the Cincinnati Heart Project. To establish the magnitude of prehospital and hospital delays in initiating thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction, the time from telephone 911 emergency medical system (EMS) activation to treatment and its components were analyzed from eight separate ongoing trials. This included estimates of ambulance response time, prehospital evaluation and treatment time, and time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy. The average time from EMS activation to patient arrival at the hospital was prospectively determined to be 46.1 +/- 8.2 minutes in 3715 patients from eight centers. The time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy was retrospectively determined to be 83.8 +/- 55.0 minutes in a separate group of 730 patients from six centers. Both the prehospital and hospital time delays were much longer than those perceived by paramedics and emergency department directors. Shorter hospital time delays were observed in patients in whom a prehospital ECG was obtained as part of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy and a diagnosis of acute infarction made before arrival at the hospital (36.3 +/- 11.3 minutes in 13 patients). These results show that the magnitude of time required to evaluate, transport, and initiate thrombolytic therapy will preclude initiation of treatment to most patients within the first hour of symptoms. Implementation of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy may be associated with a reduction in time to thrombolytic therapy. 
Deferoxamine fails to improve postischemic cardiac function in hypertrophied hearts. Myocardial hypertrophy is a well-recognized risk factor in congenital cardiac surgery. Hypertrophied hearts have been demonstrated to have an increased vulnerability to ischemia/reperfusion injury. We studied the effects of the iron chelator and hydroxyl radical scavenger deferoxamine given during early reperfusion in a model of isolated retroperfused rabbit hearts made hypertrophic by aortic banding early in life (1 week of age). The rabbits were studied at 6-8 weeks of age, and the hearts were subjected to 30 minutes of 37 degrees C ischemia followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion. Postischemic recovery of isovolumic developed pressure was measured by using an intracavitary balloon in both the untreated (n = 6) and the deferoxamine-treated (n = 6) groups and compared with normal age-matched controls. Deferoxamine (50 mumol/kg) was given to one group with the hypertrophied hearts during the first 10 minutes of reperfusion. The left ventricular weight/body weight ratio in the hypertrophied hearts was 2.9 +/- 0.4 x 10(-3) (n = 14) versus 2.0 +/- 0.1 x 10(-3) in the age-matched controls (p less than 0.05). Postischemic peak developed pressure recovered to 102 +/- 6% of the preischemic value in the normal hearts after 30 minutes of reperfusion compared with 75 +/- 5% for the untreated and 71 +/- 4% for the deferoxamine-treated hearts (p less than 0.05 vs. control). We conclude that chronic hypertrophy from early in life leads to increased susceptibility to ischemia and that the iron chelator deferoxamine is not effective in preventing the injury of reperfusion in hypertrophied hearts. 
Protective effect of a novel calcium blocker, S-312-d, on ischemic acute renal failure in rat. The effect of the calcium blocker S-(+)-methyl 4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4-(3-nitro-phenyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine- 5-carboxylate (S-312-d) on ischemic acute renal failure (ARF) was studied in rats. Ischemic ARF was induced by temporary (30-60 min) clamping of the left kidney 2 weeks after contralateral right nephrectomy. Plasma creatinine, creatinine clearance, urinary osmolality and fractional excretion of sodium were used to test the effectiveness of the drug. S-312-d (0.01-0.1 mg/kg b.wt. i.v.) administration before ischemia offered dose-dependent protection against the functional impairment induced by ischemia. This effect was accompanied by an increase in the survival rate of ischemic rats. S-312-d given after ischemia was not effective. The renal cortical edema induced by ischemia was significantly reduced by pretreatment with S-312-d. The increase in renal tissue calcium content observed after ischemia was also suppressed by S-312-d. Comparison with other established calcium blockers indicated S-312-d to be a good candidate for protection against ischemic ARF. These findings indicate that S-312-d may be clinically useful against renal ischemia. 
Prevention of hypertension and vascular changes by captopril treatment. Treatment of female spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats with captopril was carried out by the addition of the drug in the drinking water throughout pregnancy and lactation and after weaning. At 28 weeks of age, average systolic blood pressure of treated SHR was 113 +/- 3 mm Hg, which was below that of control SHR (188 +/- 3 mm Hg) and WKY rats (124 +/- 3 mm Hg). Body weight and heart rate of the SHR were not affected by the treatment. Tissue level of catecholamines was increased by captopril treatment in the superior cervical ganglia but remained unchanged in the plasma, heart, mesenteric arteries, and the adrenal glands of both SHR and WKY rats. Left ventricular weight, wall thickness, and internal diameter of the left ventricle in the SHR were reduced by the treatment. Morphometric measurements of the mesenteric arteries showed that vascular alterations present in the control SHR were prevented by the treatment. In the superior mesenteric artery and large mesenteric artery, smaller lumen size at maximal relaxation found in the control SHR was normalized to the level of the WKY rats. Hypertrophy of the medial wall in the superior mesenteric, large and small mesenteric arteries, and an increase in the number of smooth muscle cell layers in the large mesenteric artery of the SHR were prevented by the treatment. Perfusion study of the mesenteric vascular bed showed that reactivity of these vessels to norepinephrine was reduced, and sensitivity to norepinephrine (as determined by the effective dose that causes 50% of maximal response) was increased in the SHR by captopril treatment. Sensitivity of the tail artery in response to norepinephrine was not altered by the treatment. We conclude that long-term treatment with captopril of SHR before and after birth prevented the development of hypertension, structural and functional alterations of the mesenteric arteries, and cardiac hypertrophy. 
Conjunctival involvement in pemphigus vulgaris: a clinical, histopathological and immunofluorescence study. Eleven patients with pemphigus vulgaris and with eye complaints had histopathological and direct immunofluorescence (DIF) studies on biopsies of their conjunctivae. In eight of the patients the ocular symptoms preceded the other manifestations of pemphigus. None of the 11 patients had any detectable conjunctival blisters or erosions. The conjunctivitis in three of the patients proved on histopathology and DIF to be a manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris. In the remaining patients, conjunctival hyperaemia with or without a mucoid discharge was observed, but there were no specific histopathological features, although one of them had a positive DIF. 
Effects of calcium channel blockade on calcium homeostasis in mild to moderate essential hypertension. Calcium channel blockers may alter parathyroid hormone secretion in vitro, which would alter calcium homeostasis. To determine the chronic effect of calcium channel blockade in vivo, we conducted a randomized, double blind, 16 week study comparing the effects of two pharmacologic antihypertensive agents, the calcium channel blocker diltiazem and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on parameters of calcium homeostasis. Both diltiazem and captopril lowered blood pressure to a similar degree. Neither drug produced any significant change in blood levels of total and ionized calcium, magnesium, or phosphorus, which affect the regulation of parathyroid hormone and vitamin D. In addition, at eight or 16 weeks following initiation, neither drug altered the serum levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH) or 1,25-(OH)2-vitamin D3 (1,25-D). Chronic calcium channel blockade with diltiazem does not alter serum parameters of calcium homeostasis and, thus, should not affect bone mineralization. 
In vivo rheologic effects of lipid apheresis techniques: comparison of dextran sulfate LDL adsorption and heparin induced LDL precipitation. The effects of two different LDL apheresis techniques, heparin-induced LDL precipitation (HELP) and dextran sulfate LDL adsorption (DSA), were compared in six patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. Total and LDL cholesterol were effectively lowered with both techniques. The reduction of serum triglycerides was more pronounced with DSA, whereas the reduction of HDL cholesterol was more pronounced with HELP. Single sessions using both techniques immediately reduced whole blood and plasma viscosity, as well as erythrocyte aggregation. Serum fibrinogen decreased by 62% (HELP) and 11% (DSA). Maintenance lipid apheresis administered 1 time per week resulted in a sustained reduction of total and LDL cholesterol and was associated with a sustained improvement in blood flow properties. Data suggest that besides serum fibrinogen, serum lipoproteins may adversely effect the rheologic characteristics of blood. 
Balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a single bifoil (2 x 19 mm) or trefoil (3 x 15 mm) catheter. The efficacy of balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a bifoil (2 x 19 mm) or trefoil (3 x 15 mm) catheter (single catheter technique) was assessed in 53 patients (mean age 28) with mitral stenosis, most of whom were women. The procedure was unsuccessful in three patients. After balloon dilatation the left atrial pressure decreased from 22 mm Hg to 13 mm Hg and the mitral valve gradient from 12 mm Hg to 4 mm Hg. The mitral valve area increased from 0.7 cm2 to 2.1 cm2. Exercise time on the standard Bruce protocol increased from 3.9 minutes to 7.2 minutes. In 22 (44%) patients mitral regurgitation developed or the grade of regurgitation increased. Left to right shunts with pulmonary to systemic flow ratios greater than 1:5 were detected in four patients. Transient cerebrovascular episodes developed in two patients. One patient died after emergency valve replacement for severe mitral regurgitation. Balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by the single catheter technique with the bifoil or trefoil catheters is an effective treatment for patients with mitral stenosis. Mild mitral regurgitation is a frequent complication of the procedure. 
Pheochromocytoma with electrocardiographic change mimicking angina pectoris, and cyclic change in direct arterial pressure--a case report. A forty-two-year-old man was admitted because of chest pain. Electrocardiograms at admission showed horizontal ST depression in leads, II, III, aVF, V4, V5, and V6. Direct blood pressure monitoring revealed cyclic change between 160/100 mmHg and 70/50 mmHg and heart rate between 80/sec and 120/sec at fifteen minute intervals. The plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations were elevated during the episodes of hypertension. Pheochromocytoma was found in the right adrenal gland. These cyclic changes in blood pressure and heart rate are an aid for diagnosis. 
Effects of enalapril and neuroendocrine activation on prognosis in severe congestive heart failure (follow-up of the CONSENSUS trial). CONSENSUS Trial Study Group. This study enrolled 253 patients with severe heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class IV) from 35 centers in Scandinavia, randomly assigned to treatment with placebo or enalapril, in addition to their usual treatment for heart failure. After an initial titration period, the daily doses of enalapril ranged from 2.5 to 40 mg. At the end of the trial, 46% of the placebo-treated patients and 61% of the enalapril-treated patients were alive (p = 0.003); the survival figures at 8 months after completion of the trial were 32 and 48%, respectively (p = 0.001); and 21 and 30%, respectively (p = 0.006) at the 2-year follow-up. In the placebo group, there was a significant positive association between mortality and baseline levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine, angiotensin II, aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide; no such association was found in the enalapril-treated patients. The results suggest that the effects of enalapril on mortality are related to a counteraction of the neuroendocrine activation in general and to the renin-angiotensin system in particular. 
Doppler color-flow images from a stenosed arterial model: interpretation of flow patterns. The capability of the recently introduced Doppler color-flow mapping devices to accurately detect flow patterns in the region of an arterial stenosis was evaluated by use of an in vitro flow model. Pulsatile flow simulating that in a low-resistance vessel was induced through a straight acrylic tube, which alternatively contained axisymmetric stenoses of 0%, 20%, 40%, 60%, and 80% diameter reduction. Doppler color-flow mapper images were taken in realtime along the tube midplane from 0 to 8 diameters downstream of each stenosis. Comparison of the Doppler color-flow mapping results with similarly recorded flow visualization (hydrogen bubble) images showed a close correspondence of key features of the flow, including detection of a high-velocity, centerline jet and near-wall separated flow zones. Distinctive flow patterns exist with each stenotic case, and these should be of considerable value in diagnosing clinical disease conditions. 
Spontaneous alterations in coronary blood flow velocity before and after coronary angioplasty in patients with severe angina. Cyclic coronary artery flow variations with a spontaneous decline in coronary blood flow to very low levels have been documented in stenosed canine coronary arteries with endothelial injury. These flow variations are associated with transient platelet aggregation and dislodgment and the release of selected mediators, including thromboxane A2 and serotonin. However, cyclic or spontaneous flow variations have not been demonstrated in stenosed coronary arteries in humans. In this study, the hypothesis was tested that spontaneous coronary blood flow velocity variations occur in some patients with stenosed coronary arteries before or after coronary artery angioplasty. Thus, 13 patients with severe and limiting angina underwent intracoronary pulsed Doppler velocimetry of their dilated artery immediately before and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, whereas 9 control patients underwent velocimetry of an angiographically normal coronary artery. A 3F catheter with a 20 MHz Doppler crystal was positioned to achieve a maximal stable signal, and the flow velocity signal was recorded continuously for 20 min. Spontaneous flow velocity variations (greater than or equal to 38% change in Doppler frequency shift with wide morphologic changes) were present in 3 of the 13 patients tested. Spontaneous flow velocity variations occurred before angioplasty in one patient, after angioplasty in another and both before and after angioplasty in a third. In addition, 2 of the 13 patients, 1 with spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations before angioplasty, had frank vasospasm in an adjacent area just distal to the area of coronary dilation immediately after balloon inflation. These data establish that spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations occur in some patients with severe and limiting angina before and after coronary angioplasty. These variations may be related to platelet aggregation or coronary vasoconstriction, or both, at sites of endothelial injury resulting from plaque fissuring or ulceration and endothelial and medial injury occurring during coronary angioplasty. 
Peripheral arterial occlusive disease: prospective comparison of MR angiography and color duplex US with conventional angiography. Conventional angiography, two-dimensional inflow magnetic resonance (MR) angiography, and color duplex ultrasound (US) were performed on 12 patients in a blinded, prospective study. The ability to grade arterial lesions and plan revascularization interventions were compared. Arterial lesions were categorized as nonsignificant (0%-49% diameter reduction) or significant (50%-100% diameter reduction). Determination of nonsignificant and significant lesions with MR angiography was in agreement with that at conventional angiography in 100 of 140 lesions (71%). Agreement between results of conventional angiography and color duplex US occurred with 114 of 123 infrainguinal lesions (93%). Twenty-one vascular interventions were planned by using conventional angiography; there was agreement with color duplex US in 11 cases and MR angiography in five. Color duplex US performed well in the assessment of infrainguinal disease but was limited in the evaluation of iliac segments because of nonvisualization. The iliac region was visualized in more patients with MR angiography than with color duplex US, but image quality with MR angiography was inconsistent. Strategies to improve MR angiography of the peripheral vasculature merit further study. 
ECMO assisted angioplasty for cardiomyopathy patients with unstable angina. Patients who are otherwise unsuitable candidates for coronary bypass surgery or standard coronary angioplasty (PTCA) may be successfully treated with PTCA during ECMO. Five patients (3 men, 2 women), with a mean age of 57 years, are reported on here. They were not considered good candidates for standard therapy because of poor left ventricular function (mean EF, 24; range, 16 to 28%). Patients were supported by percutaneous femoral bypass using a BARD CPS machine, and underwent successful PTCA of either two vessels (three patients) or three vessels (two patients); in addition, one patient had dilatation of a stenotic aortic valve. Patients were supported with ECMO for 26 to 140 (mean 104) minutes, and required transfusion with 0 to 4 (mean 2) units of blood during or after the procedure. Complications included groin hematoma in two patients. All were discharged within 4 days of the procedure. Follow-up of the patients has been completed (4-7 mo) with no further hospitalizations for unstable angina. All patients remain in NYHA Class II or III. These data suggest that ECMO-assisted angioplasty is a safe and effective method of palliation of unstable angina associated with cardiomyopathy. 
Chronic therapy for congestive heart failure with benazepril HCl, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. Benazepril HCl is an orally effective angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor previously shown to have significant acute hemodynamic benefits in patients with congestive heart failure. In this study, 21 patients with New York Heart Association Class III or IV congestive heart failure were treated with 2 to 15 mg of benazepril HCl as a single daily oral dose for 28 days to determine the clinical and hemodynamic value of chronic therapy. Each patient underwent clinical evaluation during the 28-day period, as well as invasive hemodynamic studies on the first two and last two days of the trial. Plasma ACE activity and aldosterone levels fell significantly and renin levels rose after therapy. Benazepril HCl produced significant (p less than 0.01) reductions in arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance, with corresponding increases in cardiac output and decreases in pulmonary artery wedge pressure. Responses after 28 days of therapy were equivalent to those after the initial doses. Clinical effects included reduced rest, exertional and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, as well as reduced peripheral edema. Only one patient developed symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. Thus, benazepril HCl, given once daily, is an effective and well tolerated oral agent for the chronic treatment of advanced congestive heart failure. 
Bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture in a patient with jumper's knee. This is the fourth case report of bilateral infrapatellar tendon rupture as a result of indirect trauma in a patient without systemic disease. This is the only report we have found of jumper's knee leading to simultaneous infrapatellar tendon ruptures. 
When is echocardiography unreliable in patients undergoing catheterization for pediatric cardiovascular disease? Technologic advances in echocardiography (e.g., better spatial resolution, Doppler, and color flow mapping) have improved our ability to demonstrate anatomy and physiology in previously problematic conditions, precluding catheterization and angiography in some instances. However, diagnostic catheterization remains necessary in other instances. The aims of this study were to determine whether echocardiography alone was sufficient to delineate the anatomic and flow abnormalities in patients subsequently selected to undergo catheterization and, if not, under what circumstances was echocardiography unable to establish the definitive diagnosis. Echocardiograms of 252 infants and children who underwent catheterization during a 14-month interval were analyzed retrospectively to determine whether the echographic assessment was nondiscrepant (group 1) or discrepant (group 2) with the catheterization assessment. Any deviation in the complete accurate assessment constituted a discrepancy; identification of more than one discrepancy in a single patient was possible. Independent variables included patient's age, weight, operative status, use of color flow mapping, echocardiograph operator, and interval between echocardiogram and catheterization. To determine whether the discrepancies were clinically significant, data from patients in group 2 were reviewed independently by three cardiologists to determine whether patient management would have changed given the added data provided by catheterization. Echocardiographic evaluations were discrepant in 155 instances. In 54 of 155 instances (35%), discrepancies were judged to be clinically significant (group 3). Twenty-three of 54 cases (43%) involved extracardiac lesions (i.e., aortic arch, pulmonary arterial, bronchial collateral, and pulmonary venous anomalies), 20 of 54 (37%) involved pressure gradients, 7 of 54 (13%) involved intracardiac lesions, and 4 of 54 (7%) involved coronary arterial lesions. 
Pseudoaneurysm of the abdominal aorta: a case report and review of the literature. Pseudoaneurysm of the abdominal aorta is a rare finding, accounting for only 1% of all abdominal aneurysms. Abdominal pseudoaneurysms have been reported only in males, and two-thirds of the cases are the result of penetrating trauma. Pain, abdominal mass, and vascular occlusion are the most common presenting signs and symptoms. The interval between injury and rupture may range from hours to years, and accordingly, a high index of suspicion is needed to make the diagnosis. 
Rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery. We report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery (ICA), which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ICA. Interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm. There have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an EC-IC bypass and carotid ligation, and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause. The technique of carotid ligation with an EC-IC bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms, and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication. To minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm, we suggest that 1) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ICA occlusion, and 2) complete ICA occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass. 
Role of new anticoagulants as adjunctive therapy during thrombolysis. Procoagulant activity may persist during coronary thrombolysis and result in either delay in the time to recanalization or recurrent thrombosis. Although heparin and aspirin form the mainstay of current therapy, recurrent thrombosis occurs despite adjunctive heparin therapy during thrombolysis. Newer agents that inhibit thrombin by antithrombin III-independent mechanisms, or that inhibit earlier steps in the coagulation cascade, have been shown to be effective in the experimental preparation of coronary thrombolysis. Because heparin-antithrombin III is a relatively inefficient inhibitor of thrombin bound to fibrin, agents such as hirudin or small peptide inhibitors of the thrombin-active site appear to be more effective inhibitors of clot-associated thrombin activity. Inhibition of early steps in the coagulation cascade with the inhibitor of tissue factor-factor VIIa complex, or with activated protein C, also appears to be an effective anticoagulant strategy. In experimental preparations all of these agents have shown superiority in preventing recurrent thrombosis compared with heparin, and in some cases they appear to accelerate the rate of clot lysis. 
Delayed onset of cardiac arrhythmias from sustained-release verapamil. Sustained-release products in overdose are known to produce prolonged effects as well as delayed onset. The availability of sustained-release calcium channel blockers may produce an initial misleading picture for patients who are at risk for serious toxicity. We report the cases of two adults who had delayed onset of arrhythmias after ingestion of sustained-release verapamil. In both cases, a single dose of activated charcoal was administered, but the patients still developed toxicity. Some of the unique problems encountered with sustained-release formulations are discussed, and 24-hour cardiac monitoring for sustained-release calcium channel blocker overdoses, despite a possible early asymptomatic period, is suggested. 
Strokes in African-Americans. Hypertension is the most important risk factor for stroke, especially in African-Americans. Improved control of high blood pressure nationwide is a key factor in the recent dramatic decline in stroke frequency, most notably in African-American women. Hypertension control programs must be adequately funded and expanded. African-Americans have a disproportionately high incidence of risk factors for stroke, including hypertension. There is evidence that the cerebral vessels involved in ischemic stroke in African-Americans may differ from those of Caucasians. There is an urgent need for more research on stroke in general, risk factor relations in particular, and mechanisms in the pathogenesis of stroke in African-Americans. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in hypothyroidism. PURPOSE: To determine the risks of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in hypothyroid individuals. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a retrospective cohort study, 13 patients with primary hypothyroidism were identified among 382 consecutive PTCA cases in 1987. Twenty-two euthyroid PTCA control subjects and 13 hypothyroid patients who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery (CAB) were identified for comparison. RESULTS: Hypothyroid and euthyroid PTCA patients had similar mean ages, numbers of prior and recent acute myocardial infarctions, diseased coronary arteries, coronary arteries dilated, and serum cholesterol levels. There were no significant differences in procedure-related mortality (0% versus 0%); coronary artery dissection (23% versus 23%); reocclusion (8% versus 5%); bradycardia (0% versus 0%); heart failure (0% versus 5%); hypotension (31% versus 27%); myocardial infarction (8% versus 0%); gastrointestinal dysfunction (0% versus 0%); neuropsychiatric disturbance (15% versus 9%); hyponatremia (23% versus 23%); hypothermia (0% versus 0%); or fever (15% versus 5%). Hematoma formation tended to be more frequent in the hypothyroid group (38% versus 18%, p = 0.18). Similar results were obtained when the subgroup of more severely hypothyroid patients (thyrotropin level more than 20 mU/L, n = 7) was examined. Compared to hypothyroid CAB patients, hypothyroid PTCA patients had less incidence of heart failure (0% versus 31%, p less than 0.025); neuropsychiatric disturbance (15% versus 54%, p less than 0.025); hyponatremia (23% versus 62%, p less than 0.05); gastrointestinal dysfunction (0% versus 23%, p less than 0.025); and fever (15% versus 62%, p less than 0.001). CONCLUSION: PTCA can be performed in hypothyroid patients without increased mortality or major morbidity, and when appropriate, may be preferred to bypass surgery for coronary revascularization in patients intolerant of full thyroid hormone replacement. 
Onset of induced atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model To test the hypothesis that induced atrial flutter evolves from a transitional rhythm, the onset of 99 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 135 +/- 18 ms) lasting greater than 5 min in 40 dogs with sterile pericarditis was first characterized. In 85 (86%) of the 99 episodes, atrial flutter was preceded by a brief period (mean 1.4 +/- 0.9 s, range 0.4 to 42) of atrial fibrillation. Then, in 11 open chest studies, atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the onset of 18 episodes of induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 136 +/- 16 ms). Atrial flutter was induced by a train of eight paced atrial beats, followed by one or two premature atrial beats (7 episodes) or rapid atrial pacing (11 episodes). A short period of atrial fibrillation (mean cycle length 110 +/- 7 ms) induced by atrial pacing activated the right atrium through wave fronts, which produced a localized area of slow conduction. Then unidirectional conduction block of the wave front occurred for one beat in all or a portion of the area of slow conduction. This permitted the unblocked wave front to turn around an area of functional block and return through the area of slow conduction that had developed the unidirectional conduction block, thereby initiating the reentrant circuit. The location of the unidirectional block relative to the direction of the circulating wave fronts determined whether the circus movement was clockwise or counterclockwise. The area of slow conduction and unidirectional conduction block occurred where the wave front crossed perpendicular to the orientation of the atrial muscle fibers, suggesting a role for anisotropic conduction. These areas included the high right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (10 episodes), the low right atrial portion of the sulcus terminalis (4 episodes) and the pectinate muscle region (4 episodes). It is concluded that the development of a localized area of slow conduction in the right atrium followed by unidirectional conduction block in this area produced during a short period of atrial fibrillation or rapid atrial pacing is necessary for atrial flutter to occur in this model. 
Role of angiotensin in the renal vasoconstriction observed during the development of genetic hypertension. Studies have examined renal function to determine the role of the kidney in the pathogenesis and maintenance phases of hypertension in the Okamoto-Aoki strain of spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). As compared to age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), 4- to 6-week old SHR are moderately hypertensive and have a reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood flow (RBF), and an increased renal vascular resistance. Cross-breeding studies indicate the reduction in RBF and GFR in young SHR is genetically linked to the hypertension and thus may be of primary pathogenetic importance. The combination of an elevated vascular resistance and reduced RBF and GFR in young SHR implicates increased activity of a vasoconstrictor system(s), decreased activity of a vasodilator system(s), or both. Observations from several laboratories support the notion that endogenous angiotensin II contributes to the renal vasoconstriction in young SHR during the developmental phase of hypertension. Acute and chronic inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme reduce arterial pressure, reduce renal vascular resistance and increase renal blood flow in young and adult SHR. Renal vascular tone in SHR is more dependent on angiotensin converting enzyme activity than that in WKY. The ability of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to produce renal vasodilation may be responsible, at least in part, for its antihypertensive effects. Other studies indicate that renal vascular reactivity to angiotensin II is exaggerated in young SHR. The strain differences in renal reactivity to angiotensin II can be abolished by cyclooxygenase inhibition with indomethacin, indicating that endogenous prostanoids counteract some of the constrictor action of angiotensin II, with more pronounced buffering activity in WKY. 
Transmural myocardial deformation in the ischemic canine left ventricle. The myocardium is a complex three-dimensional structure consisting of myocytes interconnected by a dense collagen weave that courses in different directions. Regional ischemia can be expected to produce complex changes in ventricular deformation. In the present study, we examined the effects of ischemia on two- and three-dimensional finite strains during acute transmural myocardial ischemia in 13 open-chest anesthetized dogs. In contrast to systolic deformation observed during the control period in which circumferential shortening exceeded longitudinal shortening, our results indicate that after 5 minutes of acute ischemia, end-systolic in-plane lengthening across the left ventricular wall occurs in approximately equal amounts in the circumferential and longitudinal directions. Along with these changes in extensional strains, there were significant negative transverse shearing deformations during ischemia. Myocardial ischemia also resulted in a loss of the normal end-systolic transmural gradients of shortening and thickening. Three-dimensional end-diastolic strains indicate that the left ventricular wall undergoes a significant passive reconfiguration that varies transmurally with lengthening in the epicardial tangent plane and wall thinning increasing from the epicardium toward the endocardium. The large systolic changes in shearing deformations with ischemia could potentially influence collateral blood flow and certainly indicate that uniaxial measurements of deformation in the ischemic myocardium, which do not account for shearing deformation, are incomplete and must be interpreted with caution. Moreover, normal transmural systolic gradients in deformation, which would be anticipated on geometric grounds, are lost during ischemia, implying that the material properties of ischemic tissue or the loading conditions imposed on the ischemic region by partially impaired adjacent myocardium vary transmurally. 
Prognosis of patients with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and a normal electrophysiologic study. The outcome of 26 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (n = 16) or ventricular fibrillation (n = 10) and no inducible ventricular tachycardia (less than or equal to 10 beats) by baseline programmed stimulation was studied. Coronary artery disease was present in 14 patients, dilated cardiomyopathy was seen in seven, valvular heart disease was present in two, and no apparent cardiac abnormalities were found in three. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 +/- 14%. During the follow-up period of 24 +/- 16 months, actuarial survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 95% and 89% for sudden death and 95% and 83% for total cardiac death, respectively. No patients with a known ejection fraction greater than 30% died suddenly during the follow-up. Noninducibility by programmed stimulation in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is associated with a relatively preserved ventricular function. It may predict a low risk of sudden death in patients with preserved ventricular function. 
Effect of activity on supraventricular tachyarrhythmias after coronary artery bypass surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate patient activities, professional staff activities, backrest position, and diurnal variations as factors that may contribute to the onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (SVT) after coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). The activities surrounding the recognition of first-onset SVT, as well as preoperative and postoperative data and patient characteristics were examined in 249 patients having CABG. One hundred seventy-three patients qualified for the study; 28% of these patients (n = 49) had SVT. No statistical difference was found between the subjects with SVT and those without SVT when sex, cross-clamp time, creatine kinase peak, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, and number of bypasses were examined. Patients who had SVT were older than those who did not: 64.8 years for the SVT group versus 60.7 years for the non-SVT group (p less than 0.01). SVT was rare in the first 24 hours after surgery, whereas 60% of the cases occurred during the next 48 hours, without significant diurnal variation: mean time of onset was 11:50 AM. No particular activity of the patient or nurse influenced the onset of SVT during the postoperative period in this group. 
Estimation of myocardial infarct size with ultrasonic tissue characterization. BACKGROUND. Ultrasonic tissue characterization (UTC) can distinguish normal from infarcted myocardium. Infarcted myocardium shows an increase in integrated backscatter and loss of cardiac cycle-dependent variation in backscatter. The cyclic variation of backscatter is closely related to regional myocardial contractile function; the latter is a marker of myocardial ischemia. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that intramural cyclic variation of backscatter can map and estimate infarct size. METHODS AND RESULTS. Transmural myocardial infarction was produced in 12 anesthetized, open-chest dogs by total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery for 4 hours. A real-time ultrasonic tissue characterization instrument, which graphically displays integrated backscatter Rayleigh 5, cardiac cycle-dependent variation, and patterns of cyclic variation in backscatter, was used to map infarct size and area at risk of infarction. Staining with 2,3,4-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) and Patent Blue Dye was used to estimate infarct size and the area at risk, respectively. The ratio of infarct size to area at risk of infarction determined with UTC correlated well with that determined with TCC (r = 0.862, y = 23.7 +/- 0.792x). Correlation coefficients for infarct size and area at risk were also good (r = 0.736, y = 12.3 +/- 737x for infarct size and r = 0.714, y = 5.80 +/- 1.012x for area at risk). However, UTC underestimated both infarct size and area at risk. CONCLUSIONS. Ultrasonic tissue characterization may provide a reliable, noninvasive method to estimate myocardial infarct size. 
Plasma concentrations of epinephrine during CPR in the dog. STUDY OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the marked increase in the plasma concentrations of epinephrine during cardiopulmonary arrest and basic life support (BLS) could be due in part to decreased distribution and/or elimination. DESIGN AND INTERVENTIONS: Dogs were randomly assigned to undergo adrenalectomy or sham-operation. Some adrenalectomized animals received an epinephrine infusion. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the seven sham-operated dogs, the plasma epinephrine concentrations increased markedly during BLS as expected. In the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant infusion of epinephrine, cardiopulmonary arrest and BLS induced a three to sixfold increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations, with an increase in the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations (calculated from the area under the curve) of 1.21 +/- 0.12 ng/mL (P less than .05). In the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant epinephrine infusion but not subjected to cardiopulmonary arrest, the plasma epinephrine concentrations remained stable. Finally, in the seven adrenalectomized dogs not receiving an epinephrine infusion, the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations during BLS (calculated from the area under the curve) increased only by 0.05 +/- 0.04 ng/mL, significantly less than in adrenalectomized dogs receiving an epinephrine infusion (P less than .01). CONCLUSION: The increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations during cardiopulmonary arrest and BLS is due in part to an altered disposition of epinephrine. 
Dose-response evaluation of oral labetalol in patients presenting to the emergency department with accelerated hypertension. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Dose-response evaluation of oral labetalol (100, 200, or 300 mg) on heart rate and systemic blood pressure in emergency department patients with hypertensive urgency (diastolic blood pressure, 110 to 140 mm Hg, and no end-organ evidence of hypertensive emergency). METHODS: This acute-treatment, dose-ranging study used a randomized, double-blind, parallel design. Patients with supine diastolic blood pressure of 110 to 140 mm Hg after 30 minutes of bedrest received an oral dose of labetalol. Supine blood pressure and heart rate were measured manually and recorded hourly for four hours after dose. Diastolic blood pressure of 100 mm Hg or less or a 30-mm Hg reduction in diastolic blood pressure was considered a treatment success. RESULTS: Two hundred fifty-five patients were evaluated for inclusion, and 36 patients (19 women and 17 men; mean age, 44 years; age range, 23 to 67 years) were studied. The most frequent reason for exclusion was a spontaneous decrease in diastolic blood pressure to less than 110 mm Hg (31%) with bedrest. There were 12 patients in each treatment group. Compared with baseline, the 100-mg dose significantly (P less than .05) reduced heart rate at three and four hours after dose, and the 300-mg dose significantly (P less than .05) reduced heart rate at one, two, and three hours after dose; the 200-mg dose did not significantly affect heart rate. All doses produced a significant decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressures at one, two, three, and four hours after dose compared with baseline. There were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups with regard to systolic or diastolic blood pressure or heart rate at baseline or one, two, three, or four hours after dose. At two hours after dose, diastolic blood pressure control was observed in 75%, 58%, and 67% of patients receiving 100, 200, and 300 mg, respectively (P = .903). At four hours after dose, diastolic blood pressure control was observed in 50%, 64%, and 67% of patients receiving 100, 200, and 300 mg, respectively (P = .755). A comparison of treatment success rates between the two time periods showed a waning of response with the 100-mg dose of labetalol at hour 4 compared with hour 2 (P less than .05). No adverse effects were observed. CONCLUSION: Labetalol provides safe and effective treatment for hypertensive urgencies when administered orally in doses of 100 to 300 mg. 
Atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract: a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease--a case report. Atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease, a highly lethal condition. A case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented. 
Cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis. The use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described. Recently, a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious, and having several advantages over the usual techniques. Two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed. Both received anticoagulation as described in the literature, although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended. Electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the Q-Tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient. Both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis, without warning symptoms, following the second and fifteenth treatments, respectively. The initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy, and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium. The authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate, in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate, caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia. Caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation. 
Blood pressure measurements during dental checkups representative of 26-hour registration. The effect of dental checkups on blood pressure was investigated. In 27 normotensive patients (13 men and 14 women) aged 22 to 64 years (mean 39.75 +/- 10.5 years), a 26-hour continuous, noninvasive blood pressure registration was carried out. Of each patient at least 175 blood pressure measurements were registered during these 26 hours, giving a total amount of 4725 blood pressure measurements. A dental checkup appointment with the family dentist was included. Blood pressure values displayed the well-known diurnal variation, but the visit to the dental surgeon was not accompanied by a rise in blood pressure. There was no significant difference between the blood pressure values during the 26-hour period and those during the checkup period. During a rest period after the dental checkup, neither the systolic nor the diastolic pressure fell to any degree in relation to the 26-hour values or the visit to the surgeon. 
Diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy. A pilot study. Flexible bronchoscopy (FB) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant. However, no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of FB in ventilated premature infants are not well described. Using a prototype Olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm, we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy. In addition, we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during, immediately after, and within 1 h of FB. We performed 21 FBs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 +/- 438 g and gestational age of 30 +/- 3 weeks. The carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope. During the first several days of life, moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently, while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently. Distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life. Mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life. Adverse consequences of FB observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during FB, changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after FB, and emesis immediately after FB. Serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed. We conclude that FB can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants. We speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury. On the basis of this preliminary study, further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted. 
Diabetic retinopathy in blacks. Diabetic eye disease, particularly diabetic retinopathy, is the leading cause of new cases of legal blindness in people 20-74 yr of age in the United States. The prevalence and rate of diabetes in this age-group are higher in Blacks than in Whites. The rate of blindness from diabetic eye disease is also higher in Blacks than in Whites. Severe macular edema, the most frequent cause of decreased vision in diabetic retinopathy, appears to be more common in Blacks. Risk factors for developing macular edema include poorly controlled hypertension, hyperglycemia, and duration of disease. The higher prevalence of hypertension in Blacks may contribute to the increased severity of diabetic retinopathy. Further evaluation is necessary to determine the influence of race on the severity of diabetic retinopathy. 
The management of aneurysms and arterio-venous fistulae of the popliteal artery arising from war trauma. Emphasis on sigmoid operative approach. Between 1986-1988, 600 vascular cases arising from the Iran-Iraq conflict were dealt with within an 18 month period and 60 cases of popliteal artery and/or venous disruption were encountered presenting at variable times after injury. A policy of management between the forward and base hospital surgical teams was introduced, observing the following broad categorizations: (a) assessment/referral, (b) assessment/fasciotomy/referral, (c) immediate operation/referral for further operation/review/management. Two types of incision were used to enter the popliteal fossa: (a) a medial incision and (b) a sigmoid posterior incision (which we now favor). The results of this strategy of management and operative technique (when compared with our previous experience within the same time frame) suggested an improved outcome. Fifty-four out of 60 cases had a satisfactory operative result with below-knee amputation being required in only four cases and higher amputations in two others. No operative or postoperative deaths occurred. The implementation of this "vetting policy" at the front line appeared to reduce the number of amputations and assisted the clarification of management criteria in assessing limb viability at the forward hospital when a large number of casualties were being received. Operative access using the sigmoid posterior incision was not associated with any complications, offered better exposure than the medial incision and was technically easier for the surgeon to perform. 
Carotid-subclavian bypass--a decade of experience. From August 1979 to August 1989, carotid-subclavian bypass or transposition procedures were performed on 18 women and 13 men ranging in age from 19 to 75 (mean, 58.2) years. Indications for surgery included symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 16 (52%), upper extremity ischemia in six (19%), both vertebrobasilar insufficiency and extremity ischemia in four (13%), and stroke and/or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks in four (13%) patients. One patient (3%) had angina pectoris caused by "coronary-subclavian steal." Formal bypass grafts were performed in 28 (90%) cases by means of polyterafluoroethylene (24), Dacron (2), or saphenous vein (2), and carotid-subclavian transposition was performed in three (10%) cases. Synchronous procedures included carotid endarterectomy (4), carotid-carotid bypass (1), and axillobrachial bypass (1). There was no operative mortality. Thirty-day primary patency was 97%. Follow-up has ranged from 1 to 121 (mean, 42) months. Three grafts (polytetrafluoroethylene) have occluded during follow-up yielding long-term primary patency of 92% at 5 years and 83% at 8 years. Relief of symptoms was initially achieved in 30 (97%) patients. Recurrent symptoms have developed in six (20%) patients from 2 to 55 (mean, 26) months after surgery, including two with occluded and four with patent grafts. Symptom-free survival is 89% at 1 year, 84% at 2 years, and 71% at 7 years of follow-up. Six patients have died during follow-up yielding overall survival of 88% at 5 years, and 48% at 10 years. 
Comparison of two levels of anticoagulant therapy in patients with substitute heart valves After cardiac valve replacement patients were blindly randomized into two groups, both receiving aspirin (330 mg) and dipyridamole (75 mg) twice daily and the oral anticoagulant acenocoumarol (Sintrom). An international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 2.99 was assigned to group A and 3.0 to 4.5 to group B; both groups were subsequently analyzed for thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications. Final evaluation included 51 and 48 patients, respectively. The follow-up was 626 months for group A (12.3 months/patient) and 486 months for group B (10.1 months/patient). The frequency of thromboembolism was equal in both groups: one transient ischemic attack in group A (a rate of 1.92/100 patient-years) and two transient ischemic attacks in group B (a rate of 4.94/100 patient-years). There was, however, a statistical difference in bleeding complications between the two groups (p less than 0.02). Two patients bled in group A, a rate of 3.9% (3.8/100 patient-years), which represents an incidence of one episode each 25.6 years of treatment; 10 patients bled in group B, a rate of 20.8% (24.7/100 patient-years) representing an incidence of one episode each 4 years of treatment. We conclude that an international normalized ratio of 2 to 3 is safer than a ratio of 3 to 4.5 and confers good protection from thromboembolism when oral anticoagulant therapy is used conjointly with platelet function-inhibiting drugs in patients with mechanical substitute heart valves. 
Preoperative selection for curable renovascular hypertension. Clinical research has defined the criteria for identifying "curable" renovascular hypertension. The prediction is based on the measurement of plasma renin activity in peripheral veins, renal veins, and the aorta. Renin profiles can be examined with the method of Laragh and coworkers (the so-called incremental method), in which values for plasma renin activity are incorporated into formulas to compute indexed parameters. A score is attributed to each index and the prediction is based on the final score. Because the identification of curable renovascular hypertension is made according to numerical rules, the method is easily transformed into a computer-assisted process. The program is written in BASIC, and it is short enough to run on a personal computer. 
Nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Although the most direct way to interfere with the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is at the level of the angiotensin II (AII) receptor, the currently available AII receptor antagonists are peptides still retaining significant agonistic properties with the obvious drawbacks of limited stability and lack of oral activity. We have characterized simple N-benzylimidazoles as weak, but selective AII receptor antagonists with a competitive mode of action. Chemical modification of these early leads led to EXP6155 and EXP6803, which show approximately 10- and 100-fold higher affinity. Oral activity was obtained for EXP7711, and in particular for EXP9654. This class of compounds displaces 3H-AII from its specific binding sites in various tissues. They competitively antagonize AII-induced responses in various in vitro and in vivo preparations, but do not influence AII-induced responses to KCl, norepinephrine, and vasopressin, nor do they affect converting enzyme or renin. In high renin models of elevated blood pressure, such as the renal hypertensive rat and sodium-depleted dog, these substances produce a sustained decrease in arterial pressure without changing heart rate after intravenous and oral (EXP7711 and EXP9654) administration. None of these compounds showed agonistic activity in any of the above test systems. In conclusion, the nonpeptide structures described herein are selective and competitive AII receptor antagonists and add another dimension to the arsenal of drugs manipulating the RAS. 
Intracoronary urokinase for intracoronary thrombus accumulation complicating percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in acute ischemic syndromes. Intracoronary urokinase was used to treat flow-limiting intracoronary thrombus accumulation that complicated successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) during acute ischemic syndromes in 48 patients who were followed up through the acute phase of their illness. The study group comprised 10 patients with unstable angina pectoris, 18 patients with an evolving acute myocardial infarction, and 20 patients with postinfarction angina. The initial mean percent coronary diameter stenosis for the entire population was 95 +/- 7% and decreased with initial PTCA to 41 +/- 20% (p less than 0.001), with improved corresponding coronary flow by Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction trial (TIMI) grade. However, thrombus accumulation then resulted in a significant increase in percent diameter stenosis to 83 +/- 17% (p less than 0.001); a corresponding significant reduction in coronary flow also occurred by TIMI grade. After administration of intracoronary urokinase (mean dose, 141,000 units; range, 100,000-250,000 units during an average period of 34 minutes), with additional PTCA, mean percent diameter stenosis significantly decreased to 34 +/- 17% (p less than 0.001); a correspondingly significant improvement in mean coronary flow by TIMI grade occurred to 2.9 +/- 0.2. Overall, the angiographic success rate was 90%. There were no ischemic events requiring repeat PTCA and no procedure-related myocardial infarctions or deaths before hospital discharge. One patient was referred for urgent coronary artery bypass graft surgery after a successful PTCA. Plasma fibrinogen levels were obtained in 15 patients, and in no patient was the level below normal for our laboratory. 
Surgery for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. From July 1985 to July 1989, Loma Linda University Medical Center evaluated 46 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs). Forty patients were taken to surgery--18 (45%) were operated on an emergency basis for reasons including rupture (12 patients, 30%), dissection (5 patients, 12.5%), and severe pain (1 patient). The overall mortality for all operated patients was five (12.5%-17% for emergency surgery versus 9% for elective surgery). Nonfatal complications occurred in 40 per cent of patients (16). The overall incidence of paraplegia was 10 per cent (4/40), emergency patients 17 per cent (3/18) versus elective patients 4.5 per cent (1/22). Careful preoperative evaluation, standardization of operative technique, and good postoperative management have improved the outlook for these patients who otherwise would progress to eventual rupture and death. Because mortality and morbidity are substantially reduced in elective patients, we recommend that all patients with TAAAs be evaluated for surgery as soon as diagnosis is made. 
Abnormal cardiovascular reactivity in borderline and mild essential hypertension. Cardiovascular and hemodynamic reactivity was evaluated with M-mode echocardiography, phonocardiography, and carotidography in correlation with circulating catecholamine levels in 25 normotensive subjects, 15 borderline hypertensive patients, and 42 mildly hypertensive patients during isometric exercise at 30% of the maximum force for 3 minutes. At rest, norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were significantly higher, and the cardiac index was similarly increased in both groups of hypertensive patients, but the cardiac mass index was significantly increased only in the mildly hypertensive group. During isometric exercise, the sympathoadrenal reactivity as well as the pressor and chronotropic responses were similar in normotensive subjects and both groups of hypertensive patients. However, the variations in blood pressure were achieved through totally different hemodynamic mechanisms in normotensive subjects and hypertensive patients. In normotensive subjects, the increase in blood pressure could be linked mainly to an increase in cardiac contractility and performance, whereas in either group of hypertensive patients, the increase in blood pressure was mainly associated with an increase in peripheral resistance. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis of a blunted beta-adrenergic reactivity and a predominance of alpha-adrenergic vascular reactivity in borderline and mildly hypertensive patients. This phenomenon, which appears to be unrelated to age or severity of hypertension, could be an important mechanism underlying the development of hypertension in humans. 
Differentiating cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy utilizing positron emission tomography. To determine if imaging of blood flow (using N-13 ammonia) and glucose metabolism (using F-18 2-deoxyglucose) with positron emission tomography can distinguish cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy, 21 patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction who were evaluated for cardiac transplantation were studied. The origin of left ventricular dysfunction had been previously determined by coronary angiography to be ischemic (11 patients) or nonischemic (10 patients). Images were visually analyzed by three observers on a graded scale in seven left ventricular segments and revealed fewer defects in dilated cardiomyopathy compared with ischemic cardiomyopathy for N-13 ammonia (2.7 +/- 1.6 versus 5 +/- 0.6; p less than 0.03) and F-18 deoxyglucose (2.8 +/- 2.1 versus 4.6 +/- 1.1; p less than 0.03). An index incorporating extent and severity of defects revealed more homogeneity with fewer and less severe defects in subjects with nonischemic than in those with ischemic cardiomyopathy as assessed by imaging of flow (2.8 +/- 1.8 versus 9.2 +/- 3; p less than 0.001) and metabolism (3.8 +/- 3.3 versus 8.5 +/- 3.6; p less than 0.005). Diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing the two subgroups by visual image analysis was 85%. Using previously published circumferential count profile criteria, patients with dilated cardiomyopathy had fewer ischemic segments (0.4 +/- 0.8 versus 2.5 +/- 2 per patient; p less than 0.01) and infarcted segments (0.1 +/- 0.3 versus 2.4 +/- 1.4 per patient; p less than 0.001) than did patients with cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease. The sensitivity for differentiating the two clinical subgroups using circumferential profile analysis was 100% and the specificity 80%. An index incorporating both number and severity of defects derived from circumferential profile analysis was significantly lower in subjects with dilated cardiomyopathy than in ischemic cardiomyopathy (0.3 +/- 0.8 versus 2.7 +/- 2.4; p less than 0.005). Thus, noninvasive positron emission tomographic imaging with N-13 ammonia and F-18 deoxyglucose is helpful in distinguishing patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease from those with nonischemic cardiomyopathy, and a semiquantitative index such as circumferential profile analysis is superior to that of visual analysis alone. 
Penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery. Penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery is uncommon. Few surgeons have experience with this injury. A successfully managed case of penetrating innominate artery trauma is summarized and the literature reviewed. 
An epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs. Effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity (1968 to 1987) BACKGROUND. Phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease. We conducted a prospective, longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity. METHODS. In 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin, as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites, and a matched control group of 621 women. Salicylate excretion was also measured. All subjects were examined over a period of 20 years. RESULTS. Life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years, with adjustment for the year of birth, cigarette smoking, and length of follow-up, revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality (study group vs. control group, 74 vs. 27 deaths; relative risk, 2.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 3.3), deaths due to urologic or renal disease (relative risk, 16.1; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.9 to 66.1), deaths due to cancer (relative risk, 1.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.3), and deaths due to cardiovascular disease (relative risk, 2.9; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 5.5). The relative risk of cardiovascular disease (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, heart failure, or stroke) was 1.8, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6. The odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6, and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1. The effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality, with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion, were similar. In contrast, salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity. CONCLUSIONS. Regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease, as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease. The use of salicylates carries no such risk. 
Retinal vasculitis--a primer. Retinal vasculitis is a diagnosis that is generally suggested by an ophthalmologist. Frequently patients with the disorder are referred to nonophthalmologists for further diagnostic evaluation or treatment. The criteria for defining vasculitis differ greatly between ophthalmologists and other physicians. To facilitate collaboration between ophthalmologists and their colleagues, we have sought to clarify the term "retinal vasculitis" by discussing its subcategories, the potential role of antiphospholipid antibodies, and the etiology of retinal vasculitis. We offer guidelines for evaluating the disorder and treating patients. 
Large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery. The performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated. ePTFE grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. Sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively. One hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted. The transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach. There was a one-month mortality of 2.8% in elective and 20% in emergency cases. Median follow-up was 26 months. Specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula. No graft rupture, degeneration, dilatation, pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up. The aortic ePTFE prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied. 
Lower extremity revascularization via the lateral plantar artery. Lower extremity bypass grafts to the tibial and crural arteries are commonly employed to treat patients with atherosclerotic limb-threatening ischemia. Although occasional series have mentioned bypasses to a plantar artery, few of these specifically examine the results of arterial reconstructions using these vessels. Six patients underwent femoral to lateral plantar artery (LPA) bypass within a 19-month period for gangrene of the forefoot. There was one early graft failure and in the five completely autogenous reconstructions, graft patency and limb salvage had been achieved during a follow-up ranging from three to 22 months. The LPA is an acceptable site for anastomosis of lower extremity bypass grafts and the early results presented herein support its more liberal use when proximal sites are unavailable. 
A histopathologic study of spinal cord ischemia using an isohistogenic rat upper-half-body transplantation model. To study the histopathologic changes of spinal cords exposed to long-duration complete ischemia, the authors developed an upper-half-body transplantation model of inbred rat. In this model, an infant Lewis rat is transplanted to the inguinal region of another adult Lewis rat using microsurgical vascular anastomosis. Even when 2-week-old donor rats were exposed to complete ischemia for 90 minutes, functions of the spinal cord were comparatively preserved. In histopathologic observations, degeneration proportional to complete ischemia duration was noted. In the 60-minute ischemia group of 2-week-old donor rats, however, no substantial differences from normal spinal cord were observed. Under conditions of equal ischemia duration, it appeared the younger animal had the greater ischemic tolerance. 
A randomized trial comparing direct current therapy and bipolar diathermy in the outpatient treatment of third-degree hemorrhoids. Fifty patients with third-degree hemorrhoids were randomized to receive outpatient treatment with either bipolar diathermy or direct current therapy. Direct current therapy was used to treat 26 patients and bipolar diathermy was used to treat 24 patients. Twenty patients in each group were successfully treated as judged by resolution of symptoms and shrinkage of hemorrhoidal tissue. Both treatments are effective in the outpatient management of large, prolapsing hemorrhoids. Bipolar diathermy is less time consuming and better tolerated. 
Reducing unnecessary coronary care unit admissions: a comparison of three decision aids OBJECTIVE: To determine whether published decision rules for ischemic heart disease have practical value in reducing unnecessary admissions to coronary care units. DESIGN: Prospective cohort study. SETTING: A community hospital emergency room. PATIENTS: 235 consecutive patients presenting to an emergency room with a chief complaint of chest pain. MEASUREMENTS: Clinical information, including observations needed to use previously published decision aids, was collected on special forms at the time of the emergency room visit. Follow-up information was obtained from the medical records of patients who were admitted and by telephone interviews with patients who were discharged. The authors compared the residents' actual decisions with the predictions of the decision aids regarding their ability to predict complications (that is, to identify patients who needed admission or intensive care). MAIN RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: None of the decision aids could reduce unnecessary admissions without seriously increasing the rate of inappropriate discharges. However, within the clinically relevant subgroup of patients for whom the decision to admit or discharge was not obvious on clinical grounds (those without complications on presentation whom the residents chose not to discharge), the decision aids examined, used in combination to verify the need for admission, might have safely averted some unnecessary admissions. 
Non-drug related asystole associated with anaesthetic induction. A patient is presented where routine venepuncture associated with anaesthetic induction resulted in bradycardia and asystole. The case highlights the need for special caution with, and ECG monitoring throughout induction for, patients with a history of syncope. It also demonstrates the need for caution when attributing cardiovascular events during induction to the effect of the induction agents used. 
Serological arguments for classifying Raynaud's phenomenon as idiopathic. Twenty-five patients with idiopathic Raynaud's phenomenon were followed prospectively for a mean period of 48 months. Clinical and laboratory assessments were performed on admission and on followup. The sera were analyzed for the presence of autoantibodies (antinuclear, antiskeleton and antiorganelle antibodies). Sixteen patients were antinuclear antibody positive and 2 anticentromere antibody positive. Eight patients produced antivimentin, 5 antimitochondrial, 4 anti-Golgi complex, and 3 anticentriol antibodies. Eleven patients produced antidesmosome antibodies. Only one patient (anti-RNP and antidesmosome antibody positive) developed a systemic disease (mixed connective tissue disease) during followup. The initial screening of sera may help to classify Raynaud's phenomenon as idiopathic more accurately. 
Novacor left ventricular assist filling and ejection in the presence of device complications. In order to better understand the relationship among certain device related complications and Novacor left ventricular assist system (LVAS) pumping parameters, a Mock Circulatory Loop was utilized to simulate the following clinically realistic conditions: 1) inflow valve regurgitation, 2) inflow cannula obstruction, 3) outflow valve regurgitation, and 4) outflow cannula obstruction. Various pumping parameters (e.g., pump rate, stroke volume, pump output) were recorded at baseline (control) and during each simulation. Additionally, pump volumes were continuously recorded and differentiated for calculation of rates of pump filling (FR) and ejection (ER). The results indicate that perfusion pressures and rates of filling and ejection change significantly in the presence of device complications. The implications of these findings, as relates to assessment of pump operation in LVAS patients, are discussed. 
Frequency of low-grade residual coronary stenosis after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction. The clinical, angiographic and demographic characteristics of 42 patients with low-grade (less than 50%) residual stenosis at the infarct lesion after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (MI) were assessed. The study group (group I) represented 21% of 198 consecutive patients receiving thrombolytic therapy over a 59-month period. Data on the 156 remaining patients were pooled for comparison (group II). Group I patients were predominantly men (86%) who were cigarette smokers (81%). Group II patients were predominantly men (75%, p greater than 0.10) but were significantly older (52 +/- 12 vs 56 +/- 10 years, p = 0.02). Prior acute MI or angina was unusual in group I. Sixty percent had no significant (greater than 50%) residual coronary artery disease while 25% had residual single artery disease. Average significant (greater than 50% diameter stenosis) residual vessel disease was 0.6 +/- 1.0 for group I and 1.9 +/- 0.9 for group II (p less than 0.001). In group I, average residual infarct lesion diameter stenosis was 36 +/- 7% in the right anterior oblique and 34 +/- 8% in the left anterior oblique views. Thirty-nine group I patients were discharged with medical therapy and 100% follow-up was obtained over a mean interval of 18 +/- 17 months. Fifteen patients experienced chest pain after acute MI accounting for 17 discrete events. Fifty-nine percent of group I had a benign course on follow-up. Eight events were classified as unstable angina, 4 as acute MI and 5 as atypical angina. Documented coronary vasospasm occurred in 3. 
Dietary taurine deficiency and dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox. Taurine deficiency has been implicated as a potential cause of dilated cardiomyopathy. However, the relationship between taurine and myocardial function is presently unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine whether dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox is associated with dietary taurine deficiency. A total of 68 foxes from farms with a history of death caused by dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 foxes from a farm with no history of dilated cardiomyopathy were studied. Dilated cardiomyopathy was diagnosed by echocardiography in 48% of the foxes from one farm with a positive history and in none of the foxes from the control farm. Foxes less than 9 months of age were more commonly affected than older foxes (p = 0.03). Plasma taurine concentrations were significantly less (p less than 0.01) in foxes that had dilated cardiomyopathy (26.8 +/- 16.4 nmol/ml) than in the control foxes (99.3 +/- 60.2 nmol/ml). A significantly higher (p less than 0.01) incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy was present in foxes with a history of a sibling or offspring that died of dilated cardiomyopathy than in foxes without a family history of cardiac death. In one fox with dilated cardiomyopathy that was tested, the myocardial taurine concentration was lower (1.7 mumol/gm wet weight) than that of control foxes (7.3 +/- 1.6 mumol/gm wet weight). Hepatic cysteinesulfinic acid decarboxylase activity was significantly less (p less than 0.001) in foxes with dilated cardiomyopathy (0.97 +/- 0.2 nmol/mm.mg protein) than in control foxes (2.11 +/- 0.07 nmol CO2/mm.mg protein). 
Fibrinopeptide A is released into the coronary circulation after coronary spasm. To examine whether acute myocardial ischemia activates the coagulation system and platelet activation in the coronary circulation, we measured plasma levels of fibrinopeptide A and beta-thromboglobulin in the coronary sinus and the aortic root simultaneously in 15 patients with coronary spastic angina before and after the left coronary spasm induced by intracoronary injection of acetylcholine and in 15 patients with stable exertional angina before and after acute myocardial ischemia induced by rapid atrial pacing. Fifteen patients with chest pain but normal coronary arteries and no coronary spasm served as controls. The coronary sinus-arterial difference of fibrinopeptide A increased markedly (p less than 0.001) from 0.1 +/- 0.2 to 4.3 +/- 0.7 ng/ml after the anginal attacks in the coronary spastic angina group. However, fibrinopeptide A levels remained unchanged after the attacks in the stable exertional angina group and after intracoronary injection of acetylcholine in the control group. Plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels remained unchanged after the attacks in both patient groups and after acetylcholine in the control group. Our data indicate that coronary spasm induces thrombin generation and may lead to thrombus formation in the coronary artery involved, but pacing-induced ischemia does not activate the coagulation system. 
Arterial blood oxygen desaturation in infants and children during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Arterial blood oxygen desaturation and abnormal electrocardiographic changes have been reported in adults undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. We studied 32 infants and children less than 12 years of age using pulse oximetry and continuous electrocardiography before, during, and after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed under intravenous sedation. Sinus tachycardia was the most common electrocardiographic change, and no clinically significant electrocardiographic abnormalities were induced by the procedure. Desaturation to less than or equal to 90% was found in 37.5% of the patients and was most commonly noted during the endoscopy procedure and in patients with cardiopulmonary disease. The desaturation was unpredictable because there was no correlation between desaturation and medication, tolerance to the procedure, weight, or age of the child. Some patients who subjectively appeared to tolerate the procedure well had significant desaturation. The use of pulse oximetry should be considered for all children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. 
The association of blood pressure levels and change in renal function in hypertensive and nonhypertensive subjects. We compared the changes in serum creatinine levels over time after a mean follow-up of 9.8 years in essential hypertensive (EH, n = 56) and control (n = 59) male veteran subjects. All subjects had normal serum creatinine levels (62 to 124 mumol/L) and "normal" urinalysis results on entry into the study. Subjects with comorbid renal diagnoses and diabetes mellitus were eliminated from the analysis. Although not statistically significant, the rate of change in the serum creatinine concentration over time was greater in the EH cohort compared with the control cohort (1.08 +/- 4.8 vs 0.027 +/- 3.5 mumol/L per year). The difference was especially marked in black EH subjects vs black control subjects (1.60 +/- 6.2 mumol/L per year vs -0.21 +/- 3.3 mumol/L per year). When age, race, body mass index, and a diagnosis of EH were entered into a logistic regression analysis, EH subjects had a statistically significantly greater rate of decline in renal function than did control subjects (1.5 +/- 8.3 mumol/L per year). When mean time-averaged systolic blood pressure for each subject was also included in the logistic regression analysis, only systolic time-averaged blood pressure was statistically significant (0.063 +/- 0.029 mumol/L per year). We conclude that in the absence of clinically detected parenchymal renal disease, EH subjects have a greater rate of decline in renal function than do nonhypertensive subjects. Time-averaged blood pressure is predictive of the change in serum creatinine concentration not only in EH subjects but also in nonhypertensive subjects. Thus, preservation of renal function may require a blood pressure lower than the currently accepted normotensive range. 
Marfanoid children. Etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings. The clinical, cardiac, and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed. Fifteen were diagnosed as having Marfan syndrome, two had "possible" Marfan syndrome, and three had other diagnoses. On first evaluation, eight patients with Marfan syndrome (53%) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation. Echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 (80%) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 (80%) of 15. None had a normal echocardiogram. At follow-up examination, one patient had developed aortic root enlargement, and one patient, mitral valve prolapse. Thus, although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with Marfan syndrome, it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with Alport's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features. Four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years. We recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom Marfan syndrome is suspected. 
Vertebrobasilar occlusion following minor trauma in an 8-year-old boy. An 8-year-old boy developed seizures and coma 2 days after a trivial bicycle accident. Computed tomography failed to show pathology. Magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed infarction of the pons and right cerebellum. Angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral and basilar arteries. Minor traumatic injuries to the cervical spine may result in vertebrobasilar occlusion. The neurologic manifestations of this disorder and emergency department diagnosis and management are discussed. 
Circadian rhythms in blood pressure in school-age children of normotensive and hypertensive parents. The purpose of this study was to describe the characteristics of blood pressure rhythms in school-age children and to compare the circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents. The sample consisted of 40 healthy children between 8 and 10 years old; 20 children had a parental history of hypertension and 20 did not. Blood pressure was measured every 2 hours during the day and every 90 minutes during the night for one 24-hour cycle using a Dinamap monitor equipped with an automatic printer. Cosinor analyses revealed statistically significant circadian rhythms for systolic and diastolic blood pressures in 12 of the 40 subjects. The acrophases for systolic and diastolic pressures occurred between 1200-1800 hours. The mean systolic mesor was 108.50 while the mean diastolic mesor was 61.41. The mean amplitudes were 8.85 for systolic pressure and 7.44 for diastolic pressure. No statistically significant differences in circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents were found. 
Hypertension prevalence and the status of awareness, treatment, and control in the Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (HHANES), 1982-84 The prevalence rates of hypertension among adult (ages 18-74) Mexican Americans, Cuban Americans, and Puerto Ricans were estimated using data from the 1982-84 Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (HHANES). Hypertension is defined as diastolic greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg, or systolic greater than or equal to 140 mm Hg, or currently taking antihypertensive medication. Among Mexican Americans in the Southwestern United States, 16.8 percent of the males and 14.1 percent of the females were found to be hypertensive. Among Cuban Americans in Dade County, Florida 22.8 percent of the males and 15.5 percent of the females were hypertensive. Among Puerto Ricans in the New York City area 15.6 percent of the males and 11.5 percent of the females were hypertensive. The age-adjusted rates are significantly lower than comparable rates for Whites and Blacks as measured in the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II), 1976-80. Control of hypertension in the HHANES populations fall short of the 1990 Objectives for the Nation established by the US Public Health Service 60 percent (34 percent controlled Mexican American hypertensives, 27.8 percent controlled Cuban American hypertensives, and 29 percent controlled Puerto Rican hypertensives. 
Total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus. A retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus. The overall infection rate was 7%, with an overall revision rate of 10% and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years. Wound complications were present in 12% of the TKAs. The rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients. Therefore, maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having TKA to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis. 
Restoration by insulin of impaired prostaglandin E1/I2 receptor activity of platelets in acute ischemic heart disease. Treatment of normal platelet-rich plasma with a physiological amount of insulin (100 microunits/ml, optimum concentration) for 3 hours at 23 degrees C stimulated the binding of prostaglandin E1 by more than twofold (3,940 +/- 250 sites/10(8) platelets) compared with the nontreated, control platelet-rich plasma (1,590 +/- 265 sites/10(8) platelets). After platelet-rich plasma from patients with acute ischemic heart disease (n = 43), whose platelets showed impaired prostaglandin E1/I2 receptor activity (850 +/- 100 sites/10(8) platelets), was incubated with insulin (optimum amounts varied from 100 to 200 microunits/ml), the binding of the prostanoid was restored to normal levels (1,790 +/- 140 sites/10(8) platelets) in 75% of the cases. Twenty-five percent of the patients did not respond to the stimulatory effect of insulin. The increased binding of the prostanoid to the insulin-treated platelets also resulted in increased cyclic AMP levels both in normal subjects (44.14 +/- 3.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 16.35 +/- 2.91 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) and in patients with acute ischemic heart disease (23.87 +/- 4.1 pmol/10(8) [insulin-treated] platelets versus 7.70 +/- 2.0 pmol/10(8) [control] platelets) by the prostanoid (1.0 microM). The treatment of platelet-rich plasma with the hormone decreased the minimum inhibitory concentration of the prostanoid from 34 +/- 14 to 15 +/- 9 nM (p less than 0.001) in the case of normal volunteers and from 49 +/- 15 to 32 +/- 11 nM (p = 0.002) in the case of "responder" patients. Insulin did not produce any effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation by the prostaglandin in "nonresponder" patients. In the follow-up study, although the stimulatory effects of insulin on platelets from responder patients were improved to normal levels, the platelets from the nonresponder patients remained persistently unresponsive to the effect of the hormone. 
Early diastolic clicks after the Fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle: anatomical and physiological correlates. M mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation. All had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the Fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch. The phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass. One patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block. The M mode echocardiogram showed "reversed" motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction. Doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole. The early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole. In one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery. 
Studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. XVIII. Reperfusion conditions: attenuation of the regional ischemic effect by temporary total vented bypass before controlled reperfusion. This study tests the hypothesis that total vented bypass can attenuate the regional ischemic effect during a defined time interval before controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion. Thirty-three dogs underwent 2 or 4 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and then received a regional blood cardioplegic reperfusate on total vented bypass. Cardiopulmonary bypass and reperfusion were started after 2 hours of ischemia in eight dogs, and after 4 hours of ischemia in 25 others. Among the 25 dogs, seven had total vented bypass started after the first 2 hours of the 4 hours of regional ischemia. Segmental shortening (ultrasonic crystals), tissue water content (wet/dry weight), and histochemical damage (triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain) were assessed 2 hours after reperfusion. Dogs reperfused after 2 hours of ischemia recovered 73% +/- 8% of control systolic shortening and sustained only 11% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining. Dogs undergoing 4 hours of regional ischemia, but with total vented bypass 2 hours before reperfusion had improved recovery of systolic shortening (49% versus 31%, p less than 0.05), limited epicardial edema (79.6% versus 81.1% water content, p less than 0.05), and reduced histochemical damage (24% versus 39% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining, p less than 0.05). These findings imply that institution of total vented bypass during ischemia attenuates the infarct process, increases regional recovery of contractility, limits edema and restricts histochemical damage, and may be a useful adjunct to myocardial salvage when controlled reperfusion can be provided. 
Platelet thromboxane release and delayed cerebral ischemia in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane B2 release were studied in 52 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in order to detect a possible association between altered platelet function and development of cerebral ischemic complications after SAH. Compared to the values on admission, the patients showed significantly increased platelet aggregability (p less than 0.05) and thromboxane release (p less than 0.001) 1 to 2 weeks after SAH. The highest values of thromboxane release were seen in patients who deteriorated due to delayed cerebral ischemia with a permanent neurological deficit. Thromboxane release was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) before the onset of severe delayed ischemia in six patients with preoperative ischemia compared to the patients without delayed ischemia. In five others, both ischemic deterioration and elevated thromboxane release occurred after operation. These patients had preoperative values similar to the values in those without ischemic symptoms. The observations suggest that increased platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are associated with delayed cerebral ischemia both before and after surgery. 
Prognostic value of electrophysiology testing in asymptomatic patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White pattern [published erratum appears in Circulation 1991 Mar;83(3):1124] The prognostic value of electrophysiology testing was studied in 75 asymptomatic patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White electrocardiographic pattern. All patients underwent electrophysiology testing at entry to the study and were followed up annually for a total of 348 patient-years (median, 4.3 years). There were 44 male and 31 female patients, and age at enrollment ranged from 7 to 77 years (mean, 34 +/- 14 years). The median effective refractory period of the accessory pathway was 293 msec (interquartile range, 280-310 msec), and the median shortest RR interval between preexcited beats during atrial fibrillation (SRR) [corrected] was 274 msec (240-320 msec). Twenty-three patients had an SRR of 250 msec or less and eight patients had a median shortest SRR interval of 200 msec or less. Twelve patients had inducible sustained reciprocating tachycardia, 10 patients had inducible nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia, and 23 patients had inducible sustained atrial fibrillation. Twenty patients (27%) lacked retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway. No patient died suddenly during a median follow-up of 4.3 years. Six patients (8%) became symptomatic with documented supraventricular tachycardia, of whom two underwent operative ablation of their accessory pathways. No patient with absent retrograde accessory pathway conduction during the electrophysiology study became symptomatic. Inducible sustained or nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia at electrophysiology study did not predict the development of subsequent symptomatic supraventricular tachycardia. Nine patients lost preexcitation during follow-up. Age at enrollment (relative risk/decade, 1.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-1.8) and anterograde accessory pathway refractory period (relative risk, 1.06/10 msec; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-1.12) were independent predictors of loss of preexcitation. 
How long can a coronary reperfusion catheter be placed in acute coronary occlusion following failed transluminal coronary angioplasty? A case report. A coronary reperfusion catheter (CRC) is designed to preserve antegrade coronary flow when abrupt coronary closure occurs during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Insertion of the catheter to an occluded coronary artery for a few hours has been reported to be effective for myocardial salvage: however, it is unknown how long the catheter can be kept in place without causing extension of myocardial ischemia. The authors experienced a case in which the CRC was kept in place for twenty-four hours for anticoagulant therapy of an occluded coronary artery following failure of PTCA. This case suggests that adequate anticoagulant therapy can prolong the period during which a CRC can be kept in place if emergency coronary bypass surgery cannot be performed immediately after failure of coronary angioplasty. 
Role of dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the evaluation of coronary reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting. The object of this study was to assess the usefulness of the dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the early evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting, when the use of an exercise stress test is precluded. We studied 39 consecutive patients (37 men and two women, mean age 57.3 years) referred to our institute for elective coronary artery bypass. Five patients had single, 12 patients double, 20 patients triple vessel disease, and two had left main stem disease. Nineteen left internal mammary artery grafts, 20 sequential grafts, and 39 single vein grafts were performed. All the patients were subjected to the test before (time range 1 to 3 days) and after (time range 6 to 10 days) the operation in the absence of therapy. Dipyridamole was administered intravenously 0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes (low dose); if no effect was apparent, an additional 0.28 mg/kg over 2 minutes (high dose) was given. During the test, blood pressure and a twelve-lead electrocardiogram were monitored. An arbitrary wall motion score was derived by dividing the left ventricle into six regions and grading from 0 to 3-normokinetic, hypokinetic, akinetic, and dyskinetic zones. Preoperatively the test was positive in 38 patients as evidenced by wall motion abnormalities (36 patients had electrocardiographic changes) and in one patient by electrocardiographic changes and chest pain; 22 tests were positive after the low dose and 17 after the high dose. Angina was present in 33 patients. Mean wall motion score was 1.64 per patient in the basal condition and 4.03 per patient after the test (p less than 0.001). After coronary bypass in three patients the test was positive at the same dosage that was used preoperatively, as shown by wall motion abnormalities (in two patients by electrocardiographic changes, as well). Four patients had symptoms. Furthermore, at 6 months' follow-up, a treadmill stress test performed in these three patients was positive for ischemia and angina. The wall motion score was 1.25 per patient in the basal condition and 1.53 per patient after the test (no significant difference). When the preoperative wall motion score obtained after dipyridamole echocardiography was compared with the postoperative score, a statistically significant difference was seen: 4.03 per patient versus 1.53 per patient (p less than 001). In eight patients we observed an improvement of basal myocardial contractility after the operation, which indicates the reversibility of wall motion abnormalities observed before coronary bypass. In conclusion our data show that the dipyridamole-echocardiography test is a suitable method for the early assessment of bypass grafting when other methods, exercise dependent, are not indicated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Conservative therapy for adnexal torsion. A case report. Adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus. Such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts. Since standard therapy, oophorectomy, was performed, the patient was surgically castrated. A review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation, except when necrotic. 
Options for surgical repair in hearts with univentricular atrioventricular connection and subaortic stenosis. Thirteen patients have undergone surgical treatment because of subaortic obstruction in hearts with a univentricular atrioventricular connection. Nine patients underwent surgical enlargement of the ventricular septal defect and four patients had construction of an aortopulmonary anastomosis and closure of the pulmonary trunk (the Damus-Kaye-Stansel procedure). Two patients undergoing enlargement of the septal defect and two having the Damus-Kaye-Stansel procedure also had a modified Fontan procedure. One patient had complete atrioventricular dissociation after direct enlargement of the ventricular septal defect, which necessitated insertion of an epicardial pacemaker. One patient died within 30 days of the operation after enlargement of the defect and two patients after the Damus-Kaye-Stansel procedure. There was one late death, occurring in a patient who underwent enlargement of the ventricular septal defect. Ten patients have subsequently undergone conventional cardiac catheterization and angiography or transcutaneous Doppler flow studies to assess the relief of the subaortic obstruction. The result has been satisfactory in all. Because of this experience, we now recommend direct surgical enlargement of the restrictive ventricular septal defect for direct relief of subaortic stenosis occurring with a univentricular atrioventricular connection to a dominant left ventricle, inasmuch as it appears to be hemodynamically effective with a low operative mortality and morbidity. The Damus-Kaye-Stansel procedure can also have a role in relieving subaortic stenosis when the atria are connected to a dominant right ventricle. 
Improving compliance and increasing control of hypertension: needs of special hypertensive populations. Approximately 60 million people in the United States have hypertension. More than half are either untreated or treated without blood pressure control, despite the well-known risks of hypertension and the established benefits of treatment. The major reason for inadequate control of hypertension is poor adherence to treatment. Approximately 50% of patients with hypertension fail to keep follow-up appointments, and only 60% take their medications as prescribed. Barriers to effective therapeutic adherence include poor doctor-patient communication, cost of antihypertensive therapy, and side effects of the drugs. To increase control of hypertension, compliance with therapy must be improved. Physicians and patients must be mutually committed to achieving control of blood pressure. Physicians should communicate instructions clearly and prescribe therapies that are effective, affordable, and have minimal or no adverse effects on patient quality of life or overall cardiac risk profile. The needs of special hypertensive populations (i.e., elderly, black, and young patients) must also be recognized and addressed. Patients must follow recommendations and alert their physicians to any problems with their medications--particularly those relating to side effects and cost. When selecting drug therapy it should be noted that older patients are sensitive to volume depletion and sympathetic inhibition. In this group of patients, initial drug doses should be low and increments smaller and more gradual than in younger patients. Black patients with hypertension show an accentuated response to diuretics and blunted responses to beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors as monotherapy. However, when used with a diuretic, there are no racial differences in the blood pressure lowering effects of beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors. 
Cavernous malformations and capillary telangiectasia: a spectrum within a single pathological entity. Cerebral vascular malformations have traditionally been divided into four categories: arteriovenous, venous, cavernous, and capillary telangiectases. A controversy exists about separating the latter two lesions into separate entities. Critics claim the distinction is arbitrary but have been unable to present convincing evidence linking the two types of lesions. We have reviewed the histories of 20 patients with cavernous malformations and have analyzed the clinical, radiographic, and surgical-autopsy data associated with these lesions. In some patients, multiple lesions, including cavernous malformations, capillary telangiectases, and transitional forms between the two, were identified. Based on this analysis, we conclude that capillary telangiectasia and cavernous malformations represent two pathological extremes within the same vascular malformation category and propose grouping them as a single cerebral entity called cerebral capillary malformations. 
Beat-to-beat detection of ventricular late potentials with high-resolution electrocardiography. To detect dynamic changes of VLPs we developed a low-noise, HR-ECG with a gain of 10(5)-10(6)X. This system allows the beat-to-beat detection of low-amplitude signals at the bedside in a nonshielded room without any averaging process. Analysis was performed in 39 normal subjects (group A: 27 men, 12 women, mean age, 28 +/- 8 years), in 98 patients with coronary artery disease without documented sustained ventricular tachycardia (group B: 86 men, 12 women, mean age, 59 +/- 10 years) and in 41 patients coronary artery disease with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (group C: 36 men, 5 women; mean age 63 +/- 9 years). Comparison was made with time-domain signal-averaging (SA-ECG) in all cases at the same electrode position and with identical band-pass filtering. In group A no VLPs were detected; the total filtered QRS duration was 84 +/- 8 msec (mean +/- SD), and the time interval during which the terminal QRS did not exceed 40 microV (I-40) was less than 30 msec in all cases (mean, 17 +/- 6 msec). In group B, VLPs were detected by HR-ECG in 34 of 98 patients (35%); the total QRS duration was 102 +/- 16 msec (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.01 vs group A), and the I-40 was 29 +/- 13 msec (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.01 vs (group A). In group C, VLPs were detected by HR-ECG in 38 of 41 patients (93%); the total QRS duration was 123 +/- 22 msec (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.01 vs group A and group B), and the I-40 was 40 +/- 14 msec (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.01 vs group A and group B). Concordant results between HR-ECG and SA-ECG were observed in 91% of the cases (59 positive and 103 negative results). Late potentials that exhibited dynamic variations were detected by HR-ECG alone in 13 cases, and very low amplitude VLPs were detected by SA-ECG alone in three cases. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates the feasibility of body-surface recording of VLPs on a beat-to-beat basis, without any averaging process, at the bedside in a nonshielded room. This new approach may allow the study of dynamic changes of VLPs during spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias or ischemia. 
Effect of alpha-adrenergic blockade on blood pressure, glucose, and lipid metabolism in hypertensive patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. To clarify the long-term effects of alpha-adrenergic blockade on blood pressure, glucose, and lipid metabolism, a selective alpha 1-adrenergic inhibitor (prazosin, 1.0 to 2.0 mg/day in divided doses) was administered as a single antihypertensive agent to 10 (four men and six women, aged 52 to 76 years) hypertensive patients (systolic blood pressure [SBP] greater than or equal to 150 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure [DBP] greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg) with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) for up to 20 weeks. Blood pressure, glucose tolerance and immunoreactive insulin (IRI) response to 75 gm oral glucose load, hemoglobin A1 (Hb A1), serum lipid profile, and serum apolipoprotein were examined before and after treatment. SBP and DBP were significantly reduced at 20 weeks after treatment with the selective alpha 1-adrenergic inhibitor (SBP 167 +/- 6 mm Hg versus 152 +/- 7 mm Hg; DBP 81 +/- 3 mm Hg versus 76 +/- 3 mm Hg, (p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01, respectively). Glucose tolerance and IRI response to glucose load were not significantly changed at 4 and 12 to 20 weeks after selective alpha 1-inhibitor treatment compared with the baseline data before treatment; the level of Hb A1 was not significantly changed at 4 and 20 weeks after treatment. 
Amiodarone versus bretylium for suppression of reperfusion arrhythmias in dogs. Reperfusion arrhythmias are an important complication of interventions to limit infarct size. Recently, amiodarone has been shown to be rapidly effective in suppressing sustained, incessant ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this setting. This study evaluated the time course of arrhythmia suppression and comparative efficacy of amiodarone versus bretylium in a canine model of reperfusion arrhythmias. Of 23 dogs subjected to a Harris two-stage coronary artery ligation followed by release, 18 demonstrated clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias and received either intravenous amiodarone, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs), or intravenous bretylium, 5 mg/kg (9 dogs). Direct-current shocks for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were administered as necessary. Amiodarone rapidly suppressed sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this model with no dog in the amiodarone-treated group requiring cardioversion after completion of the 15-minute infusion versus 4 of 9 dogs in the bretylium-treated group (p less than 0.05). Amiodarone was more effective than bretylium in suppressing episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation, episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and premature ventricular complexes. The blood pressure and heart rate decreased more after amiodarone administration than after bretylium administration. We conclude that, in the canine reperfusion arrhythmia model, amiodarone is rapidly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and is more effective than bretylium. 
Cardioplegia-induced damage to ischemic immature myocardium is independent of oxygen availability. The known benefits of hypothermic pharmacological cardioplegia in protecting the ischemic adult heart may not extend to children. Protection of the ischemic immature rabbit heart with hypothermic Krebs-Henseleit bicarbonate buffer is better than with hypothermic St. Thomas' II cardioplegic solution. We investigated whether the availability of oxygen in the preischemic perfusate is responsible for the increased tolerance to ischemia of immature (7- to 10-day-old) hearts perfused with Krebs buffer in comparison with St. Thomas' II solution immediately before ischemia. After obtaining preischemic control data in the "working" mode, we perfused hearts (n = 8 per group) for 3 minutes with hypothermic (14 degrees C) Krebs buffer or hypothermic St. Thomas' II solution saturated with 0%, 25%, or 95% oxygen. This was followed by 2 hours of global ischemia at 14 degrees C. Hearts were reperfused for 15 minutes in the Langendorff mode and 35 minutes in the working mode, and recovery of function was measured. For preischemic oxygen concentrations of 0%, 25%, and 95%, recovery of aortic flow in hearts protected by hypothermia alone during ischemia was 74% +/- 9%, 82% +/- 4%, and 99% +/- 2% of preischemic values, respectively. In hearts protected by hypothermia plus cardioplegia, the values were 69% +/- 6%, 72% +/- 3%, and 86% +/- 5%, respectively. Thus, at equal oxygen concentrations, recovery of postischemic function was better in hearts protected by hypothermia alone compared with hypothermia plus cardioplegia. We conclude that factors other than oxygen availability are responsible for the damaging effect of St. Thomas' II solution on the ischemic immature rabbit heart. 
Sustained calcium channel blockade in the treatment of severe hypertension. A two year experience. Thirty-nine patients with severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressure greater than 120 mm Hg) predominantly drawn from an inner-city population were placed on nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) for long-term treatment to achieve a sustained diastolic blood pressure less than 95 mm Hg. Fourteen patients failed to complete 6 months of therapy. For the 25 who remained in treatment for 6 months or more, systolic/diastolic blood pressure reductions were 62 +/- 5/40 +/- 2 mm Hg at 6 months; for those followed more than 12 months (n = 18), 58 +/- 7/37 +/- 3 mm Hg at 12 months; and for those followed more than 18 months (n = 11), 54 +/- 6/37 +/- 3 mm Hg at 18 months. Overall, 75% of these severely hypertensive patients were controlled with nifedipine GITS alone; 80% required 90 mg/day or more. During the two years of observation, no patient had a severe medical event, and 44% of those who entered remain in treatment. Left ventricular hypertrophy, as determined by echocardiography, diminished significantly during the course of treatment. These results indicate nifedipine GITS is well-tolerated and effective as monotherapy in the treatment of severe hypertension. 
Acute myocardial infarction resulting from the migration of a Greenfield filter. A paraplegic patient who underwent the placement of Greenfield filters to prevent pulmonary emboli had one of the filters migrate proximally to the junction of the inferior vena cava and right atrium, then into the right atrium a few months later. This resulted in an acute myocardial infarction by apparently causing an intimal dissection of the posterior descending artery. Treatment, follow-up and causes of filter migration are discussed. 
Metoprolol versus thiazide diuretics in hypertension. Morbidity results from the MAPHY Study. The present study in hypertensive men (40-64 years old) with untreated diastolic blood pressure above 100 mm Hg was aimed at investigating whether metoprolol (n = 1,609) given as initial treatment would lower the risk for coronary events (sudden death and myocardial infarction) more effectively than thiazide diuretics (n = 1,625). A substantial part of this study was the metoprolol arm of the Heart Attack Primary Prevention in Hypertension (HAPPHY) study. The HAPPHY study was a pooling of the effect of different beta-blockers, mainly metoprolol and atenolol, in which no favorable effect in relative risk was observed for atenolol as compared with diuretics. In the present study, 255 patients suffered definite coronary events during follow-up; 25% of these events were fatal, 39% were acute myocardial infarctions, and 36% were silent myocardial infarctions. The risk for coronary events was significantly lower in patients on metoprolol than in patients on diuretics (111 versus 144 cases, p = 0.001, corresponding to 14.3 versus 18.8 cases/1,000 patient years and a relative risk of 0.76 at the end of the trial; 95% confidence interval 0.58-0.98). This difference in risk has potentially important implications for clinical practice because of the large number of hypertensive patients who are at increased risk for coronary events. Because a placebo group, for ethical reasons, could not be included, relative risk can only be expressed in relation to diuretics. There was no difference between the two treatment groups in baseline characteristics, blood pressure during follow-up, or stroke rates. Thus, the difference in risk for coronary events is probably mediated via mechanisms other than blood pressure control. However, present data might suggest that different beta-blockers may have different efficacy in preventing coronary events. The reasons for this possibility are as yet unknown. 
Conjugal temporal arteritis. We report the simultaneous occurrence of biopsy-proven temporal arteritis in husband and wife. Serologic and viral studies were negative, including viral culture of the wife's temporal artery. The concurrent incidence of giant cell arteritis in a married couple would suggest a common exogenous exposure. 
Interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma: a phase II study. Forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 U/kg recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) intravenously (IV) every 4 hours separated by 1 week. This dose and schedule of IL-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined IL-2 and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell phase II clinical trial of the IL-2/LAK Working Group. Patient eligibility criteria, and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial. Forty-six patients were assessable for response. Objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients (two complete responses [CRs], eight partial responses [PRs]) or 22% with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites. The median response duration was 8 months. Toxicity was significant; three patients developed myocardial infarction, and one patient died during therapy. Overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent IL-2 are similar to that observed with IL-2 administered in combination with LAK cells in the previous trial. These results suggest that single-agent therapy with IL-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans, and that LAK cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of IL-2. 
The diagnosis and prognosis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. BACKGROUND. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is usually caused by a mutant gene at the PKD1 locus on the short arm of chromosome 16, but in about 4 percent of families with the disorder it is caused by unknown mutations elsewhere in the genome. The natural course of the disease in both genetic forms is not well characterized. METHODS. We studied 17 families with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease to compare presymptomatic diagnosis by ultrasonography with diagnosis by genetic-linkage studies and to relate clinical variation of the disease to whether the PKD1 mutation was implicated. RESULTS. In 10 families the disorder was found to cosegregate with polymorphic DNA markers flanking the PKD1 locus, in 2 families it did not, and in 5 families linkage could not be determined. In the 10 families with the PKD1 mutation, 46 percent of the members less than 30 years old who had a 50 percent risk of inheriting a mutation had renal cysts, as compared with 11 percent of the members of the two families without linkage (P less than 0.001). In the PKD1 families, all 67 diagnoses made by ultrasonography were confirmed by determination of the genotype as inferred from linkage. Forty of 48 members (83 percent) less than 30 years old who inherited the PKD1 mutation had renal cysts. All 27 members 30 years old or older who inherited the mutation had renal cysts, suggesting that the probability of a false negative diagnosis did not exceed 0.13 in this age group (P less than 0.05). The mean (+/- SE) age at the onset of end-stage renal disease among members of the PKD1 families was 56.7 +/- 1.9 years, as compared with 69.4 +/- 1.7 years among members with cysts in the families without linkage (P = 0.0025). Hypertension and renal impairment were less frequent and occurred later in the families without the PKD1 mutation. CONCLUSIONS. At present, in most persons with a 50 percent risk of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, imaging techniques are the only mode of reaching a diagnosis before symptoms appear. In such persons a negative ultrasonographic study during early adult life indicates that the likelihood of inheriting a PKD1 mutation is small. In the few who inherit a non-PKD1 mutation for polycystic kidney disease, renal failure is likely to occur relatively late in life. 
Inotropic response to norepinephrine is augmented early and maintained late in conscious dogs with perinephritic hypertension. We studied the inotropic responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine in nine conscious chronically instrumented dogs before and early (2-4 weeks) in the development of perinephritic hypertension; seven conscious dogs were studied later (approximately 14 weeks), during a more stable phase of hypertension. perinephritic hypertension was associated with a 24% increase in left ventricular (LV) mass during developing hypertension; no further increase was seen during the stable hypertension phase. LV end-systolic stress was increased early (p less than 0.01) but was normalized later. The LV end-systolic stress-volume relation demonstrated an enhanced contractile response to norepinephrine during developing hypertension, which returned toward control later in the course of stable hypertension. The LV dP/dt responses to norepinephrine (0.4 microgram/kg/min) were significantly greater during developing hypertension (7,509 +/- 337 mm Hg/sec, p less than 0.05) compared with the control period (4,737 +/- 286 mm Hg/sec) and returned toward the control value during stable hypertension (5,168 +/- 465 mm Hg/sec). The enhanced inotropic responses to norepinephrine in developing hypertension were preserved in the presence of ganglionic blockade, suggesting that the augmentation was not mediated via reflex mechanisms. These physiological responses were associated with an increase in beta-adrenergic receptor density, but no significant change in basal or maximal adenylate cyclase stimulation occurred during developing hypertension. Thus, in contrast to prior studies in anesthetized animals, the inotropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation is not depressed in conscious dogs but is enhanced selectively during the development of hypertension and maintained during stable hypertension. 
Indications, timing, and optimal technique for diagnostic angiography and angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction. Emergency cardiac catheterization and coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction (MI) have a continuing role in the thrombolytic era. Although thrombolytic therapy has revolutionized the treatment of MI, it has significant shortcomings: about 75% of patients with acute MI cannot be treated with thrombolytic agents, 25% of treated patients will have persistent occlusion of the infarct-related artery, 70% will have a residual stenosis greater than or equal to 70%, and 20% of treated patients will experience reocclusion. Cardiac catheterization identifies the coronary anatomy for mechanical revascularization and allows the unstable patient to receive special therapy, such as intra-aortic balloon pumping. Many large clinical studies have evaluated approaches to coronary angioplasty for acute MI. Deferred angioplasty has indisputable advantages over immediate routine angioplasty. Direct angioplasty without concomitant thrombolytic therapy has acceptable success and complication rates, so that it can be considered the treatment of choice for acute MI in centers with an angioplasty program if thrombolytic therapy is contraindicated. Patients at very low risk may not require cardiac catheterization routinely before discharge, since their good prognosis cannot be improved by invasive evaluation and intervention. Emergency surgical revascularization is indicated in a very small percentage of cases. 
Alfentanil pharmacokinetics in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery. The pharmacokinetics of alfentanil, 300 micrograms.kg-1 IV, were determined in patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic reconstruction. The mean age (+/- SD) of the patients was 64.3 +/- 7.4 yr; their mean weight was 74.7 +/- 13.8 kg. Five patients underwent aneurysm repair and six had aortobifemoral grafting. Serum alfentanil concentrations were measured by gas-liquid chromatography in samples drawn at increasing intervals over a 24-hr period. A three-compartment model was fitted to the concentration versus time data. The volume of the central compartment and the volume of distribution at steady state (Vdss) were 0.44 +/- 0.022 and 0.63 +/- 0.32 L.kg-1, respectively. Total drug clearance was 6.4 = 1.9 ml.min-1.kg-1. The elimination half-time was 3.7 +/- 2.6 hr. Patient age was positively correlated with both Vdss and elimination half-time. There were no significant correlations between the pharmacokinetic variables and the duration of aortic cross-clamping, the duration of surgery, or the rate or total volume of IV fluids infused intraoperatively. In general surgical patients, the elimination half-time of alfentanil has been reported to be 1.2-2.0 hr. Although the elimination half-time of alfentanil was longer in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery, alfentanil was eliminated much faster than either fentanyl or sufentanil in this patient population. 
Superiority of retrograde cardioplegia after acute coronary occlusion. Because antegrade cardioplegia may limit the distribution of cardioplegia beyond a coronary occlusion, this study was undertaken to determine whether retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides superior myocardial protection during revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion. In 20 adult pigs, the second and third diagonal branches were occluded with a snare for 1 1/2 hours. Animals were then placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and underwent 30 minutes of ischemic arrest with multidose, potassium, crystalloid cardioplegia. In 10 animals, the cardioplegia was given antegrade through the aortic root, whereas in 10 others, it was given retrograde through the coronary sinus. After the arrest period, the coronary snares were released and all hearts were reperfused for 3 hours. Postischemic damage in the myocardium beyond the occlusions was assessed by wall motion scores using two-dimensional echocardiography (4 = normal to -1 = dyskinesia), the change in myocardial pH from preischemia, and the area of necrosis/area of risk (histochemical staining). Hearts protected with retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia had less tissue acidosis (change in pH = 0.08 +/- 0.03 versus 0.41 +/- 0.13; p less than 0.05), higher wall motion scores (2.0 +/- 0.6 versus 1.3 +/- 0.3; not significant), and less myocardial necrosis (43.4% +/- 3.6% versus 73.3% +/- 3.5%; p less than 0.0001). We conclude that retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides more optimal myocardial protection than is possible with antegrade cardioplegia after revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion. 
Axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid. Several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described. Trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors. A patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein. 
Cardiomyopathy associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. The smoking of crystal methamphetamine, or "ice," is a growing drug abuse problem in the United States. The toxic effects of methamphetamine smoking have not been well described. We describe two patients with cardiovascular toxic effects associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. In our first patient, the use of smokeable methamphetamine was associated with the subsequent development of pulmonary edema and a dilated cardiomyopathy. In our second patient, the smoking of crystal methamphetamine likely produced diffuse vasospasm that resulted in acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, and death. The recognition of potentially lethal cardiac complications associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine is of extreme significance and should be emphasized to potential abusers of this drug. 
A hematologist's view of contrast media, clotting in angiography syringes and thrombosis during coronary angiography. While ionic contrast media (CM) are stronger anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents, both nonionic and ionic CM retard clotting, fibrinopeptide A generation and platelet aggregation (at least by Born-O'Brien aggregometry). Thus, nonionic CM do not cause clots and thrombi. Rather, the driving force for clot or thrombus formation, when it occurs, is blood contact with and activation by the foreign surface of a syringe or catheter itself. A marked enhancement of clotting by glass syringes in comparison to plastic ones supports this view. Blood in any syringe or catheter, therefore, will clot more slowly in the presence of nonionic or ionic CM, the inhibitory effects of the latter being more profound. With respect to models of thrombosis at sites of vascular injury or stenosis, the antithrombotic effects of CM may either be transient owing to the dynamic nature of blood flow (local endothelial cell denudation model), or as in the case of ionic CM, actually to enhance local platelet aggregation (stenosis model). In these situations, preservation of the antithrombotic functions of endothelium with nonionic CM may be quite critical. 
Total knee arthroplasty in obese patients. We examined 182 patients (257 knees) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier. The patients were grouped into five weight classes. Eighteen patients (twenty-seven knees) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients (twenty-seven knees), severely obese. The results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good. One patient needed a revision procedure for late infection, and the result was rated poor. Three results were rated fair. There was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups. However, 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms, whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups (p less than 0.03). No clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound. 
Experimental pericardial effusion: relation of abnormal respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity to hemodynamics and diastolic right heart collapse Pericardial effusion is associated with an abnormal increase in respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity. However, the relation of the changes in flow velocity to pericardial pressure, hemodynamics and two-dimensional echocardiographic findings is not established. Therefore, 11 sedated dogs with extensive hemodynamic instrumentation were studied with two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography during four stages of progressively larger pericardial effusion. During all stages of effusion, respiratory variation in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time was increased compared with baseline (p less than 0.05). This increase was seen at the earliest stage of effusion (mean pericardial pressure 4.2 +/- 1.4 versus -0.8 +/- 0.9 mm Hg at baseline, p less than 0.05), and preceded the appearance of unequivocal diastolic right heart collapse in every dog. Maximal respiratory variation coincided with the appearance of right atrial collapse (mean pericardial pressure 7.1 +/- 2.4 mm Hg; mean inspiratory decrease in aortic pressure 9.5 +/- 2.6 mm Hg; mean aortic pressure 88.2 +/- 15.2 versus 102.2 +/- 11.2 mm Hg at baseline, p less than 0.05; and cardiac output 3.8 +/- 1.2 versus 5.5 +/- 1.3 liters/min at baseline, p less than 0.05), but did not increase at stages associated with more severe hemodynamic compromise. In addition, the respiratory changes in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole were associated with simultaneous changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient. It is concluded that in this model of acute pericardial effusion 1) increased respiratory variation in early diastolic mitral flow velocity, peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time occurs almost immediately as pericardial pressure increases and persists at all stages of increasing pericardial effusion; 2) the abnormal respiratory variation occurs before equalization of intracardiac pressures and before the onset of unequivocal right heart collapse; 3) the respiratory variation occurs as a result of changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient; and 4) the magnitude of the respiratory change is not necessarily predictive of pericardial pressure or severity of hemodynamic compromise, especially at the more severe stages of pericardial effusion. 
Dissociation of changes in cardiovascular mass and performance with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. The effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on cardiovascular mass and function were measured in three groups of 22 week old male Wistar-Kyoto normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats treated with CGS-16617, cilazapril or quinapril. Left ventricular performance was assessed by electromagnetic flow meter during rapid whole blood infusion before and after arterial pressure and increased abruptly with aortic snare; aortic distensibility also was assessed in vitro. The systemic hemodynamic effects of these three agents were similar, yet their structural effects varied. Although left ventricular and aortic masses diminished and right ventricular mass remained unchanged (with all three agents) in the spontaneously hypertensive rats, CGS-11617 and cilazapril also reduced left ventricular mass in the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats without changing aortic mass. All three agents improved aortic distensibility whether or not mass was decreased. Left ventricular structural changes were associated with variable changes in pumping ability. These data show that reduced mass associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor treatment was not consistent in ventricles and aorta, that a dissociation exists between structural and functional changes and that reduction of cardiac mass alone does not relate to changes in chamber mass or in function. Thus, biologic and pharmacodynamic differences exist among angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as well as between classes of antihypertensive agents. 
Effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter, regional cerebral blood flow, and brain structure in cats. Temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations; however, repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery. The present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings. Initially, a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats. Pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging, regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography, and cerebral edema and infarction were observed. In the 20-minute occlusion group, no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation. In the 1-hour occlusion group, pial arteries were dilated by 45%, and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values. The extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 +/- 7.5% (SE) and infarction was 34.5 +/- 9.5% (SE) of the hemisphere. In the second experiment, three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats. In 10 of them, thiopental (40 mg/kg) was used to protect the brain. In the group without barbiturate treatment, pial arteries were dilated by 40% at the end of experiment, regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70% compared with single 20-minute occlusion, cerebral edema was 19.5 +/- 8.1% (SE), and infarction was 8.1 +/- 3.7% (SE) of the hemisphere. In the treated group, these were only trivial changes. The effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage, and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary. 
Clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, and survivors of sudden ischemic death occurring during and after sport. The clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of 42 well-conditioned subjects with an acute ischemic event related to sport are reported. Five patients had unstable angina, 25 had acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and 12 were resuscitated victims of sudden ischemic death. Twenty-two events occurred during sport (group A) and 20 after sport (group B). There were two women and 40 men. The mean age was 46 years (range 25 to 65). Twelve out of 30 patients who smoked cigarettes had an adjunctive risk factor for coronary artery disease. Twelve others (28%) had no identifiable risk factor. Prodromal cardiac symptoms were detected in three patients (group A). Two patients had previous myocardial infarction (group B). Coronary angiography was performed acutely in 39 patients. The distribution of the ischemia-related coronary artery was comparable in both groups. The lesion morphology of 35 culprit coronary arteries was described as concentric in six patients and eccentric with regular borders (type I lesion) in 11 and irregular borders (type II lesion) in 18. Eccentric lesions consistent with ruptured plaques prevailed in both groups. Associated coronary artery disease was present in 10 patients. There was no relationship between the number of risk factors and the extent of diseased coronary arteries. Clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina, AMI, and sudden death either during or after sport are similar and indicate a common pathogenesis. The probable mechanism of a coronary event related to sport is exercise-induced plaque rupture. In most instances such an event is unexpected and unpredictable. Identification of some subjects at risk is possible. 
Clinical controversies surrounding thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. The treatment of acute myocardial infarction has changed tremendously in the past decade because thrombolytic therapy has become the treatment of choice for the patient with acute myocardial infarction. Although many issues have been resolved, several controversial issues remain unresolved. This article addresses thrombolytic agents in terms of their superiority in achieving infarct vessel patency and mortality reduction as well as the role of thrombolysis in patients who present with chest pain of greater than 6 hours' duration, who are elderly, and who have an inferior infarction. 
Noninvasive determination of pulmonary artery wedge pressure: comparative analysis of pulsed Doppler echocardiography and right heart catheterization. To compare left ventricular filling variables as derived by transmitral pulsed Doppler echocardiography (tpDE) and hemodynamic variables as assessed at right heart catheterization (RHC), 104 ICU patients (64 male, 40 female) aged 26 to 73 yr (mean 54.6 +/- 10.3) without valvular heart disease were examined. Simultaneously with RHC, transmitral flow velocity profiles were obtained by tpDE, and the ratio of the velocity-time integrals of late diastolic active (A wave) and early diastolic passive inflow into the left ventricle (E wave) was calculated (A/E ratio). Invasively determined pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (WP) ranged from 3 to 36 mm Hg (median 13.35, 5%/95% 6/31 mm Hg). Linear regression analysis showed a highly significant correlation between the A/E ratio and WP (r = .98, p less than .001, standard error of the estimate [SEE] = 0.10). The A/E ratio also correlated with other hemodynamic variables such as cardiac output (r = -.68, p less than .001, SEE = 0.33), cardiac index (r = -.74, p less than .001, SEE = 0.31), and stroke volume index (r = -.68, p less than .001, SEE = 0.34). The interobserver agreement (derived by intraclass correlation analysis between two examiners) on the A/E ratio was high (r = .95, p less than .001, n = 26). We conclude that WP can be accurately determined noninvasively by tpDE. For the assessment of systolic ventricular function, tpDE is of limited diagnostic value. 
Effects of benazepril and metoprolol OROS alone and in combination on myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic stable angina The efficacy of benazepril, metoprolol OROS and their combination was evaluated in 29 patients (42 to 74 years of age) with chronic stable angina and documented coronary artery disease in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover trial using serial quantitated exercise testing and ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring. The mean (+/- SEM) exercise time was 8.5 +/- 0.7 min with placebo, 8.3 +/- 0.6 min (95% confidence interval [CI]-1.06 to 0.54) with benazepril, 9.4 +/- 0.5 min (95% CI -0.32 to 2.14) with metoprolol OROS and 9.6 +/- 0.5 min (95% CI -0.25 to 2.47) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol OROS. The mean exercise time to the development of 1 mm ST segment depression was prolonged from 6.0 +/- 0.6 min with placebo to 6.3 +/- 0.6 min (95% CI -0.93 to 1.45) with benazepril, 7.9 +/- 0.5 min (95% CI 0.83 to 3.0) with metoprolol OROS and 8.1 +/- 0.6 min (95% CI 0.88 to 3.29) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol OROS. Benazepril did not alter the rest or maximal heart rate, whereas metoprolol OROS alone and in combination significantly lowered the heart rate at rest and during maximal exercise. Systolic blood pressure at rest was nonsignificantly reduced, whereas diastolic blood pressure was lowered significantly by all treatments in comparison with placebo. At maximal exercise, only metoprolol OROS, whether given alone or in combination with benazepril, was able to blunt significantly systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product. 
Distribution of angiographic vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: implications for diagnosis by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. A study was undertaken to determine how frequently angiographic vasospasm occurs outside the normal access range of transcranial Doppler ultrasound in patients who have suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Vasospasm located in the basal vessels is readily identifiable using transcranial Doppler ultrasound whereas spasm affecting the more distal, vertically oriented arteries is outside the standard detection range. It is therefore speculated that the sensitivity of the technique would be adversely affected by a high incidence of distal vasospasm. A total of 136 angiograms performed on 68 patients after a subarachnoid hemorrhage from anterior circulation aneurysms were reviewed to determine the typical distribution of vasospasm. Of the 40 cases that showed greater than or equal to 25% vessel narrowing, 50.0% had spasm restricted to the basal vessels, 42.5% had spasm involving both basal and distal segments, and 7.5% had spasm of the distal segments only. None of the patients with distal vasospasm alone developed delayed ischemic deficits. It is concluded that most patients with anterior circulation aneurysms who develop vasospasm will have involvement of the basal vessels, but a small number of patients may develop vasospasm only in distal vessels. 
Mental stress as an acute trigger of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and blood pressure elevation in coronary artery disease. Acute mental stress may be a frequent trigger of transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death. In an experimental setting, the effect of mental stress on hemodynamics and left ventricular wall motion abnormalities (as detected by radionuclide ventriculography) was measured in 29 patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Seventy-five percent of the patients demonstrated mental stress-induced wall motion abnormalities. Patients frequently exhibited greater increases in peak systolic arterial pressure during mental stress than during exercise. Personally relevant mental stress is the most potent type of mental stress, both in terms of frequency and magnitude of ischemia. Most mental stress-induced ischemic episodes are clinically and electrocardiographically silent and occur at heart rates significantly lower than those seen during exercise. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased during mental stress-induced ischemia, suggesting that increased myocardial oxygen demand plays a role in the pathophysiology of mental stress-induced transient ischemia. The significant magnitude and acute onset of this mental stress-induced blood pressure elevation may in some manner contribute to atherosclerotic plaque rupture. These findings may provide a pathophysiologic link to the epidemiologic association between mental stress and acute ischemic coronary events. A new ambulatory radionuclide detector that can concurrently monitor left ventricular ejection fraction and electrocardiographic ST-segment change may enhance the detection and evaluation of transient myocardial ischemia in ambulatory coronary patients. 
Relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals. Twenty hogs were administered the following procedures before, during, and after overdistraction of the spinal column at T5-T6: somatosensory (SEP) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (NMEPs), hydrogen clearance procedures, Stagnara wake-up tests, and aortic-injection of silastic plastic. To ensure that overdistraction was possible, a nonosseous, circumferential osteotomy was made at T5-T6 and distraction applied in one-ratchet increments using Harrington instrumentation. Overdistraction was maintained for 3, 5, 6, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 minutes. Results indicated that the duration of overdistraction, as represented by lost NMEPs, was always correlated with the animal's clinical status on wake-up test. If overdistraction was maintained more than 6 minutes, 100% of the animals demonstrated positive wake-up results; if maintained between 5 and 6 minutes, 75% demonstrated positive wake-up results; and if maintained less than 5 minutes, only 25% demonstrated positive wake-up results. Time-to-loss of the NMEPs and SEPs, after onset of overdistraction, fell within two groups: slow and fast. In the slow group, it required slightly more than 20 minutes (mean = 20.6) for the potentials to be lost, while in the fast-loss group data were lost in slightly less than 4 minutes (mean = 3.6). Blood flow studies and inspection of the spinal cord revealed that the mechanism of action for the slow group appeared to be ischemia of the spinal cord that extended several centimeters above and below the site of maximum distraction. In the fast-loss group, it appeared that gross structural damage, with some very localized ischemia, were the mechanisms of actions influencing the integrity of the spinal cord. 
Follow-up of patients who underwent arterial switch repair for transposition of the great arteries Thirty infants underwent arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries within the first week of life (mean age, 2.8 days). An additional three patients underwent repair at 5 1/2, 8, and 9 1/2 months of age. Six (18.2%) of 33 patients died. All the survivors were not receiving cardiac medications or diuretics at the time of the last follow-up visit. Examination of 24 of 27 survivors at 1 to 5 years of age revealed normal growth in 75% of the patients. Two patients had height, weight, and head circumference below the fifth percentile for age. Four patients had height and weight appropriate for age but head circumference below the fifth percentile. Neurodevelopmental testing yielded normal findings in 18 patients. Three patients were considered suspect and an additional three were abnormal neurodevelopmentally. Head circumference less than the fifth percentile, abnormalities on computed tomographic scans of the brain, and emergency balloon atrial septostomy or emergency switch operation were more likely to occur in patients who had low neurodevelopmental scores. We conclude that the majority of patients who undergo arterial switch repair demonstrate normal growth and development and no impairment of cardiovascular function. However, significant morbidity in the form of neurodevelopmental problems may occur. 
Angiotensin I-forming angiotensinogenases in extrarenal vasculature and in the kidney. The intention of this study was to characterize angiotensin I-forming angiotensinogenases (AIFAs) in rat extrarenal arterial walls and to clarify whether these enzymes are also present in the kidney. A further aim was to identify AIFAs in human vasculature and to establish whether they are affected in essential hypertension. Sprague-Dawley rats and vascular sections of patients undergoing corrective surgery were studied. Enzyme kinetic assays were performed using angiotensin I radioimmunoassay and purified natural angiotensinogens. Fast protein liquid chromatography was employed for biochemical characterization. A series of AIFAs with various isoelectric points, molecular weights and pH optima was detected in rat extrarenal vascular and, with differing distributions of enzyme activities, in renal tissues. In extrarenal arteries the main form of renal renin was present with a relatively low activity only. AIFAs were also demonstrable in human extrarenal vasculature and behaved like plasma renin in essential hypertension. The results indicate the existence of an intrinsic human vascular RAS in extrarenal (and renal) arteries. Extrarenal arterial AIFAs are not generally stimulated in essential hypertensives, as previously postulated. 
Studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. V. Safety of prolonged aortic clamping with hypocalcemic glutamate/aspartate blood cardioplegia. This study tests the hypothesis that multidose, hypocalcemic aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia provides safe and effective protection during prolonged aortic clamping of immature hearts. Of 17 puppies (6 to 8 weeks of age, 3 to 5 kg) placed on vented cardiopulmonary bypass, five were subjected to 60 minutes of 37 degrees C global ischemia without cardioplegic protection and seven underwent 120 minutes of aortic clamping with 4 degrees C multidose aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia ([Ca++] = 0.2 mmol/L), preceded and followed by 37 degrees C blood cardioplegic induction and reperfusion. Five puppies underwent blood cardioplegic perfusion for 10 minutes without intervening ischemia to assess the effect of the cardioplegic solution and the delivery techniques. Left ventricular performance was assessed 30 minutes after bypass was discontinued (Starling function curves). Hearts were studied for high-energy phosphates and tissue amino acids. One hour of normothermic ischemia resulted in profound functional depression, with peak stroke work index only 43% of control (0.7 +/- 0.1 versus 1.7 +/- 0.2 gm x m/kg, p less than 0.05). There was 70% depletion of adenosine triphosphate (7.6 +/- 1 versus control 20.3 +/- 1 mumol/gm dry weight, p less than 0.05) and 75% glutamate loss (6.6 +/- 1 versus control 26.4 +/- 3 mumol/gm, p less than 0.05). In contrast, after 2 hours of aortic clamping with multidose blood cardioplegia preceded and followed by 37 degrees C blood cardioplegia, there was complete recovery of left ventricular function (peak stroke work index 1.6 +/- 0.2 gm x m/kg) and maintenance of adenosine triphosphates, glutamate, and aspartate levels at or above control levels adenosine triphosphate 18 +/- 2 mumol/gm, aspartate 21 +/- 1 versus control 2 mumol/gm, and glutamate 25.4 +/- 2 mumol/gm). Puppy hearts receiving blood cardioplegic perfusion without ischemia had complete recovery of control stroke work index. We conclude that methods of myocardial protection used in adults, with amino acid-enriched, reduced-calcium blood cardioplegia, can be applied safely to the neonatal heart and allow for complete functional and metabolic recovery after prolonged aortic clamping. 
Epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer: the results of a randomized trial. Two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin (E) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone (LEP) or E 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone (HEP). The intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of LEP or eight courses of HEP given at 3-weekly intervals. Reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease, stable disease without symptomatic improvement, or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician. Toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria of response and toxicity. Two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis, 98% of whom have been followed for more than a year. One hundred four patients received LEP and 105 HEP. Significantly worse myelosuppression, alopecia, nausea and vomiting, and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm (P less than or equal to .001). More patients in the LEP arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the HEP arm, and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease. A similar median number of courses was given in each arm. There was a significantly higher response in the HEP arm (HEP - complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] = 41%, LEP - CR + PR = 23%). Despite this, no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval. The median survival for HEP and LEP was 44 and 46 weeks, respectively. 
Hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition by enalkiren in chronic congestive heart failure. Previous efforts to block the renin-angiotensin system in patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) have focused on 2 distal sites in the system, the angiotensin-converting enzyme and the angiotensin II receptor. Recent work, however, has led to the development of agents that directly inhibit renin, the proximal step in the cascade. In this study, we investigated the hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition in 9 patients with chronic CHF by using enalkiren, a primate-selective, dipeptide renin inhibitor, which has been previously shown to suppress plasma renin activity and to lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients. The acute intravenous administration of enalkiren (1.0 mg/kg) produced increases in cardiac index (2.0 +/- 0.3 to 2.3 +/- 0.1 liter/min/m2) and stroke volume index (26 +/- 3 to 34 +/- 4 ml/m2) and decreases in left ventricular filling pressure (31 +/- 3 to 25 +/- 3 mm Hg), mean right atrial pressure (15 +/- 1 to 13 +/- 2 mm Hg), heart rate (78 +/- 5 to 72 +/- 6 beats/min) and systemic vascular resistance (2,199 +/- 594 to 1,339 +/- 230 dynes.s.cm-5) (all p less than 0.01 to 0.05). These observations indicate that renin inhibition produces hemodynamic benefits in patients with chronic CHF and could potentially provide a novel approach to interfering with the renin-angiotensin system in patients with this disorder. 
Serum lipids and lipoproteins are less powerful predictors of extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis than are cigarette smoking and hypertension The effect of serum lipids and lipoproteins on extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis (CAS) was studied in patients who underwent carotid arteriography. Serum lipid and lipoprotein values along with data on other potential predictors of extracranial CAS were determined in 240 patients who had at least one extracranial carotid artery visualized. In a multiple logistic regression analysis, the independently significant predictors of the presence of extracranial CAS were, in decreasing order of significance, duration of smoking of cigarettes, hypertension, age, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Serum cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein A-I did not show an independent effect. Although low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was an independent predictor of the presence of extracranial CAS, its effect as a predictor was far outweighed by the effects of the duration of smoking of cigarettes and a history of hypertension. 
Giant left atrium--a case report. A seventy-seven-year old woman, with mitral stenosis, presented with cardiomegaly evident on her chest roentgenogram. The cardiac enlargement was due to a giant left atrium that distorted the cardiac structures. An echocardiogram and a first-pass nuclear angiogram were able to delineate the huge left atrium. 
Epithelial abnormalities in intestine and kidney of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. A variety of perturbations of calcium metabolism are reported to occur in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) compared to its genetic control the Wistar-Kyoto rat (WKY), including significant dysfunction of calcium handling by the proximal renal tubule of the SHR, resulting in impaired active calcium transport in the gut and an apparent renal calcium leak. We explored the intestinal and renal epithelia of 12- to 14-week-old SHR and WKY using electron microscopy. Biochemical comparisons of these transport epithelia included measurements of three vitamin D dependent cellular proteins and one structural protein: alkaline phosphatase, intestinal CaBP9K, renal CaBP28K, and villin expression. Electron microscopy demonstrated a patchy loss in microvilli in the SHR, accounting for approximately 10 to 15% of the total microvillar surface. In the kidney, morphological abnormalities were observed only in the proximal renal tubule. Again, there was patchy loss of microvilli from the brush border membrane. In SHR duodenal alkaline phosphatase activity was significantly reduced compared to the WKY (0.145 +/- 0.002 v 0.186 +/- 0.002 integrated extinction/min/micron 3 X 10(3) brush border (P less than .001). Duodenal CaBP9K and renal CaBP28K were significantly reduced in SHR compared to WKY. There were no differences in villin expression. These data are consistent with the previously characterized disturbances of active calcium transport in the intestine and inappropriate renal calcium leak in the SHR. While a possible link between these disturbances and hypertension remains to be determined, this study provides supportive evidence for a primary disturbance in cell calcium handling and transporting epithelia in this form of genetic hypertension. 
A frameshift mutation leading to type 1 antithrombin deficiency and thrombosis. Type 1 antithrombin III (ATIII) deficiency, which is the commonest form of inherited ATIII defect, is characterized by a quantitative reduction in both immunologically and functionally detectable protein. This condition is associated with a high incidence of thromboembolic disorder. Previous investigations have shown that the ATIII genes in the majority of cases are grossly intact, but the precise underlying molecular defects remain unknown. We have investigated the molecular basis of a type 1 ATIII deficiency in an Italian kindred by enzymatic amplification of the ATIII gene sequences in affected family members and direct sequencing of the amplified genomic DNA. A novel mutation, the deletion of a single T in the second position of codon 119, was identified in each of the affected individuals. The resulting frameshift leads to a premature termination in codon 126, effectively resulting in a null allele. 
The reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging in vitro. To determine which factors may affect the image quality when an intravascular ultrasound catheter is used in vivo, the influence of blood, temperature change, and contrast media were evaluated. In addition, to confirm the reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging to measure cross-sectional lumen area, intraobserver and interobserver variability were determined. The findings indicated that ultrasound images in blood are mildly attenuated, that changes from room temperature to body temperature do not have a significant impact on the image quality, that contrast media attenuates the image intensity in a dose-dependent manner, and that the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter provides a reproducible method for measuring arterial lumen area with excellent intraobserver and interobserver correlation. 
Penetrating aortic ulcers: diagnosis with MR imaging. The authors studied seven patients with penetrating aortic ulcers with use of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. All patients were evaluated for acute chest symptoms, and the presence of aortic ulcers was confirmed by means of angiography in all seven patients. Five patients also underwent computed tomography (CT). Three patients underwent surgical repair of the thoracic aorta. MR findings included intramural hematoma and focal aortic wall ulceration in four patients, focal ulceration in one, focal intramural hematoma in one, and focal intramural hematoma with rupture in one. The diagnosis of intramural hematoma was made by the detection of increased signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted MR images. MR imaging was superior to angiography in depicting the extent of intramural thrombus, although one ulceration diagnosed at angiography was missed at MR imaging. MR imaging was superior to CT in differentiating acute intramural hematoma from atherosclerotic plaque and chronic intraluminal thrombus, although it did not depict displaced intimal calcification in one patient with extensive intramural hematoma. 
Kidney function and cardiovascular risk factors in non-insulin-dependent diabetics (NIDDM) with microalbuminuria. Microalbuminuria in non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM) is a strong predictor of increased mortality. The major causes of death are cardiovascular, whereas end-stage renal failure is of low frequency. To define kidney function and the presence of some assumed cardiovascular risk factors, we compared a group of 19 microalbuminuric NIDDM patients (M), of mean age (+/- SD) 65 +/- 4 years, and known duration of diabetes 8 +/- 7 years, with 19 randomly selected matched normoalbuminuric patients (N). Seven microalbuminuric patients (P) were also studied. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) did not differ between N and M, whereas kidney volume was increased in M (260.3 +/- 54.1 ml 1.73 m-2) compared to N (220.4 +/- 44.8 ml 1.73 m-2; P = 0.018). The frequency of cardiac disease increased with increasing albuminuria. Glycaemic control did not differ between the groups, but fasting plasma C-peptide levels increased from 2.8 +/- 1.1 micrograms l-1 in N, to 3.7 +/- 1.7 micrograms l-1 in M (P = 0.08), and to 4.2 +/- 1.9 micrograms l-1 (P = 0.03) in P. The lipoprotein profile showed no significant differences, although the LDLcholesterol/HDLcholesterol (LDL-C/HDL-C) ratio tended to rise. A significant correlation was found between C-peptide and LDL-C/HDL-C (r = 0.5; P less than 10(-3]. In conclusion, GFR was not increased, and did not differ between N and M, whereas kidney volume was enhanced in M. Several assumed cardiovascular risk factors showed values of M intermediate between those of N and P. 
Late chronic hemolysis after valve replacement for aortic stenosis. Relation to residual hypertrophy and impaired left ventricular function. The relationship between intravascular hemolysis induced by aortic valve prosteses and patient status/left ventricular (LV) function (radionuclide cardiography) was examined in 63 patients of 65 who were alive ten to seventeen years after valve replacement (1965-1973) for aortic stenosis. Serum-lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) exceeded upper reference limit in 62 patients and S-haptoglobin (HAPTO) was reduced in 62. One patient with normal LDH had reduced HAPTO and elevated plasma-hemoglobin. Anemia was noted in 4 patients (6%). S-LDH was higher in men than in women (p less than 0.05), in patients with increased ECG hypertrophy score than in those with a normal score (p less than 0.05), in patients with NYHA class II-III than in those with class I (p less than 0.05), in patients with abnormal LV function than in those with a normal radionuclide study (p less than 0.05), in patients with a pathologic Q wave in the ECG than in those without (p less than 0.05), and in patients with a Starr Edwards cloth-covered (SECC) prosthesis than in those with other types (p = 0.07). ECG hypertrophy score correlated directly with LDH (r = 0.33, p = 0.008) and inversely with LV ejection fraction (r = -0.57, p less than 0.0001), peak ejection rate (r = -0.47, p less than 0.0001), and peak filling rate (r = -0.41, p less than 0.001). Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that LDH was accounted for by ECG hypertrophy score (p = 0.001), SECC prosthesis (p = 0.04), and male gender (p = 0.05). Hypertrophic malfunctioning left ventricles may be responsible for higher degrees of turbulent flow characteristics in the vicinity of prosthetic valves in the aortic position and, by inference, explain the increased tendency toward hemolysis in these patients. 
Wellness motivation in cardiac rehabilitation. Lack of patient adherence to prescribed regimens is a fundamental problem in cardiac rehabilitation programs. A causative factor in lack of patient adherence may be related to failure to address differences in individual health behavior motivation in cardiac rehabilitation. A group of 52 patients who had had myocardial infarction were sampled to test the relationship between social support systems, health locus of control, health value orientations, and wellness motivation. Pearson correlation coefficients indicated significant positive correlations between health locus of control variables, health value orientation variations, and wellness motivation. Health locus of control and health value orientation variables entered into a multiple regression equation to explain 32% of the variation in wellness motivation. Awareness of individual motivational responses that influence health behaviors in cardiac rehabilitation may enable nurses to develop intervention strategies for patients with cardiovascular disease who would benefit from modifying their risk-producing life-styles. 
Reduction of cardiovascular disease-related mortality among postmenopausal women who use hormones: evidence from a national cohort. A national sample of 1944 white menopausal women greater than or equal to 55 years old from the epidemiologic follow-up of participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey was reviewed to investigate the role of hormone therapy in altering the risk of death from cardiovascular disease. Women in the study were observed for up to 16 years after the baseline survey in 1971 to 1975. By 1987 631 women had died; 347 of these deaths were due to cardiovascular disease. History of diabetes (relative risk, 2.38; 95% confidence interval 1.73 to 3.26), previous myocardial infarction (relative risk, 2.12; 95% confidence interval 1.56 to 2.86), smoking (relative risk, 2.18; 95% confidence interval, 1.69 to 2.81), and elevated blood pressure (relative risk, 1.49; 95% confidence interval, 1.14 to 1.94) were strong predictors of cardiovascular disease-related death in this cohort. After adjusting for known cardiovascular disease risk factors (smoking, cholesterol, body mass index, blood pressure, previous myocardial infarction, history of diabetes, age) and education, the use of postmenopausal hormones was associated with a reduced risk of death from cardiovascular disease (relative risk, 0.66; 95% confidence interval, 0.48 to 0.90). The same protective effect provided by postmenopausal hormone therapy was seen in women who experienced natural menopause (relative risk, 0.69; 95% confidence interval, 0.45 to 1.06). 
Methodology of mental stress testing in cardiovascular research. Many issues related to the selection, reliability, and validity of mental stress testing in cardiovascular research are discussed. Five categories of mental stress testing are distinguished: problem-solving tasks, information-processing tasks, psychomotor tasks, affective conditions, and aversive or painful conditions. A series of practical and theoretical criteria are outlined for the selection of appropriate tests, and the measurement of a range of dependent variables is emphasized. The temporal stability of cardiovascular responses to mental stress tests is examined through an analysis of test-retest correlations (weighted for sample size) in 28 comparisons with intervals between sessions varying from 1 day to more than 1 year. Heart rate reactions to tasks show an average-weighted Z of 0.732 +/- 0.031 (r = 0.62), with Z = 0.575 +/- 0.034 (r = 0.52) for systolic blood pressure and Z = 0.313 +/- 0.035 (r = 0.30) for diastolic blood pressure. It is argued that the validity of mental stress tests can be judged in relation to several different aspects, specifically, methodological, ecological, diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic validities. The nature of these standards is described, and pertinent literature is presented. 
Detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color Doppler flow imaging. One hundred ninety-five color Doppler flow (CDF) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra- or extrarenal vascular complications. Conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants. In the group of transplants with angiographic correlation, CDF sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications. CDF showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches. There were two false-positive renal artery stenoses (one normal artery and one 40% stenosis). Nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified. Within the parenchyma, CDF sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts, two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas, and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses. Measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference (P less than .05) between a group (n = 8) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches (mean, 215.2 cm/sec +/- 32) and a group (n = 14) without stenosis (mean, 99.2 cm/sec +/- 19). 
Progress report of the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study. The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study recently found and reported (SPAF Investigators, N Engl J Med, 1990;322:863-868) a beneficial effect of both warfarin and aspirin compared with placebo in the primary prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. Among warfarin-eligible patients, the event rates were 1.6%/yr for those receiving active antithrombotic therapy (warfarin or aspirin) and 8.3%/yr for those receiving placebo (p less than 0.00005) (risk reduction 81%, 95% confidence interval 56-91). Ironically, we did not find a beneficial effect of aspirin in warfarin-ineligible patients. On the basis of these results, the study has been reshaped to directly compare these two antithrombotic agents. Insight into the apparent aspirin unresponsiveness noted in some patients also is being sought. Interpretation of the preliminary results and the reshaping of the study have been made more complex by the continued blinding of the investigators to certain portions of the data. Presented is an account of the study from its inception through its recent redesign. 
Left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement measured by ultrafast computed tomography. Left ventricular mass and function were measured using ultrafast computed tomography, and were correlated with clinical status in 17 patients with aortic stenosis and/or insufficiency undergoing aortic valve replacement or balloon valvuloplasty. Wall mass was 159 +/- 38 gm/m2 initially, decreased 25% to 116 +/- 29 gm/m2 at 4 month (p less than 0.001), and decreased a total of 34% to 105 +/- 33 gm/m2 at 8 months after valve repair. By 8 months not only was the mean wall mass within the normal range, but only three patients retained abnormal hypertrophy. Ejection fraction increased 8% (p = 0.06). Clinical function improved in all patients, with only three patients remaining outside of New York Heart Association functional class 1 at 8 months. Regression of ventricular mass into the normal range correlated with attainment of class 1 functional status (p less than 0.02), despite a lack of increase of ejection fraction. The single patient followed for 8 months after valvuloplasty had minor wall mass regression and minor clinical improvement. 
Prehospital thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. The benefit and risk of prehospital thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were evaluated in a double-blind randomized trial. Patients presenting less than 4 hours after symptom onset received 2 million units of urokinase as an intravenous bolus either before (group A, n = 40) or after (group B, n = 38) hospital admission. The mean time interval from onset of symptoms to thrombolytic therapy was 85 +/- 51 minutes in group A and 137 +/- 50 minutes in group B (p less than 0.0005). In 91% of the patients, thrombolytic therapy was administered less than 3 hours after symptom onset. Complication rates during the pre- and in-hospital period were low and did not differ between groups. Three patients died (1 in group A, 2 in group B) from reinfarction 7 to 14 days after admission. Left-sided cardiac catheterization before discharge revealed a patency rate in the infarct-related artery of 61% in group A and 67% in group B (difference not significant). Global left ventricular function and regional wall motion at the infarct site did not differ significantly between group A and B (ejection fraction 51 +/- 10%, n = 28 vs 53 +/- 14%, n = 28; wall motion -2.3 +/- 1.3 vs -2.2 +/- 1.1 standard deviation, respectively). Also, peak creatine kinase did not differ significantly (838 +/- 634 U/liter in group A vs 924 +/- 595 U/liter in group B). Prehospital thrombolysis using a bolus injection of urokinase has a low risk when performed by a trained physician with a mobile care unit. The saving of 45 minutes in the early stage of an acute infarction through prehospital thrombolysis did not appear to be important for salvage of myocardial function. 
Effects of intravenous verapamil on left ventricular relaxation and filling in stable angina pectoris. Left ventricular (LV) diastolic function is often impaired in coronary artery disease (CAD). To assess whether verapamil could improve LV diastolic properties, 12 patients with CAD undergoing right- and left-sided cardiac catheterization, as well as simultaneous radionuclide angiography, were studied before and during intravenous administration of verapamil (0.1 mg/kg as a bolus followed by 0.007 mg/kg/min). The heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing in both studies. LV pressure-volume relations were obtained. Verapamil decreased LV systolic pressure (130 +/- 22 to 117 +/- 16 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) and the end-systolic pressure/volume ratio (2.4 +/- 1.3 to 1.6 +/- 0.5 mm Hg/ml, p less than 0.05), and increased LV end-diastolic (13 +/- 4 to 16 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.02) and pulmonary capillary pressures (10 +/- 5 to 12 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.005). Despite such negative inotropic effects, cardiac index increased (3.4 +/- 0.7 to 3.9 +/- 0.6 liters/min/m2, p less than 0.02). The time constant of isovolumic relaxation shortened (63 +/- 14 to 47 +/- 9 ms, p less than 0.02); peak filling rate increased (370 +/- 155 to 519 +/- 184 ml/s, p less than 0.001; 2.6 +/- 1.1 to 3.3 +/- 0.9 end-diastolic counts/s, p less than 0.02; and 4.1 +/- 1.6 to 5.5 +/- 1.5 stroke counts/s, p less than 0.001). 
Obesity, glucose intolerance, hyperinsulinemia, and response to antihypertensive drugs. Responsiveness to antihypertensive medications was investigated cross-sectionally in 559 individuals comprising all treated hypertensive patients identified within a representative sample (n = 3,532, aged 40-70 years) of the Jewish population in Israel. A rate of dosage score (a summed ranking of dosages of all drugs taken) of two or more increased significantly with increasing levels of body mass index (BMI) from 37.5% in levels less than 23, 54.9% in levels 23.0-29.9, and 76.4% in levels of 30 or greater (p less than 0.0001). Multivariate analyses, adjusting for age, gender, arm circumference, and ethnic group, confirmed the independent effect of BMI on dosage score (p less than 0.001). At each level of dosage score, mean blood pressure levels were equivalent at all levels of BMI after adjusting for potential confounders. This indicates that achieved blood pressure level and not BMI itself was the main determinant of the higher dosing regimens prescribed at higher levels of BMI. In representative subgroups, glucose tolerance (n = 372) and hyperinsulinemia (n = 190) were determined and were found to be positively associated with a dosage score of two or more (p less than 0.05) independently of BMI. These effects could not be accounted for by poor compliance or by altered drug absorption or disposition since overnight urinary drug excretion and plasma drug concentrations 2 hours after ingestion, measured in 80 randomly selected patients from the study group, were not different across BMI categories at similar dosages. 
Dynamic association between artery shear flow condition and platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in human hypertension. 1. Blood cells and vascular endothelial cells are subjected to a wide range of haemodynamically generated shear stress forces. In vitro, membrane stretching or shear stress have been observed to activate ion channels and cell metabolism and to facilitate erythrocyte and platelet aggregation. 2. The present study was designed to evaluate the participation of shear stresses in the control of apparent platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in hypertensive patients. 3. Shear conditions and platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in vitro were studied after a dynamic perturbation induced by 3 months of double-blind treatment with one of two beta-antagonists, carteolol and atenolol. Brachial artery wall shear rate and stress were estimated by means of a pulsed Doppler velocimeter, and blood viscosity was measured by a co-axial viscometer at a shear rate of 96 s-1. Platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration was simultaneously measured by using the Quin-2 fluorescent chelator. The direct effect of atenolol and carteolol on platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in vitro was also measured after addition of the beta-blockers to platelet-rich plasma. 4. Atenolol and carteolol decreased blood pressure similarly but their effects on shear rate (P less than 0.02), shear stress (P less than 0.01) and platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration (P less than 0.05) differed after 3 months of therapy. In contrast, neither of the drugs significantly altered platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration, in vitro per se. 5. In the overall population, strong positive correlations existed not only between changes in platelet cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration and those in shear rate (r = 0.81, P less than 0.001) and shear stress (r = 0.83, P less than 0.001), but also between their absolute values, suggesting a possible haemodynamic shear-dependent modulation of transmembrane Ca2+ transport. 
Effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis. The effect of captopril on coxsackievirus B3 murine myocarditis was investigated. Thirty-two, 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus B3 on day 0 of the study, then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection. On day 9 of infection, the mice were put to death. Hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination. Heart weight was 125 +/- 19 mg in the control group versus 102 +/- 14 mg in the captopril group (p less than 0.0003). Amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5% (2.0% to 7.5%) in the placebo group versus 2.0% (0.0% to 5.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). The amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0% (0.0% to 27.5%) in the placebo group versus 1.3% (0.0% to 20.0%) in the captopril group (p less than 0.01). The extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2% in the placebo group versus 5.4% in the captopril group (p = 0.052). We conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model. 
Renal manifestations of NaCl sensitivity in borderline hypertensive rats. Compared with the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rat, the spontaneously hypertensive rat exhibits exaggerated alterations in renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory function during volume expansion (exaggerated natriuresis) and environmental stress (antinatriuresis). The borderline hypertensive rat is the first filial offspring of the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the Wistar-Kyoto rat and develops hypertension with increased dietary NaCl intake. The present investigation sought to determine whether the dietary NaCl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the Wistar-Kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress. Borderline hypertensive rats fed a 1% NaCl diet remained normotensive and exhibited renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress that were similar to those of their Wistar-Kyoto parent. Borderline hypertensive rats fed an 8% NaCl diet developed hypertension and exhibited responses that were similar to those of their spontaneously hypertensive parent. Thus, the dietary NaCl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the Wistar-Kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress. The results suggest that increased dietary NaCl intake is able to induce or unmask the capabilities for these responses, which are genetically conveyed to the borderline hypertensive rat by the spontaneously hypertensive rat parent in latent forms. 
The use of PTFE graft to correct anomalous drainage of persistent left superior vena cava. A new technique to correct persistent left superior vena cava (LSVC) drainage into the left atrium is described in a 14-year-old patient with situs inversus, left atrial isomerism common atrium, and mitral valve regurgitation. During surgery, occlusion of the LSVC markedly increased the venous pressure, precluding its ligation. Because of the malposition of the heart and the unusual atrial anatomy, correction with an intra-atrial baffle was not attempted. After correcting the intra-cardiac anomaly, the LSVC was divided and anastomosed to the "right" atrial appendage using a segment of PTFE graft. The postoperative course was uneventful and an angiogram demonstrated excellent performance of the graft. 
Dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging: a new marker of triple-vessel disease. To investigate the significance and mechanism of dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging, we performed both dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging and dipyridamole radionuclide angiography on 83 patients with known angiograms. The dipyridamole/delayed ratio of the left ventricular dimension from the thallium-201 image was defined as the left ventricular dilatation ratio (LVDR). An LVDR greater than the mean + two standard deviations in patients without coronary artery disease was defined as abnormal. Twenty-two of 83 patients showed an abnormal LVDR, and 18 of the 22 patients (82%) had triple-vessel disease. By defect and washout analysis, the sensitivity and specificity for correctly identifying the patients as having triple-vessel disease was 72% and 76%, respectively, whereas LVDR had a sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 93%. When LVDR was used in combination with the defect and washout criteria, sensitivity increased to 84% without a loss of specificity. In those 22 patients with abnormal LVDRs, end-diastolic volume measured by radionuclide angiography did not change after dipyridamole infusion. Dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging reflected relative subendocardial hypoperfusion induced by dipyridamole rather than actual chamber enlargement. The LVDR was moderately sensitive and highly specific for triple-vessel disease and provided complementary information to dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging. 
Percutaneous popliteal approach for angioplasty of superficial femoral artery occlusions. Angioplasty using the percutaneous popliteal approach was utilized in 50 patients (PTS) to recanalize 59 occluded superficial femoral arteries which had been unsuccessfully canalized by using the antegrade approach because of either a flush origin occlusion or inability to maintain the guide wire in the true lumen. All PTS had claudication; 8 had rest pain; 3 had non-healing ulcers. The laser Probe was used in 17 cases and the Rotablator in 3 cases. Occlusion length varied between 1 and 40 cm: 7 lesions were less than 10 cm (group 1); 9 were between 10 and 20 cm (group 2); and 43 were greater than 20 cm (group 3). An angiographic success was obtained in 48/59 lesions (81%): 14/16 (87%) in groups 1 and 2 and 34/43 (79%) in group 3. Three PTS needed complementary common femoral endarterectomy and one required percutaneous aspiration of a thromboembolus. Complications included: arterial perforation and/or dissection (without clinical sequelae) in 11 and a popliteal hematoma in 1 PT. One patient with a severely ischemic leg underwent successful emergency vascular surgery, while another limb salvage patient required below-knee amputation. There was no worsening of limb ischemia from any popliteal approach attempt. At discharge, 39 patients (78%) whose outcome would have been unsuccessful with the traditional antegrade approach were clinically improved after utilizing the popliteal approach to achieve a successful angioplasty procedure. 
A successful treatment of an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula by percutaneous embolization. A 37-year-old woman patient, known to have poorly controlled arterial hypertension that was diagnosed following a cerebrovascular accident at the age of 15 years, was referred to our outpatient clinic for investigation in 1987. An intrarenal arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed by selective renal angiography. Embolization of the fistula was performed using four 15-mm/5-cm coils, which induced thrombosis and obstructed the fistula. The vascularization of the affected kidney improved immediately. During the following 4 months, the antihypertensive treatment was stopped gradually, and the patient remained normotensive. This is an unusual case of a large intrarenal arteriovenous fistula, whose etiology was not clear, that was successfully treated by percutaneous embolization. 
Noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation by Doppler echocardiography. A completely noninvasive method for estimating left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation has been devised with the use of continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography and brachial sphygmomanometry. Of 46 patients studied with mitral regurgitation, 35 (76%) had jets with distinct Doppler spectral envelopes recorded. The peak ventriculoatrial gradient was obtained by measuring peak mitral regurgitant velocity in systole and using the modified Bernoulli equation. This gradient was then subtracted from peak brachial systolic blood pressure, an estimate of left ventricular systolic pressure, to yield left atrial pressure (left atrial pressure = systolic blood pressure - mitral regurgitant pressure gradient). Noninvasive estimates of left atrial pressure from 35 patients were plotted against simultaneous recordings of mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure resulting in the correlation y = 0.88x + 3.3, r = 0.88, standard error of estimate = +/- 4 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Therefore, continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography and sphygmomanometry may be used in selected patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation for noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure. 
Death at cardiac catheterization: coronary artery embolization of calcium debris from Ionescu-Shiley bioprosthesis. The case described is a death due to embolization of calcium debris from a bioprosthesis, dislodged at cardiac catheterization. As more bioprosthetic valves are implanted, and more of them fail long-term with calcification, such complications of the invasive study of these valves may be expected. 
Plasma dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate in patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in J Am Coll Cardiol 1990 Oct;16(4):862-70] Serum levels of DHEA sulfate are inversely associated with cardiovascular death in men, and urinary dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) levels are inversely associated with clinical manifestations of coronary artery disease. These observations may be related to the antiproliferative effects of DHEA, resulting in inhibition of atherosclerotic intimal hyperplasia. To examine the relation between these steroids and a direct measure of coronary atherosclerosis, plasma DHEA and DHEA sulfate levels were determined in 206 middle-aged patients (103 men, 103 women) undergoing elective coronary angiography. Plasma DHEA sulfate levels were lower in men with at least one stenosis greater than or equal to 50% compared with those without any stenosis greater than or equal to 50% (4.9 +/- 2.7 versus 6.1 +/- 3.5 nmol/ml, p = 0.05). Levels of DHEA sulfate were also inversely related to the number of diseased coronary vessels (r = -0.20, p = 0.05) and a continuous measure of the extent of coronary atherosclerosis (r = -0.25, p = 0.01) in men. The association between DHEA sulfate levels and extent of coronary artery disease was independent of age and other conventional risk factors for coronary disease. In women, there was no association between plasma DHEA or DHEA sulfate levels and coronary disease. These data demonstrate a consistent, independent, inverse, dose-response relation between plasma DHEA sulfate levels and angiographically defined coronary atherosclerosis in men. Plasma DHEA sulfate may be another important and potentially modifiable risk factor for the development and progression of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography: a statement by a task force committee of the European Society of Cardiology, the American Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology. Sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. However, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. Therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. As refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase. 
Clinical and hemodynamic correlates of sympathetic nerve activity in normal humans and patients with heart failure: evidence from direct microneurographic recordings. To characterize the neural excitatory state of heart failure, simultaneous measurements of efferent sympathetic nerve activity to muscle (by microneurography) and rest hemodynamics were obtained in 10 normal subjects (age 25 +/- 2 years, mean +/- SEM) and 29 patients with heart failure (age 49 +/- 2 years; New York Heart Association functional class II to IV; left ventricular ejection fraction 21 +/- 1%; cardiac index = 2.16 +/- 0.13 liters/min per m2; pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 23 +/- 2 mm Hg). Sympathetic nerve activity was significantly higher in the patients with heart failure (54.7 +/- 4.5 bursts/min) than in normal subjects (16.7 +/- 2.2 bursts/min, p less than 0.001). Multiple linear regression analyses indicated that sympathetic activity in these human subjects was most strongly and inversely correlated with left ventricular stroke work index (r = -0.86, p less than 0.0001) and stroke volume index (r = -0.85, p less than 0.0001). There was a strong positive correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and pulmonary artery diastolic (r = 0.82, p less than 0.0001) and mean (r = 0.81, p less than 0.0001) pressures. Similar correlations were seen when patients with heart failure were analyzed separately. There was no significant correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and mean arterial pressure, left ventricular ejection fraction (by radionuclide ventriculography), cardiac chamber size (by echocardiography) or arterial oxygen tension in the patients with heart failure. Direct measurements of sympathetic nerve activity correlated closely with plasma norepinephrine (r = 0.72, p less than 0.0001) in patients with heart failure. Thus, sympathetic nerve activity at rest parallels impairment of cardiac performance in patients with heart failure. 
Gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery. Traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) are extremely rare. We describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal SMA pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction. Repair was accomplished by aorta-SMA bypass with saphenous vein. Injuries to the proximal SMA are easily missed at laparotomy, especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent. Recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation. 
Acute hemodynamic effects of captopril in children with a congestive or restrictive cardiomyopathy The acute hemodynamic effects of captopril were evaluated at cardiac catheterization in 16 children (age, 0.3-18 years) with cardiomyopathy. Twelve children had congestive cardiomyopathy, whereas four had restrictive cardiomyopathy. Hemodynamic measurements were obtained 30 and 60 minutes after the oral administration of captopril (0.5 mg/kg). Blood pressures were measured in the aorta, pulmonary artery, right atrium, and pulmonary capillary wedge position; cardiac outputs were measured by the thermodilution technique. Hemodynamic data could not be obtained after the administration of captopril in one child with congestive cardiomyopathy because of an immediate, severe hypotensive response. In 11 of 12 children with congestive cardiomyopathy, cardiac index increased by 22%, from 2.3 to 2.8 l/min/m2 (p less than 0.05), and stroke volume increased by 22%, from 23 to 28 ml/m2 (p less than 0.05). Systemic vascular resistance decreased from 32 to 21 units.m2 (p less than 0.01), but the mean aortic pressure did not change significantly. In contrast, four children with restrictive cardiomyopathy had no change in cardiac output after captopril, but there was a trend toward significant arterial hypotension (mean aortic pressure decreased from 78 to 59 mm Hg). Thus, captopril acutely reduced systemic vascular resistance and increased both cardiac output and stroke volume in children with congestive cardiomyopathy. In children with restrictive cardiomyopathy, however, captopril did not affect cardiac output, but it did decrease aortic pressure. These data indicate that captopril may benefit children with a congestive cardiomyopathy but that captopril probably should not be used in children with restrictive disease. 
Determinants of carotid intima-media thickness: a population-based ultrasonography study in eastern Finnish men. We investigated the determinants of maximal intima-media thickness of common carotid arteries in a population-based sample of 1224 Eastern Finnish men aged 42, 48, 54 or 60 years. A high-resolution B-mode ultrasonographic examination was performed as part of the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study (KIHD). The maximal intima-media thickness (IMT) varied between 0.48 mm and 4.09 mm (mean value +/- SD, 0.94 mm +/- 0.38 mm). Age (standardized partial coefficient, beta = 0.238, P less than 0.0001), ambulatory pulse pressure (beta = 0.130, P less than 0.0001), cigarette-years of smoking (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), serum LDL cholesterol concentration (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), history of ischaemic heart disease (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), pre-exercise systolic blood pressure (beta = 0.070, P = 0.0113) and diabetes (beta = 0.068, P = 0.0072) were most strongly associated with IMT. This study confirms the role of systolic blood pressure, smoking and serum LDL cholesterol levels as major risk factors for increased carotid intima-media thickness. 
The normal mediastinum in blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta and brachiocephalic arteries. In a review of 52 articles, published between 1953 and 1989, 656 patients with blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta or brachiocephalic arteries were identified. Of these, 608 (92.7%) had an abnormal mediastinum on initial chest radiographs obtained in the emergency department, thus allowing early detection of the vascular injury. Unfortunately, 48 (7.3%) of these patients had a normal mediastinum on their initial chest radiographs. This appears to occur when the traumatic pseudoaneurysm is not accompanied by associated mediastinal hemorrhage or hematoma formation, and the pseudoaneurysm is either small or is situated in such a way that it does not alter the mediastinal contour. The use of accessory clinical and radiographic signs to indicate the need for aortography has been shown to be of very low yield, but would have allowed the early detection of an additional 5.6% of the reported cases. Performing aortography solely on the basis of a history of major decelerating blunt trauma to the thorax remains the only way, in the acute emergency department setting, to detect the 1.7% of patients with aortic or brachiocephalic arterial rupture who have no mediastinal abnormality or accessory clinical or radiographic signs of vascular injury. There is evidence from the literature, however, to suggest that the evaluation of serial chest radiographs obtained at close intervals for the first month following trauma for the development of mediastinal abnormality or large hemothorax is an acceptable alternative to the routine performance of aortography in those blunt chest trauma victims with no clinical or radiographic suspicion of vascular injury. 
Coronary balloon angioplasty through diagnostic 6 French catheters. We investigated the use of ultralow profile balloon catheters (Scimed ACE, USCI Probe, Cordis, Orion) for coronary angioplasty through 6 French diagnostic catheters (Schneider, Cordis). Contrast injection was assisted with a Hercules pump (Cordis) in all cases. During 21 procedures, angioplasty of 27 lesions in 20 selected patients was attempted (1.3 lesion/procedure). Twelve lesions were in the right, 10 in the left anterior descending, and 5 in the left circumflex coronary artery. Balloon size varied between 2.5 and 3.5 mm. Twenty lesions could be successfully dilated (74%) through the 6 French catheter and 7 lesions required an exchange to a 7 French angioplasty guiding catheter. For 5 cases, another balloon was also necessary to complete the procedure. The final overall success rate was 100% per patient and per lesion and there were no major complications. Despite the small internal catheter lumen (1.22 mm) coronary visualization was adequate, and mechanical support was good. Failures of 6 French catheters were attributed to insufficient torque control and excessive friction when the balloon crossed the tapered end of the diagnostic catheter. Coronary angioplasty through a diagnostic 6 French catheter is feasible and may represent a reasonable alternative for simple cases that are done during the same session as the diagnostic angiography. Once available, 6 French high flow angioplasty guiding catheters without a tapered tip should improve success while retaining the advantage of a small femoral puncture site. 
Distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath. Dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. Although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation, alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism. To investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation, we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions: pulmonary vascular disease, neuromuscular and chest wall disease, congestive heart failure, pregnancy, interstitial lung disease, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation(s) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors. Cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors. We found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness. In addition, we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea. These findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli. We conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities. Furthermore, different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations. 
New operative method for distal aortopulmonary septal defect. A new technique is described for repairing distal aortopulmonary septal defect with aortic origin of the right pulmonary artery in a 26-day-old neonate. To prevent the narrowing of the proximal right pulmonary artery in the distal aortopulmonary septal defect caused by conventional intraluminal prosthetic patch reconstruction, rerouting of the right pulmonary artery using native aortic wall tissue without artificial material was performed. This method seems to be superior to the conventional method, especially during the neonatal period. 
Clinical results of femoropopliteal bypass using externally supported (EXS) Dacron grafts: with a comparison of above- and below-knee anastomosis. As of the end of September 1989, 52 EXS Dacron grafts had been implanted for femoropopliteal bypass operations. The distal ends of 27 grafts were anastomosed to above-knee popliteal arteries and those of 25 grafts to below-knee popliteal arteries. The cumulative patency rate of above-knee grafts was 71.3% at 54 months, and that of below-knee grafts was 78.8% at 48 months (n.s.). Kinking and stenosis of the arteriosclerotic proximal and/or mid popliteal artery when the knee was bent were angiographically remarkable. These changes may explain why some femoropopliteal grafts occlude with time and why the late results of above-knee grafts are not much better than those of below-knee grafts. 
Transesophageal Doppler color flow mapping assessment of atrial septal defect. Transesophageal Doppler color flow imaging was performed in 19 adult patients (mean age 35 years) with an atrial septal defect demonstrated by cardiac catheterization or at surgery, or both. The transesophageal study correctly identified and classified 19 of 19 shunts in contrast to 16 of 18 shunts identified by the transthoracic approach. The area of the atrial septal defect was calculated by assuming it to be circular and taking the maximal Doppler color flow jet width at the defect site as its diameter. The pulsed Doppler sample volume was placed parallel to the shunt flow direction at the defect site to obtain the mean velocity and flow duration. From these values, the shunt volume was calculated as a product of the defect area, mean velocity, flow duration and heart rate. The calculated shunt flow volume obtained by transesophageal study showed a good correlation with shunt flow volume (r = 0.91, p less than 0.001) and pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio (r = 0.84, p less than 0.001) obtained at cardiac catheterization. The size of the defect by transesophageal Doppler color flow mapping correlated fairly well with the size estimated at surgery (r = 0.73, p = 0.004). It is concluded that transesophageal Doppler color flow imaging is useful in the detection and classification of atrial septal defects and in the assessment of shunt volumes. 
Assessment and counseling of coronary risk factors by family practice residents. A study was undertaken to determine (1) the likelihood that patients seen for episodic health care in a family medical center have been assessed and counseled for coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors, and (2) the likelihood that patients having an identified risk factor have been assessed and counseled regarding other CHD risk factors. One thousand five hundred twenty-eight medical records were randomly selected from all visits occurring over two periods in 1986 and 1987 to 122 residents in an eight-site family medicine residency network. Patients with cardiovascular disease and those younger than 20 or older than 65 years of age were excluded. Assessments were made of (1) smoking history, blood pressure, weight, physical activity, and dietary content during the previous 12 months; (2) family history of cardiovascular disease during the previous 12 months and in the initial patient history; (3) and blood cholesterol during the prior 5 years. Risk-factor counseling practices were examined for the previous 12 months. Blood pressure was assessed in 96% of patients, smoking in 40%, cholesterol in 26%, and family history in 52%. Ninety-six percent of hypertensive patients were counseled for hypertension, but only 45% of smokers and 20% of patients with hypercholesterolemia were counseled for those risk factors. Of patients having a given risk factor, assessment for any other risk factor occurred in fewer than 60% of cases. Patients having a documented positive family history were only slightly more likely than other patients to be assessed for additional risk factors. There is continued need for enhancing coronary risk-factor assessment and counseling by resident physicians. 
Ventricular late potentials and induced ventricular arrhythmias after surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot. Ventricular tachycardia (VT) and sudden death are rare but recognized complications after surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot. We prospectively studied 31 patients (19 boys and 12 girls, mean age +/- standard deviation 7 +/- 4 years) with postoperative tetralogy of Fallot, by means of right-sided cardiac catheterization, 24-hour Holter monitoring, body-surface and intracavitary signal-averaging (gain 10(5) to 10(6), filters of 100 and 300 Hz) and programmed ventricular stimulation (1 and 2 extrastimuli, 3 basic cycle lengths, right ventricular apex and outflow tract). All patients were asymptomatic and none had documented or suspected ventricular arrhythmias. Ventricular late potentials were detected in 10 of 31 patients (32%) and spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias in 12 of 31 patients (39%). No sustained VT was induced by programmed ventricular stimulation but nonsustained VT was induced in 3 patients (10%). Patients with inducible VT more often had late potentials (3 of 3 vs 7 of 28, p less than 0.01), and spontaneous ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) during Holter monitoring (3 of 3 vs 9 of 28, p less than 0.05). To predict VT inducibility, late potentials had a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 75%, a positive predictive value of 30% and a negative predictive value of 100%. For spontaneous VPCs, the figures were 100, 68, 25 and 100%, respectively. It is concluded that shortly after repair of tetralogy of Fallot, the presence of both spontaneous VPCs and ventricular late potentials are associated with an increased incidence of inducible VT. Conversely, the absence of VPCs and ventricular late potentials may identify patients at low risk of subsequent ventricular arrhythmias. 
Possible mechanisms of abnormal norepinephrine sensitivity and reactivity of resistance vessels and the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. A hypothesis. This study examined structural and functional changes of mesenteric resistance vessels in early, developing, and established stages of hypertension development in spontaneously hypertensive rats in an attempt to identify possible mechanisms of the development and maintenance of hypertension. Our results suggest that the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats may be caused by genetic structural and functional abnormalities of resistance vessels. Both abnormalities may be caused by hyperreactivity to norepinephrine through an altered signal transduction process, including the regulation of protein kinase C in smooth muscle cells of resistance vessels in spontaneously hypertensive rats. 
Timing of corticosteroid treatment. Effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep. In paired experiments, we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented, unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas. We compared the effect of methylprednisolone (30 mg/kg intravenous bolus) given before embolization, early (1 H) in the course of embolization, late (3 h) in the course of embolization, or after embolization (at the beginning of the recovery period). We measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics. In six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology, and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph. Methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization. It also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization, although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed. Methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed (4 h). We found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis. Leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep. We conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury, such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury. 
Alcohol and pyruvate cardioplegia. Twenty-four-hour in situ preservation of hamster hearts. Isolated hamster hearts were first perfused with a normal Krebs-Henseleit medium to demonstrate comparable viability of hearts before perfusing and storing them for 24 hours in one of three solutions. The three solutions were a physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate and 4% alcohol to arrest the heart (group 1), a standard cardioplegic solution (group 2), and an alcohol-free physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate (group 3). Recovery in terms of rate/pressure product and oxygen consumption after 30 minutes of reperfusion was 81% and 93%, respectively, for group 1, 13% and 32% for group 2, and 70% and 72% for group 3. Percent of physiologic recovery was not related to recovery of adenosine triphosphate. The adenosine triphosphate level returned to approximately 40% control level in all three groups, and in all three groups inorganic phosphate remained approximately 320% over control level after 30 minutes of reperfusion. Phosphocreatine level significantly higher in groups 1 and 3 than in group 2, as a result of improved oxygen consumption. Intracellular pH, determined by phosphorous 31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, was physiologic in groups 1 and 3 but alkaline in group 2. This alkalinity may have been caused by leaky membranes. Pyruvate helped preserve mitochondrial function during depressed oxygen delivery, such as was seen during the 24-hour storage period. Four percent alcohol arrested the heart; combined with pyruvate plus alcohol solution were better than a standard cardioplegic solution for maintaining functional capability. 
Multiplexing studies of effects of rapid atrial pacing on the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter in canine pericarditis model. BACKGROUND. We report that rapid atrial pacing interrupts atrial flutter when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse is blocked in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit. To characterize the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter and rapid pacing, we studied 11 episodes of induced atrial flutter, mean cycle length 157 +/- 20 msec, in eight dogs with sterile pericarditis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the interruption of atrial flutter by rapid atrial pacing, mean cycle length 139 +/- 21 msec. Areas of slow conduction during atrial flutter were demonstrated at one to three sites in the reentry circuit. After rapid pacing captured the reentry circuit, one area of slow conduction either disappeared (10 episodes) or the degree of slow conduction in an area of slow conduction decreased (one episode). Both changes were in association with activation of the region by a wave front from the pacing impulse that arrived from a direction different than that during the induced atrial flutter. Interruption of atrial flutter during rapid pacing occurred when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse blocked in an area of slow conduction that had either newly evolved during rapid pacing (seven episodes) or that was previously present (four episodes). CONCLUSIONS. Areas of slow conduction present during atrial flutter and rapid pacing of atrial flutter are functional and depend on both the atrial rate and the direction of the circulating wave fronts. Interruption of atrial flutter by rapid pacing results from block of the orthodromic wave front of the pacing impulse in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit. 
Sequential or fixed sample trial design? A case study by stochastic simulation. The properties of Wilcoxon's rank sum test for fixed sample size and a Wilcoxon-type two-sample sequential test have been illustrated and compared by means of stochastic simulation. Data from a real fixed sample trial have been used, both for resampling from the original data, and for construction of an idealized theoretical distribution. The sequential and the fixed sample test obtain equal power, but the sequential test mostly includes considerably fewer patients to reach a conclusion, i.e. the mean and median number of patients included are both much lower than the fixed sample size. Under the hypotheses only a small fraction of the simulation runs exceed the fixed sample size. These findings exemplify results obtained in theoretical analyses and simulation studies covering a wide range of distributions. In our opinion sequential tests have obvious advantages and are in many cases better alternatives than fixed sample tests in clinical trials. 
Vascular and calcemic effects of plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Circulating substances that increase intracellular calcium, and other circulating substances that increase blood pressure, have been described in hypertensive animals and humans. In this study, we report the existence of a factor of the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats that does both. These effects were dose-dependent, and the time course for such effects was correlated with the time course for potentiation of pressor agents by the plasma. In addition, the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats was found to inhibit the depressor effects of parathyroid hormone. Our results confirm the presence of a circulating hypertensive factor in the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats, which may act by increasing calcium uptake in vascular smooth muscle. These findings may also help explain the secondary increase in parathyroid hormone noted in some forms of human and experimental hypertension. 
Incidence and clinical significance of ST segment elevation after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. To study the incidence and clinical significance of postshock ST segment elevations, we recorded 12-lead ECGs immediately after transthoracic direct-current electrical cardioversion in 146 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter. Among 23 patients (19%), acute ST segment elevations amounted to 1.4 +/- 0.8 mV (mean +/- SD) and occurred after 243 +/- 114 joules (cumulative dose) in the precordial leads only in 14, concomitantly in precordial and inferior leads in two, and in the precordial and anterolateral leads in seven. They normalized within 1.5 +/- 0.8 minutes. Occurrence of ST segment elevation was related to previous pericardiotomy (p less than 0.00001) and age (p = 0.01). Estimation of myocardial enzyme release did not show evidence of myocardial damage. Patients with ST segment elevations had a lower conversion rate (48% versus 76%, p = 0.005). Long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm was also diminished (35% versus 59%, p = 0.03). Results of this study show that postcardioversion ST segment elevation occurs predominantly in postpericardiotomy patients and may be associated with an unfavorable arrhythmia prognosis. 
Surgical presentation of Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome). Five patients with Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain, peripheral arterial aneurysms, digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction. As the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery, which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent, the recognition of Kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy. 
Restoration of sinus rhythm during two consecutive pregnancies in a woman with congenital complete heart block. In a woman with congenital complete heart block atrioventricular conduction was normal during two successive pregnancies. Pregnancy, labour, and delivery were uncomplicated on both occasions and complete heart block returned post partum. 
The role of protein kinase C and calcium in the regulation of norepinephrine release from the vascular adrenergic neurons in hypertension. This study was designed to investigate the role of protein kinase C and calcium in vascular adrenergic transmission in hypertension. In perfused mesenteric vasculatures of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR, 7 to 10 weeks old) and age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), we have examined the effects of the protein kinase C inhibitor H-7 on endogenous norepinephrine release and vascular responsiveness during nerve stimulation. Endogenous norepinephrine release and pressor responses during periarterial nerve stimulation were significantly greater in SHR than in WKY. The protein kinase C inhibitor H-7 inhibited the stimulation-induced norepinephrine release and pressor responses in a dose-dependent manner. The magnitude of these suppressive responses were more pronounced in SHR than in WKY. Calcium removal from extracellular fluid also reduced the norepinephrine release more strongly in SHR than in WKY. These results demonstrate that the regulation of norepinephrine release might be more dependent on protein kinase C and calcium in the blood vessels of SHR, which could contribute, at least partially, to the pathogenesis of this form of hypertension. 
Response to diet and cholestyramine in a patient with sitosterolemia. In this report, an 11-year-old boy with diffuse tendinous and tuberous xanthomatosis and a plasma sterol concentration of 555 mg/dL, consisting primarily of cholesterol, is described. Three months after changing from an unrestricted diet to a cholesterol-lowering diet, his plasma sterol concentration decreased to 221 mg/dL. Because of the degree and rapidity of his response to diet, sitosterolemia was suspected. According to results of capillary gas-liquid chromatography of his plasma sterols, there was a sitosterol concentration of 31.3 mg/dL (normal less than 1.0 mg/dL), establishing the diagnosis of sitosterolemia. Addition of cholestyramine therapy (8 g/d) to a low sterol diet further lowered his plasma sterol concentration to 173 mg/dL and led to complete regression of all tuberous xanthomata. Tendinous xanthomata regressed at a slower rate. These findings show that the diagnosis of sitosterolemia should be suspected in severely hypercholesterolemic children (total cholesterol greater than 400 mg/dL) whose plasma cholesterol level is highly responsive to dietary manipulation. The rapid and sustained lowering of plasma cholesterol and regression of xanthomata after treatment with diet and cholestyramine suggest that sitosterolemia is a treatable cause of premature atherosclerosis. 
Myotonic heart disease: a clinical follow-up. We followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years. Two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation, 6 developed a new bundle branch block, 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker, and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening QRS interval had a sudden death. Most patients had predictable, gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system. We recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening QRS interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ECGs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker. 
Effect of intravenous streptokinase on the relation between initial ST-predicted size and final QRS-estimated size of acute myocardial infarcts. Thrombolytic therapy has been documented to reduce acute myocardial infarct size. The previously established relation between initial ST segment elevation and final electrocardiographic (ECG) myocardial infarct size in patients without coronary reperfusion might therefore be altered by thrombolytic therapy. The effect of intravenous streptokinase on this relation was therefore studied in 73 patients with initial acute myocardial infarction who had participated in the Second International Study of Infarct Survival (ISIS-2). Patients who received streptokinase were considered as one group and patients who did not receive streptokinase as a control group. Final myocardial infarct size, which was estimated from the QRS score, was predicted from the admission standard ECG by previously developed formulas based on ST segment elevation. In the 40 control patients there was no change from ST-predicted to final QRS-estimated infarct size (median 17.7% versus 18.3%; p = NS). In the 33 patients in the streptokinase group, there was a highly significant decrease from predicted to final myocardial infarct size (median 21.9% versus 16.2%; p less than 0.0002). This decrease was found for both anterior (median 23.7% versus 19.5%; p less than 0.03) and inferior (median 21.9% versus 12.0%; p = 0.001) infarct locations. Multiple regression analysis adjusting for differences in predicted infarct size confirmed the significance of streptokinase on the difference in infarct size (p = 0.006). Based on the variability of the percent change from predicted to final infarct size in the control group, a threshold decrease greater than or equal to 20% is required for identification of salvage. 
Rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure. The pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance. In both cases, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and %VC was less than 30%. Remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night. The cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints. All the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died. Appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis. 
Intraoperative coronary excimer laser angioplasty: preliminary clinical experience. Diffuse coronary artery atherosclerosis is generally recognized as a deterrent to successful revascularization if it cannot be adequately treated. Mechanical endarterectomy can be useful, but it is not the optimal solution owing to the associated higher incidences of perioperative infarction and mortality. The use of laser energy as an endarterectomy tool appears promising. To investigate the application of excimer laser radiation to intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy, 15 stenotic lesions in 13 patients were treated with excimer irradiation during coronary artery bypass grafting. Eleven (73%) of the lesions were enlarged by the excimer probe (6 of the successes were in calcified lesions). The 4 arteries not enlarged by the excimer laser all demonstrated calcified lesions. There were 3 perforations and 2 dissections, all but 1 in heavily calcified arteries. The results of this phase 1 safety and efficacy study indicate that excimer irradiation can recanalize most arteries, including total and subtotal occlusions and some calcified lesions. Further evaluation with better delivery systems is needed to determine whether the perforation rate can be reduced. 
Presentation of breast carcinoma as Volkmann's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases. Metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare. They usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma. We describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and Volkmann's type contracture. 
Increased ischemic injury but decreased hypoxic injury in hypertrophied rat hearts. The purpose of this study was to compare the degree of ischemic and hypoxic injury in normal versus hypertrophied rat hearts to investigate basic mechanisms responsible for irreversible myocardial ischemic injury. Hearts from rats with bands placed on the aortic arch at 23 days of age (BAND) and sham-operated rats (SHAM, 8 weeks postoperative) were isolated, perfused with Krebs buffer, and had a left ventricular balloon to measure developed pressure. Hearts were made globally ischemic until they developed peak ischemic contracture and were reperfused for 30 minutes. Additional hearts were perfused for 15 minutes with glucose-free hypoxic buffer followed by 20 minutes of oxygenated perfusion. There was an 87% increase in heart weight of BAND compared with SHAM (p less than 0.01). During ischemia, lactate levels increased faster in BAND compared with SHAM, ischemic contracture occurred earlier in BAND than in SHAM despite no difference in ATP levels, and postischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure was less in BAND (26.8 +/- 5.6% of control left ventricular pressure, mean +/- SEM) compared with SHAM (40 +/- 4.6%, p less than 0.05). During hypoxic perfusion, lactate release was greater in BAND than in SHAM (48.8 +/- 1.2 versus 26.6 +/- 0.97 mumols/g, p less than 0.01), and with reoxygenation, lactate dehydrogenase release was less in BAND than in SHAM (13.2 +/- 0.7 versus 19.5 +/- 0.2 IU/g, p less than 0.01). After hypoxia and reoxygenation, left ventricular pressure recovery was greater in BAND than in SHAM (93 +/- 8.4% versus 66 +/- 5.3%, p less than 0.01). Thus, this study suggests that hypertrophied hearts have a greater potential for glycolytic metabolism, resulting in an increased rate of by-product accumulation during ischemia, which may be responsible for the increased susceptibility of hypertrophied hearts to ischemic injury. 
Severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus. We describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy. The patient was discovered to have SLE at 14 weeks' gestation. Although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester, she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN)-like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles, with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges, brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy. PAN-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in SLE. This case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of SLE. 
Transcardiac release of leukotriene C4 by neutrophils in patients with coronary artery disease. Leukotriene C4 is a potent constrictor of smooth muscle in vitro and may induce coronary vasoconstriction in vivo. To study leukotriene C4 release by neutrophils in patients with coronary artery disease, neutrophils were separated from blood samples taken from the coronary sinus and aorta in 20 patients with stable exertional angina and angiographically documented coronary artery narrowings (group I). Eight patients with normal coronary arteries were also studied (group II). To assess leukotriene C4 generation, neutrophils were incubated with calcium ionophore A 23187 (0.25 microM) and the supernatants obtained after centrifugation were analyzed for leukotriene C4 by radioimmunoassay. Patients in group I had a significantly lower release of leukotriene C4 from neutrophils separated from the coronary sinus blood than from those separated from aortic blood (4.33 +/- 0.69 versus 5.92 +/- 0.54 ng/ml, p less than 0.025), whereas patients in group II had a similar release of leukotriene C4 by the neutrophils separated from coronary sinus blood and from aortic blood (6.0 +/- 0.72 versus 6.4 +/- 0.66 ng/ml, p = NS). Moreover, in group I patients, a significant correlation was found (p less than 0.01) between the extent of coronary artery disease (expressed by the Leaman coronary score) and the percent reduction in leukotriene C4 released from neutrophils separated from coronary sinus blood as compared with leukotriene C4 produced by neutrophils separated from aortic blood. These data show that neutrophils from patients with coronary artery disease have a reduced ability to produce leukotriene C4 after stimulation by calcium ionophore A 23187. 
Increased endothelin in experimental heart failure. Recent studies demonstrate that endothelin, a potent endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide, circulates in plasma of normal animals and humans. However, the role of this peptide in pathophysiological states remains unclear. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that circulating endothelin concentrations are increased in experimental congestive heart failure (CHF), a pathophysiological state characterized by activation of vasoconstrictor mechanisms. In anesthetized dogs with CHF produced by 8 days of rapid ventricular pacing (n = 28), circulating plasma endothelin was increased compared with values for normal controls (n = 28; 20.4 +/- 1.4 versus 9.7 +/- 0.9 pg/ml, respectively; p less than 0.0001). A plasma endothelin level of more than 14.0 was a sensitive and specific indicator of significant CHF. Moreover, within the group with experimental CHF, right atrial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure correlated independently with circulating endothelin levels. Based on recent studies demonstrating the physiological actions of twofold increases in circulating endothelin, as observed in the present study, a possible role for endothelin in the pathophysiology of CHF is advanced. 
Spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistula with central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization. Spontaneous dural carotid-cavernous fistulas are dural vascular malformations that usually run a benign course. We present a case of a spontaneously occurring dural carotid-cavernous fistula complicated by central retinal vein occlusion and iris neovascularization that led to progressive visual failure. 
Influence of right bundle branch block on short- and long-term survival after acute anterior myocardial infarction The impact of right bundle branch block on long-term prognosis after anterior wall myocardial infarction is unclear. In 932 patients with Q wave anterior infarction, the short- and long-term prognostic significance of the presence of right bundle branch block was analyzed. Compared with 754 patients without block, 178 patients with right bundle branch block after myocardial infarction showed an increased incidence of left ventricular failure (72% versus 52%, p less than 0.001) and increased in-hospital (32% versus 8%, p less than 0.001) and 1 year after hospital discharge (17% versus 7%, p less than 0.001) cardiac mortality rates. The presence of right bundle branch block was an independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality when entered in a multivariate analysis. However, the absence of left ventricular failure identified a subgroup of patients with right bundle branch block with low in-hospital (4%) and 1 year postdischarge (5%) cardiac mortality rates comparable with those of patients with neither failure nor right bundle branch block (1.7% and 4.8%, respectively). In the presence of left ventricular failure, patients with associated right bundle branch block had higher in-hospital (43% versus 14%, p less than 0.01) and 1 year postdischarge (24% versus 9%, p less than 0.01) cardiac mortality rates than those of patients with failure but no right bundle branch block. Thus, the presence of right bundle branch block after anterior myocardial infarction is an independent marker of poor prognosis. 
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of crural arteries. The authors dilated 103 stenosed crural arteries in 71 patients. Primary success was defined as traversing and reducing the lesion to a residual stenosis of less than 30%. This was achieved in 96% of cases. Complications included one vessel rupture and one occluding intimal flap, which were treated by the vascular surgeon with bypass and venous patch, respectively. One hematoma at the puncture site was treated surgically because of its size. With modern materials such as steerable guide wires and low-profile balloon catheters, dilation of crural arteries has become safe. Until now, the indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of crural arteries have been limited to Fontaine stages III and IV disease. The authors believe that the indications for PTA in Fontaine stage IIb disease are justified, especially if intervention improves outflow after a more proximal recanalizing procedure is performed. 
Effect of indecainide in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Indecainide, a new antiarrhythmic agent classified as type Ic was evaluated in 11 patients with heart disease who had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes/hour, moderate-to-marked left ventricular dysfunction, and mean ejection fraction 34% +/- 8%. Patients received indecainide, 50 mg by mouth, every 6 hours and the dose was increased until greater than or equal to 80% suppression was noted, adverse effects occurred, or a maximum dose of 100 mg indecainide was given every 6 hours. Ventricular premature complexes were suppressed greater than or equal to 80% in nine patients (p less than 0.05) and ventricular tachycardia episodes were completely suppressed in five of eight patients. The effective or maximal mean daily indecainide dose was 191 +/- 32 mg; half of the responders achieved achieved efficacy at serum drug concentration greater than or equal to 600 ng/ml. Serum drug concentration was directly related to gender (r = 0.78, p less than 0.04) and inversely related to creatinine clearance (r = 0.74, p less than 0.05) and ejection fraction (r = 0.71, p less than 0.02). Indecainide prolonged mean PR and QRS intervals (p less than 0.05) but not QT or QTc. There was a linear relation between percent change in PR (r = 0.80, p less than 0.001) and QRS (r = 0.66, p less than 0.001) intervals and serum drug concentration. After starting or increasing the dose, careful observation of patients with decreased renal function or reduced ejection fraction should be exercised because they attain higher drug concentration than normal subjects. 
An overview of intimal hyperplasia. Many hypotheses have been postulated for the development of intimal hyperplasia in vein and prosthetic grafts. In these hypotheses, the central theme seems to be endothelial injury, but not always denuding injury. As we progress into the biologic era with more sophisticated research tools, the study of the endothelial cell may give us the answers to the problem of intimal hyperplasia. In addition, the leukocyte is still a relatively unknown entity and further modification of their function may hold promise. 
Why is diabetes mellitus a stronger risk factor for fatal ischemic heart disease in women than in men? The Rancho Bernardo Study [published erratum appears in JAMA 1991 Jun 26;265(24):3249] We report here the 14-year sex-specific effect of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus on the risk of fatal ischemic heart disease in a geographically defined population of men and women aged 40 through 79 years. There were 207 men and 127 women who had diabetes at baseline based on medical history or fasting hyperglycemia. They were compared with 2137 adults who had fasting euglycemia and a negative personal and family history of diabetes. The relative hazard of ischemic heart disease death in diabetics vs nondiabetics was 1.8 in men and 3.3 in women, after adjusting for age, and 1.9 and 3.3, respectively, after adjusting for age, systolic blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index, and cigarette smoking using the Cox regression model. The sex difference in the independent contribution of diabetes to fatal heart disease was largely explained by the persistently more favorable survival rate of women (than men) without diabetes. 
Current status of antitachycardia devices. With the limitations of currently available modalities for treating clinically important tachycardias, the role of implanted antitachycardia devices will continue to expand. The challenge of the future will not only involve continued technological advances but the socioeconomic impact of this efficacious but expensive mode of therapy in an era of increasing financial restraints. Further studies to definitively prove the efficacy of more widespread use of antitachycardia device therapy will be needed. 
Portal venous gas in a patient with Crohn's disease. Portal venous gas usually occurs in the setting of an acute abdomen. Several causes for benign portal venous gas (PVG) have been reported. We describe the finding of PVG by computed tomography in a febrile patient with Crohn's disease and discuss the clinical implications of such a finding. 
A positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia. We measured extravascular density (EVD) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate (PTCER) for 68Ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates, including six patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and 15 patients with focal pneumonia. Contralateral, radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia. Mean EVD was elevated in the patients with CHF, ARDS, and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects (p less than 0.05), but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups. PTCER in normal subjects and in patients with CHF was not significantly different (21 +/- 11 versus 44 +/- 16 x 10(-4) min-1, respectively, p = NS). PTCER was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia (173 +/- 99) or ARDS (170 +/- 79). PTCER was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia, even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal EVD values. These results suggest that PTCER is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability, which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema. 
Effects of fish-oil ingestion on cardiovascular risk factors in hyperlipidemic subjects in Israel: a randomized, double-blind crossover study. Effects of a daily fish-oil supplement on serum lipids, apolipoproteins, and some platelet functions and hemorheologic variables were examined in 27 hyperlipidemic subjects in a randomized, controlled, double-blind, crossover fashion with an identically encapsulated vegetable oil serving as the control treatment. Despite the habitual high linoleic acid intake of the study population, significant incorporation of n-3 (omega-3) fatty acids into the serum, platelet, and erythrocyte lipids was observed after the fish-oil supplement. Ingestion of fish oil resulted in a 40% decrease in the triglyceride concentration, a 12% increase in HDL cholesterol, and a significant decrease in plasma viscosity, whereas the vegetable-oil placebo had no significant effect. We conclude that a moderate intake of fish oil (15 g/d) is a feasible treatment for hypertriglyceridemia even in patients with a background of high linoleic acid intake and that it may have a beneficial effect on several cardiovascular risk factors. 
A comparison of coarctation resection and subclavian flap angioplasty using ultrasonographically monitored postocclusive reactive hyperemia The reported relatively high incidence of early restenosis at the coarctation repair site with subclavian flap angioplasty, especially in infants less than 3 months of age, prompted a physiologically oriented analysis of relief of obstruction from coarctation after subclavian flap angioplasty versus resection and end-to-end anastomosis in infancy. Twenty-one patients who had undergone repair of coarctation in infancy by either subclavian flap angioplasty (nine patients) (median age 8 years) or resection and end-to-end anastomosis (12 patients) (median age 8 years) were evaluated by Doppler spectrum analysis of the blood flow velocities in the femoral artery at rest and during reactive hyperemia. The median resting right upper to lower limb systolic pressure difference (with interquartile range) was similar in the angioplasty, resection and anastomosis, and control groups: -5 mm Hg (18 mm Hg), 0 mm Hg (12 mm Hg), and -2.5 mm Hg (10 mm Hg), respectively. Also, similar resting values for the maximum frequency of the advancing curve and the pulsatility and resistance indices were measured in the three groups. During reactive hyperemia of the leg, however, a significant hemodynamic obstruction across the repair site became clinically manifest in the angioplasty group only, as documented by a lower pulsatility index in comparison with the control group (p = 0.01, Mann-Whitney U test). Comparison of the hemodynamic results between the angioplasty and resection and anastomosis groups in subdivisions of infants operated on at an age of less or greater than 3 months, both at rest and during reactive hyperemia, showed, already at rest, a significantly lower value for the pulsatility index in the former angioplasty subdivision (p = 0.05, Student's t test), indicating a significant resistance at the coarctation repair site in the angioplasty patients operated on before the third month of life. A disadvantage of angioplasty (compared with resection and anastomosis) was noted when angioplasty was performed before the third month of life, and an unequivocal lack of advantage was noted when performed beyond that period regarding relief of obstruction from coarctation. In addition, a definite potential for adverse long-term effects on the hemodynamics of the left upper limb after subclavian flap angioplasty in infancy has been documented. For these reasons we prefer to perform resection and end-to-end anastomosis for repair of coarctation in infancy. 
Results of intracoronary stents for management of coronary dissection after balloon angioplasty. Dissections after coronary balloon angioplasty are risk factors for acute or subacute vessel closures. Intracoronary stenting was developed to avoid these complications by pressing the intimal and medial flaps against the vessel wall, thus reducing the risk of acute thrombosis. A total of 22 stents were implanted into the coronary arteries of 15 patients with dissections after balloon angioplasty causing angina pectoris or ischemic electrocardiographic changes. Stent delivery was successful in all cases. In 1 patient acute stent thrombosis was documented and treated successfully by thrombolytic therapy. Another patient underwent coronary artery bypass surgery 24 hours later because of persisting angina. Angiograms after 24 hours documented vessel patency in the remaining 14 patients. Late control angiograms after 4 to 6 months were obtained in 12 of 14 patients. Vessel patency without significant restenosis was observed in 8 patients, restenosis in 3 and reocclusion in 1 patient. All 3 patients with multiple stent implantation had restenosis (n = 2) or reocclusion (n = 1), compared with 1 patient with single stent implantation. Thus, intracoronary stenting appears to be a secure and effective method of handling bailout situations caused by dissection after balloon angioplasty, with good long-term results when only a single stent is implanted. 
Primary malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the aorta associated with aortic dissection. We report a unique case of primary aortic malignant fibrous histiocytoma presenting clinically as aortic dissection. To our knowledge, this occurrence is the first ever reported. The magnetic resonance imaging technique may provide superiority in the differential diagnosis between tumor and hematoma of aortic dissection. Aortic tumor, although rare, should be included among the causes of aortic dissection. 
The influence of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics. To determine the effect of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics we measured ambulatory venous pressure, venous refill time, maximum venous pressure with exercise, amplitude of venous pressure excursion, and duplex-derived common femoral and popliteal vein diameter and peak flow velocities with and without stockings in 10 healthy subjects and 16 patients with chronic deep venous insufficiency. The effects of below-knee and above-knee 30 to 40 torr and 40 to 50 torr gradient stockings were studied. Despite documentation of substantial stocking compressive effects by skin pressure measurements, neither below-knee or above-knee elastic compression stockings significantly improved ambulatory venous pressure, venous refill time, maximum venous pressure with exercise, or the amplitude of venous pressure excursion in healthy patients or in patients with deep venous insufficiency (p greater than 0.05). In patients with deep venous insufficiency stockings modestly increased popliteal vein diameter and flow velocity in the upright resting position (p less than 0.02). After tiptoe exercise without stockings deep venous peak flow velocity increased in healthy patients and in patients with deep venous insufficiency by a mean of 103% in the popliteal vein and 46% in the common femoral vein (p less than 0.01). With the application of elastic compression stockings only modest augmentation of deep venous flow velocity occurred in both groups above that seen in the bare leg after exercise. Thus elastic compression stockings did not improve deep venous hemodynamic measurements in patients with deep venous insufficiency. The beneficial effects of stockings in the treatment of deep venous insufficiency must relate to effects other than changes in deep venous hemodynamics. 
Quantification of the reversibility of stress-induced thallium-201 myocardial perfusion defects: a multicenter trial using bull's-eye polar maps and standard normal limits A multicenter trial was performed on 140 patients from four centers to determine the accuracy of quantitative analysis of stress/delayed thallium-201 myocardial tomograms using normal limits to assess the relative amount of reversibility of stress-induced defects. The patients were found to have 85 fixed and 124 reversible defects, as determined by visual interpretation. Reversibility bull's-eye polar maps were compared to gender-matched normal limits from 36 normals. Regions were identified as reversible if their normalized difference between stress and 4 hr greater than 1.5 s.d.s. from the mean normal limits. Overall agreement between experts at multicenter sites and reversibility maps was 73% for reversible defects and 80% of fixed defects. Sensitivity in detecting reversibility was highest for the left circumflex (88%) and lowest for the right coronary (60%). These results indicate that reversibility polar maps and normal limits offer an objective, accurate technique for determining the reversibility of stress-induced perfusion defects. 
Effect of hydralazine on the mesenteric vasculature of hypertensive rats. To test whether structural alterations observed in the mesenteric vasculature of Wistar-Kyoto spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were dependent on the presence of hypertension, male SHR and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive (WKY) rats were treated in utero and postnatally with hydralazine up to 28 weeks of age. Treated SHR, WKY, and untreated WKY rats had comparable blood pressures that were less than those of untreated SHR. Treatment altered the dimensions of the superior mesenteric, intermediate-sized, and small arteries of the mesenteric vasculature. In the case of the superior mesenteric artery and intermediate vessels, hydralazine treatment increased the lumen and medial cross-sectional areas of the arteries in WKY rats and slightly decreased both parameters in SHR. Within the small arteries, treatment significantly increased the lumen size in SHR but not WKY rats and had no significant effect on the media of the vessels. Despite the above alterations, the media-to-lumen cross-sectional area ratios remained significantly elevated in SHR over WKY rats in both the treated and control groups of animals within all classes of arteries. The results indicate that there is an inherent increase in the quantity of media surrounding the arteries of SHR when compared with WKY rats that cannot be abolished by normalizing the blood pressure in utero and postnatally with hydralazine treatment. In SHR, such changes persist not only in arteries that exhibit an increase in the media-to-lumen ratio before hypertension but also in the superior mesenteric artery in which an increase in the ratio occurs after hypertension development. 
Klinefelter's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery Klinefelter's syndrome is a rare entity. Even rarer is an anomalous origin of the Left Main Coronary Artery. For both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare. Reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with Klinefelter's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach. 
Pulse oximetry: a new non-invasive assessment of peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Peripheral skin perfusion reflects the level of vascularity and viability of a limb and may help in planning the site of amputation or bypass surgery in patients with vascular disease. This study used peripheral pulse oximetry in 20 healthy volunteers and in 20 patients with limb ischaemia. Pulse oximetry saturation levels (Psa,O2) were compared with ankle artery Doppler pressures and transcutaneous oxygen measurements (Ptc,O2). Recordings were taken at two standard sites distally and referenced to finger and forearm to calculate an index. A significant correlation was found between Ptc,O2 and Psa,O2 in patients with ischaemia (r = 0.68, P less than 0.01). A further group of 12 patients with acute limb ischaemia was similarly assessed before and after revascularization. After revascularization mean(s.d.) Ptc,O2 increased from 38(13) to 44(1) mmHg (P greater than 0.05) and mean(s.d.) Psa,O2 increased from 86(3) to 90(4) per cent (P less than 0.01). These data suggest that pulse oximetry is a more sensitive index of peripheral perfusion than Ptc,O2 or ankle artery Doppler pressure and that, because of its accuracy and simplicity, it merits further use. 
Effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature in normal dogs and in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature. BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that bipyridines or their derivatives may have a selective pulmonary vasodilation effect. METHODS: Preliminary study: milrinone administration to 12 normal dogs (low dose [bolus 75 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by a continuous infusion at 0.75 micrograms/kg.min, n = 6]; high dose [bolus 150 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by continuous infusion at 1.5 micrograms/kg.min, n = 6]). Main study: milrinone administration to 18 dogs with pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary embolism induced by a massive injection of autologous muscle cubes. The pulmonary hypertension dogs were divided into three groups: a) group E (n = 6) received embolization only, as control; b) group L (n = 6) received low-dose milrinone; and c) group H (n = 6) received high-dose milrinone, equivalent to the preliminary study group. Hemodynamic measurements and blood samplings were obtained at baseline and at 15, 30, and 60 min after start of milrinone infusion. RESULTS: Milrinone did not change mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP) in normal dogs. Milrinone decreased MPAP significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary vascular resistance index remained at an almost constant level in normal dogs, but decreased significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. Mean arterial pressure was maintained at a constant level in all groups. High-dose milrinone administration decreased systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) significantly; low-dose milrinone administration decreased SVRI slightly. CONCLUSIONS: Milrinone may have a selective pulmonary vasodilatory effect only in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. The mechanism that produced a selectivity on pulmonary vasculature in dogs with pulmonary hypertension is unknown. However, an inhibition of platelet aggregation may decrease the MPAP resulting from an increase in cAMP caused by milrinone. Further studies are needed to resolve the pulmonary vasodilatory effect of milrinone in dogs with pulmonary hypertension. 
Effects of metoprolol on rest and exercise cardiac function and plasma catecholamines in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy. To define the effects of 2 months of metoprolol therapy on cardiac function, aerobic performance and sympathetic nervous system activity, metoprolol (75 to 100 mg/day) was administered to 10 patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF). Metoprolol was discontinued in 2 patients because of worsening CHF. In the remaining 8 patients, peak oxygen uptake increased significantly (14.8 +/- 3.0 to 16.1 +/- 2.5 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05) as did the oxygen pulse (9.0 +/- 2.2 to 12.6 +/- 1.8 ml/beat, p less than 0.02). Resting heart rate (87 +/- 18 to 62 +/- 9 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and peak exercise heart rate (133 +/- 13 to 105 +/- 30 beats/min, p less than 0.02) were both reduced. Mean resting ejection fraction increased from 0.15 +/- 0.06 to 0.25 +/- 0.11 and peak exercise ejection fraction also tended to increase (0.19 +/- 0.11 to 0.28 +/- 0.15, difference not significant). Both resting plasma norepinephrine (613 +/- 706 to 303 +/- 142 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) and epinephrine (71 +/- 50 to 40 +/- 21 pg/ml, p less than 0.05) were reduced. Circulating lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptor number was unchanged (1,334 +/- 292 to 1,344 +/- 456 receptors/cell, difference not significant). It is concluded that metoprolol therapy is associated with improvements in rest and exercise ventricular performance and maximal aerobic capacity. These improvements are associated with a decline in resting sympathetic nervous system activity. 
Clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in femoropopliteal disease and the results of surgery. From 1980 to 1988 we performed 288 femoropopliteal bypass operations in 231 patients at the Oregon Health Sciences University. The indication for the procedure was claudication in 31% and the relief of limb-threatening ischemia in 64%. Operative mortality occurred after four of these operations (1.4%), including three deaths from myocardial infarction and one death from stroke. The femoropopliteal bypass patients were divided into groups for patency analysis, including those undergoing bypass surgery with a good quality greater saphenous vein versus alternate bypass conduits and patients undergoing primary limb bypass versus those undergoing repeat bypass after prior bypass failure. Our overall primary graft patency for all femoropopliteal grafts was 79% at 5 years. Patients undergoing bypass with a good quality greater saphenous vein had primary graft patency of 85% at 5 years. Patients undergoing bypass using a conduit other than greater saphenous vein had a 5-year patency of 73%. Patients undergoing repeat bypass after a prior failed bypass had a 5-year patency of 57%. 
Elapsed time from symptom onset and acute myocardial infarction in a community hospital. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Previous reports have emphasized that thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction should be initiated within three or four hours of symptom onset to obtain the best clinical outcomes. However, our clinical impression was that late arrivers, who often do not receive thrombolytic therapy, have a good short-term prognosis. Therefore, we investigated the relationships among the elapsed time from symptom onset, thrombolytic therapy, and short-term prognosis in acute myocardial infarction patients. The research hypothesis was that late arrivers have a better in-hospital prognosis because they have less severe disease that may involve spontaneous thrombolysis. DESIGN: Observational cohort study based on reviewing medical records and emergency department service logs. SETTING: 500-bed teaching hospital with medical school affiliation in northeastern Ohio. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Four hundred consecutive patients with acute infarction confirmed by chest pain and positive ECGs or elevated cardiac enzymes. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients arriving early (elapsed time less than or equal to 1.5 hours) were more likely to be in Killip class III or IV (P = .04) or to have hypotension (P = .0004); and they experienced twofold increased odds of ventricular tachycardia (P = .007), cardiac arrest (P = .03), or death (P = .01). Patients arriving late (elapsed time greater than 3.5 hours) were more likely to have a history of angina (P = .002) and had a better short-term prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: Time of ED arrival after onset of acute myocardial infarction symptoms distinguishes two patient groups that differ in their risk of in-hospital complications. Late arrivers have better short-term prognoses and less (acutely) severe disease, and may have less need for thrombolytic therapy because of possible spontaneous thrombolysis. Patients with prior angina may need education on seeking care if their symptoms change. 
Adjacent solid boundaries alter the size of regurgitant jets on Doppler color flow maps. Recent studies have attempted to predict the severity of regurgitant lesions from jet size on Doppler flow maps. Jet size is a function of both regurgitant volume and fluid entrained from the receiving chamber and, for a free jet, is a function of its momentum at the orifice. However, regurgitant jets often approach or attach to cardiac walls, potentially altering their momentum and ability to expand by entrainment. Therefore, this study addressed the hypothesis that adjacent walls influence regurgitant jet size as seen on Doppler flow maps. Steady flow was driven through circular orifices (0.02 to 0.05 cm2) at physiologic velocities of 2 to 5 m/s. At a constant flow rate and orifice velocity, orifice position was varied to produce three jet geometries: free jets, jets adjacent to a horizontal chamber wall lying 1 cm below the orifice and wall jets with the orifice at the level of the wall. Doppler color flow imaging was performed at identical instrument settings for all jets. Two long-axis views of the jet were obtained: a vertical view perpendicular to the wall, resembling that most commonly used in patients to image the length of the jet, and a horizontal view parallel to the chamber wall. Velocities along the jet were also measured by Doppler mapping. 
Cardiotoxicity of interferon. A review of 44 cases. Cardiovascular complications have occurred in clinical trials of interferon. We review herein experience to date of cardiotoxicity with all types of interferons in cancer patients. The most common presentations of cardiotoxicity were cardiac arrhythmia, dilated cardiomyopathy, and symptoms of ischemic heart disease, including myocardial infarction and sudden death. The cardiac effects were not related to the daily dose, cumulative total dose, or period of therapy. Some of the patients in whom interferon has caused cardiovascular sequelae have had a history of coronary heart disease or have previously been given chemotherapy with drugs known to be cardiotoxic. In most of the patients, cardiac toxicity was reversible following the cessation of the drug therapy. 
Repair of flail anterior leaflets of tricuspid and mitral valves by cusp remodeling. We present an alternative approach to extensive rupture of the chordae tendineae leading to flail anterior leaflets. Resection of the affected cusp segment, suture of the cut edges, and extensive plication of the segment of annulus devoid of leaflets abolished massive regurgitation while maintaining an adequate valve orifice. 
Plasma prolactin and clinical outcome in preterm infants. Plasma prolactin was measured weekly in 280 preterm infants. The complex gestational age dependent pattern of postnatal prolactin release has been defined and reference standards provided. Plasma prolactin was higher in girls, with increasing divergence between the sexes from the third week onwards, and higher after two weeks, in infants of mothers with pregnancy related hypertension. Diet, assigned randomly, exerted a major effect on plasma prolactin, with significantly higher values in infants fed donor breast milk or standard formula than in those fed a protein, energy, and mineral enriched preterm formula. After adjusting for confounding factors, infants with the lowest plasma prolactin concentrations (less than 1000 mU/l, 32.9 micrograms/l) occurring usually at a nadir between days 5 and 12, showed a 120% increase in the duration of ventilatory assistance required, a 20% increase in the number of days to attain full enteral feeds, and a 30% decrease in length gain. We suggest preterm birth disrupts the normal perinatal pattern of prolactin release and that those infants who develop relatively low plasma concentration have an adverse outcome. Our data add to the broader debate on whether preterm infants require multiple endocrine replacement treatment. 
Pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation for intraoperative right ventricular failure. Two cases of severe low cardiac output and right ventricular failure after coronary artery bypass grafting necessitated pulmonary artery balloon counterpulsation after intraaortic balloon pumping and maximal inotropic/pressor support were unsuccessful in maintaining a satisfactory cardiac output. Hemodynamic improvement was sufficient to allow removal of the device 2 and 3 days postoperatively, with survival in 1 patient. Pulmonary artery counterpulsation is less morbid in comparison with other mechanical methods of right ventricular support and is applicable in right ventricular failure of intermediate severity. 
Intrapericardial extralobar pulmonary sequestration in a neonate. A huge pericardial effusion was diagnosed during fetal ultrasound examination performed in the 42nd week of pregnancy on a healthy 25-year-old woman. Immediately after the birth, a two-dimensional echocardiogram confirmed this finding in the infant, and an intrapericardial kidney-shaped solid mass measuring 45 x 56 x 15 mm, completely surrounded by pericardial effusion, was visualized to the left part of the heart. The heart was normal. No signs of cardiac tamponade were seen. At the age of two days, the mass was surgically resected and the pericardial fluid evacuated. Microscopic examination revealed that the mass was formed totally of normal lung tissue surrounded by normal pleura. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of intrapericardial extralobar sequestration consisting of an accessory lung with completely normal lung tissue. 
Noncoordinate regulation of alpha-1 adrenoreceptor coupling and reexpression of alpha skeletal actin in myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure in rats. To determine the effects of myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure on the regulation of surface alpha-1 adrenoreceptors and signal transduction, large infarcts were produced in rats and the animals killed seven days later. After the documentation of impaired left ventricular pump performance, radioligand binding studies of the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor, norepinephrine-stimulated phosphoinositol turnover, and ADP ribosylation of 41 kD substrate by pertussis toxin were examined in the hypertrophying unaffected myocardium. Moreover, the expression of sarcomeric actin isoforms was analyzed by Northern blots and hybridization with specific oligonucleotide probes. Alpha-1 adrenoreceptor density was found not to be altered in membranes obtained from the spared left ventricular tissue, whereas phosphoinositol turnover was increased 3.1-fold in the viable myocytes of infarcted hearts. Furthermore, pertussis toxin substrate was augmented 2.5-fold in membranes prepared from the surviving left ventricular myocardium. Finally, an upregulation of the skeletal actin isoform was detected in the tissue of the failing left ventricle. In conclusion, the possibility is raised that in the presence of severe myocardial dysfunction and ongoing reactive hypertrophy, effector pathways linked to the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor may stimulate the myocyte hypertrophic response which would tend to normalize cardiac hemodynamics. The reexpression of alpha skeletal actin may be a molecular indicator of the persistance of an overload on the myocardium. 
New horizons in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis. The application of recombinant DNA methodology to clinical medicine offers the clinician a new generation of more potent and specific therapies. Recombinant methods offer great promise in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis. This review focuses on the characterization of 1) molecules that activate plasminogen locally (in the vicinity of a thrombus) rather than systemically, and 2) molecules that offer new approaches to the inhibition of platelet activation and thrombin activity. We first describe the methods used to uncover these molecules and their characterization at the molecular level. The ways in which this knowledge can lead to the development of agents tailored to clinical needs are then explored. 
Arteriovenous fistula as a complication of temporary pacemaker insertion: treatment with percutaneous embolization. Arteriovenous fistula is a rare complication of central venous catheterization. We present a case of right internal mammary artery-to-right innominate vein fistula resulting from emergent insertion of a temporary pacemaker. Percutaneous management is discussed and the literature is reviewed. 
Temporal arteritis presenting as a submandibular swelling. Temporal arteritis (giant cell arteritis) is a disease of protean manifestation. A case which presented as a submandibular swelling is reported. 
Posttachycardia T-wave changes. A 25-year-old previously healthy man presented to the emergency department with a tachydysrhythmia. After pharmacological intervention, the patient's rhythm converted to normal sinus and symmetrically inverted T-wave changes were noted. Although asymptomatic after conversion, the patient was admitted to the hospital and monitored for two days to rule out cardiac ischemia correlating with the T-wave changes. The patient was ultimately discharged in good health. A review of the emergency medical literature fails to reveal examples of post-tachycardic T-wave changes that may simulate myocardial ischemia but be of no clinical significance. 
Gallbladder varices: imaging findings in patients with portal hypertension. A retrospective review of the medical and imaging records of 50 patients with portal hypertension examined in the authors' department during a 2-year period identified six patients with gallbladder wall varices. Imaging studies performed in these patients included computed tomography (CT) (four patients), duplex and color Doppler flow (five patients), and magnetic resonance (MR) (four patients). Five of six patients with gallbladder varices had portal vein thrombosis. Anechoic areas within the gallbladder wall detected with ultrasonography could be distinguished from intramural edema by using duplex or color Doppler flow imaging in all five patients in whom it was used. Contrast material enhancement of these varices was detected with CT in three patients, two of whom also had adjacent mesenteric collaterals. Gradient-echo MR imaging (fast imaging in steady precession/fast low-angle shot) showed flow-related enhancement within the gallbladder wall in two patients. The presence of gallbladder wall varices may imply the presence of portal vein thrombosis. Since these varices can be a source of major blood loss, surgeons must be made aware of them when operating on patients with portal hypertension. 
Cholesterol screening in a black inner-city pediatric population. A screening for total blood cholesterol levels was conducted by the University of Louisville Department of Family Practice in association with the National Youth Sports Program in Louisville, Kentucky. On May 30, 1987, 224 inner-city children between 10 and 16 years of age were tested; 109 (49%) were girls and 115 (51%) were boys. All participants were black. Of the entire population, the girls had a slightly lower mean level of cholesterol than the boys (160 mg/dL vs 165 mg/dL, respectively). Because of the large number of participants aged 10 to 14 years (211), this subset of children was studied more closely. In this age group, 47 (22%) of the children were at moderate risk for future cardiovascular disease and 48 (23%) were at high risk. The serum cholesterol levels were relatively constant in all children until age 12, after which a slight reduction occurred. This decrease is more evident in boys. Our study also showed a correlation between increased blood cholesterol and above normal weight/height indices (ie, Quetelet scores), with nearly 70% of all children having elevated cholesterol levels also exhibiting above normal Quetelet scores. We observed no correlation between high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure in this study population. Dietary intervention is recommended as the initial treatment for elevated cholesterol levels in children. 
Respiratory muscle strength in congestive heart failure. In experimental animals, conditions which drastically decrease cardiac output may reduce the strength and endurance of respiratory muscles leading to hypercapnic respiratory failure. Because patients with chronic CHF have reduced cardiac output and vital capacity (FVC), we measured PImax and PEmax and maximal handgrip force in 16 patients with CHF and 18 AMNs. The patients with CHF had a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 26 +/- 7 percent. Maximal respiratory pressures were significantly reduced; group mean values (+/- SD) for PImax at FRC were 41.4 +/- 5.6 cm H2O (CHF) and 102.1 +/- 27.4 cm H2O (AMN) (p less than 0.001), with PImax values in five patients with CHF as low as 20 to 30 cm H2O. In most patients, PEmax was comparably reduced. Handgrip force was less dramatically reduced, suggesting selective respiratory muscle weakness. Possible explanations include reduction in respiratory muscle blood flow or generalized muscular atrophy and weakness related to cardiac cachexia. 
Elevated insulin, norepinephrine, and neuropeptide Y in hypertension. To investigate the relationship between insulin and sympathetic activity, plasma norepinephrine, neuropeptide Y, serum glucose and insulin concentrations were measured in ten age-, weight-, and sex-matched normotensive and untreated hypertensive subjects at fasting and 2 h following ingestion of a 75 g oral glucose dose. Hypertensives had higher fasting serum insulin (27 +/- 6 v 12 +/- 2 microU/mL; P = .02) and plasma norepinephrine (356 +/- 38 v 235 +/- 35 pg/mL; P = .03) concentrations than normotensives. Glucose load increased serum insulin (P less than .001) and plasma norepinephrine concentrations (P = .001) in both groups and hypertensives had still higher postglucose insulin (P = .003) and norepinephrine levels (P = .003) than normotensives. Fasting neuropeptide Y was higher in hypertensives than in normotensives (P = .03) and correlated with age in both groups (r = 0.7; r = 0.77). Postglucose serum insulin correlated positively with plasma norepinephrine (r = 0.75; P = .013) in normotensives, but these parameters correlated negatively in hypertensives (r = -0.7; P = .036). We hypothesize that elevated plasma norepinephrine and neuropeptide Y levels reflect an increased level of sympathetic nervous activity in hypertensives, which in turn may be responsible for the abnormal relationship between plasma NE and insulin levels. 
Patency rate of implantable devices during long-term intraarterial chemotherapy. Intraarterial implantable drug delivery systems have been considered as an alternative method for treating patients with unresectable liver malignancies. However, catheter problems with external implanted devices have resulted in limited application of chemotherapy. The introduction of subcutaneous devices offers an opportunity for long-term locoregional chemotherapy. Twelve external intraarterial catheters were implanted into 12 patients and 52 subcutaneously placed devices into 51 patients, all with various hepatic malignancies. Retrospective analyses comparing those two intraarterial systems were conducted taking into account the function and complication rate (hepatic artery thrombosis, infection, leaking, hemorrhage, and dislocation). The follow-up time for the external system was two to eight months (median five weeks), the thrombosis rate 33.3%, and the infection rate 25%. One instance of severe bleeding from the hepatic artery occurred during chemotherapy. One catheter dislocated. For the subcutaneously implanted intraarterial devices the follow-up time was five to forty-one months (median sixteen months), the thrombotic complication rate 17.3%, and the infection rate 7.6% (all patients with simultaneous bowel surgery). Catheter dislocation one year later required reimplantation; in 1 patient therapy had to be discontinued because of a catheter leak. The overall function rate was 71.3% with a median follow-up time of eight months. Anticoagulation therapy for subcutaneously implanted devices starting from the beginning of intraarterial chemotherapy is recommended to achieve long-term patency. No implantation should be preformed simultaneously with bowel surgery. The subcutaneously placed intraarterial devices had a higher function rate and were available for a longer period as compared with external implanted catheters. 
Usefulness of blood lactate as a predictor of shock development in acute myocardial infarction [published erratum appears in Am J Cardiol 1991 Apr 15;67(9):912] Data were obtained and analyzed in 229 patients admitted to the coronary care unit from November 1988 through July 1989. The patients were classified into 2 groups: patients without or with only mild left ventricular failure (Killip class I or II) during their hospital stay (group I), and patients who were in Killip class I or II on admission but developed cardiogenic shock during hospitalization (group II). Discriminant function analysis was performed using the following variables: patients' age, history of previous myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, blood lactate, urea, creatinine, creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase concentrations, and chest x-ray cardiothoracic ratio. Variables that were found to significantly discriminate the 2 groups of patients were age, previous infarction, x-ray cardiothoracic ratio, blood urea and lactate concentrations. The risk index was computed, and blood lactate was the variable with the greatest predictive power for shock development. The sensitivity, specificity and predictive value of the risk index, taking various cutoff points, were calculated. With a cutoff value of 1, sensitivity was 65%, specificity 91%, positive predictive value 36% and negative predictive value 97%. With a cutoff value of 2, sensitivity was 53%, specificity 99%, positive predictive value 82% and negative predictive value 96%. 
Doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension: an echocardiographic study. Sixteen patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension received 1 to 8 mg/day of doxazosin (mean daily dose, 2.7 mg). Blood pressure reduction (supine and standing) was highly significant (p less than 0.001), and no significant changes in heart rate were observed. A significant reduction (p less than 0.01) in left ventricular mass was seen without a change in left ventricular systolic function. All side effects were mild, and only one patient withdrew from the study. 
Early detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia: physician practices in Canada. We surveyed primary care physicians in Canada to determine their current practices regarding the detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia in asymptomatic adults 20 years of age or more and to determine the role of selected patient characteristics (age, sex and the presence of coronary heart disease [CHD] risk factors) in their management decisions. The self-administered questionnaire was completed by 428 of 804 family physicians and general practitioners. The proportion of physicians who reported having tested at least 50% of their adult patients varied from 29% to 85% and was related to the number of CHD risk factors present and the patient's age. The proportion of respondents who reported starting dietary or drug therapy among patients with a cholesterol level of 6.2 mmol/L or less increased as the number of CHD risk factors increased and was not related to patient age or sex. According to the factors examined our results suggest that primary care physicians in Canada select patients for screening and treatment mainly on the basis of CHD risk factors present and that their approach is more conservative than that recommended by the Canadian and US consensus conferences. 
Exposing patients with chronic, stable, exertional angina to placebo periods in drug trials. Because the safety of withholding standard therapy and enrolling patients with stable angina in placebo-controlled trials is not known, we identified all events leading to dropout from trials of 12 antianginal drugs submitted in support of new drug applications to the US Food and Drug Administration. Persons who dropped out of the trials were classified as cause due to adverse cardiovascular events or other causes without knowledge of drug assignment. There were 3161 subjects who entered any randomized, double-blind phase of placebo-controlled protocols; 197 (6.2%) withdrew because of cardiovascular events. There was no difference in risk of adverse events between drug and placebo groups. A prospectively defined subgroup analysis showed that groups who received calcium antagonists were at an increased risk of dropout compared with placebo groups (P = .04), primarily because of a disproportionate number of adverse events in studies of one drug. In conclusion, there were few adverse experiences associated with short-term placebo use. Withholding active treatment does not increase the risk of serious cardiac events. 
A cellist with arm pain: thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome. We report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity. Abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery, and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry. Temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference (delta-T) from one hand to the other. In 57 controls, mean delta-T at rest was .309 +/- .254C. Exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-T. In our patient, delta-T was ten times control (3.6C). Angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain. Our patient's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity. Intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome. 
Neuroendocrine activity in congestive heart failure. The increased neuroendocrine activity in patients with congestive heart failure appears to be a generalized attempt to maintain blood pressure at the expense of reduced cardiac performance and salt and water retention. It is likely that baroreceptor dysfunction contributes to increased sympathetic nervous system activity in patients with congestive heart failure. The usual tonic inhibitory messages emanating from baro- and mechanoreceptors in the great vessels and heart fail to adjust sympathetic traffic from the brain to the periphery, leading to uninhibited sympathetic tone. Arginine vasopressin and plasma renin activity may be increased secondarily; however, plasma renin activity activation could also be induced by a low-salt diet and diuretic use. Preliminary baseline data indicate that patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%) but no or very mild symptoms of heart failure have increased plasma levels of norepinephrine, atrial natriuretic factor and arginine vasopressin, while plasma renin activity is normal, suggesting that neuroendocrine activity contributes to the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure. Neurohormones such as angiotensin II may alter gene expression, leading to changes in the shape and size of the cell. Remodeling of the heart and blood vessels is associated with both heart failure and hypertension. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been demonstrated to retard or reverse the remodeling process under certain experimental conditions. Studies are currently under way to test this possibility in patients. 
Tricuspid valve incompetence caused by nonpenetrating thoracic trauma. Tricuspid valve incompetence from ruptured papillary muscle or chordae as a result of nonpenetrating trauma is uncommon. Blunt trauma causing partial detachment of a leaflet from the annulus is very rare. We report the case of a young adult involved in a car accident who had these findings. Operative repair with resuture of the leaflet to the annulus and annuloplasty using a Carpentier ring resulted in complete recovery. 
The post-occlusive hyperemic response in patients with systemic sclerosis. We investigated post-ischemic hyperreactive cutaneous blood flow in patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon and Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis (SSc). Reactive hyperemia was measured over a locally warmed area of skin, using a laser Doppler flowmeter, following 5 minutes of suprasystolic occlusion of blood flow. We found that patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon had normal post-ischemic blood flow compared with normal controls. In contrast, patients with SSc had reduced levels of baseline and peak blood flow compared with either the primary Raynaud's phenomenon patients or the normal subjects. Infusion of carbaprostacyclin, a potent prostacyclin analog vasodilator, did not increase blood flow in the SSc patients, nor did it restore the reactive hyperemic response. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that patients with the nonvasoconstricted condition of SSc have fixed structural defects that limit cutaneous microvascular blood flow. 
Electrophysiologic characteristics of manifest and latent retrograde conduction in dogs. Atrioventricular (AV) nodal reentry requires intact retrograde ventriculoatrial (VA) conduction. The purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of various pacing and pharmacologic techniques to uncover VA conduction during apparent unidirectional VA block, and to evaluate the role of several biologic and electrophysiologic factors in concealment of retrograde conduction. Forty healthy dogs underwent catheter-electrophysiologic studies of AV and VA conduction. Group I (20 animals) had intact VA conduction. Group II (six animals) had VA dissociation with ventricular pacing initiated during sinus rhythm, but the presence of VA conduction was confirmed by isoproterenol infusion or by premature ventricular stimulation. In group III (14 animals), the above techniques failed to uncover VA conduction. Eight of 14 group III animals underwent thoracotomy and crushing or freezing of the sinoatrial (SA) node. Ventricular pacing initiated during sinus standstill was associated with 1:1 VA conduction in each experiment. VA conduction time and retrograde Wenckebach cycle length, both in the baseline state and during isoproterenol infusion, were significantly longer in the eight animals in group III than in those in group I. Age, gender, weight, breed, sinus cycle length, and anterograde AV conduction properties were not significantly different between groups I, II, and III. The data suggest that (1) in normal dogs, complete unidirectional VA block probably does not exist; (2) in the presence of anterograde input to the AV node, even sophisticated pacing and pharmacologic maneuvers may fail to uncover the presence of VA conduction; (3) although anterograde input is essential for concealment of VA conduction, the phenomenon is more closely associated with depressed retrograde than with anterograde AV nodal characteristics. 
Exclusion of the Na(+)-H+ antiporter as a candidate gene in human essential hypertension. The primary abnormalities that contribute to the pathogenesis of human essential hypertension are unknown. The known genetic contribution to this disorder suggests the possible use of genetic linkage analysis to test whether specific candidate genes contribute to the pathogenesis of either essential hypertension or intermediate phenotypes. Among such phenotypes, elevated erythrocyte Na(+)-Li+ countertransport (SLC) is the best known, supporting major gene inheritance by pedigree analysis. Striking similarities between SLC and Na(+)-H+ exchange suggest that mutations at the Na(+)-H+ antiporter gene locus (APNH) might result in elevated SLC and contribute to the subsequent pathogenesis of hypertension. We have tested these hypotheses by genetic linkage analysis, with APNH as a candidate gene. By determining genotypes at APNH and flanking loci in pedigrees that support major gene segregation of elevated SLC, we have excluded linkage of APNH and the major SLC locus with a LOD score of -5.91, an odds ratio of almost 1,000,000:1 against linkage. In the analysis of 93 hypertensive sibling pairs, we have further demonstrated that APNH explains none of the variance in SLC in hypertensive individuals (r2 = 6 x 10(-7), p greater than 0.99). Finally, we have directly tested for linkage of APNH to genes predisposing toward hypertension by linkage in hypertensive sibling pairs. Mean allele sharing at APNH is not greater than expected from random assortment in hypertensive siblings (0.92 versus 1.0, p greater than 0.80), and the upper 95% confidence limit of this value (1.04) indicates that mutations at APNH rarely if ever contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension in this population. 
Risk factors for gestational diabetes in black population. In a long-term longitudinal study of gestational diabetes mellitus in Black women, risk factors that were identified were age, obesity, a family history of diabetes, and the presence of hypertension. Poor predictors were a history of a previous large-for-date infant, parity, and age at first pregnancy. The prevalence of smooth muscle and nuclear autoantibodies was higher in gestational diabetic subjects. Gestational diabetic subjects who required insulin for glycemic control were more obese, had a lower frequency of the Bf-F phenotype and a higher frequency of the Bf-F1 phenotype, and had a lower frequency of the type 2 allele at the polymorphic locus adjacent to the insulin gene. Restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms flanking the insulin and apolipoprotein A-I and C-III genes, although not associated with gestational diabetes mellitus, may be associated with hyperlipidemia and subsequent atherosclerosis. 
Identification of the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation. We continuously observed successive pairs of R-R intervals during atrial fibrillation and hypothesized that the shortest R-R interval for a given preceding R-R interval in a pair represents the functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node at that preceding interval. To test this hypothesis we simulated atrial fibrillation in 28 isolated cross-perfused canine hearts and obtained an R-R interval scatterplot by plotting the R-R intervals as a function of the immediately preceding R-R interval. This scatterplot enabled us to detect a series of the shortest R-R intervals for a wide range of preceding R-R intervals, and this allowed us to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation. The estimated functional refractory periods correlated well with those measured by the conventional method (r = 0.93). We conclude that the proposed method makes it possible to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory periods of the atrioventricular node in atrial fibrillation. 
Hypertension and diabetes in blacks. This article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the interrelationship between non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, obesity, insulin resistance, and hypertension in our attempt to explore the pathophysiology of the high incidence of diabetes and hypertension in the Black population in the United States. A central role for hyperinsulinemia is proposed, and questions are raised that are suitable for investigative clinical trials. 
Heart disease in Asians and Pacific-Islanders, Hispanics, and Native Americans. Heart disease is the leading cause of death for Asian-Americans and Pacific-Islanders, Hispanic-Americans, and Native Americans. Generally, heart disease death rates are lower in these population groups than in Caucasians, with the notable exception of Native Americans under the age of 35. Of particular interest are data for southwestern US Native Americans and Mexican-Americans, which indicate low CHD prevalence rates despite high rates of obesity, diabetes mellitus, increasing hypertension, and low socioeconomic status. Much more research is needed to explain these and other observations. Intervention in those risk factors already identified is necessary, particularly in prevention of obesity and diabetes. 
Triggers of transient myocardial ischemia: circadian variation and relation to plaque rupture and coronary thrombosis in stable coronary artery disease. The phenomenon of transient myocardial ischemia is common in patients with stable coronary disease and appears to be due both to increases in myocardial demand and to episodic coronary vasoconstriction. The circadian variation of transient ischemic episodes closely parallels the circadian variation of acute coronary syndromes associated with plaque rupture, such as myocardial infarction and sudden death. These concordant temporal patterns of transient ischemia, myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death probably represent independent manifestations stemming from the consequences of increased sympathetic activity. 
Neurovascular mechanisms and sodium balance in the pathogenesis of hypertension. Physiological studies have clarified the role that the brain has in the interplay between salt balance and hypertension. Neural mechanisms and endocrine secretions play a pivotal role in the adaptation of mammals to changes in the intake and excretion of sodium. Maneuvers that alter the concentration of sodium in the plasma modify the sensitivity of baroreceptor reflexes and alter vascular reactivity. These changes may be mediated in part by the release of vasopressin. The research also suggests that the brain indirectly modulates the ability of the vascular endothelium to release vasoactive factors. Collectively, these studies illustrate the multiple effects of the sodium ion on the peripheral neural and central endocrine mechanisms that participate in the regulation of arterial pressure. 
Effects of long-term treatment with metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide on plasma lipids and lipoproteins. In order to evaluate the effects of one-year antihypertensive treatment on plasma lipids and lipoproteins, 65 patients whose diastolic blood pressure was in the range 95-120 mmHg were randomly allocated to groups that received either hydrochlorothiazide or metoprolol, or both drugs when the response to one of them was insufficient to control blood pressure. Blood pressure was effectively reduced in all groups. Patients on hydrochlorothiazide showed a significant increase (P less than 0.01) in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) after 3 months of treatment. A significant increase in triglycerides was observed after 6 and 12 months, together with a decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) after 12 months (P less than 0.05) of treatment in patients on metoprolol. In patients treated with both hydrochlorothiazide and metoprolol, total cholesterol increased after 3 (P less than 0.001) and 6 months (P less than 0.05), triglycerides increased after 6 (P less than 0.01) and 12 months (P less than 0.01), and LDL-C increased after 3 (P less than 0.05), 6 (P less than 0.001) and 12 months (P less than 0.01) of treatment, respectively. In 61% of the patients, three or more lipid parameters were affected during the study period. We conclude that long-term antihypertensive treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, metoprolol, and particularly with both drugs, can induce lipid effects that deserve recognition, because in some cases these might counteract the possible benefit of a reduction in blood pressure on the prevention of coronary heart disease. 
Prognostic value of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with unstable angina who respond to medical treatment [published erratum appears in J Am Coll Cardiol 1991 Sep;18(3):889] Although the prognostic value of thallium-201 imaging is well established, its ability to risk stratify patients who present with unstable angina is unclear. Fifty-two consecutive patients admitted with unstable angina who responded to medical treatment and underwent stress thallium-201 imaging within 1 week of discharge were studied. Patients were followed up for 39 +/- 11 months. Cardiac events included cardiac death (n = 3), nonfatal myocardial infarction (n = 4) and admission for unstable angina or revascularization (n = 17). The ability of thallium-201 data (redistribution, fixed defects, normal) to predict cardiac events was compared with clinical data (age, gender, prior myocardial infarction, anginal syndrome, rest and stress electrocardiogram) and cardiac catheterization data using logistic regression. Thallium-201 redistribution was the only significant predictor of cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05). The number of myocardial segments with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.0005) and a history of prior myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05) were the only significant predictors of all cardiac events. Cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (6 [26%] of 23) than in those without redistribution (1 [3%] of 29, p less than 0.05). Similarly, total cardiac events developed more frequently in patients with thallium-201 redistribution (p less than 0.001). Stress thallium-201 imaging has important prognostic value in patients admitted with unstable angina who respond to medical therapy and can identify subgroups at high versus low risk for future cardiac events. 
Coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with Osler-Weber-Rendu disease--a case report. A fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with Osler-Weber-Rendu disease (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas. The arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts. The coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions. Coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia. 
Acebutolol effects on lipid profile [published erratum appears in Am J Cardiol 1990 Dec 1;66(19):A8] The relation between lipid profile and the incidence of coronary artery disease has been confirmed by the results of epidemiologic and intervention studies. Among antihypertensive agents, beta blockers, particularly those without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA), are generally reported to have negative effects on lipids, which may increase the risk of coronary artery disease. The ongoing Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study, now in its third year, has evaluated 847 patients to date with regard to lipid profile. Additional end points measured in this multicenter, randomized, controlled, double-blind study include blood pressure reduction and target organ deterioration. During the trial, all patients received nutritional and behavioral counselling to modify their diet, exercise habits and alcohol and sodium consumption to control their hypertension by nonpharmacologic means. In addition, some patients were randomized to receive low doses of 1 of the 5 classes of antihypertensive medication: acebutolol, a beta blocker with ISA (n = 124); amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker (n = 122); chlorthalidone, a diuretic (n = 125); doxazosin, an alpha blocker (n = 128); enalapril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (n = 127) or placebo (n = 221). At 1 year, acebutolol showed a statistically significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in total cholesterol (-12.7 mg/dl) compared with placebo (-5.2 mg/dl) and with chlorthalidone (1.0 mg/dl); a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-6.0 mg/dl) compared with placebo (+0.7 mg/dl) and with chlorthalidone (+8.0 mg/dl) and no change in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-0.4 mg/dl). 
Right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding. Serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by Doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding. Three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow. It is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding. 
Comparison of sublingual captopril and nifedipine in immediate treatment of hypertensive emergencies. A randomized, single-blind clinical trial. Sublingual captopril (25 mg) was compared with sublingual nifedipine (10 mg) to determine their effectiveness and safety in the treatment of hypertensive emergencies. In nine of 10 patients who received sublingual captopril, mean (+/- SD) systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure dropped from 245 +/- 39 to 190 +/- 25 mm Hg (P less than .0025) and from 144 +/- 8 to 115 +/- 8 mm Hg (P less than .001) at 50 minutes, respectively. The hypotensive effect of the drug was maintained for a mean of 4 hours. In six of nine responders to sublingual captopril, blood pressure-lowering effect was associated with a clear improvement of end-organ failure within 60 minutes. There were no side effects, including a dangerous fall in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia. Sublingual nifedipine lowered diastolic blood pressure and systolic blood pressure in eight of 10 patients. The hypotensive effect of nifedipine was more rapid than that of captopril (10 vs 20 minutes for diastolic blood pressure and 20 vs 30 minutes for systolic blood pressure, respectively), but no difference was observed in the time or in the magnitude of peak hypotensive effect between the two treatments, nor was a difference observed in the duration of hypotensive effect. In six of eight responders to nifedipine therapy, a clear improvement of symptoms and signs of end-organ failure was observed within 60 minutes. In three patients, minor side effects were observed. We conclude that sublingual captopril effectively and safely lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with hypertensive emergencies. 
Systolic Hypertension of the Elderly Program (SHEP). Part 10: Analysis. The SHEP is a randomized, placebo-controlled trial that will follow standard clinical trial principles in analyzing data relating to its proposed hypotheses. The protocol has stated a priori the main objective as well as the secondary subgroup hypotheses. Sample size calculations for SHEP have accounted for dropins to and drop-outs from active therapy as well as for the risk of nonstroke death. The sample size achieved (4,736 participants) should be adequate to address the proposed questions. Monitoring procedures have been described and established. A data and safety monitoring board that uses these procedures is closely following the data from the trial. The board will periodically examine the data to determine whether termination of the study is warranted. 
Adventitial red blood cells produce intimal platelet accumulation in cerebral arteries of cats following subarachnoid hemorrhage. After dividing 21 cats into three equal groups, we exposed their right middle cerebral arteries transorbitally and adventitially irrigated them with 2 ml washed red blood cells, blood plasma, or saline. To determine arterial intimal platelet accumulation in each cat, we injected [111In]oxine-labeled platelets intravenously immediately before injecting the various experimental solutions. Animals were sacrificed 2 or 4 hours following the injection of labeled platelets. Irrigation with washed red blood cells produced a significantly greater intraluminal accumulation of platelets than irrigation with saline (p less than 0.05). Plasma tended to have less of an effect on platelet accumulation than washed red blood cells, but this difference was not significant. These data suggest that the adventitial blood fraction responsible for intimal platelet accumulation in cerebral arteries following subarachnoid hemorrhage may be derived mainly from the red blood cell fraction. 
Amiloride blocks the onset of ACTH-induced hypertension in the sheep. This study investigated the ability of two diuretics, amiloride and frusemide, to prevent the development of ACTH induced hypertension in conscious sheep. Infusion of amiloride (20 mg/day) or frusemide (50 mg/day) for three days into normotensive sheep did not have any significant effects on blood pressure. Amiloride blocked ACTH-induced hypertension and the sodium retention and hypokalemia which is usually associated with ACTH administration. Frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension and potassium loss, however it blocked the transient initial urinary sodium retention associated with ACTH-induced hypertension. As frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension it is unlikely that the amiloride effect is due primarily to effects on urinary Na excretion. It is possible that amiloride is exerting its antihypertensive effects by blocking sodium channels. 
Effects of n-3 fatty acids in essential hypertension. We examined the effects on blood pressure, plasma lipoproteins, and platelet function when marine oil supplements (rich in n-3 fatty acids) or vegetable oil supplements (rich in n-6 fatty acids) were added to the usual diets of patients with mild essential hypertension. In a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study, patients received 50 g of either marine oil (n = 8) or vegetable oil (n = 8) daily for 6 weeks following a baseline observation period. Diastolic blood pressure declined during treatment with fish oil (mean +/- SEM, 96 +/- 2 v 89 +/- 2 mm Hg, P = .02), but did not change with vegetable oil (92 +/- 1 v 94 +/- 1 mm Hg). Systolic blood pressure did not change significantly during either treatment. Serum triglycerides declined (by approximately 30%) in patients receiving only marine oil, but total cholesterol, LDL-, HDL-, HDL2-, and HDL3-cholesterol-subfractions and apolipoproteins A-I and B were unchanged in both treatment groups. Bleeding time increased by 33% during treatment with marine oil but did not change with vegetable oil supplements. Marine oil did not alter in vitro platelet aggregation thresholds. The lack of a significant correlation between blood pressure changes and platelet membrane fluidity, plasma renin activity, aldosterone, norepinephrine, or epinephrine suggests that these variables did not mediate the antihypertensive effect of the marine oil. We conclude that large doses of marine oil reduce diastolic blood pressure, lower triglycerides, and increase bleeding time in patients with mild hypertension. 
Transient left ventricular filling abnormalities (diastolic stunning) after acute myocardial infarction. A variety of experimental studies suggest that diastolic left ventricular (LV) function changes after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but limited data exist on these changes in humans. To assess diastolic filling after AMI, 60 patients underwent Doppler echocardiographic examination within 24 hours of AMI. Of 54 patients who also underwent catheterization, 45 (83%) were successfully reperfused. A subgroup of 17 patients underwent a follow-up Doppler examination at 7 days after infarction, whereas 15 patients with stable exertional angina served as control subjects. There was no significant difference in age, gender, incidence of systemic hypertension or diabetes mellitus, heart rate, mean arterial pressure or severity of coronary artery disease between the infarct and control groups. The infarct group had a lower velocity time integral total (9.9 +/- 0.4 cm vs 12.0 +/- 0.9 cm, p less than 0.001), a lower velocity time integral E (5.8 +/- 0.3 cm vs 6.8 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.01) and a lower velocity time integral 0.333 (3.5 +/- 0.4 cm vs 6.1 +/- 0.5 cm, p less than 0.01) than the control group. In addition, velocity time integral A/total was significantly greater in the infarction group (0.44 +/- 0.03 vs 0.35 +/- 0.04, p less than 0.01) compared to the control group. The follow-up subgroup showed an increase in velocity time integral total (p less than 0.01), velocity time integral E (p less than 0.05) and velocity time integral 0.333/total (p less than 0.05) over the first 7 days after infarction. The final recovery values at 7 days were not significantly different from those of the coronary artery disease group. 
Assessment of myocardial perfusion in patients after the arterial switch operation. In 21 patients who had undergone the arterial switch operation, the adequacy of myocardial perfusion was evaluated by thallium-201 computed scintigraphy 2.6 +/- 2 (0.3-7) yr after surgery. Fourteen patients had undergone the arterial switch procedure after pulmonary artery banding and seven as a primary repair. Isoproterenol stress increased the heart rate by at least 55%. Tomographic imaging was performed at peak stress and 3 hr later in the reperfusion phase. Nine patients had perfusion defects. The perfusion defects were located at the left ventricular apex in four (with extension to the inferolateral wall in one), left ventricular anterolateral wall in two, ventricular septum in one, left ventricular inferior wall in one, and right ventricular free wall in one. Some of these defects could be due to myocardial damage at the time of surgery, but these results also raise concern about long-term adequacy of myocardial perfusion following the arterial switch procedure. 
Restenosis after balloon angioplasty. A practical proliferative model in porcine coronary arteries. A model of proliferative human restenosis was developed in domestic pigs by using deep injury to the coronary arterial media. Metal wire coils were delivered percutaneously to the coronary arteries of 11 pigs with an oversized, high-pressure (14 atm) balloon and were left in place for times ranging from 28 to 70 days. During placement, the balloon expanded the coils and delivered them securely within the arterial lumen. Light microscopic examination of the vessels confirmed fracture of the internal elastic lamina by the coil. An extensive proliferative response occurred in 10 of the 11 pigs and was associated with a luminal area narrowing of at least 50% in all but one pig. The histopathologic features of the proliferative response were identical to those observed in human cases of restenosis after angioplasty. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed the prominence of smooth muscle cells in the proliferative tissue. A similar response was obtained in two of five porcine coronary arteries in which balloon inflation only was performed, without coil implant. This model is practical and inexpensive and closely mimics the proliferative portion of human restenosis both grossly and microscopically. Thus, it may be useful for understanding human restenosis and for testing therapies aimed at preventing restenosis after balloon angioplasty or other coronary interventional procedures. 
Ischemic colitis. An ever-changing spectrum? Ischemic colitis, or more properly colonic ischemia, became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years. Yet, early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task. A 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors' previous experience and with data from the literature. Several important factors emerge: (1) Twice as many cases occurred after operations (34% in this series vs. 16% in the past), probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized. (2) Sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent, while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent. Seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died. A high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient, as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients. Moreover, the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis, as well as monitoring of the "at-risk" patient, is needed for improvement in survival to occur. New monitoring methods, such as tonometry, may help accomplish this goal. 
Translumbar arch aortography: a retrospective controlled study of usefulness, technique, and safety. Subclavian and axillary artery stenoses may lead to axillofemoral bypass graft failure. These arteries were assessed preoperatively with arch aortography performed after conventional high translumbar peripheral aortography by exchanging the initial 16-gauge sheath for a 5-F pigtail catheter. Thirty-two diagnostic translumbar runoff and arch (TLR-arch) aortograms were obtained in 30 patients with advanced lower extremity ischemia. In six patients (20%), the results of the arch study influenced the choice of an inflow site. These patients were compared with 70 control subjects who underwent conventional translumbar aortography without arch studies. In the TLR-arch group, two major complications occurred in one patient, while in the control group 11 major complications occurred in 10 patients. One retroperitoneal hematoma occurred in the TLR-arch group; two occurred in the control group. The mean change in hematocrit for the TLR-arch group was -3.81% (-0.0381), and for the control group it was -4.17% (-0.0417). This difference was not statistically significant. Arch aortography is a valuable adjunct to the translumbar aortofemoral study. It can be simply performed without increasing the morbidity of the peripheral study. 
Evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children. Emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease. Supraventricular tachycardia, with or without hemodynamic decompensation, is one of the most serious complications. We present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia. Initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed. The arrhythmia was terminated in response to an IV fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia, hypovolemia, and impaired contractility. Appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed. 
Caloric expenditure, life status, and disease in former male athletes and non-athletes. This study examined the association between aerobic, caloric exercise expenditure and life status (living vs deceased) as well as the prevalence rates of hypertension (HBP) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in former male athletes (ATH) and non-athletes (N-ATH). The initial survey for this study was done in 1952. Follow-up surveys of respondents were done in 1960, 1968, 1976, and 1984. The present study used all subjects who responded fully to activity and health questions in 1976 and who were reported as either dead or alive (not lost to follow-up) in 1984. A total of 348 subjects (185 ATH, 163 N-ATH) were assessed and caloric expenditure groups were established by kilocalories (kcal) of aerobic exercise per week; 0 kcal (group 1), 1-399 kcal (group 2), 400-899 kcal (group 3), 900-1499 kcal (group 4), 1500-2499 kcal (group 5), and 2500+ kcal (group 6). Only activity considered to be aerobic was used in the establishment of the aerobic categories. Death rate was highest in groups 1 and 2. Subjects in group 1 tended to be the oldest. Year of birth (age) (P less than 0.001) and CVD (P less than 0.05) as reported in 1976 were significantly related to mortality between 1976 and 1984. College athletic status and 1976 exercise level were not significantly related to mortality. Prevalence of CVD and HBP was highest in groups 1 and 6, suggesting a moderate amount of aerobic activity as optimal. 
Double-peaking circadian variation in the occurrence of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. We studied 251 patients less than or equal to 65 years of age admitted for treatment of symptomatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmia to assess whether these arrhythmias begin evenly throughout the day or manifest circadian variation in occurrence. The arrhythmias included 152 episodes of atrial fibrillation, 50 episodes of supraventricular reentry tachycardia, 30 episodes of atrial flutter, and 19 cases of ectopic atrial tachycardia. A total of 209 patients could tell the exact time their symptoms had started. In 38 of them (18%), the arrhythmia had begun between midnight and 6:00 AM, in 63 (30%) between 6:01 AM and noon, in 46 (22%) between noon and 6:00 PM, and in 62 (30%) between 6:01 PM and midnight. This distribution differed significantly from uniform occurrence (chi square 8.7, p less than 0.05). Fifty patients were using beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents when the arrhythmia occurred. Compared with the other 159 patients, they had no morning surge of arrhythmias (20% versus 33.3% of episodes between 6:01 AM and noon), but instead a much higher incidence at night (34% versus 13.2% of episodes between midnight and 6:00 AM) (chi square 14.4, p less than 0.005). We conclude that the frequency of onset of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias varies with the time of day, showing nearly equal peaks in the morning and in the evening and a trough at night. The modifying effect of beta-adrenoceptor blockage suggests that many morning arrhythmias are of adrenergic origin while other, probably vagal arrhythmogenic mechanisms, prevail at night. 
Surgical augmentation of skin blood flow and viability in a pig musculocutaneous flap model. A porcine rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (TRAM) flap model was designed and validated in nine pigs. This TRAM flap was based on the deep inferior epigastric (DIE) vessels with an 8 x 18 cm transverse skin paddle at the superior end of the rectus abdominis muscle. The model was subsequently used to test our hypothesis of surgical augmentation of flap viability by vascular territory expansion. Specifically, we observed that ligation of the superior epigastric (SE) vessels at 4, 7, 14, and 28 days (N = 6 to 8) prior to raising the TRAM flaps significantly increased (p less than 0.05) the length and area of the viable skin in the transverse skin paddles of the treatment flaps compared with the contralateral shammanipulated control flaps. This significant increase in skin viability was seen to be accompanied by a significant increase (p less than 0.05) in skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the treatment TRAM flaps compared with the controls (N = 9). The mechanism of vascular territory expansion is unclear. We postulate that hypoxia resulting from the ligation of the superior epigastric vessels prior to the flap surgery may play a role in the triggering of the deep inferior epigastric artery to take over some of the territory previously perfused by the superior epigastric artery. This would then increase the skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the transverse paddle when the TRAM flap was raised on the deep inferior epigastric vascular pedicle. 
Atrial septal occlusion improves the accuracy of mitral valve area determination following percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy. We investigated the impact of the atrial communication on the mitral valve area calculation after percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy in 17 patients (15 women, 2 men; mean age 56 +/- 4 years). The hemodynamic measurements and mitral valve area calculations were performed with and without balloon occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site. The mitral valve area determined with balloon occlusion was significantly smaller than the mitral valve area determined without occlusion (1.6 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.9 +/- 0.1 cm2, P less than 0.01), and was similar to the echocardiographically determined valve area (1.6 +/- 0.1 cm2). This decrease in the calculated mitral valve area with occlusion was associated with a decrease in the measured cardiac output, without a change in the mitral valve gradient or the diastolic filling period. Occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site may permit more accurate determination of the mitral valve area and thus provide a better reference point for future comparison should the question or restenosis arise. 
Central retinal vein obstruction and axial length. The axial lengths of 24 consecutive adult eyes with unilateral central retinal vein obstruction (CRVO) were compared with those of contralateral unaffected eyes and those of a control population. The lengths of the two eyes of persons with a unilateral CRVO were not significantly different. By contrast, eyes of persons with CRVO averaged 0.67 mm (approximately 2 diopters) shorter than their control counterparts (P = .03). This anatomic difference may be a factor in the development of CRVO. 
Ventricular arrhythmias in ischemic heart disease. Ventricular arrhythmias remain the leading cause of death from coronary artery disease. This review summarizes current thinking in several areas relating to the pathophysiology, prognosis, and therapy of ventricular arrhythmias associated with acute and chronic coronary artery disease syndromes. The experimental basis of arrhythmias in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia and chronic myocardial infarction is described, stressing the important pathophysiologic differences between these two conditions. The effects of the autonomic nervous system as a key modulator of ischemic arrhythmogenesis are discussed. Insights, derived from endocardial mapping studies, into the nature of ventricular tachycardia in humans with chronic myocardial infarction are described, including implications for risk stratification and therapy to prevent arrhythmia recurrence. Current therapeutic principles are discussed in the management of ventricular arrhythmias associated with coronary artery disease, including pharmacologic approaches, surgical and catheter ablation, and automatic implantable cardioverting and defibrillating devices. 
Increased plasma endothelin-1 in pulmonary hypertension: marker or mediator of disease? OBJECTIVE: To explore the role of endothelin-1, a potent endothelial-derived vasoconstrictor peptide, in pulmonary hypertension, by measuring its concentration in arterial and venous plasma. DESIGN: A survey, case series study. SETTING: University-affiliated hospitals and outpatient clinics. PATIENTS: Twenty-seven patients with pulmonary hypertension: 7 with primary, and 20 with secondary pulmonary hypertension of various causes. The control groups (n = 16) comprised 8 healthy volunteers and 8 patients with coronary artery disease but without evidence of pulmonary hypertension. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Pulmonary artery pressure was markedly increased (94/43 +/- 23/13 mm Hg) in the patients with pulmonary hypertension. Venous plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1, measured by a specific radioimmunoassay, was significantly higher in patients with pulmonary hypertension (3.5 +/- 2.5 pg/mL, P less than 0.001) than in normal subjects (1.45 +/- 0.45 pg/mL), or patients with coronary disease (0.75 +/- 0.64 pg/mL). The arterial-to-venous ratio of immunoreactive endothelin-1 was significantly greater than unity in primary pulmonary hypertension (2.21 +/- 0.72, P = 0.01), whereas the patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension had a mean ratio not different from 1 (0.97 +/- 0.42). In contrast, the mean arterial-to-venous ratios were significantly less than unity in both control groups (0.59 +/- 0.35, and 0.54 +/- 0.64; P less than 0.02, for normal subjects and coronary disease patients, respectively), indicating a possible clearance of endothelin-1 across the healthy lung. CONCLUSIONS: Patient with pulmonary hypertension have substantial alterations in plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1, which may reflect changes in net release or clearance of endothelin-1 by the lung. In patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, the high levels in arterial compared with venous plasma suggest pulmonary production of endothelin-1, which may contribute to elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. 
Hepatic arterial embolization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis. Transarterial hepatic embolization was attempted in 10 and succeeded in nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by extensive celiac arterial stenosis. All catheterization was done through the femoral artery. In six cases, the tip of the catheter (2.5-F ball-tip microcatheter in three cases, 4-F ball-tip supple catheter in three cases) was placed in the proper hepatic artery through the pancreaticoduodenal collaterals. In three cases, a ball-tip microcatheter was injected from the guiding catheter, which was placed in a pinhole of the celiac trunk. These techniques involving flow-guided ball-tip catheters are of great value for hepatic arterial catheterization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis. 
Role of endogenous angiotensin II in the control of vasopressin secretion during hypovolemia and hypotension in conscious rabbits. In order to investigate the physiological role of angiotensin II (ANG II) in the control of vasopressin (VP) secretion, the VP responses to hypotension induced by hemorrhage (20 ml/kg, n = 10) or nitroprusside infusion (1-10 micrograms/kg.min, n = 9) were studied with or without blockade of ANG II formation by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in conscious rabbits. Administration of captopril (5 mg/kg, iv) caused a small decrease in mean arterial pressure but did not enhance the hypotensive response to subsequent hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion. The renin response to both stimuli was enhanced by captopril, whereas the increase in plasma ANG II concentration was attenuated. Plasma VP (PAVP) concentration increased during hemorrhage (2.0 +/- 0.2-113.6 +/- 47.7 pg/ml, P less than 0.01) and nitroprusside infusion (2.1 +/- 0.3-5.1 +/- 1.0 pg/ml, P less than 0.01). Captopril did not change basal plasma PAVP, nor did it attenuate the VP responses to hemorrhage or nitroprusside. Indeed, captopril tended to enhance the VP responses to hemorrhage (2.3 +/- 0.3-147.1 +/- 65.9 pg/ml) and nitroprusside infusion (1.9 +/- 0.2-15.4 +/- 6.0 pg/ml). The relationship between log PAVP and mean arterial pressure during hemorrhage and nitroprusside infusion in the presence of captopril was not different than in the absence of captopril. These results indicate that in conscious rabbits, the renin-angiotensin system does not contribute to the increase in VP secretion during hypotension induced by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion. 
Current status of organ preservation with University of Wisconsin solution. A retrospective analysis of all organs that were preserved with University of Wisconsin solution was undertaken to assess the impact of this solution on early allograft function. From May 1987 until June 1990, 181 livers, 92 pancreata, and 92 kidneys were preserved with University of Wisconsin solution for extended periods of time. The mean (+/- SD) preservation times were as follows: liver, 12.6 +/- 4.5 hours; pancreas, 16.7 +/- 4.4 hours; and kidney, 18.3 +/- 4.3 hours. The overall rate of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were 6.1% and 3.9%, respectively. No differences in the rates of primary nonfunction and hepatic artery thrombosis were noted for combined liver-pancreas procurement vs isolated liver retrievals or when reduced-size liver transplants were compared with nonreduced liver transplants. Likewise, no difference in primary nonfunction or hepatic artery thrombosis was seen in livers that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, and greater than 12 hours. However, serum aminotransferase levels and prothrombin times were lower on the first postoperative day in livers that were preserved for less than 6 hours when compared with 6 to 12 or greater than 12 hours. Early pancreatic allograft function was also excellent for up to 24 hours of cold-storage preservation. All patients were immediately insulin independent, and there were no cases of initial nonfunction or graft pancreatitis. There were only two cases (2.2%) of pancreatic vascular thrombosis in this series. No difference in pancreatic function was noted for organs that were preserved for less than 6, 6 to 12, or greater than 12 hours. Likewise, renal allograft function was excellent, with only two patients (2.2%) requiring postoperative hemodialysis. The actuarial 1-month patient survival for liver and pancreas-kidney transplant recipients was 91.5% and 98.9%, respectively. Actuarial 1-month allograft survival for liver, pancreas, and kidney transplants was 83.0%, 96.7%, and 97.8%, respectively. In conclusion, University of Wisconsin solution represents a significant advancement in cold-storage organ preservation and is ideally suited as a universal intra-abdominal aortic-flush and cold-storage solution. 
Pharmacological reversibility of experimental cerebral vasospasm. Using a morphometric technique, the pharmacological reversibility of luminal narrowing after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was investigated. For vasodilation, a "cocktail" consisting of 10(-4) M papaverine, 2 x 10(-4) M sodium nitroprusside, and 10(-5) M adenosine was administered intra-arterially. Forty-two rabbits were divided into six groups: control (normal animals); control plus cocktail (normal animals perfused with the cocktail before fixation); SAH (animals sacrificed 48 hours subsequent to intracisternal injection of 1.5 ml/kg of arterial blood); SAH plus cocktail (SAH plus perfusion with the cocktail); BaCl2 (animals sacrificed 10 minutes after intracisternal injection of 2 ml of 3 x 10(-3) M BaCl2); and BaCl2 plus cocktail (BaCl2 animals perfused with the cocktail). The diameter of the basilar arteries in the control and the control plus cocktail groups was not significantly different. BaCl2 reduced the diameter 44% and SAH reduced the diameter 27%. There were no significant differences between the diameter of the BaCl2 plus cocktail group and SAH plus cocktail group when compared with the control or the control plus cocktail group. Morphological examination by light and transmission electron microscopy showed luminal narrowing and corrugation of the elastic lamina with few degenerative or proliferative changes of the vessel wall in animals with SAH. These results suggest that cerebral vasospasm is caused initially by smooth muscle contraction rather than by proliferative vasculopathy and that it is not an irreversible process. 
The surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. II. Intraoperative electrophysiologic mapping and description of the electrophysiologic basis of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. Computerized mapping of atrial fibrillation was performed in animals and man. To study atrial fibrillation in a systematic manner, we developed a clinically relevant experimental model of atrial fibrillation. Chronic mitral regurgitation was created surgically in 25 dogs without opening the pericardium. After several months of chronic mitral regurgitation, the atria became enlarged and sustained atrial fibrillation could be induced by standard programmed electrical stimulation techniques. Computerized isochronous activation maps of the atria were recorded during atrial fibrillation from 208 bipolar electrodes simultaneously. In a parallel study, human atrial fibrillation was mapped with a separate 160-channel intraoperative mapping system in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were undergoing surgical correction of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The canine activation sequence maps demonstrated a spectrum of rhythm abnormalities ranging from simple atrial flutter to complex atrial fibrillation. They also showed that macroreentrant circuits within the atrial myocardium were responsible for the entire spectrum of arrhythmias. Atrial reentry was also documented during human atrial fibrillation. All patients had nonuniform conduction around regions of bidirectional block in both atria resulting in multiple discrete wave fronts. In addition, six patients had a single reentrant circuit in the right atrium in which bidirectional block of the activation wave front occurred along the sulcus terminals between the venae cavae. The left atrium in all patients demonstrated multiple wave fronts and conduction block, but left atrial reentry could not be detected. Both the experimental study and the clinical study demonstrated that multiple wave fronts, nonuniform conduction, bidirectional block, and large (macroreentrant) reentrant circuits occur during atrial fibrillation. The presence of macroreentrant circuits and the absence of either microreentrant circuits or evidence of atrial automaticity suggests that atrial fibrillation should be amenable to surgical ablation. 
Long-term impact of smoking cessation on the incidence of coronary heart disease. Using a simulation model of the US male population, we estimated the long-term impact that future smoking cessation programs would have on the distribution and occurrence of coronary heart disease in males ages 35-84. For interventions that reduce the number of smokers by 25 percent in 1990, the number of men free of coronary heart disease is projected to increase by 416,787 (0.7 percent) in 2015, and the age-standardized absolute incidence to decline by 2.3 percent. Incidence rates and absolute incidences are projected to fall in men under age 65, but absolute incidence would rise in men over age 65, in large part because of the increased number of men who were at risk for coronary heart disease because of a reduction in non-coronary smoking-related mortality. These trends were more marked for greater smoking reductions and were generally unaffected in a variety of analyses using alternative assumptions, which considered smoking as a risk factor in the elderly, a lag-time before benefits from smoking cessation were realized and secular declines in smoking prevalence. Subject to the assumptions of our model, we conclude that smoking reductions will markedly reduce coronary heart disease, especially in younger age groups, and that this benefit will be slightly offset by a small increase in absolute incidence in elderly men. 
The accuracy of CT scanning in the diagnosis of abdominal and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. As CT scanning has evolved as a reliable clinical tool, the use of angiography in the diagnosis of aortic aneurysmal disease has diminished. Fewer than 25% of patients with aortic aneurysmal disease undergo aortic angiographic evaluation at our institution. A prospective clinical study was undertaken to assess the validity of this policy. One hundred patients with clinical or ultrasonographic evidence of aortic aneurysms were evaluated prospectively during the period July 1987 to December 1989. All patients underwent CT scanning as an initial evaluation. Patients were selected for angiography if they fulfilled any of the following criteria: radiographic evidence of thoracoabdominal or juxtarenal aneurysms, or horseshoe kidney; or clinical suggestion of renal artery stenosis, mesenteric arterial insufficiency, aortoiliac occlusive disease, or lower extremity aneurysmal disease. During this period 19 patients (19%) underwent both CT scanning and angiography. The indications for angiography were thoracoabdominal aneurysms (7), juxtarenal aneurysms (2), clinical evidence of mesenteric insufficiency (1) or renal insufficiency (2), evidence of lower extremity aneurysmal disease (3), or severe aortoiliac occlusive disease (4). Eighty-one patients (81%) underwent CT scanning as the only radiographic evaluation. No patient was adversely affected by elimination of angiographic evaluation. CT scanning revealed inflammatory aneurysms (4), retroaortic renal veins (2), and horseshoe kidney (1). This study suggests that most (81%) patients with aortic aneurysmal disease can be adequately evaluated by CT scanning, and that a very selective policy of angiographic evaluation is indicated. 
Attenuated neuropathology by nilvadipine after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. We investigated the effects of nilvadipine, a calcium antagonist, on cerebral ischemia in rats. Under halothane anesthesia, 30 rats had a 3-0 nylon suture introduced through the extracranial internal carotid artery to occlude the left middle cerebral artery. Nilvadipine was dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400. Immediately following occlusion, group 1 rats (n = 10) were treated subcutaneously with vehicle and group 2 and 3 rats were treated with 1.0 (n = 10) and 3.2 (n = 10) mg/kg nilvadipine, respectively. Perfusion fixation was performed 24 hours later, and the histopathologic outcomes were quantified. In group 1 infarct volume was 28.2 +/- 11.4% of the total cerebral volume; in groups 2 and 3 infarct volumes were 25.5 +/- 11.6% (NS) and 13.9 +/- 9.2% (p less than 0.05 different from group 1), respectively. Nilvadipine decreased ischemic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner and may be of use in the treatment of cerebral ischemia. 
Socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease during middle age OBJECTIVE--To examine the association between socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men, including the role of physiological and behavioural risk factors. DESIGN--Prevalence study with extensive examination and testing and with recall of childhood conditions. SETTING--Population based study in Kuopio, Finland. SUBJECTS--Representative sample of 2679 men aged 42, 48, 54, and 60. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Ischaemic findings on progressive maximal exercise test. RESULTS--Low socioeconomic style in childhood was associated with significantly higher prevalence of findings indicating ischaemias. Compared with those in the highest tertile of childhood socioeconomic conditions, the age adjusted odds ratio for subjects in the lowest tertile was 1.44 and for those in the middle tertile 1.35. Adjustment for years of cigarette smoking times the average number of cigarettes smoked, ratio of high density lipoprotein to low density lipoprotein cholesterol, fibrinogen and serum selenium concentrations, and adult height did not appreciably weaken the association. Adjustment for adult socioeconomic state resulted in a 16% decline in the association. The association was reduced to non-significance by adjustment for measures of prevalent cardiovascular illness. CONCLUSIONS--Socioeconomic state in childhood was significantly associated with ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men. Levels of risk factors measured at middle age did not account for this association, nor did adult height. Because childhood socioeconomic conditions precede the development of ischaemic heart disease the substantial impact of prevalent illness on the observed association suggests that ischaemic heart disease develops earlier in those with lower socioeconomic state during childhood. 
The effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages, is an important mediator of sepsis. We analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following TNF administration. Following general anesthesia, hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs (n = 7) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of TNF (0.57.10(5) IU/kg/6 hours, n = 7). During TNF infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration, which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index, which were similar to control animals. While TNF significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 +/- 3 mL/min/kg compared to 28 +/- 3 mL/min/kg (p less than 0.01) in controls, intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate. Despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, alanine, glutamine, glutamate, and ammonia) was comparable between the control and TNF-infused animals. However, when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated, it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the TNF animals. This may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs. Fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study. 
Orthostatic hypotension following right ventricular myocardial infarction corrected with mineralocorticoid therapy. Severe hypotension while standing became a problem in a patient after discharge from the hospital following right ventricular myocardial infarction. Hemodynamic studies showed that right ventricular systolic function did not maintain adequate left ventricular preload and that the patient did not compensate for cardiac dysfunction by increasing blood volume. Volume expansion by mineralocorticoid therapy corrected the orthostatic hypotension and ameliorated symptoms. Hypotension eventually resolved and therapy was stopped four months after the myocardial infarction. 
Relationship between blood pressure, plasma insulin and triglyceride concentration, and insulin action in spontaneous hypertensive and Wistar-Kyoto rats. Previous results have shown that spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) are insulin resistant, hyperinsulinemic, and hypertriglyceridemic as compared to Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Since SHR rats also have higher blood pressures than WKY rats, the current study was initiated in an attempt to evaluate the relationship between the magnitude of blood pressure and the differences in insulin and lipid metabolism seen in SHR and WKY rats. The experimental variables to be compared were determined in three groups of SHR and WKY rats, varying in age: Group I rats were 6 to 7 weeks of age; Group II rats were 8 to 9 weeks old; whereas Group III rats were 12 to 13 weeks of age. Maximal insulin-stimulated glucose transport by adipocytes isolated from SHR rats was significantly lower (P less than .005) than isolated adipocytes from WKY rats in all three groups, whereas plasma insulin and triglyceride concentrations were significantly higher (P less than .005). Blood pressure was also higher in SHR than in WKY rats within each group. Since absolute values for maximal insulin-stimulated glucose uptake did not change statistically as the rats grew older, the magnitude of the decrease in SHR rats was similar in each group. The increase in plasma insulin and triglyceride concentration observed in SHR rats was also the same in each group, but the absolute values increased with age in both SHR and WKY rats. However, blood pressure rose significantly with age in SHR, but not WKY rats, leading to a progressive increase in the degree of hypertension in SHR rats. These results support the view that hypertension, per se, does not lead to insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. 
Atrioventricular septal defects. Analysis of short- and medium-term results. Atrioventricular septal defects were repaired in 87 patients from 1981 to 1988. Interventricular communications were present in 73 patients, and major associated anomalies were present in 17 (tetralogy of Fallot in four, double-outlet right ventricle in two, multiple ventricular septal defects in 11). Five deaths occurred in the hospital (5.7%; 70% confidence limits, 3.2% to 9.7%). A preoperative New York Heart Association class V functional condition was the only incremental risk factor (p = 0.02) for death in the hospital. No patient (0%; 70% confidence limits, 0% to 2.15%) had complete heart block. Actuarial survival rate at 80 months was 81.4%. The only incremental risk factor (p = 0.005) leading to reoperation was a preoperative valve incompetence. Actuarial rate at 80 months for freedom from reoperation was 84.2% in the overall group of patients after repair of atrioventricular septal defect. We conclude that an improvement in survival and success rates should be found when a policy of earlier repair is followed. 
Temporal relation between left ventricular dysfunction and chest pain in coronary artery disease during activities of daily living. Forty-three ambulatory patients with angina of increasing frequency underwent continuous monitoring of left ventricular (LV) function for an average of 2.9 +/- 1.9 hours to determine the incidence and temporal sequence of LV dysfunction, ST-segment depression and chest pain. Indicators of ischemia were: a decrease in ejection fraction greater than 5% lasting greater than 1 minute; horizontal or downsloping ST-segment depression of greater than or equal to 1 mm; or onset of the patient's typical chest pain complex, or a combination of these. During the monitoring interval, subjects performed daily activities such as sitting, walking, climbing stairs and eating. In 11 patients, 22 episodes of chest pain or ST-segment depression, or both, were observed. Eighteen episodes were accompanied by a decrease in ejection fraction (9 patients); chest pain accompanied the decrease in ejection fraction during 13 episodes, whereas ST-segment changes occurred during 7. In 12 of 13 episodes the decrease in ejection fraction began earlier than the onset of chest pain, whereas in 1 patient ejection fraction decrease and chest pain onset started at the same time. The average interval from a decrease in ejection fraction to the onset of chest pain was 56 +/- 41 seconds (range 0 to 120). ST changes occurred after the onset of a decrease in ejection fraction in 6 of 7 episodes. The average interval from the onset of ejection fraction decrease and the onset of ST change was 99 +/- 91 seconds. These data suggest that LV dysfunction manifested by a decrease in ejection fraction is an earlier indicator of myocardial ischemia than is angina pectoris or electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia. 
Echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular mass and volume in normotensive and hypertensive rats. Necropsy validation. Although rats are commonly used to study left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, measurement of LV mass and dimensions has required killing the rat. To determine the accuracy of echocardiography in rats, blinded crossectional area (CSA) and LV mass measurements using either the cube function (LVM) or an elliptical model (LVMel) from high resolution M-mode echocardiograms were compared to necropsy LV weight (0.28 to 1.5 g), in 41 normotensive (body weight 116 to 762 g) and 17 hypertensive rats (350 to 560 g). Postmortem chamber volumes in 28 normal rats (0.02 to 0.19 mL) were also compared to echocardiographic volumes derived from the elliptical model. Correlation with LV weight was r = 0.87 for LVM, 0.90 for CSA and 0.93 for LVMel (all P less than .00001). Comparison of hypertensive and body-weight-matched normotensive rats revealed the upper normal limit for both LVMel and CSA to have 89% sensitivity and 100% specificity for detection of post mortem LV hypertrophy. Necropsy LV volumes were more closely related to systolic echocardiographic volumes than to diastolic volumes (r = 0.78 v 0.71, both P less than .00001), compatible with the effects of post mortem contracture. Stroke volume determined invasively in 5 Wistar rats by thermodilution was similar to that obtained using elliptical model echo volumes in 5 rats of the same body size (0.35 +/- 0.05 v 0.30 +/- 0.06 mL/beat). Echocardiography can be used to evaluate LV structure and function in rats and to detect in vivo LV anatomic differences induced by hypertension. 
Screening for total cholesterol. Do the National Cholesterol Education Program's recommendations detect individuals at high risk of coronary heart disease? BACKGROUND. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) has provided guidelines for identification of persons at high risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) because of lipid abnormalities. These recommendations are based on total cholesterol as the initial screening tool and have become the stimulus for clinic- and community-based screening programs nationwide. However, the use of the guidelines may be problematic because individuals may have total cholesterol levels in the desirable range but low density lipoprotein (LDL) or high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels considered at high risk. This study evaluates the ability of the NCEP screening recommendations to identify correctly persons at high risk of CHD because of lipid abnormalities. METHODS AND RESULTS. Using the NCEP guidelines, we simulated a population-based screening program with data from visits 1 and 2 of the Lipid Research Clinics Program Prevalence Study. Individuals were considered to be at high risk of CHD if they had LDL levels greater than 160 mg/dl or HDL levels less than 35 mg/dl. Following the NCEP process, 21% of those with high LDL concentrations and 66% of those with low HDL concentrations would not be routinely referred for immediate treatment. Overall, 41% of those at high risk of CHD would not be promptly evaluated. The sensitivity of the guidelines for promptly identifying individuals with lipoprotein abnormalities is 59%. CONCLUSIONS. This relatively low sensitivity of total cholesterol as a screening tool should be the impetus for rethinking the screening guidelines. Specifically, the cost-benefit ratio of routine screening for lipoproteins, particularly HDL cholesterol, needs to be carefully considered. 
Immunoreactivity of anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies to human heart valves. Evidence for multiple cross-reactive epitopes. Association of group A streptococci with acute rheumatic fever and valvular heart disease is well established; however the basis of valve injury remains unclear. In this study, anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) cross-reactive with myocardium were reacted with sections from 22 rheumatic valves, nine normal, five endocarditic, one 'floppy,' and one Marfan valve. In immunohistochemical studies, MAb reactivity was observed with cardiac myocytes, smooth muscle cells, cell surface and cytoplasm of endothelial cells lining valves, and valvular interstitial cells. Endothelial basement membrane and elastin fibrils reacted with the MAbs, whereas collagen was unreactive. Similar reactivity was seen with sera from acute rheumatic fever patients. The anti-streptococcal MAbs reacted with intravalvular myosin and vimentin in Western blots, and purified elastin competitively inhibited the binding of the anti-streptococcal MAbs to whole group A streptococci. The data show that human heart valves have numerous sites of immunoreactivity with anti-streptococcal MAbs and acute rheumatic fever sera of potential importance in the pathogenesis of rheumatic valvular injury. 
Relation between lipids and atherosclerosis: epidemiologic evidence and clinical implications. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death in most developed countries. Therefore, elucidation of risk factors and associated mechanisms for CAD has been a high priority. Data from the Framingham Heart Study and other large-scale epidemiologic studies have identified major risk factors associated with CAD, demonstrating the adverse effects of increased total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the protective effect of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Other more recent investigations, including the Lipid Research Clinics Trial and the Helsinki Heart Study, have shown that lowering total cholesterol and raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly reduce the risk for CAD. Because hypertension is also a significant risk factor for CAD, the assumption has been that blood pressure reduction should offer significant benefits in terms of CAD risk. However, despite their antihypertensive efficacy, diuretics and beta blockers have failed to significantly reduce CAD morbidity or mortality. The adverse effects of these antihypertensive agents on lipid profiles, glucose metabolism and other metabolic parameters may account for their disappointing performance in reducing CAD morbidity and mortality. As a result, newer agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium antagonists that appear to be free of such adverse effects have garnered considerable attention for their potential to reduce CAD risk. 
High-risk reparative surgery. A neglected alternative to heart transplantation. The selection of patients for either high-risk reparative operations on the heart or for transplantation has become increasingly difficult as a result of improved results with both modalities. A retrospective review was done of patients referred for heart transplantation who were not considered candidates for conventional cardiac surgery, yet instead underwent reparative procedures rather than transplantation. Of 23 adult patients referred during a 7-year period, 18 had coronary artery disease, and five had valvular heart disease. All had New York Heart Association class IV symptoms. Preoperative left ventricular ejection fractions were in the range 0.08-0.63 (mean, 0.28). Ten of 18 patients with coronary artery disease required insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump for hemodynamic support perioperatively. Seven patients had primary coronary artery bypass grafts, and 10 had reoperative coronary bypass procedures. One patient had a left ventricular aneurysmectomy, and one had endocardial stripping in addition to myocardial revascularization procedures. Of the patients with valvular disease, three had aortic valve replacement, of which two were reoperations, and two others had mitral valve replacements with tricuspid annuloplasties. With a mean follow-up of 25 months, 1-, 3-, 12-, and 24-month actuarial survival rates were 91%, 87%, 82%, and 76%, respectively. One patient who underwent aortic valve replacement in this study successfully received heart transplantation 19 months postoperatively. These results compare favorably with the current results for patients undergoing first-graft heart transplantation. All survivors enjoy New York Heart Association class I or II functional capacity. 
Unsuspected mitral stenosis. PURPOSE AND PATIENTS AND METHODS: We observed a series of patients in whom the diagnosis of mitral stenosis was first discovered in the echocardiography laboratory. Because of this experience, we examined the records of 152 patients with echocardiographic evidence of rheumatic mitral stenosis to determine the clinical characteristics and course of patients with unsuspected mitral stenosis as well as those factors that may have obscured the diagnosis. RESULTS: Of these 152 patients, 18 had mitral stenosis that was unsuspected clinically until the echocardiogram. These patients were elderly, with a median age of 72 years. They were all referred for echocardiography because of cardiac symptoms. Eight patients were referred for evaluation of congestive heart failure. Five patients were referred for evaluation of aortic valve disease. Three patients were referred because of cerebrovascular accidents and atrial fibrillation. The Doppler-determined mean diastolic mitral gradient ranged from 4 to 15 mm Hg (mean: 7 mm Hg). Mitral stenosis ranged in severity from trivial to very severe. Eight patients had moderate to severe mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas less than or equal to 1.5 cm2. Seven had mild or trivial mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas greater than 1.5 cm2. After further evaluation, two patients underwent mitral valve surgery with improvement of congestive failure. In three patients, warfarin therapy was begun to prevent emboli. Thus, five of 18 patients had a significant immediate change in therapy because of the discovery of mitral stenosis. CONCLUSION: The diagnosis of mitral stenosis may not be suspected in the presence of advanced age, other serious cardiac and medical conditions, or mechanical factors that complicate the physical examination. In these patients, mitral stenosis may be hemodynamically significant and may cause significant symptoms. 
Components of delay time in suspected acute myocardial infarction with particular emphasis on patient delay. Two hundred and thirty-four patients admitted to a coronary care unit (CCU) were interviewed a few days after arrival in hospital to determine reasons for patient delay and the various components of total delay time from onset of symptoms to arrival in CCU. Of the three major components of delay, decision time (time from onset of symptoms to decision to go to hospital), and hospital procedure time (time from arrival in hospital to arrival in the CCU), were of the same magnitude, 1 h 15 min and 1 h 30 min (median), whereas the median time for preparation and transportation to hospital was somewhat shorter, being 45 min. Decision time appeared to be similar in patients with confirmed and non-confirmed acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and was not associated with intensity of pain or infarct size. Half of the patients hesitated to go to hospital, which resulted in a prolonged decision delay (3 h). It is concluded that patient indecision to seek medical help is the most important reason for delay in hospital arrival in patients with suspected AMI. 
Experimental and clinical percutaneous angioscopy experience with dynamic angioplasty. The authors have used ultrathin angioscopes with high optical resolution to assess the effects of dynamic angioplasty in vitro and in vivo. Experimentally, angioscopy was used to study the effects of the 5F "Kensey" catheter in "normal" porcine coronary arteries (NPCA) and postmortem human coronary arteries (PMHCA). In NPCA, the catheter keeps a coaxial position. Intimal flaps (IFs) were seen in 21/23 NPCAs. They occurred with all cam rotation speeds and were usually single and small (less than 25% of lumen). Perforations in patent arteries were rare (1/23). However, when the catheter was forced against the wall by passing through a narrowing of 5F diameter (made by a band ligature), perforations were more common at higher cam speeds. The epicardium remained intact in two thirds of perforations. Angioscopy visualized perforations in only 10% of cases (1/10), the common sign being that of large and multiple intimal flaps, which were often obstructive (5/10). In PMHCAs, angioscopy was more sensitive than angiography in detecting atheromatous lesions. The authors were able to give a better assessment of the effect of dynamic angioplasty on treated lesions, including the demonstration of intimal flaps that were not visible on angiography. In vivo, they have performed percutaneous angioscopy before and after dynamic angioplasty using 8 French Kensey catheters. Angioscopy revealed features that were not shown angiographically. 
Transient ischaemic attacks in young patients: a thromboembolic or migrainous manifestation? A 10 year follow up study of 46 patients. Forty six patients aged 18-39 years with transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) were studied; two thirds were women. Twenty five patients had attacks accompanied by headache, and seven gave a history of common migraine. Only four of 27 angiograms were abnormal; no operable carotid lesion was demonstrated. Over a mean follow up period of 10 years stroke or myocardial infarction (AMI) occurred in all four patients who presented major cerebrovascular risk factors, but in only two of the remaining 42 patients. Thus irrespective of age thromboembolic TIA is a harbinger of stroke or AMI. However, most TIAs under the age of 40 years are caused by a non-embolic benign vascular disorder. The clinical characteristics, long-term prognosis, and possible pathogenesis, for such attacks are often indistinguishable from those of classical migraine. In the absence of cardiovascular risk factors, arteriography does not provide much diagnostic and prognostic information. 
Silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads. Automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator has become routine treatment for recurrent, drug-resistant ventricular tachycardia. Although there is documentation regarding clinical experience and device performance, there is little information on how to avoid complications related to the retrieval of sensing and defibrillation leads from the subcutaneous space. We are reporting our experience with a silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads that allows immediate and simple retrieval of the leads in case an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator generator is needed. 
Effects of two types of fish oil supplements on serum lipids and plasma phospholipid fatty acids in coronary artery disease. Fish oil has consistently been shown to lower triglyceride levels, but its effects on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol remain controversial. The current study compares the long-term effects of 2 different fish oil preparations (ethyl ester and triglyceride) versus olive oil in patients with coronary artery disease. Eighty-nine subjects were randomly assigned to receive capsules containing 6 g/day (triglyceride group) or 7 g/day (ethyl ester group) of n-3 fatty acids, or capsules containing 12 g/day of olive oil for 6 months. Mean triglyceride levels decreased by 28% in the ester and 32% in the triglyceride fish oil groups (p less than 0.05 for both). LDL cholesterol levels increased by 3% (difference not significant) in the ester and 12% (p less than 0.05) in the triglyceride fish oil groups; in hypertriglyceridemic subjects the increase was 23% (p less than 0.01) and 14% (difference not significant), respectively. Plasma phospholipid fatty acid analysis showed a fivefold increase in eicosapentaenoic acid levels in both fish oil groups (p less than 0.001), and a long-term decrease in arachidonic acid levels (p less than 0.001). Achieved eicosapentaenoic acid level correlated with the degree of increase in LDL cholesterol (r = 0.38, p less than 0.05). These data suggest that fish oil administration is associated with an increase in LDL cholesterol levels in a diverse group of patients with coronary artery disease; this change appears to be correlated with n-3 fatty acid absorption. The impact of this increase in LDL is unknown, but should be considered as potentially adverse. 
Severe mitral insufficiency post-balloon valvuloplasty: the late changes found in a disrupted mitral valve. The case of a 45-yr-old woman who had balloon valvuloplasty for rheumatic mitral stenosis is presented. An anterior mitral leaflet tear occurred as a complication of the procedure. Both partial healing of the anterior mitral leaflet and gradual dilatation of the left atrium occurred which allowed the damaged valve to remain in situ for several months. Some of the late changes which occur after such a complicated valvuloplasty are illustrated here, as this patient eventually required surgery and valve excision for definitive repair. 
Detection of patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during sinus rhythm by P wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram. To determine whether patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm, the signal-averaged electrocardiogram triggered by P waves was recorded in 42 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (Paf group) and in 50 control patients. The root mean square voltages (LP10, LP20, and LP30) for the last 10, 20, and 30 msec and the duration (Ad) of filtered (40-300 Hz) P wave of the spatial magnitude were measured. LP10 and LP20 were significantly lower in the Paf than in the control group (LP10, 1.92 +/- 0.58 versus 2.49 +/- 0.78 microV, p less than 0.001; LP20, 2.47 +/- 0.78 versus 3.46 +/- 1.20 microV, p less than 0.0001), although no significant difference in LP30 was found between groups. Ad was also significantly longer in the Paf than in the control group (137.0 +/- 14.3 versus 118.6 +/- 11.3 msec, p less than 0.001). These differences between the Paf and control groups remained significant even after dividing by the presence or absence of organic heart diseases. The criteria of "LP20 = 3.5 microV or less" and "Ad greater than 120 msec" as defining "atrial late potential" gave a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 76%. These findings suggest that patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm by using the P wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram. 
Angiographic progression to total coronary occlusion in hyperlipidemic patients after acute myocardial infarction. POSCH Group. The progression of coronary artery stenosis to total occlusion was assessed in 413 hyperlipidemic patients with a previous myocardial infarction. Coronary angiograms were recorded at baseline, 3 (n = 312), and 5 years (n = 248) after initial study and analyzed by 2 independent readers. There were 177 (43%) patients with 1-, 130 (31%) with 2-, and 61 (15%) with 3-vessel disease (greater than or equal to 50% diameter narrowing), whereas 45 (11%) did not have significant disease within a major coronary vessel at baseline. A new finding of total occlusion occurred in 4% (30 of 748) and 7% (40 of 605) of major coronary artery segments at 3 and 5 years, respectively. The risk of progression to total occlusion was higher if the initial stenosis was greater than 60% compared to lesions less than or equal to 60% both at 3 years (19 of 143 = 13% vs 11 of 605 = 2%; p less than 0.001) and 5 years (27 of 91 = 30% vs 13 of 514 = 3%; p less than 0.001). The frequency of occlusion was highest for the right coronary artery by 5 years (18 of 167 = 11% for right vs 8 of 225 = 4% for circumflex vs 14 of 213 = 7% for left anterior descending coronary arteries; p less than 0.02). Clinical and laboratory data revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with a new total occlusion in 23% of patients (7 of 30) at 3 years and in 64% (25 of 39) at 5 years. 
Experience with the Sarns centrifugal pump as a ventricular assist device. The authors used the Sarns centrifugal pump (Sarns 3M, Ann Arbor, MI) as a ventricular assist device (VAD) in 30 patients between May 1985 and February 1990. Sixteen patients were unweanable from cardiopulmonary bypass at the time of surgery; nine were patients who developed cardiogenic shock postoperatively in the intensive care unit. One was a donor organ failure; one had a failed PTCA; and one an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock preoperatively. Two patients were bridged to cardiac transplantation. Of the 28 nontransplant candidates, 20 (71.4%) were weaned successfully, 14 (50%) were discharged from the hospital, and 13 (46%) are alive from 1 to 46 months postoperatively (mean, 21.1 months). Three patients received right ventricular support alone; all three were weaned, and two (66.7%) were discharged. Ten patients received left ventricular assistance alone. Six (60%) were weaned, and four (40%) were discharged. Two patients received left ventricular support initially but were taken back for right VAD insertion because of right-sided heart failure; one (50%) is alive. Fifteen patients received biventricular support. Eleven (77.3%) were weaned, and eight (53.3%) were discharged. Patient ages ranged from 19 to 73 years, with a mean age for men of 59 years and 50.5 years for women. There were no thromboembolic events. Various clinical parameters were evaluated to determine effect on weanability and survival. These results show survival equivalent to any other VAD at this time. The centrifugal pump is a convenient and effective means of maintaining ventricular support in individuals who are believed to have salvageable myocardium. 
Value of electrophysiologic studies in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treated with amiodarone. The relation of electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone to long-term outcome was studied in 35 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC). Indications for electrophysiologic studies were: cardiac arrest (n = 3), syncope/presyncope (n = 27) and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia (VT) (n = 5). Twenty-eight patients (80%) had VT, 3 (9%) atrial tachycardia and 3 (9%) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 24-hour Holter monitoring. The studies were repeated after a total amiodarone dose of 58 +/- 122 g and during a maintenance median daily dose of 400 mg. Amiodarone abolished paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias in all 6 patients. However, it caused marked atrioventricular nodal conduction abnormality in 3 patients and heart block or marked HV interval prolongation (to greater than or equal to 100 ms) in 4 patients. Sustained VT was induced in 26 patients (74%) at baseline study and in 23 patients (66%) taking amiodarone therapy. With amiodarone, VT was no longer inducible or was more difficult to induce in 11 patients (31%), and the drug abolished VT during Holter monitoring in all patients. However, VT was easier to induce with amiodarone or was induced only with amiodarone in 18 (51%) patients. Amiodarone significantly slowed the rate of induced VT (from 248 +/- 29 to 214 +/- 37 beats/min, p less than 0.001). This was associated with a change in its morphology from polymorphic to monomorphic VT in 7 patients. During a follow up of 18 +/- 14 months (range 2 to 56), amiodarone was discontinued because of adverse effects in 8 patients (23%). 
Scleroderma and central nervous system vasculitis. We describe a patient with scleroderma (CREST syndrome) and central nervous system vasculitis. While angiography demonstrated segmental symmetrical arterial narrowing characteristic of vasculitis, results of leptomeningeal biopsy were normal. There was no evidence of systemic vasculitis, renal failure, or malignant hypertension previously thought to be required to explain central nervous system dysfunction in patients with scleroderma. Signs and symptoms attributable to vasculitis were reversible with aggressive immunosuppressive therapy. 
Kinetic abnormalities of the red blood cell sodium-proton exchange in hypertensive patients. The present study was designed to examine the kinetics of Na(+)-H+ exchange in red blood cells of normotensive and hypertensive subjects and its relation to the previously reported abnormalities in Na(+)-Li+ exchange. The Na(+)-H+ antiporter activation kinetics were studied by varying cell pH and measuring net Na+ influx (mmol/l cell x hr = units) driven by an outward H+ gradient. The Na(+)-Li+ exchange was determined at pH 7.4 as sodium-stimulated Li+ efflux. Untreated hypertensive patients (n = 30) had a higher maximal rate of Na(+)-Li+ exchange (0.43 +/- 0.05 versus 0.26 +/- 0.02 units, p less than 0.0003), a higher maximal rate of Na(+)-H+ exchange (62.3 +/- 6.2 versus 47 +/- 4 units; p less than 0.02), but a similar affinity for cell pH compared with normotensive subjects (n = 46). The cell pH activation of the Na(+)-H+ antiporter exhibited a lower Hill coefficient than that of normotensive subjects (1.61 +/- 0.12 versus 2.56 +/- 0.14; p less than 0.0001). This index of occupancy of internal H+ regulatory sites was found reduced in most of the hypertensive patients (73%) whether their hypertension was untreated or treated. Hypertensive patients with Na(+)-Li+ exchange above 0.35 units (0.68 +/- 0.057 units, n = 16) did not exhibit elevated maximal rates of Na(+)-H+ exchange (57.3 +/- 10 units, NS) in comparison with those with Na(+)-Li+ exchange below 0.35 units (66.4 +/- 7.6 units, n = 26), but both groups exhibited reduced Hill coefficients. Hypertensive patients with enhanced Na(+)-H+ exchange activity (more than 90 units) had normal maximal rates of Na(+)-Li+ exchange. 
Relationship of atherosclerosis in young men to serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking. A preliminary report from the Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) Research Group Investigators in eight communities collected aortas, right coronary arteries, blood, and associated information from 390 males, 15 to 34 years of age, who died of violent causes. Pathologists at central laboratories graded the arteries for atherosclerotic lesions, and serum lipoprotein cholesterol and thiocyanate concentrations were measured. The percentage of intimal surface involved with atherosclerotic lesions in both the aorta and the right coronary artery was positively associated with serum very low-density lipoprotein + low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration and negatively associated with serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. The serum thiocyanate concentration, a marker for smoking, was strongly associated with prevalence of raised lesions, particularly in the abdominal aorta. The effect of smoking was not explained by lipoprotein levels. Blacks had more extensive total surface involvement of the aorta after adjustment for lipoprotein cholesterol levels and smoking. These associations indicate that serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking are important determinants of the early stages of atherosclerosis in adolescents and young adults. 
Experience with the use of coronary autoperfusion catheter during complicated angioplasty. Between February and July of 1989, 22 patients underwent the use of the Stack autoperfusion catheter following acute occlusion or obstructive dissection during coronary angioplasty; in 20 cases conventional balloon was used in an attempt to correct the angiographic appearance followed by the use of Stack catheter when results were sub-optimal. Only 1 patient (4.5%) required surgical revascularization. Although our study is not prospective or randomized, our observations suggest a significant impact in decreasing the need for emergency surgical revascularization after complicated coronary angioplasty with the use of this approach. 
Congestive heart failure, coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction in elderly blacks and whites with systemic hypertension and with and without echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. Hypertension was present in 50% of 196 blacks and in 36% of 382 whites (p less than 0.001). A prospective study of 84 elderly blacks (70% women) and 326 elderly whites (73% women) with hypertension correlated echocardiographic and electrocardiographic left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy with incidences of congestive heart failure (CHF), coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction (ABI). Echocardiographic LV hypertrophy (p less than 0.02) and concentric LV hypertrophy (p less than 0.001) were more prevalent in hypertensive blacks than in hypertensive whites. Hypertensive blacks were younger (78 +/- 9 years) than hypertensive whites (82 +/- 7 years) (p less than 0.001). Other coronary risk factors were similar, except for higher serum triglycerides in whites than in blacks (p less than 0.02). Follow-up was 37 +/- 18 months in blacks and 43 +/- 18 months in whites (p less than 0.01). Incidences of CHF and coronary events were not significantly different in blacks and whites. ABI incidence was 38% in blacks and 21% in whites (p less than 0.005). Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that prior CHF (p = 0.000), concentric LV hypertrophy (p = 0.018) and echocardiographic LV hypertrophy (p = 0.022) were independent risk factors for CHF. Echocardiographic LV hypertrophy (p = 0.001), serum total cholesterol (p = 0.002), concentric LV hypertrophy (p = 0.005) and prior coronary artery disease (p = 0.042) were independent risk factors for coronary events. Prior ABI (p = 0.001), echocardiographic LV hypertrophy (p = 0.001) and electrocardiographic LV hypertrophy (p = 0.034) were independent risk factors for ABI. 
Treatment of recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis and successful reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction: effect on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function. To determine the effect of treatment of recurrent ischemia after reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function recovery and to identify patients at highest risk of serious consequences in the event of recurrent ischemia in this setting, 405 consecutively treated patients were studied retrospectively. All patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of ST segment elevation-documented infarction and had angiographic confirmation of their reperfusion status performed within 120 min of treatment. Three hundred three patients had successful reperfusion with or without rescue angioplasty and had no recurrent ischemia (group 1), 74 patients had initially successful reperfusion but subsequent recurrent ischemia (group 2) and 28 patients had failed reperfusion (group 3). The in-hospital mortality in groups 1 to 3 was 2.0%, 14.9% and 32.1%, respectively (p less than 0.001) and the change from baseline to prehospital discharge left ventricular ejection fraction was 1.2 +/- 9.3%, -0.8 +/- 8.7% and -4.3 +/- 5.3%, respectively (p = NS). Within the recurrent ischemia group (group 2), multiple regression analysis found absence of cardiogenic shock at presentation (p = 0.002) and successful treatment initiated within 90 min of recurrent ischemia (p = 0.045) to be the only variables independently correlated with in-hospital survival. Later successful reperfusion was not associated with improved hospital survival. The timing and success of treatment did not affect recovery of global or regional left ventricular function in the patients with paired angiographic studies. 
Coronary arterial remodeling studied by high-frequency epicardial echocardiography: an early compensatory mechanism in patients with obstructive coronary atherosclerosis. Coronary arterial remodeling is a compensatory mechanism that may limit the adverse effects of coronary obstructive lesions by expansion of the entire vascular segment. To determine if this compensatory anatomic change occurs in patients, high-frequency epicardial echocardiography using a 12 MHz transducer was performed during open heart surgery in 33 patients (10 with normal coronary arteries undergoing valvular surgery and 23 with coronary atherosclerosis). From stop-frame videotape high-frequency epicardial echocardiographic images, cross-sectional measurements of luminal area and total arterial area (lumen, intima, media and dense adventitia) were made in the patients with atherosclerosis at the site of arterial lesions and from the most proximal portion of the same artery. Remodeling was defined as enlargement of the total arterial area. In normal arteries measurements were made from proximal and midarterial locations. In the patients with normal coronary arteries, total arterial area, as determined by high-frequency echocardiography, decreased from the proximal site to the midportion of the artery (from 10.4 +/- 0.9 to 8.4 +/- 1.0 mm2, p less than 0.05); luminal area also decreased (from 6.0 +/- 0.6 to 4.5 +/- 0.7 mm2, p less than 0.05). In patients with coronary arterial lesions, luminal area also decreased from the proximal site to the arterial lesion site (from 5.3 +/- 0.6 to 2.3 +/- 0.3 mm2, p less than 0.05), but total arterial area increased (from 11.6 +/- 1.0 to 13.0 +/- 1.0 mm2, p less than 0.05). Of the 25 coronary arteries evaluated, only 4 had angiographic evidence of coronary collateral formation. These data indicate that coronary arterial remodeling is an important compensatory mechanism in obstructive coronary disease. 
The entrainment of low frequency breathing periodicity. It has been predicted by mathematical models of the respiratory control system that the delay between the lung and the respiratory controller may determine the cycle time found in periodic breathing. We examined cycle time of periodic breathing and circulation time in 11 patients known to have circulation delay due to heart failure. We did not find a significant relationship between the amount of periodic breathing and circulation delay, but found a very high correlation between circulation delay and the cycle time of periodic breathing (r2 = 0.825; p = 0.0001). 
Sustained improvement in left ventricular function after successful coronary angioplasty. The short and long term effects of successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty on left ventricular function, at rest and on exercise were investigated in 49 patients. Thirty-four had had no previous infarction (group 1) and 15 had (group 2). Technetium-99m gated blood pool images were obtained at rest and during exercise before, six weeks after, and a mean of fifteen months after successful angioplasty. Before angioplasty the mean (SD) ejection fraction fell significantly on exercise in both groups from 58 (10)% to 53 (13)% in group 1 and from 48 (10)% to 40 (16)% in group 2. This change was paralleled by a worsening wall motion score (from 0.6 (0.4) to 1.6 (1.2) in group 1 and from 2.3 (1.9) to 3.3 (2.4) in group 2). Six weeks after the procedure there was little change in resting ejection fraction but it increased significantly on exercise (to 62 (11)% in group 1 and to 53 (13)% in group 2). There was a concomitant significant improvement in the exercise wall motion score (to 0.4 (0.6) in group 1 and to 1.8 (1.1) in group 2). This improvement in exercise ejection fraction and wall motion was maintained at later follow up with no significant deterioration in either variable and a clearly sustained improvement in ejection fraction (60 (10)% in group 1 and 51 (10)% in group 2) and wall motion score (0.2 (0.2) in group 1 and 1.3 (0.8) in group 2) compared with values before angioplasty. 
Changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant. The effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) on cardiac function and its determinants (preload, afterload, contractility, and heart rate) are largely unknown, although some evidence exists that function may decrease. To determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ECMO, we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension. Serial echocardiograms were performed before ECMO, during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass, and after ECMO. Cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices (shortening fraction and cardiac output). Heart rate, preload (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area), afterload (left ventricular end-systolic wall stress), and contractility (relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress) were also measured. Ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ECMO (shortening fraction 33% to 25%, cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05) and returned to normal after ECMO (shortening fraction 26% to 34%, cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute; p less than 0.05). Heart rate also significantly decreased during ECMO (158 to 118 beats/min; p less than 0.05). Preload significantly increased after ECMO (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm, left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2; p less than 0.05). There were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period. We conclude that, although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ECMO, these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated. Contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass. 
Deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder. We describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder. These patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse. The diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history. 
Comparison of supraannular and subannular pledgeted sutures in mitral valve replacement Ten fresh canine hearts were used to compare the peak left ventricular pressure required to disrupt prosthetic mitral valves sutured in place with horizontal mattress sutures with either subannular or supraannular pledgets. Each group consisted of 5 animals. A 29-mm Medtronic mitral valve was secured in the mitral position with ten pledgeted sutures. The aorta was cannulated and normal saline solution was infused into the left ventricle until valvar disruption occurred. The peak pressure and the location and mechanism of disruption were then noted. At the peak left ventricular pressure required for valvar disruption, no individual sutures were broken. Instead, in all specimens a subannular myocardial rupture occurred in the posterior portion of the mitral annulus along the extent of the atrioventricular groove. In addition, the posterior wall of the left atrium dissected upward subsequently. Significantly greater pressures were required in the group with subannular suture placement as compared with the supraannular group (354 +/- 37 versus 236 +/- 33 mm Hg; p less than 0.0007). These data suggest that placement of horizontal mattress sutures with pledgets in the subannular position is superior to the currently recommended method of supraannular suture placement in mechanical valves. 
Long-term effects of delapril on renal function and urinary excretion of kallikrein, prostaglandin E2, and thromboxane B2 in hypertensive patients. The effects of delapril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, on renal function and the renin-angiotensin and kallikrein-prostaglandin systems were investigated in 10 hypertensive patients who were treated for between 4 months and 1 year. There was a significant (P less than .05) increase in renal blood flow (RBF) without affecting glomerular filtration rate. Filtration fraction increased, while renal vascular resistance decreased. There were also significant (P less than .05) increases in urinary kallikrein and prostaglandin excretion, while thromboxane excretion decreased. There was no change in urinary aldosterone excretion. These results suggest that renal hemodynamic changes seen during long-term therapy with delapril are caused, in part, by activation of the kallikrein-prostaglandin system, as well as suppression of the renin-angiotensin system. 
Pivotal role of early and sustained infarct vessel patency in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction unequivocally has improved short- and long-term mortality. The fundamental goal of therapy for evolving myocardial infarction is early and sustained infarct vessel recanalization. The mechanisms linking an open artery with improved long-term survival and other clinical outcomes are presented with use of data from extensive clinical trials. 
Long-term treatment of hereditary angioedema with attenuated androgens: a survey of a 13-year experience. Fifty-six patients affected with hereditary angioedema have been followed during long-term prophylaxis with attenuated androgens. The treatment was started in patients who had one or more severe attacks per month. In 24 patients, the therapy lasted for more than 5 years. The minimal effective dose usually did not exceed 2 mg/day of stanozolol or 200 mg/day of danazol. Only in two patients were these doses not sufficient to achieve the complete disappearance of symptoms. Irregular menstruation, but rarely amenorrhea, was the only significant side effect. One patient had to stop the therapy because of laboratory signs of hepatic cell necrosis. In one patient, danazol was administered during the last 8 weeks of pregnancy without side effects for the mother but with transient signs of virilization for the female baby. To find a biochemical marker for the minimal effective dose of androgen derivatives, we measured the plasma levels of C1 C1 INH complexes at different doses of stanozolol in four patients with hereditary angioedema. We found that these complexes, elevated before treatment, promptly reverted to normal values during androgen therapy and remained normal with any reduction of the dose of the drug as long as the patient remained symptom free. Therefore, the measurement of C1 C1 INH complexes appears to reflect the activity of the disease and not the amount of androgen that is administered. 
Reappraisal of the mechanism for cerebrospinal fluid hypertension during aortic surgery. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hypertension during aortic surgery is a poorly understood, multifactorial event that may increase the risk of spinal cord injury. To assess the factors that may contribute to changes in CSF pressure during aortic surgery, measurements of ascending arterial and CSF pressures were made in 17 anesthetized mongrel dogs. Changes in CSF patterns were monitored under several conditions tested in random sequence. These included systemic hypertension produced by an infusion of phenylephrine, cross-clamping of the descending thoracic aorta, and manual, superior displacement of the transverse aortic arch (arch elevation), either alone or in conjunction with the cross-clamp. Hypertension, cross-clamping, and cross-clamping combined with arch elevation all produced significant increases in ascending mean arterial pressure (204 +/- 20, 170 +/- 8, and 158 +/- 11 mm Hg, respectively, vs. 117 +/- 8 mm Hg [control]; (p less than 0.01). Small, nonsignificant increases in CSF pressure were detected in the cross-clamp group, but none were detected with hypertension alone, despite significant increases in ascending arterial blood pressure in both groups. Thus, neither arterial hypertension nor cross-clamping alone could be demonstrated directly to cause significant CSF hypertension. However, when aortic elevation (displacement) was combined with cross-clamping, the rise in CSF pressure increased to significant levels, even though the ascending arterial hypertension was least severe in this group. In contrast, arch elevation alone did not produce any significant increase in ascending arterial pressure but did produce an approximately 114% increase in CSF pressure (15.2 +/- mm Hg vs. 7.7 +/- 1 mm Hg [control]; p less than 0.01. 
Five-year experience with triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy in cardiac transplantation. Although triple-drug immunosuppression with a combination of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine has been shown to improve short-term survival after cardiac transplantation, its long-term effects still are unknown. From December 1983 through December 1988, all patients (N = 139) who underwent orthotopic cardiac transplant at our institution received triple-drug immunosuppressant therapy. Follow-up averaged 32.2 +/- 15.8 months. Twenty-one patients died; 134 survived more than 30 days. Actuarial survival was 92% at 1 year, 85% at 3 years, and 78% at 5 years. Twenty-five episodes of acute graft rejection were diagnosed in 21 of the 139 recipients (0.18 episode per patient). In patients, the incidence of infection was 0.82 episode; 72% of infections were viral, with 10% due to cytomegalovirus. The incidence of coronary artery disease was 10% at 1 year, 25% at 3 years, and 36% at 5 years. Coronary artery disease was responsible for 60% of late deaths. Arterial hypertension developed in 81% of patients, despite relatively well-maintained renal function (serum creatinine, 1.7 +/- 0.3 mg/dl). Skeletal complications occurred in 15.8% and lymphoma in 1.4% of recipients. Complete long-term rehabilitation was achieved in all but two of the surviving patients. These data support the short- and long-term effectiveness of triple-drug therapy. This regimen reduces the incidence of rejection, infection, and lymphoma, as well as the degree of renal failure. However, the incidence of posttransplant coronary artery disease has not been reduced, and graft atherosclerosis represents the major cause of late graft failure and death. 
Effects of felodipine on urinary albumin excretion and metabolic control in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetics. The effect of a blood pressure reduction by 10 mg extended release felodipine once daily on urinary albumin excretion (UAE) as well as the possible diabetogenic effect of felodipine was studied. A 2 X 12 week placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study was performed in 12 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients without nephropathy on concomitant treatment with beta-blocker and/or a diuretic agent. Metabolic control as estimated by fasting plasma glucose, hemoglobin A1c and fasting plasma C-peptide was unaltered after felodipine. Blood pressure was significantly reduced by felodipine: systolic 166 +/- 26 mm Hg (placebo) v 153 +/- 26 mm Hg (felodipine) (P less than .05) and diastolic 95 +/- 7 mm Hg v 90 +/- 8 mm Hg (P less than .05). Heart rate was unchanged. There was no correlation between blood pressure and UAE, but the relative change in UAE expressed as UAE placebo/UAE felodipine was significantly correlated to the fall in systolic blood pressure (r = 0.64, P = .03) and mean blood pressure (r = 0.66, P = .02). Since microalbuminuria predicts proteinuria and reduced survival, early antihypertensive treatment may be beneficial in NIDDM as it is in IDDM. Long-term consequences on kidney function and mortality remains, however, to be elucidated. 
Detection of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty: improved clinical decision making with use of a logistic model combining procedural and follow-up variables. A prospective study of 111 patients who underwent repeat coronary angiography and exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy 6 +/- 2 months after complete revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to assess whether clinical, procedure-related and postangioplasty exercise variables yield independent information for the prediction of angiographic restenosis after angioplasty. Complete revascularization was defined as successful angioplasty of one or more vessels that resulted in no residual coronary lesion with greater than 50% diameter stenosis. Restenosis was defined as a residual stenosis at the time of repeat angiography of greater than 50% of luminal diameter. Restenosis occurred in 40% of the patients. The 111 patients were randomly subdivided into a learning group (n = 84) and a testing group (n = 27). A logistic discriminant analysis was performed in the learning group and the logistic model was used to estimate a logistic probability of restenosis. This probability of restenosis was validated in the testing group. In the learning group of 84 patients univariate analysis of 39 factors revealed 8 factors related to restenosis: recurrence of angina (p less than 0.0001), postangioplasty abnormal finding on exercise thallium-201 scintigram (p less than 0.0001), exercise thallium-201 scintigram score (p less than 0.0001), difference between exercise and rest ST segment depression (p less than 0.001), postangioplasty exercise ST segment depression (p less than 0.001), absolute postangioplasty stenosis diameter (p less than 0.003), postangioplasty exercise work load (p less than 0.03) and postangioplasty exercise heart rate (p less than 0.05). 
Treatment of ventricular tachycardia induced cardiogenic shock by percoronary chemical ablation. Incessant ventricular arrhythmias pose an especially challenging therapeutic dilemma. We describe the successful treatment and follow-up of a patient with refractory ventricular tachycardia-induced cardiogenic shock with percoronary chemical ablation. After endocardial mapping was used to identify the "tachycardia-related" coronary artery, temporary termination of the arrhythmia with balloon occlusion and subselective intracoronary installation of iced saline as previously advocated was unsuccessful. This was probably due to a dual arterial blood supply to the arrhythmogenic focus. However, infusion of 2 cc ethanol (99%) permanently terminated the arrhythmia. Contrary to previous experience, ethanol-induced arrhythmia termination did not result in arterial occlusion, further supporting a direct toxic effect on the myocardium as its mode of action. Use of standard angioplasty balloon inflation prevents "backwash" of distally infused ethanol and more generalized cell death. The only complication of this procedure was temporary third-degree AV block, requiring permanent pacemaker implantation. 
Coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. The applications for coronary angioplasty have greatly expanded and the procedure is now increasingly used in complex and potentially high risk conditions. This report describes the short- and long-term effects of coronary angioplasty in 61 patients with severely depressed left ventricular function (ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%) with unstable or refractory anginal symptoms, or both, in whom revascularization was necessary despite increased risk. In a retrospective analysis of 1,260 patients undergoing angioplasty between January 1985 through December 1987, 61 had an ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%. The common clinical presentation was unstable angina (70%) with or without recent myocardial infarction. Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 27 +/- 6%. Forty-five patients (74%) had multivessel disease. Clinical success after angioplasty was achieved in 55 patients (90%). Major complications (death, infarction and emergency bypass surgery) occurred in five patients (8.2%), with death in two (3.2%). During long-term (mean 21 +/- 11 months) follow-up study of the 55 patients with successful angioplasty, 13 (23%) died, including 3 of noncardiac causes, and 11 (20%) had clinically symptomatic recurrence. Continued clinical success was present in 39 patients (71%), of whom 28 (51%) were event-free patients and 11 (20%) had clinical recurrence; a successful second angioplasty procedure was performed in 9 because of restenosis. Thus, in patients with depressed left ventricular function, coronary angioplasty can be performed with a short-term success rate comparable to that of routine angioplasty or surgical procedures. However, acute complications are more frequent and the late mortality rate is higher than in patients with less depressed function. 
Renal autotransplantation in children: a successful treatment for renovascular hypertension. Renovascular hypertension in children is not a common disease. With improved surgical technique the incidence of nephrectomy has decreased and renovascular reconstruction is currently the preferred method to manage this entity. Between 1977 and 1988, 21 patients with renovascular hypertension were treated at our hospital: 7 patients 6 to 16 years old underwent renal autotransplantation. Of the children 4 had unilateral and 3 had bilateral disease requiring bilateral autotransplantation. Autotransplantation was performed by anastomosis of each renal artery end-to-side to the common iliac artery. The renal veins were anastomosed end-to-side to the common iliac veins. The ureters were left intact in all but 1 patient who required a bench operation. Of the 4 patients who had a unilateral procedure 3 are cured and 1 is improved with a normal blood pressure on a small dose of antihypertensive medication. The 3 patients with bilateral autotransplants are cured. These results, with normalization of the blood pressure in 86% of the patients and improvement in blood pressure in 14% with a patency rate of 87%, are similar to other reported reconstructive modalities in children. 
An open, noncomparative study of doxazosin in essential hypertension: experience in general practice in The Netherlands. The antihypertensive efficacy, safety, and lipid effects of doxazosin, a selective alpha 1-inhibitor, were assessed in a general practice setting. Three hundred twenty-six patients were entered into the study, which involved three phases: (1) a 2-week baseline period, (2) an 8-week period in which patients received 1 to 8 mg of doxazosin once daily, and (3) a 4-week maintenance period. After 12 weeks, 78.8% of efficacy-evaluable patients were considered therapy successes (sitting diastolic blood pressure either less than or equal to 90 mm Hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction from baseline or greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg reduction from baseline). The mean daily dose in patients considered a therapy success was 2.8 mg. By the final visit, sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressures of these patients were reduced by 16.4/13.5 mm Hg from a mean baseline of 170/106 mm Hg. The investigators' global assessment of efficacy of once-daily doxazosin therapy was excellent or good for 70% of patients. Of the 326 patients, 30.7% reported a total of 160 side effects; 78% of the side effects were mild or moderate in severity, and 24 patients (7.4%) discontinued treatment because of adverse experiences. The investigators' global assessment of toleration was excellent or good for 87% of patients. Doxazosin produced a significant decrease in total cholesterol (p = 0.02) and triglyceride (p less than 0.001) levels. From baseline to final visit there was also a highly significant reduction of 17% (p less than 0.001) in calculated risk score for coronary heart disease on the basis of the Framingham Heart Study risk equation. 
Prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. The prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia. A group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography. The clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them. In 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal pH and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests, ie, acid perfusion, edrophonium stimulation, balloon distension, and ergonovine stimulation, all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring. In 19 of these 37 patients, the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic ST-T segment alterations; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr pH and pressure recording. These data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram. 
Is hyperglycemia associated with cardiovascular disease? The Framingham Study. The association of nonfasting blood glucose levels with CVD incidence was determined prospectively in 1382 men and 2094 women aged 45 to 84 years participating in the Framingham Heart Study. For this study, all patients were classified in 1970 as diabetic or nondiabetic. Every 2 years they were examined, categorized according to causal blood glucose samples obtained at the clinic visit, reclassified for development of CVD and diabetes mellitus, and followed 10 years for CVD. During the follow-up period, 350 men and 369 women developed CVD. Age-adjusted CVD rates were positively associated with glucose levels in nondiabetic women who did not develop diabetes during follow-up. No such associations were seen in men. Multivariate analyses confirmed the independent association of blood glucose levels with later CVD in nondiabetic women. This study shows that hyperglycemia in the original Framingham cohort is an independent risk factor for CVD in nondiabetic women, but not among men. 
Experience with photocoagulation in Behcet's disease. Between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of Behcet's disease. Of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined, 38 eyes (6.8%) in 33 patients (11%) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion, branch retinal vein occlusion, or retinal or disc neovascularization. These eyes were treated by photocoagulation, primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma, as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion. The treatment, which was well tolerated, was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization. Disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases, and partially in others. 
Management of multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease in patients with hypertension. Hypertension intervention trials, which have involved mainly the use of diuretics and beta-blockers, have demonstrated a disappointing benefit in terms of reduction of coronary heart disease (CHD). Rather than suggesting that elevated blood pressure and CHD are not causally related, these data suggest that the antihypertensive agents used were not optimal for the management of hypertension and a review of the currently recommended therapies is needed. Major risk factors for CHD, which include increased blood pressure, elevated serum cholesterol levels, and smoking, are highly prevalent in the general population and appear to cluster in patients with hypertension. Therefore the treatment of hypertension demands a multifactorial approach, one that takes into consideration all the risk factors for CHD. Diuretics and beta-blockers adversely affect the serum lipid profile, and this could negate some of the CHD benefit afforded by blood pressure reduction. 
Differential protective effects of halothane and isoflurane against hypoxic and reoxygenation injury in the isolated guinea pig heart. The authors investigated the effects of halothane (HAL) and isoflurane (ISO) on cardiac depression produced by global hypoxia and the recovery of function following reoxygenation is isolated guinea pig hearts perfused with Krebs' solution at constant pressure. Isovolumetric left ventricular systolic (LVSP) and end-diastolic pressures (LVEDP) were measured by placing a saline filled, latex balloon into the left ventricle. Bipolar electrodes were placed in the right atrium and right ventricle for measurements of heart rate (HR), atrioventricular conduction time (AVCT), and determination of the incidence and severity of dysrhythmias occurring during hypoxia and reoxygenation. Hearts were divided into three groups: control (n = 20), halothane (n = 12), and isoflurane (n = 13). All hearts were exposed in sequence to oxygenated perfusate (PO2, 530 mmHg), moderately hypoxic perfusate (PO2, 91 mmHg) for 30 min, and then to oxygenated perfusate for 40 min. Halothane (1%, 0.4 mM) or isoflurane (1.5%, 0.5 mM) were administered 10 min before hypoxia, during hypoxia, and during the first 10 min of reoxygenation. Exposure to halothane and isoflurane before hypoxia produced a 14 and 11% decrease in heart rate, a 32 and 23% increase in AVCT, and a 47 and 28% decrease in LVSP (all P less than or equal to 0.001) for halothane and isoflurane, respectively, and no significant change in LVEDP. During hypoxia, HR decreased and AVCT increased similarly in both groups. Left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP) decreased sharply with a narrowing of the prehypoxic differences among the groups. In the control and isoflurane groups, LVEDP increased during hypoxia but remained unchanged in the halothane group. 
Transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty. To ascertain the value of transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty, the present study was undertaken in 26 anesthesized patients (21 women and 5 men; mean age, 47 years) with symptomatic rheumatic mitral valve stenosis. In all but one patient the balloon dilation of the mitral valve was successful and Doppler-derived valve area increased (0.9 +/- 0.3 to 1.9 +/- 0.4 cm2). Transesophageal echocardiography provides continuous monitoring, as well as guidance of the procedure. Crossing the arterial septum, as well as delivery of the sheath through the mitral valve orifice and correct positioning of the balloon, was highly facilitated and reduced x-ray exposure time. The degree of mitral regurgitation and the presence of interatrial shunting at the end of the procedure could be readily assessed, making cineangiography not necessary. Complications of the procedure, such as pericardial effusion, could be detected before hemodynamic deterioration had occurred (one patient). The advantages of transesophageal echocardiography for routine monitoring of percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, however, should be weighted against the added risk and expense of this support. 
Relative importance of activation sequence compared to atrioventricular synchrony in left ventricular function. This study evaluated the relative hemodynamic importance of a normal left ventricular (LV) activation sequence compared to atrioventricular (AV) synchrony with respect to systolic and diastolic function. Twelve patients with intact AV conduction and AV sequential pacemakers underwent radionuclide studies at rest and Doppler echocardiographic studies at rest and during submaximal exercise, comparing atrial demand pacing (AAI) to sequential AV sensing pacing (DDD) and ventricular demand pacing (VVI). Studies at rest were performed at a constant heart rate between pacing modes, and the exercise study was performed at a constant heart rate and work load. Cardiac output was higher during AAI than during both DDD and VVI (6.2 +/- 1 vs 5.6 +/- 1 and 5.3 +/- 1 liters/min, p less than 0.05). LV ejection fraction was likewise higher during AAI (55 +/- 12 vs 49 +/- 11 vs 51 +/- 13, p less than 0.05). VVI with or without AV synchrony was associated with a paradoxical septal motion pattern, resulting in a 25% impairment of regional septal ejection fraction. In addition, LV contraction duration was more homogenous during AAI. Peak filling rate during AAI and VVI was higher than during DDD (2.86 +/- 1 and 2.95 +/- 1 vs 2.25 +/- 1 end-diastolic volume/s; p less than 0.05). During VVI, the time to peak filling was significantly shorter than during both AAI and DDD (165 +/- 34 vs 239 +/- 99 and 224 +/- 99 ms; p less than 0.05). 
Sudden appearance of coronary thrombus observed by angiography--a case report. A sudden coronary thrombus formation was documented by chance during cardiac catheterization in a patient with postinfarction angina. The thrombus was successfully treated with intravenous urokinase and heparin infusions, and thereafter, coronary angioplasty was performed without any complication. 
Financial impact of a rapid CK-MB-specific immunoassay on the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. The purpose of this study was twofold. First, we evaluated the financial impact of a rapid, monoclonal antibody-based CK-MB mass assay (Stratus, Dade Division, Baxter Laboratories, Miami, Fla) for the direct measurement of CK-MB in serum samples from 65 patients admitted to the coronary care unit with the possible diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. Second, we evaluated retrospectively the Stratus assay and an activity assay (electrophoresis) for CK-MB in the following patient categories: acute myocardial infarction treated with and without thrombolytic therapy, angina, congestive heart failure, skeletal muscle trauma, and the acutely ill without acute myocardial infarction. The advantageous features of the Stratus mass assay were as follows. First, the laboratory was able to perform the assay more frequently because of the short assay time per specimen (less than 10 minutes) without additional personnel. This had a substantial impact on the clinician's ability to diagnose acute myocardial infarction and to move patients out of an intensive care unit at substantial financial savings to the patient, the hospital, or the third-party payer. Second, the Stratus assay was able to detect low levels of CK-MB (1 to 2 micrograms/L) in the presence of low total creatine kinase activity (less than 100 U/L). Third, the Stratus assay showed no interference due to very-high-total creatine kinase activities (greater than 100,000 U/L), CK-BB, macro-creatine kinase, and mitochondrial creatine kinase. 
Reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta. Since Crawford's report in 1973, repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin. Growing evidence, however, indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages. With this in mind, we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988. The operated patients in our series all survived. Fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt, none of whom developed paraplegia. The remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 (34.6%) developed paraplegia or paraparesis (p less than 0.02). Paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time (p less than 0.002). It did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes, but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes. These data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection. 
Transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. The perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is discussed. Vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the SVT. Since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position, it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of SVT. Transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the SVT and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables. The advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating SVT in the newborn are discussed. 
Therapeutic embolization: enhanced radiolabeled monitoring. Radiolabeling of Ivalon (polyvinyl alcohol sponge) particles permits localization of injected particles during embolization through the use of a portable gamma camera and provides a means to prevent potentially fatal complications such as pulmonary embolization. A more efficient technique of labeling Ivalon particles with technetium-99m sulfur colloid was developed. An increase in labeling efficiency allowed more accurate determination of the distribution of injected Ivalon particles. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the stability of the Ivalon particles during this new labeling process. Two patients with arteriovenous malformations underwent therapeutic embolization with radiolabeled Ivalon particles; gamma camera imaging of the lesion and chest was performed throughout the procedure. 
Orthostatic hypotension in human immunodeficiency virus infection may be the result of generalized autonomic nervous system dysfunction. We used an autonomic nervous system (ANS) testing battery to determine if generalized ANS dysfunction was present in five human immunodeficiency virus-positive (HIV+) patients presenting with severe orthostatic hypotension (OH). All five patients had abnormal ANS testing, which demonstrated both sympathetic and parasympathetic defects, i.e., generalized ANS dysfunction. Treatment with fludrocortisone effectively reversed the OH in four of the five patients. The OH was transient in these four patients. We believe it is important to recognize that OH may be the result of generalized ANS dysfunction in HIV-positive patients and that it can be effectively treated. 
Effect of subarachnoid hemorrhage on serotonin uptake and release in the rabbit basilar artery. This study analyzes the changes induced by subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) uptake and release evoked in rabbit basilar arteries by tyramine. Rabbits were injected with 5 ml of autologous arterial blood into the cisterna magna to produce SAH. Tritium accumulation in basilar arteries was measured after 30 minutes of incubation with 10(-7) M [3H]5-HT and a subsequent 120-minute superfusion (1 ml/min) period. The uptake of 5-HT by arteries 1, 2, 3, and 7 days after SAH was found to be 109%, 69%, 57% (P less than 0.05), and 67% (P less than 0.05) (n = 4, 4, 9, and 6; P less than 0.05) of control (n = 13; 16.8 +/- 1.2 X 10(2) dpm/mg tissue), respectively. The neuronal (cocaine-sensitive) uptake of 5-HT in the arteries 3 days after SAH decreased to approximately 38% of control, whereas the extraneuronal (cocaine-insensitive) uptake of both groups had almost the same absolute value (n = 6 and 6; 4.4 +/- 0.4 and 4.8 +/- 0.4 X 10(2) dpm/mg). Autoradiographic study disclosed that dense clusters of silver grains in the adventitia were not observed after treatment with cocaine (3 X 10(-5) M), although a diffuse distribution of grains was present throughout the vascular wall. The labeled arteries were stimulated by superfusion of tyramine, which is known to replace amines in the sympathetic nerve ending. Tyramine (10(-6) and 10(-4) M)-induced 3H efflux was significantly potentiated by SAH (n = 6) and was suppressed by treatment with cocaine. 
Renovascular hypertension. Difficulties in diagnosis and treatment. Renovascular hypertension is not easily identified clinically, and most tests are not totally reliable in detecting its presence. The condition may be due to fibromuscular dysplasia or congenital anomalies in patients younger than age 30 or to atherosclerosis in patients older than 50. The goal of treatment is to lower blood pressure and improve or maintain renal function. Cure or improvement of hypertension is more likely in patients with fibromuscular dysplasia than in those with atherosclerosis. Interventional procedures include percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, surgical revascularization, and nephrectomy. 
High-dose epinephrine improves outcome from pediatric cardiac arrest. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Animal studies suggest that the standard dose of epinephrine (SDE) for treatment of cardiac arrest in human beings may be too low. We compared the outcome after SDE with that after high-dose epinephrine (HDE) in children with refractory cardiac arrest. DESIGN: Prospective intervention versus historic control groups. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Two similar groups of 20 consecutive patients each (median ages, 2.5 and 3 years) with witnessed cardiac arrest who remained in arrest after at least two SDEs (0.01 mg/kg). INTERVENTIONS: Treatment with an additional SDE versus HDE (0.2 mg/kg). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The rates of return of spontaneous circulation and long-term survival were compared. Fourteen of the HDE group (70%) had return of spontaneous circulation, whereas none of the SDE group did (P less than .001). Eight children survived to discharge after HDE, and three were neurologically intact at follow-up. No significant toxicity from HDE was observed. CONCLUSION: HDE provided a higher return of spontaneous circulation rate and a better long-term outcome than SDE in our series of pediatric cardiac arrest. HDE may warrant incorporation into standard resuscitation protocols at an early enough point to prevent irreversible brain injury. 
Spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma: case report. A 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness. A myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles, lamina, and spinous process. A posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed. The tumor was identified as a paraganglioma. In a second stage, the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively, and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a Luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed. The patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months. A large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta. 
Regional cardiac adrenergic function using I-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction. The effect of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean +/- standard deviation 10 +/- 4 days after AMI. Regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with I-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph. Four hours after its administration, there was reduced MIBG uptake in the region of infarction, 0.38 +/- 0.31 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 compared with 0.60 +/- 0.30 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 and 0.92 +/- 0.35 counts/pixel/mCi x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area, respectively, p less than 0.001. In all patients, the area of reduced MIBG uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 +/- 22 and 23 +/- 18%, respectively, p less than 0.001. After anterior wall AMI, the 4-hour MIBG defect score was 70 +/- 13% and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and MIBG uptake was 30 +/- 9% compared with 39 +/- 17 and 21 +/- 17% after inferior AMI, p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016, respectively. The 4-hour MIBG defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction, r = -0.73, p less than 0.001. Patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour, paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour MIBG defect scores, 62.5 +/- 15.0%, than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour, 44.6 +/- 23.4%, p = 0.036. 
Decreased operative risk of surgical treatment of mitral regurgitation with or without coronary artery disease. The consecutive 2 year experience with patients undergoing first-time surgery for mitral regurgitation with and without coronary artery disease was reviewed. From January 1988 to January 1990, 127 patients with pure mitral regurgitation undergoing first-time operation were surgically treated. No other valve lesion, no reoperation and no congenital defects were included. The mean patient age was 62 years with 26% of the patients greater than 70 years. Twenty-six percent of the entire group was in functional class IV. Seventy-five patients received mitral valve repair and 52 underwent mitral valve replacement with a St. Jude or Hancock valve. In patients undergoing mitral valve repair, there was a higher incidence of those greater than 70 years old and of coronary artery disease and in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement there was a higher incidence of functional class IV. The operative mortality rate was 2.3% (3 of 127 patients). No patient failed to be discontinued from cardiopulmonary bypass and all three deaths occurred after mitral valve replacement, with one from complications of chronic renal failure and dialysis. There was no significant difference in patients who either did or did not have a concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and there was no difference related to age or functional class. Postoperative complications occurred in five patients in the valve repair group, including recurrent mitral regurgitation in two necessitating reoperation, and in three patients in the valve replacement group. With newer operative and postoperative management techniques, especially preservation of the papillary muscle annular continuity, the risk of mitral valve surgery, particularly of valve repair, is considerably lower than in previous years. 
Pulmonary effects of ischemic limb reperfusion: evidence for a role for oxygen-derived radicals. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the lung as a reperfusion target after limb ischemia-reperfusion, and to measure specifically the oxygen radical response to this reperfusion. DESIGN: Paired simple randomized, with continuous interval data in dependent variable and both continuous and nominal independent variables. SUBJECTS AND INTERVENTION: Sprague-Dawley male rats (n = 195) were anesthetized and both hind limbs occluded for 3.75 hr, the overnight LD50. Alveolar lavage was performed on the animals 1 hr after reperfusion or on survivors 20 hr after reperfusion. Groups were either undosed or pretreated with alpha-tocopherol as an antioxidant (50 mg/kg.day) 2 days before ischemia. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence was measured in both phorbol myristate acetate-stimulated and unstimulated macrophages. Nanomoles of superoxide radicals per 10(6) alveolar cells/min were also measured using a cytochrome c reduction assay. A significant (p less than .01, Student's t-test), time-dependent increase in response of cells from ischemic-reperfused rats was seen. Pretreatment with antioxidant had no effect at 1 hr, but significant differences were seen in the 20-hr survivors. CONCLUSIONS: These studies show that alveolar lavage cells, 95% macrophages, reflect the reperfusion of ischemic-reperfused hind limbs by a significant increase in oxygen radical activity, an effect partly suppressed in antioxidant-dosed survivors. 
Videodensitometry versus digital calipers for quantitative coronary angiography. Single-plane left coronary angiograms in 18 patients were prospectively analyzed using videodensitometry (XR-70 system) and handheld digital calipers to compare arterial dimensions, stenosis dimensions, intraobserver variability and interobserver variability for the methods. A total of 648 arterial segments were measured, yielding a highly significant correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined cross-sectional area (r = 0.96, p = 0.0001). Similarly, a highly significant linear relation was observed between videodensitometry and caliper-determined diameter (r = 0.95, p = 0.0001). When data subsets for small, medium and large arterial segments were examined, higher variability in the correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined area was observed in the large segments (greater than 10 mm2). In addition, caliper-estimated areas tended to be slightly smaller than videodensitometry-estimated areas in these segments. For diameter estimations, correlations between caliper and videodensitometry data were similar for the entire range of arterial segment sizes. Intra- and interobserver variability was low for both caliper and videodensitometry determination of diameter or area. Thus, over a wide range of arterial dimensions, results obtained with caliper estimates of luminal area and diameter are comparable to those obtained with videodensitometry using the XR-70 system. 
DMPO and reperfusion injury: arrhythmia, heart function, electron spin resonance, and nuclear magnetic resonance studies in isolated working guinea pig hearts. With the use of isolated working guinea pig hearts with normothermic global ischemia, it was shown that 5,5-dimethyl-pirroline-N-oxide (DMPO), an organic spin trap agent designed specifically to form stable adducts with oxygen free radicals in electron spin resonance studies, can dramatically reduce the vulnerability of the heart to reperfusion-induced arrhythmias. Studied in concentrations ranging from 10 to 500 mumol/L, DMPO exerted a dose-dependent protective effect. Thus, after 30 minutes of global ischemia, the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (total) and tachycardia was reduced from control values of 100% and 100% to 100% and 100%, 91% and 100%, 25% (p less than 0.001) and 50% (p less than 0.05), and 25% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.05), respectively, with DMPO concentrations of 10, 30, 100, and 500 mumol/L. Maximum signals of DMPO-OH adduct, with the use of electron spin resonance studies, were observed after 3 minutes of reperfusion in fibrillated hearts but were not detected in nonfibrillated hearts. Results of nuclear magnetic resonance studies of myocardial adenosine triphosphate, creatine phosphate, pH, and inorganic phosphate showed that these parameters were not significantly changed by treatment with DMPO, and consequently myocardial heart function was not improved, although there was a dissociation between myocardial adenosine triphosphate content and left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion. The data presented here indicate that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the development of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias but trapping these cytotoxic free radicals does not improve the recovery of postischemic heart function and high-energy phosphate contents in isolated working guinea pig hearts. 
Effects of mental stress on myocardial perfusion in patients with ischemic heart disease. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether and to what extent mental stress can reproduce the perfusion defects that are known to be induced by exercise. Twenty-four patients with recent myocardial infarction (New York Heart Association functional class I) and evidence of ischemic response were evaluated by means of SESTAMIBI scintigraphy performed once after exercise and then again within 2 days after mental arithmetic. Baseline, exercise, and mental stress planar scintigrams were divided into 15 segments, and each segment was reviewed and scored on a scale of 0 to 3 by experienced observers using circumferential profile analysis. Conflicting scores were resolved by consensus. Electrocardiographic abnormalities were found in 15 of 24 patients during exercise and in none during mental arithmetic. Chest pain was experienced by five patients during exercise and by none during mental stress. Twenty patients showed reversible perfusion defects during mental stress. Of the 360 pooled scintigram segments, 99 evidenced uptake defects during exercise, and 48 of these showed the same defects during mental stress. Twenty of the remaining 51 of 99 segments were adjacent to segments showing reversible hypoperfusion, suggesting milder hypoperfusion in these segments during mental arithmetic than during exercise. Furthermore, 10 segments showed reversible defects only during mental stress such that seven of these occurred in areas adjacent to those that had shown exercise-induced reversible perfusion defects, two occurred in areas that had shown fixed SESTAMIBI defects during exercise, and one occurred in a segment that had shown completely normal uptake during exercise. 
Blood rheology after cardiac valve replacement with mechanical prostheses or bioprostheses. Arterial thromboembolism is a serious complication in patients after heart valve replacement. Abnormalities in blood rheology may contribute to this complication. Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare various determinants of blood rheology in patients with substitute heart valves with those in healthy controls; furthermore, differences between patients with mechanical valves and those with bioprostheses should be investigated. The hemorrheologic determinants--fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, hematocrit and platelet aggregation--were studied in 92 patients with mechanical bileaflet valves, in 28 patients with bioprostheses and in 29 control subjects; the time since valve replacement was greater than or equal to 9 months. Fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell and spontaneous platelet aggregation were found to be increased in all patients after heart valve replacement compared with normal subjects (fibrinogen: 348 +/- 87 vs 267 +/- 66 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.71 +/- 0.1 vs 1.66 +/- 0.1 mPas, p less than 0.05; red cell aggregation: 9.9 +/- 2 vs 7.8 +/- 2 U, p less than 0.01; platelet aggregation: 22 +/- 15 vs 13 +/- 13%, p less than 0.01); among patients, fibrinogen, plasma viscosity and spontaneous platelet aggregation were higher in mechanical valves than in bioprostheses (fibrinogen: 359 +/- 95 vs 314 +/- 41 mg/dl, p less than 0.01; plasma viscosity: 1.72 +/- 0.1 vs 1.68 +/- 0.1 mPas, p less than 0.1; platelet aggregation: 23 +/- 15 vs 16 +/- 11%; p less than 0.05), whereas no difference could be found for red cell aggregation (9.7 +/- 2 vs 10.5 +/- 2%, p greater than 0.05). 
The placebo effect in heart failure. Many patients who are enrolled in controlled clinical trials of new drugs for the treatment of heart failure show favorable hemodynamic and clinical responses to placebo therapy. This "placebo effect" results from both the creation of a supportive therapeutic environment and the spontaneous improvement that is commonly seen when measurements of symptoms and cardiac function are repeated frequently over long intervals of time. Three months of treatment with a placebo produces a reduction in symptoms in 25% to 35% of patients, an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure, and an increase in exercise tolerance of up to 90 to 120 seconds. Physicians commonly seek to maximize the "placebo effect," since the goal of treatment in the clinical setting is to improve the quality of the patient's life. On the other hand, clinical investigators seek to minimize the "placebo effect," since the goal of a research study is to test the hypothesis that the new drug is superior to a placebo. 
Effects of pressure and volume of the receiving chamber on the spatial distribution of regurgitant jets as imaged by color Doppler flow mapping. An in vitro study. Regurgitant jet dimensions imaged by color Doppler flow mapping have been used to evaluate the severity of valvular insufficiency in clinical studies. To study the effect of pressure and volume within the receiving chamber on the magnitude of spatial distribution of regurgitant jets assessed by color Doppler techniques, we designed a simple constant-flow model in which a jet was driven through a known orifice (1.5 mm2) into a compliant receiving chamber by a steady-flow pump. A distal tube at the outflow closed the system and maintained the volume of the chamber constant during pump operation. We varied flow rate from 60 to 270 ml/min into elastic balloons with different static compliances of 1, 2, 4.5, and 9 ml/mm Hg (pressures of 57, 28, 18, and 8 mm Hg, respectively); the balloons served as receiving chambers at the constant volume of 150 ml. We also evaluated the effect of different volumes of a receiving chamber (110, 130, and 150 ml and pressures of 5, 15, and 24 mm Hg) with a static compliance of 2 ml/mm Hg over the same range of flow rates. For each of the different balloons, jet area correlated linearly with the jet velocity across the orifice (r = 0.98, 0.99, 0.98, and 0.97) and also with flow rate (r = 0.97, 0.99, 0.98, and 0.99). At the same flow rate and volume of receiving chamber, however, the jet area imaged by color Doppler decreased as the pressure in the receiving chamber increased, although receiving-chamber volume was constant. 
Cardioprotective effects of carnitine in extensive aortocoronary bypass grafting: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. The cardioprotective effects of carnitine were tested in patients undergoing multiple aortocoronary bypass grafting. Intermittent aortic cross-clamping at 28 degrees C was used. Mean total cross-clamping time was 30 +/- 11 min. Patients were randomized into three groups: a control group receiving placebo (group 1), a group pretreated with 3 g carnitine intravenously before cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (group 2), and a group pretreated with 6 g carnitine intravenously (group 3). The markers of myocardial ischemia included levels of adenosine triphosphate, its catabolites, and creatine phosphate in transmural left ventricular biopsy specimens taken at the beginning and end of CPB, as well as hemodynamic recovery during weaning from CPB and for the next 24 h. The intravenous infusion of carnitine (3 or 6 g) had no hemodynamic effect. At the end of CPB myocardial tissue levels of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate did not differ significantly among the groups (P greater than 0.05). Recovery of cardiac function during weaning from CPB and for the following 24 h was similar in all three groups (P greater than 0.05). It is concluded that pretreatment with carnitine neither facilitates weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass in patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass surgery nor favorably affects hemodynamic function during the next 24 h. 
Streptokinase treatment for femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation in infants and children. Data on 205 children who underwent retrograde arterial catheterisation were studied to assess the frequency of femoral artery thrombosis and the safety and efficacy of systemic streptokinase treatment for this complication. In 29 (14%) a transarterial balloon dilatation was performed. In 15 (7.3%) patients impaired arterial perfusion due to vascular spasm with or without thrombus formation was seen in the cannulated leg after catheterisation. Despite heparinisation, signs of impaired arterial circulation persisted in nine patients (4.4% of the total). In these patients femoral artery thrombosis was strongly suspected. Six (53%) of these had undergone a balloon dilatation. Therefore in this study the risk of femoral artery thrombosis developing was 12 times greater after transarterial balloon dilatation than after arterial catheterisation without dilatation (20.6% v 1.7%). Systemic infusion of streptokinase was started in all patients with femoral artery thrombosis. Arterial perfusion became normal in all patients, though in one this was delayed. Haematological monitoring showed lengthening of the thrombin time and a decrease of the fibrinogen concentration during streptokinase treatment. There were no serious complications. Systemic infusion of streptokinase is a safe and useful treatment in children with persistent femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation. 
Skeletal muscle metabolism in heart failure: a 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy study of leg muscle. 1. The gastrocnemius muscle of seven patients with mild to moderate chronic heart failure and of five healthy control subjects was studied using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Spectra were collected at rest and during an incremental, symptom-limited, exercise protocol. Blood flow was measured in the same study during brief interruptions to exercise. 2. The phosphocreatine/(phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate) ratio was lower in patients with heart failure than in control subjects at an exercise rate of 1.5 W, although intracellular pH and blood flow were similar. 3. The cytosolic free adenosine 5'-diphosphate concentration was markedly increased in patients with heart failure exercising at 1.5 W compared with control subjects exercising at the same workload. 4. Although the maximum workload achieved by patients with heart failure was less than half of that reached by control subjects, the pH and the phosphocreatine/(phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate) ratio were lower in patients with heart failure at maximal load. Blood flow was less at maximal exercise in patients with heart failure than in control subjects in keeping with the reduced work load. 5. The phosphocreatine depletion induced in the gastrocnemius muscle by exercise was more severe than previously described in the forearm of patients with heart failure. 6. Metabolic abnormalities in skeletal muscle may contribute to exercise intolerance in heart failure, particularly during submaximal exercise. 
Cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy. Endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (EVS) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage, which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension. While esophageal perforation, ulceration, strictures, and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure, it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis, pneumonitis, and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the EVS. Endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration, particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy, may account for some of these events. Recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that EVS as such results in minor changes in gas exchange, lung volumes, and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics. Most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant. Comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety. Finally, there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with EVS, but these are of a transient nature. Chest symptoms, roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes, pulmonary hemodynamics, and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering EVS to patients with variceal hemorrhage. 
Efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage. Our studies showed that in an appropriate dose, nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism. Nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult, resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage, maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage. Lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage, once initiated, cannot be arrested. On the other hand, pharmacokinetic factors may be important, and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult. Our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia. However, they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of "cytoprotective" effects. 
Acute coronary artery occlusion during and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Frequency, prediction, clinical course, management, and follow-up [published erratum appears in Circulation 1991 Jul;84(1):446] BACKGROUND. Acute coronary artery occlusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) continues to remain a serious complication despite significant improvement in operator performance and technological advancements. This retrospective study was performed to ascertain the frequency, predictive variables, management, and outcome of acute coronary artery occlusion. METHODS AND RESULTS. The study was based on data from 1,423 consecutive patients who underwent an elective coronary angioplasty between January 1986 and December 1988. Acute coronary artery occlusion occurred in 104 patients (7.3%). Acute occlusion developed during the dilatation procedure in 80 patients (5.6%) and within 24 hours after the procedure in 24 patients (1.7%). Four clinical and 14 angiographic variables predictive for acute coronary artery occlusion were analyzed in these 104 patients with a complicated procedure and were compared with those in 104 representative patients with successful attempts. Multivariate analysis found three independent predictive variables: unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. The overall clinical outcome after management of acute coronary artery occlusion including immediate repeat dilatation (95 patients), use of intracoronary streptokinase (34 patients), or autoperfusion catheter (12 patients) was successful (reduction of lumen diameter to less than 50%, no death, no myocardial infarction [MI], and no emergency surgery) in 42 patients (40%), was a failure without major complication in four patients (4%), and was a failure with major complication (death, MI, and emergency surgery) in 58 patients (56%). The overall mortality rate was 6% (six patients), the overall MI rate was 36% (37 patients), and emergency bypass surgery was required in 30% of patients (31 patients). At 6 months' follow-up of 42 patients with successful management, recurrent angina pectoris due to restenosis occurred in 10 patients (24%), and a late MI occurred in one patient (3%). At 6 months' follow-up of 56 survivors with unsuccessful management (development of MI or need for emergency bypass surgery), recurrent angina occurred in nine patients (16%), and cardiac death in two patients (4%). However, the majority of patients in both groups were either symptom free or had mild angina pectoris. CONCLUSION. Acute coronary artery occlusion during PTCA is often unpredictable, but its frequency is higher in patients with unstable angina, multivessel disease, and complex lesions. Despite immediate redilatation, use of intracoronary streptokinase, and emergency bypass surgery, PTCA is associated with a high mortality and morbidity. 
Prostacyclin and prostaglandin E2 mediate reduction of increased mean arterial pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass by aspiration of shed pulmonary venous blood. Increased mean arterial pressure during the aortic crossclamp period while on cardiopulmonary bypass was usually treated by us with hypotensive drugs. We noticed, however, that aspirating shed excess pulmonary venous blood from the open pleural cavities causes an immediate reduction in mean arterial pressure, obviating the need for any further pharmaceutical intervention. In this study we investigated the relationship between the reduction in mean arterial pressure and the levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin E2 in the peripheral and pulmonary venous blood. Ten men undergoing coronary bypass operations had 21 episodes of increased mean arterial pressure (106.9 +/- 11.4 mm Hg) during aortic crossclamping, which was reduced to 67.4 +/- 11.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) only by aspirating a mean of 490 ml (range 150 to 1100 ml) of pulmonary venous blood from the pleurae back into the circulation. Mean peripheral prostacyclin level, measured as 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha, and prostaglandin E2 level, both measured by radioimmunoassay technique, were significantly lower at peak mean arterial pressure (419 +/- 180 and 59.5 +/- 21.2 pg/ml) than at lowest mean arterial pressure (632 +/- 271 and 96.7 +/- 52.4 pg/ml for 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha and prostaglandin E2, respectively; p less than 0.001). Prostaglandin F1 alpha and prostaglandin E2 levels in the aspirated pulmonary venous blood were 2309 +/- 3098 pg/ml and 749 +/- 909 pg/ml, respectively. The hypotensive effect of shed pulmonary venous blood that is aspirated back from the pleurae into the circulation seems to be mediated by the high levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin E2, both powerful vasodilators. 
Comparison of standard one-minute treadmill exercise and strandness test (absolute walking distance) in relation to site of lesion, walking distance, and diastolic blood flow velocity (Doppler curves). In 215 outpatients suffering from occlusive arterial disease of the lower limbs the authors compared the decrease in the ratio of ankle systolic pressure to brachial systolic pressure according to whether the treadmill exercise was limited to one minute or extended until pain forced the patient to stop. After a one-minute walk the pressure index always decreased significantly, especially when walking was restricted. The decrease in the pressure index was generally greater when the exercise was continued until the absolute walking distance, and the recovery time was usually twice as long. The fall in the pressure index was significantly greater for patients with single and multiple iliac stenoses than for those with stenoses at lower levels. In patients having a diastolic blood flow velocity on Doppler curves at rest, not modified by walking, a maximum drop in peripheral pressure was recorded after walking for one minute. In this instance there was no intensification of the decrease in peripheral pressure, unlike in patients without a diastolic blood flow velocity at rest. This one-minute test is not a maximal hemodynamic response, but it is sufficient for the appreciation of ischemia during exercise, according to the different parameters measured. 
Senile cardiac amyloidosis associated with homozygosity for a transthyretin variant (ILE-122). Senile cardiac amyloidosis, also known as senile systemic amyloidosis, is a sporadic disease of late onset but with increasing incidence with age. Recently it has been shown in one case that amyloid deposits contained a transthyretin variant with an isoleucine for valine substitution at position 122. A second case with the transthyretin isoleucine 122 variant is reported here. This individual, who died with restrictive cardiomyopathy, was found to be homozygous for this transthyretin variant and his son heterozygous for the variant. A brother of the propositus was also homozygous for the variant but died of a cerebral vascular accident without being evaluated for amyloidosis. These studies show genetic transmission of the isoleucine-122 transthyretin variant associated with this form of cardiac amyloidosis. 
Heart weights of white men 20 to 39 years of age. An analysis of 218 autopsy cases. Review of autopsy data for 218 white men between 20 and 39 years of age who died of injuries or suddenly and unexpectedly indicated a mean heart weight of 371 g. The mean for those dying of external causes was 364 g whereas the mean for those dying of natural causes was 446 g. A coefficient for heart weight expressed as a percentage of body weight was lower in heavy individuals than lightweight individuals; it ranged between 0.38% and 0.55%, with a mean of 0.48%. Heart weight, including epicardial fat, increased with age and body weight. These data may be useful to those who are called upon to investigate sudden and unexpected deaths. 
Intravascular ultrasound: a new potential modality for angioplasty guidance. Current angioplasty devices are limited by significant rates of arterial perforation and dissection, due to inadequate techniques of guidance, and by restenosis, which may be partly attributed to inadequate debulking of lesions. This paper describes the authors' initial experience in-vitro and in-vivo with intravascular ultrasound as a possible method of enhancing the three-dimensional guidance of devices through atherosclerotic obstructions. Using an in-vitro model they correlated the dimensions and histologic morphology of animal and human arteries with ultrasound images of the specimens. Additional in-vivo evaluations of this technology in canine arteriosclerotic and human atherosclerotic arteries preliminarily support the hypothesis that intravascular ultrasound defines the transmural arterial morphology and may enhance the accuracy of angioplasty procedures. Simultaneous imaging with angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound is demonstrated as a potential method of accurately defining both intraluminal and transmural arterial wall characteristics. 
Dietary salt and blood pressure. A perspective. Although dietary salt restriction is often valuable as sole or adjunctive therapy of hypertensive disorders, it is abundantly clear that hypertensive patients comprise a heterogeneous group with regard to salt sensitivity of blood pressure. This is apparent despite the many methodological obstacles to defining salt sensitivity in an individual patient. Currently, dietary trial is the only sure means of defining a given patient as responsive to salt restriction. Easily definable markers of salt sensitivity would allow appropriate targeting of this rather ponderous therapy. Promising leads include the assessment of membrane ion transporters such as sodium-lithium exchange and of the activity of the renin-angiotensin system, including the phenomenon of "non-modulating" hypertension and other volume regulatory hormones such as atrial natriuretic factor. Although less intensively studied than in hypertensive patients, the blood pressure response of normal subjects to salt restriction is also marked by great variability. Given the possibility of deleterious consequences of population-wide salt restriction for at least some people in a setting such as the United States, it seems imprudent to recommend such a policy before its proven worth has been demonstrated by clinical trial. Pending such evidence and the development of markers, salt restriction should be reserved for those in whom it is of demonstrated efficacy. 
Diltiazem overdose: pharmacokinetics of diltiazem and its metabolites and effect of multiple dose charcoal therapy. We describe a 38 year-old female who ingested 900 mg of diltiazem. She experienced hypotension, bradycardia and heart block but responded well to supportive care that included normal saline infusion and vasopressors. Calcium administration was not beneficial. Serial plasma concentrations of diltiazem, N-demethyldiltiazem and desacetyldiltiazem were quantified. By comparing the elimination half-life for diltiazem with historical controls, it is concluded that multiple dose charcoal therapy was not beneficial for our patient. 
Clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted ST segment depression in supine leg exercise in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. To evaluate the clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted ST segment depression (delta ST/delta HR) in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease, 42 patients with stable exertional angina underwent supine leg exercise testing and cardiac catheterization. During exercise, heart rate, a multilead electrocardiogram, and pulmonary artery wedge pressure were recorded. The sensitivity and accuracy of the delta ST/delta HR criteria (greater than or equal to 3.0 microV/beat/min) were significantly greater than the conventional analysis of ST segment depression criteria (greater than or equal to 0.2 mV) for detecting three-vessel coronary artery disease at a matched specificity of 72% (100% versus 46%, 81% versus 64%, p less than 0.01). A significant linear correlation was found between maximum pulmonary artery wedge pressure increments during exercise (delta PAWP) or Gensini score and the delta ST/delta HR (delta PAWP: r = 0.51, p less than 0.001; Gensini score: r = 0.47, p less than 0.001). There were no statistically significant differences in the delta PAWP or Gensini score between patients with three-vessel disease who had delta ST/delta HR greater than or equal to 3.0 microV/beat/min and those with one- or two-vessel disease who had delta ST/delta HR greater than or equal to 3.0 microV/beat/min (delta PAWP: 18.1 +/- 2.0 versus 21.9 +/- 3.3, p = NS; Gensini score: 68.5 +/- 6.6 versus 66.3 +/- 11.3, p = NS). These findings demonstrate that delta ST/delta HR is more useful than a conventional analysis of ST segment depression for identifying not only anatomically severe coronary artery disease but also functionally severe coronary artery disease. 
Plasma homocyst(e)ine levels in men with premature coronary artery disease. Plasma homocyst(e)ine (that is, the sum of free and bound homocysteine and its oxidized forms, homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide) levels were determined in 170 men (mean age +/- SD 50 +/- 7 years) with premature coronary artery disease diagnosed at coronary angiography and in 255 control subjects clinically free of coronary artery disease (mean age 49 +/- 6 years). Patients with coronary artery disease had a higher homocyst(e)ine level than control subjects (13.66 +/- 6.44 versus 10.93 +/- 4.92 nmol/ml, p less than 0.001). High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels were lower (32 +/- 10 versus 46 +/- 13 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) and triglycerides levels were higher (193 +/- 103 versus 136 +/- 106 mg/dl, p less than 0.001) in the coronary disease group. Plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels were not significantly different between patients with coronary disease and control subjects. The presence of hypertension, smoking or diabetes mellitus did not significantly alter homocyst(e)ine levels in the patient or the control group. Patients who were not taking a beta-adrenergic blocking drug (n = 70) had a nonsignificantly higher homocyst(e)ine level than did patients taking this class of drugs (n = 100) (14.67 +/- 8.92 versus 12.95 +/- 3.77 nmol/ml, p = 0.087). By design, none of the control subjects were taking a beta-blocker. No significant correlations were observed between homocyst(e)ine and age, serum cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol or triglyceride levels. It is concluded that an elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine level is an independent risk factor for the development of premature coronary atherosclerosis in men. 
Blood pressure response to dietary calcium intervention in humans. Epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that dietary calcium deficiency may lead to the development of hypertension. This article reviews findings in human trials on calcium intervention with special reference to the responses of blood pressure and biochemical variables. Calcium supplementation consistently resulted in decreased blood pressure in a subset of hypertensive and normotensive subjects, but led to increased blood pressure in some hypertensive patients. The variable blood pressure responses to calcium supplementation could not be predicted on the basis of routine biochemical parameters and appeared to be due to differences in the backgrounds of the subjects and/or the design and size of the trials. It is concluded that further studies are required on the hypotensive effect of calcium supplementation. 
Cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after subclavian vein catheterization. A patient developed life-threatening cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after insertion of a subclavian catheter in the operating room. Contrast was infused through the catheter, demonstrating its malposition in the pericardial space. Contrast infusion was valuable in evaluating this complication of central line placement. 
Effect of naproxen and sulindac on blood pressure response to atenolol. Twenty-eight patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension well controlled by atenolol entered a five-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the effects of sulindac and naproxen on blood pressure (BP) control. Atenolol alone was administered during weeks 1, 3, and 5. Naproxen or sulindac was administered with atenolol during week 2, with crossover during week 4. Data were analyzed for 27 of the patients (one dropped out after developing a skin rash). Naproxen significantly increased the systolic BP compared with placebo (mean 4.0 mm Hg; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.1-7.0; p less than 0.05). There were no significant differences in systolic BP during sulindac administration compared with placebo or naproxen. No significant effects on diastolic BP were observed. Weight was increased by naproxen and sulindac compared with placebo (mean 0.6-0.8 kg, p less than 0.05), although not to a clinically significant extent. One-week therapy with naproxen has a greater potential than sulindac to increase systolic BP in well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving atenolol; however, the increase is minor and unlikely to be of clinical significance. 
Inhibitory role of the coronary arterial endothelium to alpha-adrenergic stimulation in experimental heart failure. The role of the endothelium in regulating coronary alpha-adrenergic tone was evaluated in isolated coronary arterial rings from dogs with and without pacing-induced congestive heart failure (CHF). The maximal contractile response to methoxamine was attenuated approximately 43% (p less than 0.05) in both intact and denuded CHF rings compared with control. Conversely, norepinephrine-induced contractions were diminished 58% in intact CHF vessels and 39% in denuded CHF vessels (p less than 0.05). Denudation did not alter responses to methoxamine but significantly (p less than 0.05) augmented the tension generated by norepinephrine in both control (1.7-fold) and CHF (2.4-fold) arteries. In both intact control and CHF coronary arteries, norepinephrine elicited rapid, transient relaxations that preceded slow, sustained contractions; the initial relaxation phase was endothelium dependent, because denudation eliminated the response. Relaxations to the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist BHT 920 were also dependent on the presence of an endothelium. At peak CHF, endothelium-dependent relaxations to norepinephrine and BHT 920 were enhanced, whereas relaxations to nitroglycerin and acetylcholine were unaltered. The data suggest that alpha-adrenergic tone in canine coronary arteries is diminished by pacing-induced CHF because of a decrease in alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated constriction and an enhanced capacity of the endothelium to antagonize the direct vascular smooth muscle response of norepinephrine through endothelium-dependent, alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxations. 
Incidence of myocarditis. A 10-year autopsy study from Malmo, Sweden. Although myocarditis has been known for almost two centuries, data in regard to its incidence have varied widely. Autopsy studies have reported an incidence of 3.5% to as high as 10%. The main reason for such diversity of data appears to be the lack of unanimity as to what constitutes myocarditis. Recently, definitions of myocarditis have been proposed and precise criteria for the morphologic recognition of myocarditis have been published. In this study an analysis of 12,747 consecutive autopsies performed from 1975 to 1984 at Malmo (Sweden) General Hospital was carried out. Applying the newly proposed histologic criteria, the diagnosis of myocarditis was made in 136 cases, which constitute 1.06% of the autopsy population studied. This rate of myocarditis incidence at postmortem is lower by far than rates previously published. 
Arterial blood pressure. Correlation with erythrocyte count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin concentration. The relationship between arterial blood pressure and red blood cell variables was investigated in 1013 unselected persons with a blood pressure range of 90 to 225 mm Hg systolic and 50 to 145 mm Hg diastolic. Statistically significant correlations were demonstrated between mean (as well as systolic and diastolic) arterial blood pressure and red blood cell count (r = 0.27; P less than .0001), hematocrit (r = 0.28; P less than .0001), and hemoglobin concentration (r = 0.29; P less than .0001). Average arterial blood pressure was higher in men than in women (133 +/- 16/83 +/- 10 v 124 +/- 16/79 +/- 9 mm Hg, P less than .0001) and this was associated with higher values for erythrocyte count, hemoglobin concentration, and hematocrit in men as compared to women. The significant correlation of blood pressure and hematocrit, which represents one important determinant of blood viscosity, points to a role for rheological factors in the long-term control of blood pressure. Moreover, it might be speculated that the sex difference in blood pressure as observed in the present study may be due, at least in part, to stimulated erythropoiesis in men as compared to women. 
Morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions. Clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse: 15 patients, aged 16 to 69 years (mean 39), died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy (hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse); the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal. Of the latter 41 patients, 7, aged 17 to 59 years (mean 45), had associated congenital heart disease, and 34 patients, aged 17 to 70 years (mean 52), had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities. Compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal, the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger (mean age 39 +/- 17 versus 52 +/- 15 years; p = 0.01), more often women (67% versus 26%; p = 0.008) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation (7% versus 38%; p = 0.02). The 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae (29% versus 67%; p = 0.04). The frequency of increased heart weight (67% versus 59%), a dilated mitral valve anulus (80% versus 81%), a dilated tricuspid valve anulus (17% versus 17%), an elongated anterior mitral leaflet (86% versus 54%), an elongated posterior mitral leaflet (79% versus 77%) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet (73% versus 63%) was similar between the two groups. The severity of the prolapse (mild 20% versus 11%; moderate 27% versus 58%; severe 53% versus 32%) also was similar between the two groups. Thus, persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation. 
Hypertension during pregnancy in insulin-dependent diabetic women. Insulin-dependent diabetic patients are at increased risk for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. This study was designed to study prospectively the rate of pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) in 175 insulin-dependent diabetic pregnancies (88 White classes B-C, 87 classes D-RT). Pregnancy-induced hypertension was defined as two or more occurrences after 20 weeks' gestation of a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 105 mmHg or greater or an increase of 20 mmHg or greater from the baseline MAP. The rate of PIH in the diabetic population was 15.4% and was significantly associated with nulliparity, poor glycemic control in the first and second trimesters, and advanced White class. Neonatal outcome was not significantly altered in the presence of PIH. We speculate that improved glycemic control throughout pregnancy might reduce the rate of this complication in diabetic patients. 
Case-control study of coronary heart disease risk factors in the elderly. We undertook a case-control study utilizing a large coronary arteriography database to determine if traditional cardiovascular risk factors are as predictive of the presence of angiographically-proven coronary artery disease (CAD) in elderly patients as in younger patients. Among the patients aged 65 years or more, there were 2120 cases and 193 controls, while for the patients aged 35-49 years there were 1493 cases and 707 controls. Odds ratios obtained from logistic regression indicated that age, male sex, diabetes, cigarette smoking, hypertension, total cholesterol and left ventricular hypertrophy were all significant risk factors for CAD in both age groups, although the odds ratios tended to be somewhat lower in the elderly. Logistic regression analysis for gender subgroups generally revealed similar findings when compared with the combined (males + females) age groups, although power was limited for the subgroup of elderly males which had few controls. We conclude that most of the traditional cardiovascular risk factors which have been described as correlated with the presence of CAD in younger populations are also correlated with angiographically-proven CAD in older patients. 
Circadian rhythm of heart rate variability after acute myocardial infarction and its influence on the prognostic value of heart rate variability. This study examined heart rate (HR) variability in patients surviving acute myocardial infarction (AMI) to find the optimum time and duration of recording of the ambulatory electrocardiogram for the prediction of the risk of sudden cardiac death, or serious arrhythmic events, or both. Twenty patients (group I) who initially survived an AMI but later experienced serious events (death or symptomatic sustained ventricular tachycardia) during a 6-month follow-up were compared with 20 patients (group II) who remained free of complications for greater than 6 months after discharge. Groups I and II were matched with regard to age, gender, infarct site, ejection fraction, and beta-blocker treatment. HR variability was assessed in the 24-hour electrocardiograms recorded during the first 2 weeks after an AMI and in various portions of the complete 24-hour recording, with both the beginning and the length of the analyzed portion varied by 20 minutes (a total of 5,113 possibilities). The maximum reduction of HR variability in group I patients was systematically found when assessing HR variability in recordings starting approximately at 6 A.M. and lasting for approximately 8 hours. In the low-risk patient, the diurnal rhythm of HR variability is more marked than in the high-risk patient and the long-term components of HR variability due to the diurnal variation must be included in the measurement of HR variability when using it as a long-term predictor of risk from arrhythmic events after an AMI. 
Treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy: report of a case. The case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure, in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described. The patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions, giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief. 
High output failure in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy: a comparative study with dilated cardiomyopathy. Although few studies have reported on relatively preserved ventricular function in patient with peripartum cardiomyopathy, the condition is usually believed to have the typical low-output congestive hemodynamic pattern of the dilated congestive cardiomyopathies. Two groups of patients, 14 with peripartum cardiomyopathy and 12 with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy who were matched for gender and age, were studied. They had normal blood pressure and similar New York Heart Association functional class, nutritional status, thyroid function and routine laboratory evaluation. All patients were catheterized during stable in-hospital compensation of heart failure, which was achieved by bed rest, sodium restriction, and administration of digoxin and diuretics long (more than 3 months) after delivery. Significant differences (p less than 0.05) between patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy and those with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy were observed in regard to: (1) cardiac index: 3.34 +/- 1.36 L/min/m2 versus 2.24 +/- 0.72 L/min/m2, (2) systemic vascular resistance: 1713 +/- 567 dynes.sec.cm-5 versus 2194 +/- 603 dynes.sec.cm-5, (3) right ventricular stroke work index: 8.6 +/- 4.2 g.M/m2 versus 14.8 +/- 8.2 g.M/m2 in the peripartum cardiomyopathy and the dilated congestive cardiomyopathy groups, respectively. Three of the patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy had resting cardiac index values that were even higher than the normal upper limit for our laboratory (4.5 L/min/m2): 4.80, 5.70, and 5.63 L/min/m2. They also had nearly normal left ventricular ejection fractions: 0.68, 0.41, and 0.51, respectively. These results indicate that, unlike the common dilated cardiomyopathy, the hemodynamic pattern in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy is not homogeneous, and some patients have high-output failure and near normal left ventricular function. 
Non-invasive monitoring of finger arterial pressure in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon: effects of exposure to cold. We studied the effects of exposure to cold on finger arterial pressure (FAP) measured by a finger arterial pressure monitor in 15 patients with Raynaud's phenomenon and in 15 healthy volunteers. The cold exposure induced vasoconstriction of the peripheral vascular bed as judged by the plethysmograph of a pulse oximeter and had marked effects on FAP values compared with upper arm arterial pressure. Immediately after the cold exposure, FAP decreased significantly (P less than or equal to 0.01) in both groups. However, during the subsequent 20 min, FAP values increased in relation to upper arm pressure. Finally, FAP values were greater than upper arm pressure in the control individuals, but not in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon. These results have implications for non-invasive monitoring of arterial pressure by the finger pressure device. Clinically, significant problems may arise in the monitoring of FAP in patients with a systemic connective tissue disease affecting peripheral circulation. 
Sudden death associated with undiagnosed Graves' disease. Hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone. We report a case of Graves' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy, undiagnosed young female. This case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of Graves' disease. 
The failure of serial pneumatic cuff venous occlusion plethysmography to predict patients at risk for pulmonary emboli after trauma. Over a three month period, attempts to perform serial Pneumatic Cuff Venous Occlusion Plethysmography (VP) were carried out in 51 severely injured patients felt to be at risk for Pulmonary Embolus (PE). Studies could not be performed in 25 of these patients due to the nature of their injuries. Of the remaining 26 patients, two showed evidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Venography confirmed the diagnosis in only one of these patients. Serial VP failed to predict PE in all five patients in whom it was diagnosed. This article concludes that serial VP is not an effective predictor of PE in these patients. 
Assessment of right ventricular oxidative metabolism by positron emission tomography with C-11 acetate in aortic valve disease. Evaluation of right ventricular (RV) oxidative metabolism is limited by the inability to easily determine oxygen extraction by the RV myocardium and the complex morphology of this ventricle. Because left ventricular C-11 clearance rate constants closely correlate with myocardial oxygen consumption, it was postulated that C-11 clearance rate constants for the RV free wall should also reflect its oxygen consumption. Therefore, RV C-11 clearance rate constants were compared with RV loading in 21 patients with aortic valve disease to assess the possible use of this technique for noninvasive evaluation of RV oxidative metabolism. RV free wall C-11 clearance rate constants correlated with the product of systolic pulmonary artery pressure and heart rate for all patients (r = 0.65, p = 0.002), but the relation was stronger if 2 patients with overt RV dysfunction were excluded (r = 0.83, p = 0.001). On the basis of mean pulmonary artery pressures, patients were stratified into subgroups with normal (group I, n = 8) and elevated (group II, n = 13) pulmonary pressures and were compared with 10 normal control subjects. RV C-11 clearance rate constants were significantly higher in group II than in group I and in normal control subjects (p less than 0.05). These data suggest that RV C-11 acetate clearance rate constants can provide noninvasive evaluation of RV oxidative metabolism. This technique may allow serial assessment of RV performance in various cardiac and pulmonary diseases, and particularly of changes associated with therapeutic interventions. 
Sinus node-atrioventricular node isolation: long-term results with the "corridor" operation for atrial fibrillation The "corridor" operation is designed to restore sinus rhythm to patients with atrial fibrillation by electrically isolating the sinus node, a band of atrial tissue and the atrioventricular (AV) node from the remaining atrial tissue. Nine patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation underwent this operation; four patients had chronic atrial fibrillation and five had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; the mean duration of symptoms was 12 +/- 8 years. Patient ages ranged from 25 to 68 years (mean 48 +/- 12). At preoperative electrophysiologic study, no patient had evidence of an accessory AV pathway or AV node reentry. Sinus node recovery time could not be determined in five patients because of recurrent atrial fibrillation during or before programmed stimulation. At operation the corridor of atrial tissue connecting the sinus and AV nodes was successfully isolated from the remaining left and right atrial tissue in all patients. One patient required early reoperation for recurrent atrial fibrillation before hospital discharge. At the predischarge electrophysiologic study, the corridor remained isolated in all patients except for one patient who had intermittent conduction between the corridor and excluded right atrium. One patient had nonsustained atrial fibrillation and one had atrial tachycardia evident in the corridor. Atypical AV node reentry of uncertain significance was induced in one other patient. Over a total follow-up of 191 patient months (mean 21 +/- 20), seven patients remained free of atrial fibrillation. Two patients had recurrent atrial fibrillation, which in one patient was effectively controlled by a single antiarrhythmic agent. A permanent pacemaker was implanted in four patients for sinus node dysfunction. 
Lipids, vascular disease, and dementia with advancing age. Epidemiologic considerations. Elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women. It is still not clear, however, whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population. It is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly, and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations. Ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly, and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, and possibly dementia. Intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly. 
Coronary sinus occlusion: effect on ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and reactive hyperemia. Pressure-controlled intermittent coronary sinus occlusion (PICSO) has been shown to reduce experimental infarct size. To examine the role of PICSO in limiting the consequences of brief ischemia on left ventricular function, we studied the effect of PICSO in nine open-chest anesthetized dogs. PICSO was performed using a pump-inflated, balloon-tipped catheter in the coronary sinus until coronary sinus occlusion pressure reached a plateau (10 +/- 3 seconds). The balloon was then rapidly deflated (2 seconds) and the cycle was repeated. Regional left ventricular function in the ischemic zone was assessed by sonomicrometry. Coronary blood flow was measured with a flow probe around the left anterior descending artery (LAD) proximal to an occluding suture. Measurements were obtained at baseline, during a 3-minute LAD occlusion, and for 10 minutes of reperfusion. In an additional five dogs, this sequence was repeated during an infusion of adenosine at a dose that abolished reactive hyperemia following LAD occlusion. The addition of PICSO beginning 15 minutes prior to ischemia and continuing throughout LAD occlusion and reperfusion did not prevent, reduce, or shorten ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. PICSO uniformly blunted reactive hyperemia during reperfusion. However, PICSO also reduced coronary blood flow during maximal vasodilatation achieved by adenosine infusion prior to LAD occlusion. Therefore, it is likely that PICSO decreases reactive hyperemia due to mechanical factors arising from venous engorgement rather than by reducing the ischemic stimulus causing vasodilation. 
Prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure, but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique. One hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ECMO over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight, gestational age, age at initiation of ECMO, best blood gases before ECMO, number of hours on ECMO, renal failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, and long-distance air transport had on survival. Infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ECMO, with survivors having more normal pH and carbon dioxide tension values. Intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ECMO were grave prognostic signs, with few survivors in either group. These data show that ability to ventilate patients before ECMO, giving normal carbon dioxide tension and pH values, is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ECMO, whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ECMO. Each center performing ECMO should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications. 
Insulin as a mitogenic factor: role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Evidence has been accumulating that insulin has actions that may promote the development of atherosclerosis. Research has involved three broad areas: actions of insulin on cultured arterial cells, the effect of insulin on isolated artery preparations, and the development of lipid-containing lesions in the arteries of experimental animals. Insulin, in concentrations similar to those found in physiologic conditions, stimulates proliferation of cultured arterial smooth muscle cells from a number of species, including humans. Insulin also stimulates migration of smooth muscle cells. Cholesterol synthesis and low-density lipoprotein interaction with its receptor in smooth muscle cells are stimulated by insulin. Insulin's mitogenic action appears to be mediated by the insulin-like growth factor receptor. Endothelial cells cultured from large vessels are resistant to the actions of insulin, but hyperglycemia inhibits their proliferation. Insulin deficiency protects animals from experimental atherosclerosis; this protection is lost with insulin treatment. Insulin administration results in lipid-containing lesions in chickens and rats fed a normal diet, and in increased lipid synthesis in the arteries of pigs and dogs. Isolated artery preparations from insulin-deficient or insulin-treated animals undergo lipid metabolism at a rate that correlates with the insulin concentrations in the donor animals. The biological actions of insulin (and glucose) on arterial tissue suggest that hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia may promote the development of atherosclerosis. 
Pressure-length loop area: its components analyzed during graded myocardial ischemia. The changes in total pressure-length loop area were compared with changes in effective shortening area, systolic lengthening area and postsystolic shortening area (defined with respect to end-diastolic and end-systolic lengths) of the pressure-length loop during myocardial ischemia in seven anesthetized dogs instrumented for measurement of left ventricular pressure and regional segmental wall motion (sonomicrometry) in the minor axis of the apical region of the left ventricle. Ischemia was induced by gradual tightening of a micrometer-controlled snare around the left anterior descending coronary artery, which supplied the apical myocardium. Data were obtained at normal flow, after critical constriction (loss of pulsatile coronary flow), mild ischemia (ischemia 1: onset of regional dysfunction, i.e., postsystolic shortening and mild hypokinesia) and moderate ischemia (ischemia 2: marked hypokinesia). At each stage, acute afterloading was performed by partially occluding the descending thoracic aorta. The pressure-length loops were analyzed in terms of four areas: total loop area, effective shortening area, postsystolic shortening area and systolic lengthening area. Total loop area decreased only when marked hypokinesia was present (176 +/- 18.3 mm Hg x mm at ischemia 2 versus 245.1 +/- 26.9 mm Hg x mm at ischemia 1, p less than 0.05). However, effective shortening area (98.2 +/- 0.8% of total loop area at baseline; 93.8 +/- 2.4% at critical constriction; 76.3 +/- 7.2% at ischemia 1; 51.9 +/- 12.2% at ischemia 2) and postsystolic shortening area (1.8 +/- 0.8% of total loop area at baseline; 5.2 +/- 1.9% at critical constriction; 14.3 +/- 3/4% at ischemia 1; 23.8 +/- 5.1% at ischemia 2) changed significantly with each progressive stage of ischemia. 
Warm induction blood cardioplegia in the infant. A technique to avoid rapid cooling myocardial contracture. The use of profound hypothermia and total circulatory arrest for repair of heart defects in neonates usually involves a period of systemic and myocardial bypass cooling. Rapid cooling of muscle (skeletal, smooth, and myocardial) can result in contracture through elevation of cytosolic calcium levels. The increased myocardial tone caused by cooling might render the heart more vulnerable to a subsequent period of cardioplegic ischemic arrest. Infants may be more susceptible to contracture because their small body mass allows more rapid myocardial temperature change when prearrest bypass cooling is used. The influence of avoiding rapid myocardial cooling before induced cardioplegic arrest was analyzed in a group of infants weighing less than 6 kg at the time of open cardiac operation. Myocardial ischemic arrest by warm (37 degrees C) induction blood cardioplegia was used in 57 infants and compared with results in 440 infants treated with standard blood cardioplegia. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that patient diagnosis, weight, and age at operation were significant risk factors for operative mortality. The use of warm induction blood cardioplegia had a strongly positive independent effect on survival (p = 0.0003) for any patient weight, age, or diagnostic group. We recommend the avoidance of rapid myocardial cooling on bypass in all patients before induction of cardioplegic ischemic arrest. 
Repair of posterior left ventricular aneurysm in a six-year-old boy. Left ventricular aneurysms and diverticula are rarely encountered in the pediatric age group. This paper reports a case of congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation in a 6-year-old boy with a large posterolateral left ventricular aneurysm. Complete repair was successfully performed by excision of the aneurysm and Dacron patch reconstruction of the left ventricular free wall. The patch extended onto the posterior annulus of the mitral valve, thus restoring the mitral valve to normal geometry and correcting the mitral insufficiency. The surgical literature on congenital cardiac diverticula and acquired aneurysms in children is reviewed and summarized. 
Cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome. A variant of hepatorenal syndrome occurring in patients with chronic congestive heart failure following an episode of cardiogenic pulmonary edema, and in the absence of hypotension, is described. This was observed in 13 patients during an eleven-year period. The clinical picture is characterized by hepatic injury and functional renal impairment. Increase of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase levels as high as 2100 IU; prolongation of prothrombin time; elevation of serum bilirubin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and potassium levels; decrease in urinary sodium excretion; and a normal urinary sediment are the salient laboratory abnormalities of this entity. Treated with conventional medication, the patients' course was fatal in 4 cases. When the splanchnic vasodilator dopamine was added to the patients' management, 5 of 9 patients recovered. Cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome is a severe but potentially reversible complication of heart failure. The apparently beneficial effect of low-dose dopamine needs further evaluation. 
Complications in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: relationships with patient age. Five hundred consecutive attempted lower limb angioplasties for ischaemic disease (370 patients, mean age 65.6 years, range 33-91 years) were reviewed. Significant complications occurred in 44 cases (8.8%). Nine patients (1.8%) underwent emergency surgery related to a complication. A further 12 patients (2.4%) underwent elective surgery related to a complication. In addition, four patients died within 30 days of the procedure; one following surgery performed because of a complication of angioplasty, one following a myocardial infarction, one following severe bleeding associated with subsequent thrombolytic therapy and one during emergency surgery related to a complication of angioplasty. A correlation was found between complication rate and age. This relationship was independent of the approach to, the position of, and the severity of the treated lesion. Elderly patients are at increased risk of complication in lower limb angioplasty. 
Does isoflurane lead to a higher incidence of myocardial infarction and perioperative death than enflurane in coronary artery surgery? A clinical study of 1178 patients To examine if the choice of volatile agents influences cardiac outcome in coronary artery surgery, 1178 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting without additional operations received enflurane (608) or isoflurane (570) as their primary anesthetics. The inspired concentration of volatile agent (administered with 50% nitrous oxide) was adjusted depending on the level of blood pressure at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. In addition to the volatile agent assigned, each patient received small doses of fentanyl at induction and before sternotomy (total 0.006-0.008 mg/kg). The groups did not differ in preoperative and surgical characteristics except for a more frequent history of renal dysfunction in patients given isoflurane. The rates of postoperative myocardial infarction, administration of positive inotropic agents at the time of weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, and in-hospital deaths in the enflurane and isoflurane groups were 1.8% and 4.0% (P less than 0.05), 4.9% and 8.1% (P less than 0.05%), and 0.3% and 2.1% (P less than 0.01), respectively. Although the mechanism of the adverse effects of isoflurane could not be clarified in this study, these results demonstrate that the use of isoflurane could be inappropriate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. 
Different plasma ionized calcium correlations with blood pressure in high and low renin normotensive adults in Utah. Plasma ionized calcium levels have been shown to be lower than normotensive control levels in hypertensive patients with low plasma renin activity and higher than control levels in hypertensive patients with high renin activity; they did not differ between high and low plasma renin activity groups of normotensive controls. To see if ionized calcium may have different relationships with blood pressure across renin categories in normotensive individuals, plasma ionized calcium was measured on 875 healthy individuals, ages 3 to 83, who had never been diagnosed as having hypertension. Blood pressures were measured in the sitting, standing, and supine positions, along with pressures measured during two stress maneuvers: isometric handgrip and a 50 degrees tilt from a supine position. There was no linear correlation of blood pressure with plasma ionized calcium in the entire sample of youths or adults. However, after dividing the adults into tertiles based on plasma renin activity, there were significant inverse correlations between ionized calcium and systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the low renin group (r = -0.16 to -0.25, P less than or equal to .05), while the systolic blood pressure correlations were significantly positive in the high renin group (r = 0.14 to 0.22, P less than or equal to .05). Adults with normal renin levels did not have any significant correlations of plasma ionized calcium with blood pressure. These confounding effects of renin were greater for systolic than for diastolic blood pressure. These correlations within renin tertiles occurred even though there were no differences in mean blood pressure, plasma ionized calcium, total plasma protein and plasma sodium across renin categories. 
Alterations in aldosterone secretion and metabolism in low renin hypertension. Low renin essential hypertensives (LRH) have normal plasma aldosterone levels which are inappropriately high in relation to their PRA. Posture is the major determinant for plasma aldosterone and PRA levels, but it is not known whether postural increments (delta) of plasma aldosterone and (delta) PRA are also abnormal in LRH. To evaluate this, LRH (n = 8), normal renin hypertensives (NRH; n = 9), normotensive controls (n = 18), and subjects with idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA; n = 5) were studied in a metabolic unit on a controlled diet over 7 days. Overnight supine and 4-h upright PRA, plasma aldosterone, and 24-h urinary tetrahydroaldosterone (THA) and aldosterone secretion rates (ASR) were measured. The delta in plasma aldosterone after 4 h of upright posture was not different in the four groups. The ratio of delta plasma aldosterone/delta PRA, however, was elevated in both IHA and LRH compared to that in NRH and normals. THA excretion was also elevated in IHA and LRH, but LRH had a normal ASR. This resulted in a higher fractional THA excretion (THA/ASR) in LRH compared to the other three groups. These data further support enhanced adrenal angiotensin-II sensitivity in LRH. Aldosterone was preferentially metabolized to THA in LRH. Since THA has reduced biological activity, this may be a compensatory mechanism to reduce mineralocorticoid activity in LRH. 
A note on the measurement of hypertension in HHANES Using data from the HHANES, we found the rates of elevated blood pressure readings on clinical examination to be extremely low for a sample of Mexican American and Puerto Rican women. The prevalence rates were one-fourth to one-fifth the rates found for a comparable sample of White women from NHANESII. These findings are discrepant with the little that is known about hypertension prevalence among Hispanics and with estimates of hypertension prevalence for Mexican Americans and Puerto Ricans drawn from NHANESII. While our HHANES samples women had much lower rates of clinical high blood pressure than Whites, they reported hypertension histories in excess of Whites. Rates of medicine usage among Hispanics were insufficiently large for effective treatment to explain the disparity. The prevalence estimates increased, but the relative discrepancies remained when we altered our sample specifications and clinical high blood pressure measure. A possible explanation for these discrepancies is that few physicians performed the majority of blood pressure readings in our HHANES sample. This may have been statistically inefficient. The discrepancies noted suggest that HHANES may not be a reliable source of information on hypertension among Hispanic women. 
Two-way factorial study of alcohol and salt restriction in treated hypertensive men. The aim of this study was to determine whether moderate restriction of dietary salt intake leads to an additional fall in blood pressure in treated hypertensive men who are asked to simultaneously reduce their usual alcohol intake. Sixty-three subjects entered an initial 2-week familiarization period during which they continued their usual alcohol intake and commenced a "low sodium" diet (less than 60 mmol/day) supplemented with 100 mmol sodium chloride per day as enteric-coated tablets. Subjects were then randomly assigned to either drink a low alcohol beer alone for a 4-week period (reducing their self-reported alcohol consumption from 537 to 57 ml/week) or to continue their usual alcohol intake (543 versus 557 ml/week). Within the low and normal alcohol intake groups, subjects were assigned to either a low or normal sodium intake. The low sodium groups continued the sodium-restricted diet but were switched to placebo sodium chloride tablets for the 4 weeks. This resulted in a fall in the 24-hour urinary sodium excretion from 144 to 69 mmol/day. The normal sodium groups continued the low sodium diet but kept taking 100 mmol/day of the sodium chloride tablets, and their urinary sodium excretion remained unchanged (125 versus 142 mmol/day). Regular antihypertensive therapy was continued throughout. Fifty-nine subjects completed the trial. In those who reduced their alcohol intake there was a fall in both systolic blood pressure (-5.4 mm Hg supine, p less than 0.01) and diastolic blood pressure (-3.2 mm Hg supine, p less than 0.01). 
Evidence for decreased coronary flow reserve in viable postischemic myocardium. To try to unravel the complexity and heterogeneity of the "no-reflow" phenomenon and its underlying mechanisms, we studied tissue perfusion in reperfused heart muscle by using tracer microspheres in an anesthetized dog model of 90-minute coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion for 2 1/2 hours, 24 hours, or 1 week. Regional myocardial blood flow was determined both in basal flow conditions and during reactive hyperemia. The effect of intracoronary adenosine administration was examined, and the ultrastructure of postischemic myocardium was analyzed. In viable reperfused tissue (as delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining), reflow in basal conditions is unimpaired. Coronary flow reserve (as approximated by peak reactive hyperemic flow) is intact at the start of reperfusion, decreases by more than half after 2 1/2 hours, and recovers completely within 1 week. This impairment of coronary reserve can be relieved by intracoronary adenosine administration. On ultrastructural examination, the capillaries are patent. On the other hand, in irreversibly damaged myocardium, both the basal reflow impairment and the decrease in coronary flow reserve are severe and permanent. Coronary flow reserve is already decreased at the start of reperfusion, and the pharmacological intervention has no beneficial effect. Ultrastructurally, extracellular and intracellular edema invariably are present, whereas the vascular endothelium is damaged and the capillaries are packed with red blood cells. We conclude that the no-reflow phenomenon (i.e., mechanical obstruction to blood flow) is limited to infarcted tissue. In viable myocardium, however, coronary flow reserve is transiently diminished, probably because of washout and subsequent insufficient availability of the chemical mediator adenosine after breakdown and slow recovery of the precursor ATP pool. 
Pulmonary hypertension after heparin-protamine: roles of left-sided infusion, histamine, and platelet-activating factor. Severe pulmonary hypertension after protamine neutralization of heparin is an infrequent but life-threatening event following cardiopulmonary bypass. The effect of left ventricular infusion of protamine on pulmonary hypertension as well as a possible role of platelet-activating factor (PAF) or histamine in the heparin-protamine reaction was investigated in 30 pigs in four different groups during general anesthesia. Group 1 animals received 250 IU/kg heparin, followed by 100 mg protamine intravenously after 15 min. In group 2 protamine was infused into the left ventricle. Group 3 animals received the histamine H1- and H2-antagonists clemastine and ranitidine 5 min before protamine infusion. In group 4 the PAF receptor blocker WEB 2086 was given 5 min before protamine. Platelet-activating factor was measured by a bioassay in serum samples of group 1 and group 4 animals. In all four groups protamine caused severe pulmonary hypertension, thromboxane A2 release, and a transient decrease in leukocyte counts. No PAF release was detected after protamine infusion. Neither left ventricular infusion of protamine nor histamine or PAF antagonists prevented or attenuated the reactions after protamine infusion. The authors conclude that left ventricular infusion of protamine provides no protection from pulmonary hypertension, and that histamine and PAF are not involved in the acute pulmonary vasoconstriction after protamine neutralization of heparin. 
Prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes: effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia. Anginal perceptual threshold (the time from onset of 0.1 mV of ST segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease. In the present study, the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia. Treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia (ST segment depression) and exercise capacity in both groups (r = 0.8 and 0.9, respectively; p less than 0.001). However, the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified. The anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group (r = 0.8, p less than 0.001), although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated. The permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise (r = 0.6, p less than 0.001): the longer the threshold, the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia. Indeed, the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group (r = 0.4, p less than 0.02) was completely lost in the diabetic group. Thus, in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease, anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity. 
Timing and mechanism of in-hospital and late death after primary coronary angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction. The effect of early myocardial reperfusion on patterns of death after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is unknown. Thus, the mechanism and timing of in-hospital and late deaths among a group of 614 patients treated with coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy for AMI were determined. Death occurred in 49 patients (8%) before hospital discharge. Four patients died in the catheterization laboratory. Death was due to cardiogenic shock in 22 patients, acute vessel reclosure in 5 patients, was sudden in 8 patients and followed elective coronary artery bypass surgery in 8 patients. Cardiac rupture was observed in only 2 patients after failed infarct angioplasty, and did not occur among the 574 patients with successful infarct reperfusion. Intracranial hemorrhage did not occur. Multivariate predictors of in-hospital death included failed infarct angioplasty, cardiogenic shock, 3-vessel coronary artery disease and age greater than or equal to 70 years. During a follow-up period of 32 +/- 21 months (range 1 to 87), 55 patients died. The cause of death was cardiac in 36 patients, including an arrhythmic death in 23 patients and was due to circulatory failure in 13 others. One patient died of reinfarction due to late reclosure of the infarct artery. Actuarial survival curves demonstrated overall survival after hospital discharge of 95 and 87% at 1 and 4 years, respectively. Freedom from cardiac death at 1 and 4 years was 96 and 92%. Multivariate predictors of late death included 3-vessel disease, a baseline ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40%, age greater than 70 years and female gender. 
Regression of the left main trunk lesion by steroid administration in Takayasu's aortitis. A 62-year-old man with unstable angina due to severe narrowing of the left main trunk (LMT) was examined. Emergency bypass surgery was performed with an internal mammary artery graft, instead of a saphenous vein graft, because of the thickened, edematous ascending aorta. Postoperative coronary angiography showed the lesion of the LMT markedly regressing. Presumably, this stenotic lesion of the LMT was caused by active aortitis and was partially reversible by steroid administration both during and after surgery. Steroid therapy can be added to the list of treatments for cases of LMT disease associated with Takayasu's aortitis, if signs of active inflammation are present. 
The spectrum of portal vein thrombosis in liver transplantation. Thrombosis of the portal vein with or without patency of its tributaries used to be a contraindication to orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) until quite recently. Rapid progress in the surgical technique of OLTX in the last few years has demonstrated that most patients with portal vein thrombosis can be safely and successfully transplanted. Presented here is a series of 34 patients with portal vein thrombosis transplanted at the University of Pittsburgh since 1984. The various techniques used to treat various forms of thrombosis are described. The survival rate for this series was 67.6% (23 of 34 patients). Survival was best for patients who underwent phlebothrombectomy or placement of a jump graft from the superior mesenteric vein. The survival rate also correlated with the amount of blood required for transfusion during surgery. Overall it is concluded that a vast majority of the patients with thrombosis of the portal system can be technically transplanted and that their survival rate is comparable to that of patients with patent portal vein. 
Left ventricular diastolic dysfunction limits use of maximum systolic elastance as an index of contractile function. We tested the hypothesis that maximum systolic elastance (Emax) fails to detect a decline in left ventricular (LV) contractile function when diastolic dysfunction is present. Canine hearts were studied in an isolated blood-perfused heart apparatus (isovolumic LV); contractile dysfunction was produced by 60 or 90 minutes of global ischemia, followed by 90 minutes of reperfusion. Nine normal hearts underwent 60 minutes of ischemia, and five underwent 90 minutes of ischemia. After the ischemia-reperfusion sequence, developed pressure, pressure-volume area, and myocardial ATP level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 14 hearts. In the group undergoing 60 minutes of ischemia, LV diastolic pressure did not increase, whereas Emax decreased from 5.2 +/- 2.5 to 2.9 +/- 1.4 mm Hg/ml (p less than 0.05). In the group undergoing 90 minutes of ischemia, diastolic pressure increased (from 10 +/- 2 to 37 +/- 20 mm Hg, p less than 0.05), and Emax did not change significantly (from 5.1 +/- 4.3 to 4.3 +/- 2.5 mm Hg/ml). A second series of experiments was performed in 13 hearts with pressure-overload hypertrophy (aortic-band model with echocardiography and catheterization studies before the ischemia-reperfusion protocol). Five had evidence for pump failure, whereas eight remained compensated. After 60 minutes of ischemia and 90 minutes of reperfusion, developed pressure, pressure-volume area, and myocardial ATP level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 13 hearts. In the group with compensated LV hypertrophy, LV diastolic pressure did not change, whereas Emax decreased from 6.9 +/- 3.0 to 3.1 +/- 2.3 mm Hg/ml (p less than 0.05). 
Coronary angioplasty in young adults: initial results and late outcome. The initial and late outcome of coronary angioplasty was studied in 148 patients less than 40 years of age (mean 36.4 +/- 3). Angioplasty was performed on a single vessel in 70% of patients and on multiple vessels in 30%; it was performed on a totally occluded vessel in 20%. Angioplasty was successful in 90.5% of patients, unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 7.4% and complicated by myocardial infarction in 0.7%, emergency bypass surgery in 0.7% and death in 0.7%. At late (mean 3.7 +/- 3 years; range 0.5 to 11.5) follow-up study after successful angioplasty, 94% of patients were alive, 79% were free of angina and 85% had returned to work; late myocardial infarction occurred in 4%. Actuarial survival at 5 years was 95%, and 85% of patients were free from death, infarction or bypass surgery. A second angioplasty was performed in 29 patients (22%) (mean 6.1 +/- 8.4 months) and was successful in 27 (93%), with no deaths. Elective coronary bypass surgery was performed in 8.5% of patients, with perioperative infarction in 9% and no deaths. By univariate analysis, late death was more likely to occur in hypertensive patients (15% versus 2.5%; p less than 0.01) and diabetic patients (21.4% versus 3.6%; p less than 0.01). Cox proportional hazard regression analysis identified hypertension (p = 0.007) and diabetes (p = 0.04) as independent time-related predictors of subsequent death. Thus, early and late results after coronary angioplasty in young adults are favorable, but certain risk factors are important predictors of outcome. Late revascularization procedures (repeat angioplasty or surgery) for restenosis or disease progression are common. 
Doxazosin therapy in the treatment of diabetic hypertension. The incidence of cardiovascular disease in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) has not been reduced by the control of hyperglycemia alone. Hypertension and dyslipidemia may be the major determinants of macrovascular disease in these patients. With the high prevalence of hypertension in NIDDM, antihypertensive drugs are likely to be important determinants of an atherogenic lipid profile. To date, there is no completed major randomized controlled trial of antihypertensive treatment outcome in a diabetic population, and as such, drug choice for the treatment of diabetic hypertension is often based on evidence extrapolated from studies in nondiabetic groups. However, two short-term studies have assessed the effects of doxazosin antihypertensive therapy in subjects with NIDDM. Both studies showed that the significant reduction in blood pressure with doxazosin treatment was associated with favorable effects on the serum lipid profile. In one study, contrasting adverse effects of atenolol treatment on glycemic control, lipids, and lipoproteins were observed. Doxazosin therapy was associated with a trend toward correcting the disturbances of lipoprotein metabolism characteristic of NIDDM. These metabolic effects, combined with effective lowering of blood pressure by doxazosin, may be important determinants of cardiovascular disease in the long term. 
Dietary sodium reduction for hypertension prevention and treatment. Nutritional-nonpharmacological approaches for the treatment and prevention of hypertension are of great interest. Sodium reduction is one of the primary methods recommended for these purposes. The general public is interested in the reduction of dietary sodium intake and has responded with a decrease in table salt use, the purchase of lowered sodium food products, and the use of food labels to help guide food purchases. Countervailing trends in the use of convenience foods and dining out increase the difficulty for individuals to lower sodium intake. Clinical trials that have used sodium reduction alone or in combination with other lifestyle therapies have demonstrated the feasibility of reducing dietary sodium intake from 30% to 50% for up to 4 years, in a variety of populations. Trials that used lifestyle and weight loss interventions have also achieved significant reductions in body weight and alcohol consumption and increases in physical activity. A variety of studies indicate that long-term sodium reduction is feasible and that it is acceptable to patients. No negative consequences of these interventions have been observed, and in some cases improvement in the intake of other nutrients has occurred. Nonpharmacological interventions have resulted in hypertension control in significant proportions of the trial populations. These studies demonstrate that the foregoing types of interventions can significantly contribute to hypertension treatment and prevention. 
Functional status after coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Two cohorts of consecutive patients of comparable age with similar preprocedure cardiac function who underwent either coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG; n = 106) or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA; n = 64) were entered into a prospective comparison study examining functional status and return to work during the first year of recovery. Patients were evaluated using standardized functional status instruments for activities of daily living, work performance, social activity, mental health and quality of social interaction at 1, 6 and 12 months after the procedure. Within the CABG group, statistically significant improvements of functional status on every subscale were noted over the 1-year follow-up. Patients undergoing PTCA demonstrated significant improvement in all dimensions except for the quality of interaction at 1 year as compared with baseline. When the 2 groups were compared, the PTCA group demonstrated greater participation than the CABG group in routine daily physical and social activities at 1 and 6 months, but this apparent advantage disappeared by 1 year. Measures of psychological functioning were better after CABG than after PTCA. A reduction in the number of those with employment occurred in both the CABG and PTCA groups, independent of physical functional status measures, which improved in both groups after the procedures. For those with employment, the CABG group reported the greatest improvement in work performance. 
Increased Ca2+ signaling after alpha-adrenoceptor activation in vascular hypertrophy. In an effort to explain the increased sensitivity to agonists of hypertrophic vascular muscle, intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i)-signaling mechanisms were studied in normal and hypertrophic rat aortas from normotensive and coarctation-hypertensive rats. Based on both fura 2 fluorescence and aequorin luminescence measurements, qualitatively different patterns of Ca2+ mobilization occur in normal and hypertrophic rat aortic muscle. Normal rat aortic muscle contracts to phenylephrine with little or no increase in [Ca2+]i, whereas the angiotensin II-induced contraction is accompanied by a marked [Ca2+]i transient. In contrast, hypertrophic rat aortic muscle shows a dramatic increase in Ca2+ signaling after phenylephrine stimulation. Moreover, both the amplitude of the angiotensin-induced [Ca2+]i transient and the contractile sensitivity to this agonist are decreased in the hypertrophic muscle. Our results strongly suggest that the amplitude of the [Ca2+]i transient after agonist stimulation determines the contractile sensitivity and that there is an altered coupling of the alpha-adrenoceptor in the hypertrophic vascular muscle. 
Penetration of the pericardium by a gastric ulcer--survival after pericardiocentesis. Elderly patients often have unusual manifestations of common illnesses. We describe a geriatric patient having a pneumopericardium from pericardial penetration by a gastric ulcer. Benign gastric ulceration causing perforation of the pericardium or other cardiac structures was recognized as early as 1854; however, until 1964, the condition was invariably fatal. Our patient survived the episode after early pericardiocentesis and medical treatment. Aspects of this uncommon clinical entity and a brief review of the literature are described. 
Importance of hemodynamic response to therapy in predicting survival with ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% secondary to ischemic or nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. To identify patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 20% who are likely to survive on tailored medical therapy after referral to transplantation, this study of 152 patients addressed the hypotheses that (1) severely elevated filling pressures initially measured at referral would not necessarily predict poor outcome, (2) survival would be best when low pulmonary wedge pressures could be achieved with therapy tailored for hemodynamic goals, and (3) coronary artery disease would be an independent risk factor for early mortality. Despite an average initial ejection fraction of 0.15, cardiac index of 2.0 liters/min/m2 and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 28 mm Hg, the actuarial survival with tailored therapy was 63% at 1 year, with 34 of 41 (83%) deaths occurring suddenly. Survival was not related to initial filling pressure elevation, but was best predicted by the pulmonary artery wedge pressures during therapy; patients achieving pressure of less than or equal to 16 mm Hg had 1-year survival of 83 vs 38% (p = 0.0001). The other independent predictors were serum sodium and coronary artery disease. Patients with high filling pressures during therapy and coronary artery disease had 21% survival at 1 year. Survival after referral to transplantation with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 20% is better than previously described. Patients in whom left ventricular filling pressures cannot be adequately reduced by tailored therapy, particularly if coronary artery disease is present, should be considered for early transplantation. 
Studies on the pathogenesis of hypertension in Cushing's disease and acromegaly. The pathogenesis of the hypertension associated with Cushing's syndrome and with acromegaly is poorly understood. We have investigated the possible roles of sodium retention, activation of the renin-angiotensin system and increased sympathetic nervous system activity in untreated patients. In 11 patients with Cushing's disease, seven of whom were hypertensive, total exchangeable sodium was normal despite increased levels of the mineralocorticoid hormones, 11-deoxy-corticosterone and corticosterone. The renin-angiotensin system was also normal. Cardiac sensitivity to the beta-receptor agonist isoprenaline was increased, but this was not due to an increase in beta-adrenoceptor density. Hypertension in Cushing's disease is neither sodium-dependent nor angiotensin II-mediated, but increased cardiac sensitivity to catecholamines, by increasing cardiac output, may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension. In nine patients with acromegaly (three of whom were hypertensive) total exchangeable sodium was elevated. Although no correlation between blood pressure and exchangeable sodium was found, hypertension in acromegaly is probably sodium dependent. No evidence was found for a pathogenetic role for either the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone or the sympathetic nervous system. 
Alterations in collateral blood flow produced by isoflurane in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease. The actions of isoflurane and adenosine on left ventricular myocardial perfusion during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery were investigated in dogs chronically instrumented for measurement of systemic and coronary hemodynamics, regional myocardial contractile function (via ultrasonic sonomicrometers), and myocardial blood flow (via the radioactive microsphere technique). An Ameroid constrictor was implanted on the left circumflex coronary artery to produce a slowly progressive stenosis that gradually depleted the coronary reserve of the distal vascular bed. The reductions in reserve were evaluated by daily measurement of baseline left circumflex coronary blood flow velocity and the hyperemic response to injection of adenosine. At a stage of moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis development, the left anterior descending coronary artery was totally occluded via a hydraulic occluder to simulate multivessel coronary artery disease, and control measurements of hemodynamics, regional contractile function, and myocardial blood flow were completed. In separate groups of experiments, either adenosine (0.64 and 1.28 mg/min) or isoflurane (1.6-1.8 and 2.3-2.5%, end-tidal) was administered and measurements remade during steady state hemodynamic conditions. Finally, diastolic aortic pressure and heart rate were adjusted to levels present in the control state during administration of adenosine or isoflurane, and additional measurements were recorded. Isoflurane reduced mean arterial pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure, and the rate of increase of left ventricular pressure at 50 mmHg (positive dP/dt50) without change in heart rate. Administration of isoflurane decreased blood flow in normal, stenotic, and occluded regions; however, when arterial pressure and heart rate were restored to levels present in the conscious state, myocardial perfusion in all regions was maintained at control levels. Ratios of flow between occluded and normal or stenotic zones remained unchanged from the conscious state during a constant aortic pressure and heart rate. Similar results were obtained in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex coronary artery stenosis. In contrast, adenosine produced a dose-related decrease in collateral flow and occluded-to-normal or occluded-to-stenotic zone flow ratio. The results of this investigation indicate that adenosine but not isoflurane redistributes blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Orthopedic complications. Compartment syndrome, fat embolism syndrome, and venous thromboembolism. Specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring. With a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment, patient care must be managed proactively. For all three complications presented, there are unique sets of risk factors that, when present, contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity. Clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns. With this knowledge as a foundation, clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations. Nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems. The end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications. Stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent, minimize, or detect complications or treatment side effects. Although definitive treatment is often physician directed, nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes. 
Reperfusion arrhythmias after thrombolysis. Electrophysiologic tempest, or much ado about nothing. Arrhythmias that may accompany myocardial reperfusion have generated significant clinical interest. First, there were concerns, based on animal studies, that high-grade ventricular tachyarrhythmias would pose a serious threat following thrombolytic therapy to treat an evolving myocardial infarction. Second, lower-grade arrhythmias, such as accelerated idioventricular rhythm, were cited as useful, noninvasive markers of successful reperfusion. Critical review of the current data, however, indicates that arrhythmias following thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction are usually neither dangerous clinical events nor consistent markers of reperfusion. 
Limitation of retinal injury by vitreoperfusion initiated after onset of ischemia. We tested whether vitreoperfusion, a new method of perfusing the vitreous cavity with solutions containing nutrients, can limit retinal injury if initiated after the onset of ischemia. Severe bilateral ocular ischemia was induced in cats with healed lensectomy-vitrectomy wounds; 30, 60, 90, or 120 minutes later, one eye from each of 18 cats underwent vitreoperfusion while the ischemia continued for 120 minutes. The other eye simultaneously underwent either continued untreated ischemia or reinstated circulation. The histopathologic abnormalities evident after 8 days depended on the duration of ischemia. Reinstated circulation yielded less retinal damage than continued ischemia. Nine additional cats underwent bilateral ischemia for at least 210 minutes. Vitreoperfusion was initiated in one eye after 30 minutes. In each cat, the vitreoperfused eye fared significantly better as observed histopathologically and electroretinographically. We believe that no other treatment has similarly limited retinal injury in vivo when initiated so long after total ocular ischemia has developed. 
Heparin as the cause of coagulopathy which may complicate grafting of the liver. Disposal of heparin is accomplished rapidly by the normal liver, but the effects of ischemia, flushing and hypothermia during hepatic transplantation have not been investigated before. The results of the present study showed that neither laparotomy, hypothermia nor insertion of the portosystemic bypass seemed markedly to affect the coagulation profile, but autograft associated with 30 to 45 minutes of warm ischemia resulted in a twofold prolongation of the t1/2 heparin as calculated from sequential measurements of the activated clotting time. Unexpectedly, the storage of livers for four hours in EuroCollins solutions seemed to result in more rapid disappearance of heparin than in animals after laparotomy. After hepatectomy, the clearance of heparin was delayed for two hours but, thereafter, the slope of the disappearance resembled that in sham operated animals. Autograft and allograft of livers in normal pigs that did not receive transfusion were also associated with changes in fibrinolysis and declining levels of fibrinogen together with severe intraoperative bleeding problems and rapid death on the operating table in 30 per cent of the pigs. While administration of heparin alone did not appear to precipitate these changes, use of the drug after dissection, mobilization and storage of the liver may release other tissue factors that activate fibrinolysis. 
Divergent effects of serotonin on coronary-artery dimensions and blood flow in patients with coronary atherosclerosis and control patients BACKGROUND. Studies in animals have shown that serotonin constricts coronary arteries if the endothelium is damaged, but in vitro studies have revealed a vasodilating effect on isolated coronary segments with an intact endothelium. To investigate the effect of serotonin in humans, we studied coronary-artery cross-sectional area and blood flow before and after the infusion of serotonin in seven patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries and in seven with coronary artery disease. METHODS. We measured the cross-sectional area of the coronary artery by quantitative angiography and coronary blood flow with an intracoronary Doppler catheter. Measurements were obtained at base line and during intracoronary infusions of serotonin (0.1, 1, and 10 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per minute, for two minutes). We repeated the measurements after an infusion of ketanserin, an antagonist of serotonin receptors that is thought to block the effect of serotonin on receptors in the arterial wall but not in the endothelium. RESULTS. In patients with normal coronary arteries, the highest dose of serotonin increased cross-sectional area by 52 percent (P less than 0.001) and blood flow by 58 percent (P less than 0.01). The effect was significantly potentiated by administration of ketanserin. In patients with coronary-artery atherosclerosis, serotonin reduced cross-sectional area by 64 percent (P less than 0.001) and blood flow by 59 percent (P less than 0.001). Ketanserin prevented this effect. CONCLUSIONS. Serotonin has a vasodilating effect on normal human coronary arteries; when the endothelium is damaged, as in coronary artery disease, serotonin has a direct, unopposed vasoconstricting effect. When considered with other evidence, these data suggest that platelet-derived factors such as serotonin may have a role in certain acute coronary ischemic syndromes. 
Ultrasonic evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis. We investigated the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis, including mild early lesions, and its association with cervical bruits and various risk factors (age, male sex, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, obesity, and cigarette smoking) in 232 consecutive Japanese patients. High-resolution real-time B-mode ultrasonography was performed to determine the extent of atherosclerosis, and it was quantified by using a scoring system. The prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis was 49%, 59%, and 41% in all 232 patients, the 100 symptomatic patients, and the 132 asymptomatic patients, respectively. Although carotid lesions were detected frequently (87%) in the 30 patients with cervical bruits, bruits were noted in only 30% of the 88 examined patients with carotid atherosclerosis. Independent risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis in these patients were found to be age, male sex, and hyperlipidemia; diabetes mellitus was a possible risk factor for carotid atherosclerosis. Our study did not show a close association between hypertension and carotid atherosclerosis, and this might be caused by the high prevalence of hypertension in our patients. Our findings suggest an increasing prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis in the Japanese, though this should be confirmed in a population-based study. Our study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography for the evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis. 
The origin and fate of complex coronary lesions. Complex irregular coronary artery stenoses, representing plaque rupture/thrombosis, are associated with the acute coronary syndromes. However, the natural history (origin and fate) of these lesions is not known. To examine this issue we studied 255 patients who had had two to four arteriograms within a mean interval of 2.6 +/- 1.7 years. Of 53 irregular lesions that had progressed on a later arteriogram, 35 (66%) originated from areas that were smooth and less than 50% in stenosis diameter. Of 44 irregular lesions on an earlier study, 10 (23%) became totally occluded, five (11%) progressed in severity (all remained irregular), 25 (57%) showed no change in severity (all remained irregular), and four (9%) regressed (two became smooth). Nine of the 10 lesions progressing to occlusion were greater than or equal to 95% stenosed on the earlier study. Only 2 of 44 lesions (5%) showed smoothing. These findings are in agreement with the concept that irregular lesions represent ruptured atherosclerotic plaques and demonstrate that they usually originate from mildly occlusive smooth plaques. Markedly narrowed irregular lesions (greater than or equal to 95% stenosis) frequently progress to occlusion. Irregular lesions less than 90% narrowed commonly remain angiographically stable, and irregular over several years. They were found rarely to evolve into smooth-walled plaques. 
Metabolic considerations in hypertension. The frequent concurrence of other cardiovascular risk factors in hypertensive patients, such as obesity and diabetes mellitus, suggests that overlapping genetic and environmental factors may contribute to the common metabolic and cardiovascular derangements observed in these populations. Hypertension and hyperglycemia accelerate atherosclerosis in diabetics, and play an important role in associated morbidity and mortality. Several abnormalities in blood pressure regulatory systems such as the renin-angiotensin system, the sympathetic nervous system, and sodium/volume control have been described in diabetes mellitus. Sodium retention and cardiovascular hyperreactivity appear to occur early in the course of diabetes mellitus, even at normal blood pressure levels and before onset of renal failure, and could set the stage for the development of hypertension. The relationship between obesity and hypertension is also well-established, and may reflect metabolic and cardiovascular adaptations in obese subjects which predispose to blood pressure elevations. Obese subjects display changes in sympathetic nervous system activity, sodium metabolism, and vascular hemodynamics. Sodium-sensitive blood pressure responses in the obese may be secondary to increased cardiac output or fluid volume, and are directly related to circulating insulin levels. Certain metabolic and vascular characteristics of obesity and diabetes mellitus are found in patients with essential hypertension. It has been suggested that insulin and insulin resistance may be the common link between these risk factors. Improved understanding of metabolic considerations in the treatment of obese and diabetic hypertensives should lead to more careful selection of medications that avoid metabolic complications. Although diuretics and beta-blockers may be useful in some patients, there are several reasons not to recommend their use as initial therapy in obese and diabetic hypertensives. On the other hand, calcium channel blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are highly effective, with minimal effects on metabolic parameters, and are well-suited as first-line therapy in the treatment of obese and diabetic hypertensives. 
Selective inhibition by a synthetic hirudin peptide of fibrin-dependent thrombosis in baboons. To determine the importance of the thrombin substrate recognition exosite for fibrinogen binding in the formation of both arterial and venous thrombi, we evaluated the antithrombotic effects of the tyrosine-sulfated dodecapeptide from residues 53-64 of hirudin (H peptide) in a nonhuman primate model. This peptide was studied because it inhibits thrombin cleavages of fibrinogen by simple competition without blocking enzyme catalytic-site function. When an exteriorized arteriovenous access shunt model was used in baboons (Papio anubis), thrombus formation was induced by placing a thrombogenic device made of (i) a segment of tubing coated covalently with type I collagen, which generated platelet-rich thrombi under arterial flow conditions, and (ii) two subsequent annular regions of flow expansion that produced fibrin-rich thrombi typically associated with venous valves and veins. Thrombus formation was quantified by measurements of 111In-labeled platelet and 125I-labeled fibrinogen deposition in both arterial-flow and venous-flow portions of the device. Continuous infusion of H peptide (0.5, 15, and 75 mg/kg) proximal to the device for 40 min interrupted, in a dose-response fashion, formation of fibrin-rich thrombus in the regions of disturbed flow and generation of fibrinopeptide A. In contrast, H peptide did not inhibit the capacity of platelets to deposit on the collagen surface (P greater than 0.2 at all doses) or to form hemostatic plugs (as assessed by measurements of bleeding time; P greater than 0.1 at all doses). These findings suggest that, by competitive inhibition of fibrinogen binding to thrombin, fibrin-rich venous-type thrombus formation may be selectively prevented. This strategy may be therapeutically attractive for preserving normal platelet function when conventional anticoagulant therapy is contraindicated. 
Characteristics of a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor: delapril. Delapril, a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, which has an indanylglycine moiety differing from the proline moiety of captopril or enalapril, is an esterified prodrug that is converted in vivo to its active metabolites. Delapril effectively inhibits rabbit lung ACE activity and lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Delapril has several characteristics that differ from captopril and enalapril, including high lipophilicity and weak bradykinin potentiating action. Delapril is a more potent inhibitor of vascular wall ACE activity than enalapril or captopril. It also shows a weaker potentiating action on the citric acid-induced cough in the guinea pig model compared with captopril and enalapril. In 12 out of 150 patients with essential hypertension who complained of cough during treatment with enalapril, changing to delapril resulted in resolution of the cough in 6 out of 12 of these patients: the percentage of patients in the total population with cough decreased from 8% to 4%. 
Experience with esmolol for the treatment of cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications. The authors report their experience using esmolol, an ultra-short acting beta-adrenergic antagonist, for the treatment of seven patients with cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications. No consistent hemodynamic benefit was found with the use of this drug. Although there was a decline in mean heart rate of 23% (range 0% to 35%), they were unable to show a consistent antihypertensive response. Adverse effects occurred in three patients. This included one patient with a marked exacerbation of hypertension and one who became hypotensive. Another patient developed emesis and lethargy during esmolol therapy and required endotracheal intubation. They do not recommend the routine use of esmolol for cocaine cardiotoxicity. 
Prevalence of hemodynamically significant stenosis of the carotid artery in an asymptomatic veteran population. The results of previous studies have suggested that significant stenosis of the carotid artery occurs in less than 6 per cent of asymptomatic patients. However, some populations studied were not representative of those seen by most vascular surgeons. Accordingly, we examined two cohorts of patients at the Veterans Administration Medical Center using Duplex scanning. There were 153 volunteers in group 1, all more than 50 years of age, who were being treated at our outpatient department for nonvascular problems. There were 116 patients of similar age in group 2 but who were known to have significant arterial occlusive disease of the lower extremity. The majority of patients were men with a mean age of 64.4 years. Risk factors in the total population included hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary arterial disease, peripheral vascular disease and smoking. Over-all, significant (greater than 50 per cent diameter) stenosis of the carotid artery was discovered in 25 of 269 patients. The prevalence for those in group 1 was 6.5 per cent versus 12.9 per cent for those in group 2 (p = 0.058). The prevalence in patients with cardiac disease was 15.2 per cent compared with 6.8 per cent in those without cardiac disease (p = 0.032). Smoking was associated with a 10.6 per cent rate of significant disease compared with a 2.3 per cent rate in nonsmokers (p = 0.065). Hypertension and diabetes were not significant risk factors. Significant stenosis of the carotid artery was found in seven of 40 patients in whom coronary arterial disease, peripheral vascular disease and smoking were all present. 
Intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium. Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12% of all maternal deaths. We critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ICH during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion, including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in English. Aneurysms were responsible for ICH in 77% of patients, and arteriovenous malformations in 23%. Hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92% of patients and postpartum in 8%. Women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage; however, in contrast to previous reports, we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage. Hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34% of patients with documentation, which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ICH from that associated with eclampsia. In a logistic regression analysis, surgical management of aneurysms, but not arteriovenous malformations, was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality, independent of other covariants. For those patients with a lesion not operated on, cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery. We conclude that the decision to operate after ICH during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles, whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations. The perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed. 
Clinical perspective on celiprolol: cardioprotective potential. beta-Adrenergic blockers have had widespread use in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Some agents of this class have been shown to reduce the incidence of total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, sudden death, and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of acute myocardial infarction. The mechanism for this cardioprotective action is not known. Antiarrhythmic action and hemodynamic alterations have been suggested as possible mechanisms. An anticoagulant mechanism is another possibility, although the antiplatelet effects of beta-blockers are weak. It is now believed that antithrombotic effects may be related to the prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than a direct anticoagulant action. The therapeutic ability beta-blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surgers, as they do in aortic dissection, may protect a vulnerable plaque from fracture, reducing the risk of coronary thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and death. Celiprolol, a third-generation beta 1-selective adrenergic blocker with partial beta 2-agonist activity, is comparable to other beta-blockers in antihypertensive and antianginal activity. It has additional actions that may be beneficial to patients: (1) it does not adversely affect lipids and lipoproteins; (2) it does not appear to depress the myocardium in patients with left ventricular dysfunction; (3) it can lower serum fibrinogen levels; and (4) it can cause regression of myocardial mass in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm. The pedigrees were constructed of 43 patients (probands) who underwent resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Seven probands (16.2%) had a first-degree relative (parent, sibling, child) known to have had an abdominal aortic aneurysm (multiplex family). To determine the prevalence of undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm, ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives over age 40 years was undertaken. Of 202 eligible relatives, 103 (51.0%) were screened. An occult abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as an infrarenal aortic diameter greater than 3.0 cm or an infrarenal/suprarenal aortic diameter ratio of greater than 1.5. An incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as a clear focal bulge of the infrarenal aorta, which was less than 3.0 cm in greatest diameter. Four of 103 relatives (3.9%) were found to have an occult abdominal aortic aneurysm (age/sex: 57M, 60M, 62F, 65M), and three (2.9%) were found with an incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm (age/sex: 56M, 60M, 67F). These smaller abdominal aortic aneurysms were in patients younger than the operated probands (average age men, 67 years; women, 69 years). Six of seven individuals were in families previously considered simplex, increasing the actual multiplex family frequency from 16.2% to 27.9%. All seven new abdominal aortic aneurysms were found in the 49 siblings age 55 years or older. There were no abdominal aortic aneurysms found in the 39 relatives under age 55 years, in 14 children ages 50 to 59 years or in one parent. Therefore of the siblings age 55 years or older, 5/20 men (25.0%) and 2/29 women (6.9%) were found to have a previously undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Fish oil amplifies the effect of propranolol in mild essential hypertension. Forty-seven male patients with mild essential hypertension were randomly allocated to three subgroups. After a run-in period of 4 weeks, the first subgroup (n = 16) received propranolol (80 mg/day) for 36 weeks followed by a placebo period of 4 weeks. The second subgroup (n = 15), after a run-in period of 4 weeks, was given a supplement of encapsulated fish oil (9 g/day) for 36 weeks with a subsequent period of 4 weeks in which fish oil placebo was given. The third subgroup (n = 16), after a run-in period of 4 weeks, was given propranolol (80 mg/day) for 12 weeks, propranolol (80 mg/day) plus fish oil capsules (9 g/day equivalent to 1.8 g/day of eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.1 g/day of docosahexaenoic acid) for 12 weeks, propranolol plus fish oil placebo (same doses for 12 weeks) with a subsequent period of 4 weeks when propranolol placebo was administered. The results indicate a blood pressure-lowering effect of fish oil, which was comparable with that of propranolol. The simultaneous intake of fish oil plus propranolol was more effective than propranolol or fish oil alone. Propranolol treatment resulted in a decrease of plasma norepinephrine, plasma renin activity, and thromboxane B2 formation. After fish oil supplementation, plasma norepinephrine and thromboxane B2 formation were likewise reduced, whereas plasma renin activity appeared increased. The decrease of serum triglycerides, total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as the rise of high density lipoprotein cholesterol are concomitant beneficial effects, which justify the consideration of fish oil alone or in combination with antihypertensive drugs for the treatment of mild hypertension. 
Diagnosis of left atrial thrombi in mitral valve disease by coronary arteriography. Arteriographic findings of neovascularity and fistula formation between coronary arteries and left atrium have occasionally been described in association with left atrial thrombosis in patients with mitral valve disease. The validity of these coronary arteriographic findings in diagnosis of atrial thrombi has been evaluated in 112 patients with mitral valve disease. Comparison was made with surgery. The study furnished these diagnostic values: sensitivity 70%, specificity 85%, positive predictive value 72%. Even if this angiographic finding is complementary in diagnosis of atrial thrombosis, its identification during coronary arteriography in patients with mitral valve disease is useful. Its detection could improve diagnostic prediction of thrombosis, especially in patients without previous embolic events or where echocardiography failed to reveal thrombi. 
Prognostic importance of delayed Q-wave evolution 3 to 24 hours after initiation of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The timing of Q-wave evolution and its prognostic significance was studied in 201 patients who received thrombolytic therapy for a first acute myocardial infarction (AMI). One hundred forty-one patients (70%) had evidence of a Q-wave AMI within 3 hours of the initiation of thrombolytic therapy, 31 (16%) developed Q waves after 3 hours but before hospital discharge, and 29 (14%) were discharged with a non-Q-wave AMI. Laboratory indicators of myocardial damage and in-hospital morbidity and mortality were greater among patients with Q-wave AMIs than with non-Q-wave AMIs. When these indexes were examined with respect to the timing of Q-wave evolution, the prognosis of patients with delayed Q-wave development was similar to that of patients with non-Q-wave AMIs. Thus, compared to patients with early (less than or equal to 3 hours) Q-wave evolution, patients with delayed Q-wave evolution or with a non-Q-wave AMI had a smaller creatine kinase peak (mean 661 to 1,081 vs 1,251 to 1,541 IU; p = 0.005), better preservation of left ventricular function as measured by radionuclide ventriculography before discharge (mean +/- standard deviation 54 +/- 11% vs 47 +/- 13%; p less than 0.01), and a lower incidence of congestive heart failure at discharge (3 vs 15%; p = 0.02). In-hospital mortality was lower among patients with delayed Q-wave evolution or with a non-Q-wave AMI (5 of 141 vs 0 of 60; difference not significant). 
Efficacy and safety of low- and high-dose sotalol versus propranolol in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias early after coronary artery bypass operations. Supraventricular tachyarrhythmias are reported in up to 40% of patients early after coronary artery bypass graft operations. In a randomized study, we compared the efficacy and safety of the class III antiarrhythmic beta-blocking drug sotalol versus propranolol at low and high doses in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in 429 consecutive patients after coronary artery bypass graft operations. Patients with severely depressed left ventricular function and other contraindications for beta-blockers were excluded. From the fourth hour up to the sixth day after coronary artery bypass, 74 patients received low-dose sotalol (40 mg every 8 hours), 66 patients low-dose propranolol (10 mg every 6 hours), 133 patients high-dose sotalol (80 mg every 8 hours), and 156 patients high-dose propranolol (20 mg every 6 hours). Baseline characteristics were comparable in all groups. Supraventricular tachyarrhythmia was observed in 10 of 72 (13.9%) who received low-dose sotalol, 12 of 64 (18.8%) who received low-dose propranolol, 13 of 119 (10.9%) who received high-dose sotalol, and 19 of 139 (13.7%) who received high-dose propranolol (not significant). Drug-related adverse effects necessitating discontinuation of the drug occurred in four receiving low doses (2.9%) and in 31 receiving high doses (10.7%) (p less than 0.02). In conclusion, no medication was found to be superior, although supraventricular tachyarrhythmias tended to be less prevalent in patients treated with sotalol than in those treated with propranolol. Moreover, significantly fewer adverse effects were noted in both low-dose groups. Therefore, low-dose beta-blocking treatment, especially low-dose sotalol, seems preferable. 
Nephrotoxicity of allopurinol is enhanced in experimental hypertension. Hyperuricemia is present in 20-40% of pediatric and adult patients with essential hypertension. This metabolic abnormality may represent an additional risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. Therefore, we performed the following studies to determine 1) whether hyperuricemia is more prevalent in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) and 2) whether allopurinol treatment has a beneficial effect on the development of hypertension in this strain, based on its capacity to lower the serum uric acid concentration and to act as an antioxidant agent. SHR and control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were assigned to two groups, one given tap water to drink and the other provided water containing allopurinol (400 mg/l) to furnish an approximate daily dose equal to 100 mg/kg body wt. This treatment was maintained for 15 weeks. The serum uric acid levels were similar in untreated SHR and WKY rats (1.85 +/- 0.10 versus 1.66 +/- 0.14 mg/dl; p = 0.28). In the control WKY rat strain, allopurinol therapy did not adversely affect weight gain or hematocrit and did not cause an increase in mortality. It resulted in a moderate decrement in kidney function (creatinine clearance: allopurinol-treated group 0.32 +/- 0.09 versus control group 0.46 +/- 0.04 ml/min/100 g body wt, in conjunction with mild-to-moderate tubulointerstitial inflammation (allopurinol-treated group 0.9 +/- 0.4 versus control group 0). 
Comparison of pulse oximeters: accuracy at low arterial pressure in volunteers. A laboratory model was developed of limb hypoperfusion in volunteers, using parital occlusion of the brachial artery with consequent reduction in radial artery pulse pressure. This was used to compare the function of 13 pulse oximeters and the effect of reduced pulse pressure and mild hypoxia on these devices. With the exception of one device, all the pulse oximeters studied demonstrated similar accuracies at pulse pressures exceeding 20 mm Hg. There were however, significant differences between several of the pulse oximeters in both ability to display readings and accuracy of readings displayed when brachial artery occlusion reduced radial artery pulse pressures equal to or less than 20 mm Hg. 
Clinical and Doppler echocardiographic follow-up after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been shown to increase the aortic orifice area and to improve clinical symptoms. However, there are only few data concerning long-term results after balloon valvuloplasty. In this study, 36 patients (11 men, 25 women, mean age 75 +/- 8 years) were followed after balloon valvuloplasty for a period of up to 18 months by means of clinical parameters and repeated Doppler echocardiographic measurements after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 18 months. Invasive measurements revealed a decrease of the systolic peak gradient from 78 +/- 24 to 38 +/- 13 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and an increase in the aortic orifice area from 0.58 +/- 0.23 to 0.93 +/- 0.2 cm2 (p less than 0.001). The Doppler echocardiographic approach revealed that the maximal instantaneous gradient decreased from 96 +/- 26 to 67 +/- 22 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). The aortic orifice area increased from 0.49 +/- 0.16 to 0.73 +/- 0.21 cm2 (p less than 0.001). Three patients (8%) died in the hospital. After hospital discharge, 16 patients (44%) died and 8 patients (22%) underwent successful aortic valve replacement after a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 6 months. Nine patients (25%) were alive after a follow-up period of 18 months. Seven of these (19%) remained clinically improved. During follow-up, the Doppler echocardiographic results revealed a continuous trend toward the preprocedural severity of the aortic valve stenosis. Progression of restenosis assessed by Doppler echocardiographic measurements was accelerated in the group of patients who subsequently died or underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty or aortic valve replacement. 
Prognostic significance of Doppler measures of diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis. A Doppler echocardiography study. BACKGROUND. We have previously characterized the left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities in cardiac amyloidosis by Doppler methods. The various filling patterns were shown to be related to the degree of cardiac amyloid infiltration. The purpose of this study was to determine the value of Doppler diastolic filling variables for assessing prognosis in cardiac amyloidosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. We performed pulsed-wave Doppler studies of the left ventricular inflow and obtained clinical follow-up data in 63 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis. All patients had typical echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement. The patients were subdivided into two groups according to deceleration time: Group 1 (33 patients) had a deceleration time of 150 msec or less, indicative of restrictive physiology, and group 2 (30 patients) had a deceleration time of more than 150 msec. Of the 63 patients, 32 (51%) died during a mean follow-up period of 18 +/- 12 months. Of these deaths, 25 (78%) were cardiac deaths, and 19 of the 25 patients (76%) were from group 1. The 1-year probability of survival in group 1 was significantly less than that in group 2 (49% versus 92%, p less than 0.001). Bivariate analysis revealed that the combination of the Doppler variables of shortened deceleration time and increased early diastolic filling velocity to atrial filling velocity ratio were stronger predictors of cardiac death than were the two-dimensional echocardiographic variables of mean left ventricular wall thickness and fractional shortening. CONCLUSIONS. Doppler-derived left ventricular diastolic filling variables are important predictors of survival in cardiac amyloidosis. 
Clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection BACKGROUND. Peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic, blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids. Cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation. METHODS. We studied liver tissue from eight HIV-infected patients with peliosis hepatis, two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. For comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without HIV infection. Tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy. RESULTS. The histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with HIV infection, but not in the four cases unrelated to HIV infection, were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on Warthin-Starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli. The bacilli, which could not be cultured, were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. The clinical courses of two of the patients with this "bacillary peliosis hepatis" indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment. CONCLUSIONS. HIV-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual, treatable opportunistic infection, probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis. Our failure to find bacilli in non-HIV-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis. 
The variable extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease: quantification by thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography To assess the extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease of variable severity and location, quantitative exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography was performed in 158 consecutive patients with angiographically proved single vessel coronary artery disease. The extent of abnormal left ventricular perfusion was quantified from computer-generated polar maps of three-dimensional myocardial radioactivity. Patients with only a moderate (51% to 69%) stenosis tended to have a small perfusion defect irrespective of the coronary artery involved. Whereas a perfusion defect measuring greater than or equal to 10% of the left ventricle was found in 78% of patients with no prior infarction and severe (greater than or equal to 70%) stenosis, this was observed in only 24% of patients with moderate stenosis. Perfusion defect size increased with increasing severity of stenosis for the entire group without infarction and for those with left anterior descending, right and circumflex coronary artery stenosis. However, the correlation between stenosis severity and perfusion defect size was at best only modest (r = 0.38, p = 0.0001). The left anterior descending artery was shown to be the most important of the three coronary arteries for providing left ventricular perfusion. Proximal stenosis of this artery produced a perfusion defect approximately twice as large as that found in patients with a proximal right or circumflex artery stenosis. However, marked heterogeneity in perfusion defect size existed among all three vessels despite comparable stenosis severity. This was most apparent for the left anterior descending coronary artery, where mid vessel stenosis commonly produced a perfusion defect similar in size to that found in proximally stenosed vessels. 
Turner's syndrome, fibromuscular dysplasia, and stroke. We report a 43-year-old woman who presented with a right frontoparietotemporal ischemic stroke. She had been diagnosed with Turner's syndrome during childhood and had a history of chronic estrogen therapy. Cerebral angiography showed lesions characteristics of fibromuscular dysplasia involving the right internal carotid and right vertebral arteries. We are not aware of any previous reports describing an association between fibromuscular dysplasia and Turner's syndrome. Although chronic estrogen therapy cannot be ruled out as a cause of this patient's stroke, we suggest a possible etiologic relation between these two entities. 
Pathophysiology of hypertension in blacks. The pathophysiology of hypertension in the black population differs to some extent from that of the nonblack population. Although black hypertensives exhibit enhanced sodium retention, expanded plasma volume, lower plasma renin activity, and a greater increase in blood pressure in response to high levels of Na+ intake compared with nonblack hypertensives, there is considerable heterogeneity in these studies. Alterations in ion transport mechanisms, such as a decrease in Na+K(+)-ATPase activity and Na+K+ cotransport, have been demonstrated in the black hypertensive population. Those features provide the physiologic basis for the differential response to monotherapy with diuretics and, perhaps, with calcium channel blockers, that is observed in black hypertensives, particularly when compared with responses to beta-blockers or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. 
Results of repeat percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary valvar restenosis. Follow-up cardiac catheterization studies were used to evaluate 105 patients who had undergone percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. Fifteen of those patients who had peak systolic pulmonary valve gradients greater than = 40 mm Hg at follow-up underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty. For the initial balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty, the mean ratio of the balloon diameter to pulmonary valve annulus diameter was 0.98 +/- 0.2; at repeat valvuloplasty the mean was 1.19 +/- 0.12. The immediate post-repeat balloon valvuloplasty results showed a reduction in the peak systolic gradient from a mean of 70.2 +/- 17.8 to 29.1 +/- 19.0 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). This reduction in the gradient was maintained at a mean of 14.3 +/- 5.0 mm Hg in 8 of the 10 patients who underwent further follow-up studies. We conclude that successful repeat balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty with the use of larger sized balloons is feasible in patients who have restenosis after the initial percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty--including partial but not complete dysplasia of the pulmonary valve. 
Double-blind comparison of doxazosin and enalapril in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension. The antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin and enalapril were compared in the general practice setting (n = 54). Both agents produced comparable, statistically significant (p less than 0.05) reductions in mean blood pressure with no clinically relevant changes in heart rate. Side effects in the two groups were mild or moderate and disappeared or were tolerated with continued treatment. Doxazosin, in contrast to enalapril, produced a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in the total serum cholesterol concentration, a reduction in the level of triglycerides, and a favorable increase in the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio. The reduction in calculated coronary heart disease risk produced by doxazosin (-27.58%) was highly significant (p less than 0.0002) and greater than that produced by enalapril (-18.49% p less than 0.02). 
Payment mechanism and patterns of use of medical services: the example of hypertension. This study explores the relationship between the use of medical services by hypertensive patients and mechanisms for payment within a single primary care practice. Three payment mechanisms were explored: public assistance, a capitated health maintenance organization (HMO), and fee-for-service. Patterns were examined across reimbursement type for the following variables: age, sex, visit reason, number of visits, medications, tests ordered, referrals made, and recommendations for follow-up visits. Illness severity was controlled in two ways: (1) by the study being focused on one diagnosis--mild to moderate hypertension, and (2) by concurrent chronic illnesses being enumerated and included in the analysis. Medical visits to the physician were examined over a 2-year period for 25 to 30 patients randomly sampled from each of the three payment mechanisms. Statistically significant differences were found for patient behaviors (total number of patient visits) and physician behaviors (number of medications and recommendations for revisits). The highest visit frequency was found for those on public assistance, followed closely by those covered by an HMO, and more distantly by those choosing fee-for-service. In a climate of cost consciousness, further study is needed to explore the impact of reimbursement mechanisms on the use of health care services. 
Vasculitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome. Report of 11 cases and review of the literature. In a study of 222 patients with vasculitis, we identified 11 who had an associated neoplasia. Seven had hematological neoplasia and 4 had solid malignant tumors. In 4 patients vasculitis gave the first evidence of the neoplasia or of its recurrence. Nine of our patients had cutaneous vasculitis. The other 2 had vasculitis involving the intestine and resulted in acute abdomens. These 2 patients needed prednisone treatment for the vasculitis. Neoplasia should be considered in patients with vasculitis without an apparent cause. 
Major clinical diagnoses found among patients with Raynaud phenomenon from the general population. This study of 62 individuals with Raynaud phenomenon (RP) drawn from the general population of South Carolina shows a profile of associated diseases that is different from the one reported from hospital based studies. We found that connective tissue diseases affect a much smaller fraction of patients with RP than previously reported. Compared to RP negative controls, our RP positive group was found to suffer more frequently from a variety of diseases, both RP related and not RP related. 
An unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot. A case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of Fallot. The focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery. Subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation, and, with no further surgery, the child is well after two and a half years follow-up. 
Sympathetic drive and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis. Current knowledge of the links between the sympathetic nervous system and vascular damage in hypertension and atherosclerosis is summarized. The main mechanisms leading to the structural changes of the arterial wall as a consequence of enhanced adrenergic drive are reported. Hemodynamic mechanisms, including increase in pressure leading to changes in the arterioles and alteration of flow pattern with impact mainly in the large arteries, respectively, account for the typical target organ damage observed in hypertension and is involved in the development of atherosclerotic lesions. Regarding the direct effect of catecholamines, the atherogenic effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine in the absence of changes in blood pressure and cholesterol levels have been demonstrated in vivo in monkeys and rabbits. In rats, catecholamine administration induces polyploidization of aortic smooth muscle cells in vivo and in vitro. Regarding the effects of lipid metabolism, adrenergic stimulation may induce free fatty acid transformation into triglycerides with secondary increase in very low density lipoprotein plasma levels and decrease of very low density lipoprotein transformation into high density lipoprotein through circulating lipoprotein lipase inhibition. Catecholamines may also increase cholesterol levels of the arterial wall, probably by triggering the acyl-cholesterol-acyl-transferase activity. Finally, indirect evidence of the pathogenetic role played by the sympathetic system in the development of vascular disease derives from the results of experiments showing that sympatholytic agents are capable of reducing both medial hypertrophy and atherogenesis. beta-Blockers, alpha- and beta-blockers, and centrally acting sympatholytic agents not only ameliorate hemodynamics but also appear to inhibit the direct effects of catecholamines on the arterial wall. 
Captopril-stimulated renal vein renin in hypertensive patients with or without renal artery stenosis. To examine the efficacy and usefulness of captopril-enhanced renal vein renin (RVR) measurements in detecting the functional significance of renal artery stenosis found in hypertensives, we compared these values in 22 patients with arteriographically documented renovascular hypertension due to unilateral (URVH: 14 patients) or bilateral renal artery stenosis (BRVH: 8 patients) and 12 patients with high renin essential hypertension (EHT). Before captopril administration, RVR ratio was less than 1.5 in 8 patients (36.4%) with renovascular hypertension and all patients (100%) with EHT. Captopril enhanced the lateralization of renal vein renin in renovascular hypertension; the postcaptopril RVR ratio was greater than 2.0 in 18 patients (81.8%) and greater than 1.5 in all the patients (100%). On the other hand, RVR ratio remained unchanged in most patients with EHT. There was no significant difference in the postcaptopril RVR ratios between URVH and BRVH. However, the postcaptopril RVR ratio was higher in atherosclerosis (10 patients) than in fibromuscular dysplasia (11 patients) (P less than .05). Captopril also elucidated contralateral renin suppression as expressed by a contralateral/peripheral renin ratio of less than 1.0, which was associated with a favorable outcome of unilateral surgical intervention. Captopril-stimulated RVR indices were valuable in detecting the functionally significant renal artery stenosis and predicting surgical curability in renovascular hypertension. 
Effects of anxiety on family members of patients with cardiac disease learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The effects of anxiety on learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) by family members of patients with cardiac disease was examined. Family members of hospitalized patients (n = 17), family members of nonhospitalized patients (n = 12), and a control group (n = 21) all took one of nine Heart Saver programs in which CPR was taught and performance evaluated. Subjects took the State Anxiety Inventory three times: immediately before the program, immediately after the performance test, and 2 months after completion of the program. Family members of hospitalized patients had significantly higher before-program anxiety scores than the other groups. This difference was not present immediately after the program or 2 months later. Family members of hospitalized patients showed a significant decline in anxiety over the three testing times. These outcomes support the benefit of teaching CPR to this group. 
The Greenfield filter as the primary means of therapy in venous thromboembolic disease. During a five year period at Akron City Hospital, 165 Greenfield filters were placed in 165 patients. Of this group, 78 patients were available for long term analysis, and of these, 42 did not receive anticoagulation treatment for venous thromboembolic diseases, either acutely or on an outpatient basis. An analysis of the outcome for these 42 patients who had the Greenfield filter only as the primary mode of therapy for the disease included chart review and asking each person a standard set of questions. Leg swelling was the most common complaint, occurring in 33 per cent of patients. Venous stasis ulceration occurred in two patients and recurrent deep venous thrombosis occurred in one patient. When compared with a historical control group with venous thromboembolic disease that was treated with anticoagulation alone, the incidence of these sequelae in Greenfield-treated patients was not significantly different. Finally, in this review, the Greenfield filter is better than 95 per cent effective in the prevention of pulmonary embolism. This is no less effective than anticoagulation alone, the efficacy of which is 95 to 98 per cent. The placement of a Greenfield filter is a safe procedure that can usually be done after a local anesthetic was administered to the patient with a complication rate of less than 10 per cent. Unfortunately, major complications of anticoagulation (usually hemorrhage) are relatively common at a rate of 2 to 15 per cent, and occur more frequently in the older population. It is for reasons of safety of therapy and of an equal or better efficacy that the Greenfield filter is recommended in a broader range of clinical circumstances. In particular, it is concluded that the Greenfield filter should be used as a primary means of therapy in venous thromboembolic disease, particularly in those patients who are more than 65 years of age, when the risks of anticoagulation are most threatening. 
Prolongation of ventricular refractoriness by class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs in the prevention of ventricular tachycardia induction. The effects of class la antiarrhythmic drugs (procainamide, quinidine) on the right ventricular effective refractory period (VERP) and intraventricular conduction time were assessed during serial invasive electrophysiologic studies for sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT). In 47 patients with remote myocardial infarction, sustained VT was inducible by up to two extrastimuli after the basic drive at one of two basic cycle lengths at the right ventricular apex. With oral drug administration, sustained VT was no longer inducible (group I) in 27 patients but remained inducible (group II) in 20 with the same protocol. Class la drugs prolonged the VERP in both groups, but there was greater lengthening when drugs were effective (e.g., +32 +/- 14 msec in group I vs +12 +/- 19 msec in group II; p less than 0.005, basic cycle length 600 to 700 msec). Prolongation of the VERP by greater than 30 msec had an 88% positive predictive value for prevention of sustained VT induction. In all except one patient in group I, drugs prolonged the VERP such that the coupling intervals that had resulted in sustained VT induction under control conditions were no longer attainable. In contrast, conduction time through the ventricle (surface QRS duration) in sinus rhythm and during right ventricular pacing was prolonged similarly regardless of efficacy (e.g., +33 +/- 21 msec vs +27 +/- 27 msec at a cycle length of 400 msec). The presence of similar plasma levels of drug did not imply equivalent prolongation of the VERP in the two groups. These results suggest that greater prolongation of the VERP by oral procainamide or quinidine correlates with drug efficacy against VT induction and is a better predictor of drug effect than achievement of a "therapeutic plasma level.". 
Familial paroxysmal kinesigenic ataxia and continuous myokymia. A large family with paroxysmal ataxia and continuous myokymic discharges is described. The disorder is of autosomal dominant inheritance. During attacks coordination of movements and balance are disturbed; often a postural tremor of the head and the hands and fine twitching in some of the facial and hand muscles are present. The attacks usually last a few minutes and may occur several times per day. They first appear in childhood and tend to abate after early adulthood. The attacks are frequently precipitated by kinesigenic stimuli similar to those in paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis. Their occurrence can be reduced or prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Between attacks a slight postural tremor and ataxia was found in a few of the elderly affected members. Fine rippling myokymia was obvious in a few and could be detected on close inspection in about half of the adults. Electromyography (EMG) showed myokymic discharges in all affected members. The characteristics and reactivity of this myokymic activity suggest multiple impulse generation in the peripheral nerves. 
Placebo controlled trial of xamoterol versus digoxin in chronic atrial fibrillation. Thirteen patients in chronic atrial fibrillation with a normal resting heart rate but with exercise tachycardia and episodes of bradycardia were randomised to treatment periods of two weeks on xamoterol (200 mg twice daily), low dose digoxin, or placebo, in a blind crossover study. The results (mean SEM) of symptom scores, a treadmill exercise test, and 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained. Xamoterol improved symptom scores and controlled exercise heart rate better than digoxin. Xamoterol was better than digoxin or placebo in reducing the heart rate response to exercise and tended to improve exercise duration. Xamoterol, by reducing the daytime maximum hourly heart rate and increasing the night time minimum hourly heart rate, significantly reduced the difference between the two compared with placebo. In contrast, digoxin tended to reduce both the maximum and minimum hourly heart rates through day and night. Both the frequency and duration of ventricular pauses were reduced by xamoterol but tended to increase with digoxin. Xamoterol reduced both the circadian variation in ventricular response to atrial fibrillation and exercise tachycardia by modulating the heart rate according to the prevailing level of sympathetic activity. These changes were translated into symptomatic benefit for the patients studied. 
Embolism during caesarean section. We investigated the occurrence of gas embolism during Caesarean section using a Doppler ultrasound probe and found that it occurs between uterine incision and delivery. Embolism is less common during general anaesthesia than has been reported during regional anaesthesia. Both ruptured membranes and a protracted uterine incision to delivery interval predispose to embolism. 
Nicotine impairs reflex renal nerve and respiratory activity in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats. Smoking exacerbates the increase in arterial pressure in hypertension. The effect of nicotine on the baroreceptor-mediated reflex responses of renal nerve activity (RNA), heart rate, and respiratory activity (minute diaphragmatic activity [MDA]) after bolus injections of phenylephrine was compared in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt sensitive and normotensive rats. Osmotic minipumps that dispensed either nicotine (2.4 mg/kg/day) or saline were implanted in DOCA and normotensive rats for 18 days. Anesthetized DOCA-nicotine, DOCA-saline, control-nicotine, and control-saline rats had mean arterial pressures (MAP) of 117 +/- 3, 110 +/- 9, 90 +/- 3, and 89 +/- 5 mm Hg, respectively. Nicotine decreased the sensitivity (p less than 0.05) of baroreceptor reflex control of RNA (% delta RNA/delta MAP) in the DOCA-nicotine rats (-0.92 +/- 0.08) compared with the DOCA-saline (-1.44 +/- 0.16), control-nicotine (-1.45 +/- 0.08), or control-saline (-1.45 +/- 0.21) rats. The reflex decrease in respiratory activity (% delta MDA/delta MAP x 100) was impaired (p less than 0.01) in both control-nicotine (-24.5 +/- 3.3) and DOCA-nicotine (-18.2 +/- 4.6) rats compared with control-saline (-59.2 +/- 9.1) and DOCA-saline (-52.5 +/- 9.9) rats. The reflex decrease in heart rate (absolute delta HR/delta MAP) in both DOCA-nicotine (1.56 +/- 0.17) and control-nicotine (1.54 +/- 0.24) rats was augmented compared with DOCA-saline and control-saline rats (0.91 +/- 0.12 and 0.97 +/- 0.14). 
Dietary fats and oils in cardiac arrhythmia in rats. The effect of long-term feeding of various dietary fats and oils on cardiac arrhythmia was studied in an animal model of sudden cardiac death. After confirmation that a dietary supplement of saturated animal fat (SF) increased the animals' susceptibility to develop cardiac arrhythmia under ischemic stress whereas the polyunsaturated fatty acids of sunflower seed oil (SSO) reduced this susceptibility, we found that diets supplemented with either chemically refined palm oil (PO-I) or physically refined palm oil (PO-II) gave results that were generally intermediate in value between the SF and the SSO groups. However, during reperfusion of a previously ischemic heart, both PO-I- and PO-II-supplemented diets appeared to be as effective as SSO in reducing ventricular premature beats. In addition, the incidence of animals displaying severe ventricular fibrillation was much less after palm-oil feeding than it was after SF feeding. These preliminary results warrant further investigation of the potential antiarrhythmic effects of commercial palm oil. 
Holter monitoring of ventricular arrhythmias in a randomised, controlled study of intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. The occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias attributed to streptokinase treatment in acute myocardial infarction is not well defined. Holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours in 81 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to intravenous streptokinase 1.5 x 10(6) IU (n = 55) or placebo infusion (n = 26) 6.7 hours (mean) after the onset of symptoms. No episodes of ventricular fibrillation were recorded. For the whole 24 hour period and during the first three hours after the start of treatment the incidence and frequency of ventricular arrhythmias were similar in the patients randomised to streptokinase and to placebo. But when the results in patients randomised "early" after the onset of symptoms of suspected acute myocardial infarction were analysed separately the frequency of abnormal complexes, pairs, runs, and repetitive arrhythmias seemed to be higher in patients allocated to streptokinase. This may reflect arrhythmias associated with reperfusion. 
The effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. The Boston Area Anticoagulation Trial for Atrial Fibrillation Investigators BACKGROUND. Nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke, presumably from atrial thromboemboli. There is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke. METHODS. We conducted an unblinded, randomized, controlled trial of long-term, low-dose warfarin therapy (target prothrombin-time ratio, 1.2 to 1.5) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation. The control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin. RESULTS. A total of 420 patients entered the trial (212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years. Prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time. Only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently. There were 2 strokes in the warfarin group (incidence, 0.41 percent per year) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group (incidence, 2.98 percent per year), for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke (warfarin:control incidence ratio = 0.14; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.04 to 0.49; P = 0.0022). There were 37 deaths altogether. The death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group: 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year, for an incidence ratio of 0.38 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.17 to 0.82; P = 0.005). There was one fatal hemorrhage in each group. The frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups. The warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group (38 vs. 21 patients). CONCLUSIONS. Long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation, and can be quite safe with careful monitoring. 
Humoral factors determining the blood pressure response to converting enzyme inhibition and calcium channel blockade. Renin and catecholamine levels were determined in patients with mild to moderate hypertension before and after treatment with sustained release diltiazem or captopril and were correlated with the blood pressure response to these antihypertensives. Eight weeks of treatment with either agent led to equal decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Pretreatment plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma norepinephrine did not predict the blood pressure response to either agent. Diltiazem significantly increased both PRA and supine norepinephrine levels. However, in the diltiazem treated patients, there was no correlation between the change in plasma norepinephrine and the change in systolic or diastolic blood pressure. In contrast, there was a negative correlation (P less than .05) between the reactive rise in PRA and the decrease in systolic blood pressure. Thus, the antihypertensive response to a calcium channel blocker may be determined, in part, by the reactive response of pressor systems. 
Usefulness of the electrophysiology laboratory for evaluation of proarrhythmic drug response in coronary artery disease. Two potential manifestations of proarrhythmic responses to type IA antiarrhythmic agents in the electrophysiology laboratory were evaluated in 122 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and previous myocardial infarction: (1) conversion of uniform nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) into sustained VT after drug administration, and (2) induction of sustained VT by fewer extrastimuli after drug administration. Forty-two patients were evaluated for nonsustained VT. Eighty patients were evaluated for sustained VT: 30 of these had spontaneous sustained VT only while receiving empiric therapy with quinidine or procainamide, whereas the remaining 50 developed spontaneous VT in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. All patients underwent programmed stimulation in the baseline state and after procainamide. Four patients had conversion of induced uniform nonsustained VT into the same morphology, but sustained VT after procainamide administration. These responses only occurred in patients evaluated for nonsustained VT. Over 90% of patients presenting with sustained VT had uniform sustained VT induced at the baseline study and after procainamide, regardless of whether the spontaneous arrhythmia occurred only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. There was no significant difference in the change in mode of induction from baseline to procainamide study, regardless of whether patients had developed spontaneous VT only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. One patient with no inducible VT at the baseline study had inducible uniform sustained VT after procainamide administration, and 1 patient with inducible VT at baseline developed spontaneous sustained uniform VT after procainamide administration. Both patients had developed spontaneous sustained VT only while receiving therapy with type IA agents. 
Sclerotherapy of varicose and telangiectatic leg veins. Minimal sclerosant concentration of hypertonic saline and its relationship to vessel diameter The author reports the results of a double-blind, paired-comparison study using saline sclerosant plus or minus heparin additive. The study was designed to elucidate the effects of increasing concentrations of hypertonic saline with regard to vessel diameter, clinical efficacy, complications, and discomfort. Six hundred women with bilaterally symmetrical starburst telangiectasias or varicose veins were entered into the study. Sodium chloride 11.7% appeared to be the minimal sclerosant concentration of saline that produced the most effective vein sclerosis of vessels of less than 8 mm in diameter, while producing the least morbidity. The optimal concentration of the sclerosant may vary with the diameter of the vessels under therapeutic consideration. 
Follow-up of patients with low output, low gradient hemodynamics after percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty: the Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry. Symptomatic patients with a low cardiac output and low aortic valve gradient have a poor prognosis but are at high risk for aortic valve surgery. The outcome of percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty in this subgroup of patients is unclear. Therefore, 67 patients (group 1) underwent percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty between December 1, 1986 and November 1, 1987 who had a low cardiac index (less than 2.5 liters/min per m2) and a low aortic valve gradient (less than or equal to 40 mm Hg) before the procedure. The results were compared with 200 patients (group 2) who had a low cardiac index but not a low aortic valve gradient (greater than 40 mm Hg) before the procedure and who had similar baseline presenting symptoms. After balloon aortic valvuloplasty, there was a greater decrease in aortic valve gradient in patients in group 2 than in patients in group 1 (mean +/- SD -33.0 +/- 16.7 mm Hg and -14.6 +/- 6.9 mm Hg, respectively; p less than 0.001) although there was no significant difference in improvement in estimated aortic valve area (0.31 +/- 0.21 and 0.31 +/- 0.22 cm2, respectively; p = NS). In-hospital mortality was 11.9% for patients in group 1 which was not significantly different from the 7.5% mortality for patients in group 2. However, the actuarial probability of survival at 12 months for patients who survived the initial hospitalization was 46% in group 1 and 64% in group 2 (p less than 0.05). Moreover, at follow-up (mean 8.8 months) 64% of surviving group 1 patients displayed clinical improvement, compared with 70% of surviving group 2 patients. 
Long-term minoxidil treatment in refractory hypertension and renal failure. Twenty-two patients with severe or accelerated hypertension refractory to conventional hypotensive therapy have been treated with minoxidil for an extended period. Patients were divided in three groups according to different degrees of renal function or the presence of accelerated hypertension. In the first group (8 patients with normal or slightly decreased renal function) BP fell from 197 +/- 11/118 +/- 3 before minoxidil therapy to 157 +/- 7/98 +/- 2 after six months (p less than 0.001), and remained steady during the following eighteen months. In the second group (9 patients with creatinine clearance of 30 +/- 3 ml/min.1.73 m2) BP decreased from 192 +/- 9/119 +/- 4 to 147 +/- 6/91 +/- 4 at six months (p less than 0.001); renal function did not show any significant modification during the eighteen months of the study. In the third group (5 patients with accelerated hypertension) BP fell from 243 +/- 14/137 +/- 6 to 166 +/- 13/99 +/- 7 at six months (p less than 0.01). Seven patients, four in the first and three in the second group, were followed for more than six years; these patients, with mild renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance 50 +/- 4 ml/min) before minoxidil therapy, were on a protein unrestricted diet for the entire length of the study. In this group of patients BP fell from 182 +/- 9/115 +/- 3 to 150 +/- 6/96 +/- 2 after one year (p less than 0.01) and remained well controlled for the following six years or more. Renal function did not show any significant worsening over the years (monthly decrement in creatinine clearance 0.08 ml/min). 
Reversal of cardiac dysfunction secondary to type 1 primary hyperoxaluria after combined liver-kidney transplantation. A 23-year-old man with type 1 primary hyperoxaluria, renal failure, and oxalosis developed a severe cardiomyopathy while awaiting combined liver-kidney transplantation. This manifested as radiographic cardiomegaly, a dilated hypokinetic left ventricle with a decreased ejection fraction, ventricular arrhythmias, and cardiac uptake on bone scanning. On liver and kidney transplantation, these abnormalities markedly improved and/or reversed. The cardiac size almost normalized, the left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 20% to 34%, the ventricular arrhythmias resolved, and the cardiac uptake on bone scanning disappeared. This coincided with normalization of oxalate production and excretion. Severe cardiac involvement secondary to oxalosis in patients with primary hyperoxaluria may improve or reverse with combined liver-kidney transplantation. 
Genetic data and natural history of Friedreich's disease: a study of 80 Italian patients. The clinical and genetic features of 80 patients with Friedreich's disease from 64 families are described. Diagnostic criteria were: no evidence of dominant inheritance, onset by the age of 20 years, progressive unremitting ataxia of limbs and gait, and absence of knee and ankle jerks. Furthermore, at least one of the following accessory signs was present: dysarthria, extensor plantar response and echocardiographic evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Two peaks of onset age were evident at 6-9 and 12-15 years. Analysis of intra-family variation of onset age and absence of clustering of cardiomyopathy and diabetes did not suggest genetic heterogeneity. Peripheral nerve impairment was an early finding and showed slight further progression, whereas involvement of the cerebellar and corticospinal pathways appeared later and mainly accounted for the progressive worsening of the disease. 
Push-enteroscopy for diagnosis of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. Push-enteroscopy using a disinfected colonoscope was performed on 39 patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. Our results show that: (1) A high percentage of patients (38%) have pathological lesions responsible for bleeding located in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum, which are readily detected by push-enteroscopy. (2) Duodeno-jejunal arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are the most common cause for bleeding, and these lesions can be conveniently cauterized through the endoscope. (3) An efficient sequence of steps for diagnosis of patients with this problem includes push-enteroscopy when the initial EGD and colonoscopy are normal followed by small bowel radiography. Mesenteric angiography and intraoperative enteroscopy can be reserved for patients with severe bleeding when push-enteroscopy and small bowel radiography are negative. We conclude that push-enteroscopy has an important role to play in the early assessment of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin. 
Prevalence of coronary heart disease in Scotland: Scottish Heart Health Study Data from 10,359 men and women aged 40-59 years from 22 districts in the Scottish Heart Health Study were used to describe the prevalence rates of coronary heart disease in Scotland in 1984-1986 and their relation to the geographical variation in mortality in these districts. Prevalence was measured by previous history, Rose chest pain questionnaire, and the Minnesota code of a 12 lead resting electrocardiogram. The prevalence of coronary heart disease in Scotland was high compared with studies from other countries that used the same standardised methods. A history of angina was more common in men (5.5%) than in women (3.9%), though in response to the Rose questionnaire 8.5% of women and 6.3% of men reported chest pain. A history of myocardial infarction was three times more common in men than women, as was a Q/QS pattern on the electrocardiogram. There were significant correlations between the different measures of coronary prevalence. District measures of angina correlated well with mortality from coronary heart disease, and these correlations tended to be stronger in women than in men. There was no significant correlation between mortality from coronary heart disease and measures of myocardial infarction. The study provides data on the prevalence of coronary heart disease in men and women that are valuable for the planning of cardiological services. 
The case against childhood cholesterol screening Because some authorities have proposed blood cholesterol screening for children to prevent coronary heart disease, we reviewed published studies to estimate the potential risks and benefits of such screening. Childhood cholesterol levels are a poor predictor of high cholesterol levels in young adulthood and will be an even poorer predictor of coronary heart disease later in life. There is no evidence that blood cholesterol levels can be lowered more easily in children than in adults, and it seems unlikely that cholesterol reduction in childhood will be much more effective at preventing coronary heart disease than cholesterol reduction begun in middle age. Screening and interventions to lower blood cholesterol levels for millions of children would be expensive, could lead to labeling and family conflicts, and may cause malnutrition and increased noncardiovascular mortality. Because the benefits of cholesterol screening are unlikely to exceed these risks, we conclude that children should not be screened for high blood cholesterol levels. 
A systemic non-lytic state and local thrombolytic failure of anistreplase (anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex, APSAC) in acute myocardial infarction. The relation between coronary thrombolysis and coagulation variables after administration of anistreplase (anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex, APSAC) was studied in patients with an acute myocardial infarction. Fifty eight consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction were given 30 U of anistreplase intravenously within 4 hours of the onset of symptoms. A fall in the plasma concentration fibrinogen to less than 1.0 g/l 90 minutes after administration of anistreplase was considered to reflect a systemic lytic state. Coronary angiography was performed 48 hours after thrombolytic treatment. The overall patency rate was 74% (43/58). Patency rates were significantly different in patients with a systemic lytic (83% (43/52)) and a systemic non-lytic state (0% (0/6)). The absence of a systemic lytic state after anistreplase administration seemed to be highly predictive of the failure of coronary thrombolysis. Coagulation studies showed evidence of inhibition of anistreplase induced fibrinolytic activity which may explain the failure of thrombolytic treatment in patients with evidence of a systemic non-lytic state. 
Ultrastructural changes in rat hearts following cold cardioplegic ischemia of differing duration and differing modes of reperfusion. Morphologic consequences of prolonged global hypothermic (15 degrees C), cardioplegic ischemia and two reperfusion techniques were studied in Langendorff-perfused rat hearts. A 'gentle' reperfusion technique, with gradual rise in perfusate temperature and pressure to physiologic levels over 30 min, was used for 12 hearts following 2-hour or 3 1/2-hour (6 in each group) ischemia. Abrupt reperfusion, with perfusate at 37 degrees C and 70 mmHg, was performed on 13 hearts (6 ischemic for 2 hours and 7 for 3 1/2 hours). Six nonischemic, perfused hearts served as controls. Randomly selected specimens from the left ventricle after 45-60 min reperfusion were prepared for transmission electron microscopy. Volume fractions of myocardial structural components were calculated from stereologic point-counting on the electron micrographs. Two-way analysis of variance revealed that interstitial edema developed with increasing ischemic time and was not influenced by reperfusion technique. The degree of endothelial damage was independent of ischemic time, but was lessened by 'gentle' reperfusion. Both mitochondrial injury and myocyte edema were less when perfusate temperature and pressure were slowly raised after 3 1/2-hour ischemia. 
Lung vascular injury after administration of viable hemolysin-forming Escherichia coli in isolated rabbit lungs. Escherichia coli hemolysin, a transmembrane pore-forming exotoxin, is considered an important virulence factor. In the present study, the possible significance of hemolysin production was investigated in a model of septic lung failure through infusion of viable bacteria in isolated rabbit lungs; 10(4) to 10(7) E. coli/ml perfusate caused a dose- and time-dependent appearance of hemolysin, accompanied by release of potassium, thromboxane A2, and PGI2 into the perfusate. Concomitantly, marked pulmonary hypertension developed. Inhibitor studies suggested that the pressor response was predominantly mediated by pulmonary thromboxane generation. Administration of hemolysin-forming E. coli additionally caused a protracted, dose-dependent increase in the lung capillary filtration coefficient, followed by severe edema formation. The permeability increase was independent of lung prostanoid generation. An E. coli strain that releases an inactive form of hemolysin completely failed to provoke the described biophysical and biochemical responses. Preapplication of 2 x 10(8) human granulocytes was without effect in the present experimental model. We conclude that the hemolysin produced by low numbers of E. coli organisms can provoke thromboxane-mediated pulmonary hypertension and severe vascular leakage. E. coli hemolysin and, possibly, other related cytolysins may thus contribute directly to the pathogenesis of acute respiratory failure under conditions of sepsis or pneumonia. 
Randomized trials in the study of antihypertensive drugs. Heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs can be addressed by randomized trials in individual subjects. In such a trial a patient receives pairs of treatment periods (one period of each pair active drug, one matched placebo, in random order); patient and clinician are blinded to allocation, and treatment targets are monitored. These trials can optimize antihypertensive therapy in clinical practice and facilitate the investigation of new drugs and the study of pathophysiology. Such trials also have potential in helping decide whether common, nonspecific symptoms reported by patients are really drug related. 
Long-term prognosis of myocardial ischemia detected by Holter monitoring in peripheral vascular disease. To assess the long-term prognostic significance of myocardial ischemia, as measured by ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, in patients with occlusive peripheral arterial disease, 176 eligible patients scheduled for elective peripheral arterial surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital were prospectively studied. All patients were monitored preoperatively without alterations to baseline medications. Prospective follow-up was obtained during routine medical care as provided by blinded, independent physicians and by subsequent telephone contact with the patients. Thirty-two patients (18%) had a total of 75 episodes of myocardial ischemia, 73 (97%) of which were asymptomatic. During a mean follow-up period of 615 days, there were 9 cardiac deaths, 1 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery, and 13 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 4 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery. Cardiac events occurred in 12 of 32 patients with ischemia (38%), including 6 cardiac deaths, and in 10 of 144 patients without ischemia (7%), including 3 cardiac deaths (risk ratio 5.4, 95% confidence interval 2.6 to 11.4). The sensitivity of ischemia was 55%, the specificity was 87%, the positive predictive value was 38%, and the negative predictive value was 93%. In a multivariate Cox proportional-hazards model controlling for age, gender, coronary risk factors, history of angina, myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease and antianginal medications, the presence of ischemia was the only independent predictor of outcome. In patients with peripheral arterial disease, who often are unable to perform adequate exercise testing, ambulatory monitoring for myocardial ischemia is a significant independent predictor of 1- to 2-year prognosis. 
An effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection. Between 1972 and 1988, 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol: heparin, dextran 40, dexamethasone, elevation, and early mobilization of the extremity. A tissue ischemia score, derived by assessing the color, capillary refill, sensory function, and temperature of the extremity, was used to assess the ischemic injury. Each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score (range, 0 to 4). Twenty-four (50%) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2. After treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity, and 2 required limited digital amputations. In this group, outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment. Ten of 24 (50%) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity, 3 had a functional deficit, and 11 required digital amputations. Twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection (p less than 0.001, Fisher's exact test). The tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection. The outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection. Institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia. 
Double-blind randomized trial of perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement for femoropopliteal bypass. Patients with rest pain or acute peripheral arterial thrombosis are known to have impaired endogenous fibrinolysis, which is associated with an increased risk of early vascular graft thrombosis. This risk is exacerbated by the fibrinolytic shutdown which is known to occur after major surgery. Stanozolol, which has been demonstrated to enhance endogenous fibrinolysis, was therefore used in an attempt to prevent this perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown and so enhance graft patency. Twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive either 50 mg stanozolol or placebo intramuscularly 24 h before operation, followed by a 6 week course of either 5 mg stanozolol or placebo orally, twice daily. On the second day after operation, 10-11 MBq of autologous 111indium-labelled platelets were injected, with scanning over the graft on the 3 following days. Despite using a large depot of stanozolol, significant effects, such as raised plasminogen (P less than 0.001), reduced fibrinogen (P less than 0.001) and reduced euglobulin lysis time (P less than 0.001), were not seen until the seventh day after operation, with maximum benefit at 6 weeks. This was reflected in the 111indium-labelled platelet deposition studies. The placebo group had a progressive increase in platelet deposition on all 3 days. In contrast, those receiving stanozolol showed a lower, static picture of deposition. However, these changes did not attain statistical significance. Three patients experienced early graft thrombosis, two in the placebo group and one in the stanozolol group. Only an incomplete inhibition of the perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown was achieved. Much longer preoperative courses are thus required to allow the maximum effect to be present at the most crucial time. At present, perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement does not appear to be a practical proposition, and we must await the development of new safer and more potent agents. 
Accelerated transmural gradients of energy compound metabolism resulting from left ventricular hypertrophy. Eighteen dogs underwent transmural left ventricular biopsies for adenosine triphosphate and suturing of the noncoronary cusp, creating valvular aortic stenosis. Three months after aortic stenosis and the subsequent development of left ventricular hypertrophy, animals underwent repeat transmural left ventricular biopsies followed by total myocardial ischemia at 37 degrees C. Left ventricular tissue samples for adenosine triphosphate and lactate levels were determined at 15-minute intervals and compared with 15 control animals. No significant difference between subendocardial and subepicardial adenosine triphosphate levels was found between left ventricular samples taken before left ventricular hypertrophy and 3 months after left ventricular hypertrophy. Significant differences in adenosine triphosphate utilization occurred between subendocardial and subepicardial layers in control and left ventricular hypertrophy myocardium, however. The gradient between the subendocardium and the subepicardium was significantly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy (p less than 0.05). Significant differences also occurred within the same layer when left ventricular hypertrophy and control groups were compared. During total ischemia, lactate concentration was significantly greater within the subendocardium than within the subepicardium in left ventricular hypertrophy. The onset of ischemic contracture was 48.2 +/- 2.1 minutes in left ventricular hypertrophy versus 62.3 +/- 1.8 minutes in control hearts (p less than 0.01). Subendocardial intramyocardial pressure increased significantly earlier than subepicardial in both left ventricular hypertrophy and control hearts. Adenosine triphosphate was used, and lactate accumulated more rapidly in animals with a more pronounced hemodynamic gradient. These data show that after left ventricular hypertrophy, adenosine triphosphate stores in the subendocardium and the subepicardium are unchanged from control values, yet the rates of adenosine triphosphate utilization and lactate accumulation during total ischemia are significantly increased. Furthermore, the subendocardial to subepicardial gradient of adenosine triphosphate utilization during ischemia found in normal hearts is markedly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Chest pain in teenagers. When is it significant? Chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause. Onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain. The differential diagnosis also includes cardiac, musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and respiratory disorders. Routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient's unspoken fear of serious illness. Most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness, and symptoms usually resolve without therapy. An important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up. 
Coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after Fontan operations. Severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone Fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation. The patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism. 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients. The commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein C, a known risk factor. Concentrations of antithrombin III and factors II and X were significantly lower in protein-C-deficient patients than in those with normal protein C concentrations. These findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors. 
Primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates. Primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta was attempted in 10 consecutive neonates (age range 2-23 days). The coarctation site was crossed and the balloon inflated in all but one patient. In two patients with associated severe isthmal hypoplasia there was no change in the gradient after dilatation. In the remainder, the residual gradients were trivial and angiography showed complete relief of coarctation. Severe recoarctation developed 5-12 weeks after dilatation in five patients, each considered to have had an excellent initial result. The coarctation was rapidly progressive in three patients in whom Doppler studies within two weeks of the development of recoarctation had shown no significant gradient. In the other two patients progressive restenosis was charted by Doppler examinations over the course of 6-8 weeks. Three patients had a second, initially successful, dilatation procedure. One patient remained well with no residual gradient 18 weeks later. Stenosis recurred within eight weeks in the other two, and both have undergone successful surgical repair. Balloon dilatation of a native coarctation of the aorta gave excellent immediate results in most neonates. Severe isthmal hypoplasia is, however, a contraindication to balloon dilatation and early restenosis is an important problem. These results do not support the continued use of primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates. 
Characterization of auscultatory gaps with wideband external pulse recording. Three types of auscultatory gaps, called G1, G2, and G3, that occur during blood pressure measurement have been identified by using wideband external pulse recording. We have previously shown that the wideband external pulse recorded during cuff deflation can be separated into three components (K1, K2, and K3), one of which (K2) is closely related to the Korotkoff sound. G1 occurs with cuff pressure just below systolic and is characterized by the presence of K1 and K2 with intermittent disappearance of K2. G1 gaps are related to a phasic decrease of arterial (systolic) pressure and were exhibited by 13 of 60 hypertensive patients. G2 gaps are related to a phasic increase of arterial (diastolic) pressure, occur when cuff pressure is just above diastolic, and are characterized by the presence of K1, K2, and K3 with intermittent disappearance of K2. Seven of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a G2 gap. G3 gaps occur with cuff pressure between systolic and diastolic and are characterized by an underdeveloped or blunted K2 signal. Three of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a G3 gap. The identification of auscultatory gaps in relation to the wideband external pulse provides a qualitative measure of their existence, can be of significant value in better understanding aspects of the auscultatory blood pressure measurement technique, and provides an objective basis with which to better understand the mechanisms that cause them. 
Clinical evaluation of high-frequency (ultrasonic) mechanical debridement in the surgical treatment of calcific aortic stenosis. Repair of aortic valve stenosis due to calcific degeneration may lead to hemodynamic and clinical improvement without the problems inherent with prosthetic valves. We have evaluated the use of a device capable of debriding calcium, the Cavitron ultrasonic aspirator (CUSA), as an adjunct to mechanical debridement in the repair of calcific aortic stenosis. Ten patients (five women), ages 63 to 83 years, were studied by M-mode, two-dimensional, and Doppler echocardiography before and an average of 26 (range 3 to 124) days after this procedure. The degree of calcification of the valve cusps was clearly reduced. The maximal cusp excursion increased from 0.7 +/- 0.1 cm preoperatively to 1.5 +/- 0.4 cm postoperatively (p = 0.006). The peak aortic gradient fell from 80 +/- 36 mm Hg to 28 +/- 10 mm Hg (p = 0.0007). The mean aortic gradient fell from 53 +/- 20 mm Hg to 16 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.0001). Aortic valve area calculated by the continuity equation increased from 0.6 + 0.2 cm2 to 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 (p = 0.0009). No patient had more than mild aortic insufficiency preoperatively. Postoperatively, color Doppler flow mapping revealed severe aortic insufficiency in two patients. Seven patients had further echocardiographic evaluation 99 (range 33 to 196) days after the procedure. These studies revealed the development of severe aortic insufficiency in an additional four patients. Four patients with severe symptomatic aortic insufficiency eventually underwent aortic valve replacement. Pathology revealed scarring and retraction of the aortic cusps. Widening of the commissures was responsible for the severe aortic insufficiency. 
Transoesophageal echocardiography improves the diagnostic value of cardiac ultrasound in patients with carcinoid heart disease. Transthoracic and transoesophageal cardiac echocardiography and Doppler investigations were performed in 31 consecutive patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumours. The transoesophageal images allowed measurement of the thickness of the atrioventricular valve leaflets and the superficial wall layers on the cavity side of both atria. The mean thickness of the anterior tricuspid leaflet was significantly greater than that of the mitral valve--a difference not seen in a control group of age-matched patients without carcinoid tumours and with normal cardiac ultrasound findings. In addition, the edges of the tricuspid leaflets were thickened giving them a clubbed appearance. Tricuspid incompetence was detected transoesophageally in 71% of the patients with carcinoid compared with 57% by transthoracic investigation. The inner layer of the right atrial wall in the carcinoid patients was significantly thicker than that of the left atrium and that of both atria in the controls. Furthermore, patients with other signs of severe carcinoid heart disease had significantly thicker mean right atrial luminal wall layer than those with less or no signs of right heart disease. Transoesophageal cardiac ultrasound investigation improved the diagnostic accuracy and seemed to show the structural changes typical of carcinoid heart disease established by histopathological investigations. 
Torsade de pointes: a critical care nurse's dilemma. Torsade de pointes is a polymorphous ventricular tachycardia characterized by a gradual change in the direction of the QRS complex. Because critical care nurses are the first to recognize arrhythmias, they require the knowledge and skill to intervene appropriately. This case report focuses on identification of the characteristics, contributing factors, therapeutic modalities, and relevant nursing diagnoses for the patient with torsade de pointes. 
The role of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of essential hypertension. Calcium channel blockers, originally developed for the treatment of angina and supraventricular arrhythmias, have been shown to lower elevated blood pressure effectively in hypertensive patients. Verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem represent prototype compounds for unique chemical classes with differing pharmacologic properties. These drugs lower elevated blood pressure with efficacy comparable with other commonly used antihypertensives. Combination therapy with other agents usually results in an additive response. Side effects are usually mild and reversible and usually are an extension of the drug's pharmacologic effects. Moreover, adverse metabolic effects on lipid, glucose, or potassium levels are not common. Because of the excellent antihypertensive effects of calcium channel blockers and their potential importance in a variety of other disease states, these agents should be routinely considered for use as a first-line antihypertensive agent in appropriately selected patients with hypertension of any severity as part of a comprehensive plan to minimize cardiovascular risk. 
Isolation of preferentially expressed genes in the kidneys of hypertensive rats. By differential hybridization, three complementary DNAs designated as S3, S2, and SA were isolated, and the corresponding messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were differentially expressed between the kidneys of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. S3 is identical to cytochrome P450 IV A2. SA encoded a protein of 546 amino acid residues, and its carboxyl terminal region had a slight homology to luciferase. No homologous sequence has been reported in S2 sequences. S3 mRNA was about four times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of 28-day-old SHR than in those of age-matched WKY rats, but there was no difference at age 16 weeks. A low NaCl diet positively modulated the expression of the S3 gene. S2 mRNA was almost undetectable in the kidneys of 28-day-old WKY rats but was clearly detected in those of age-matched SHR. The expression level of S2 mRNA in the livers of 16-week-old SHR was about five times higher than that of age-matched WKY rats. The expression of S2 mRNA in the livers was modulated by dietary NaCl and captopril. SA mRNA was more than 10 times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of SHR than in those of WKY rats from age 4 weeks. With the administration of captopril, the expressions of SA mRNA in the livers of SHR were positively modulated. Because these three genes are not only differentially expressed between SHR and WKY rats but also related to sodium metabolism or blood pressure control, the identification of these genes may provide important probes to examine the mechanisms of hypertension. 
Coronary collateral circulation in coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension. The extent and functional capacity of coronary collateral circulation in patients with systemic hypertension has not been elucidated. In the present study, 313 patients with coronary artery disease were studied to evaluate coronary collateral circulation in relation to the presence of systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Patients had greater than or equal to 95% diameter luminal obstruction of either the left anterior descending or the right coronary artery. Patients were classified into 2 groups: The hypertensive group consisted of 61 patients, mean age 55 +/- 9 years, with systemic hypertension, and the normotensive group consisted of 252 patients, mean age 53 +/- 8 years, without hypertension. The hypertensive group had more severe angina pectoris and less history of healed myocardial infarction than the normotensive group (p less than 0.001). Left ventricular wall thickness was 1.26 +/- 0.1 cm in the hypertensive and 1.03 +/- 0.06 cm in the normotensive group (p less than 0.001). The hypertensive group had more extensive coronary collateral circulation than the normotensive group (p less than 0.01). There was a positive relation between coronary collateral circulation and left ventricular wall thickness (p less than 0.001). These results indicate that patients with systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease have an increase in coronary collateral circulation corresponding to the degree of left ventricular wall thickness. 
Results and complications of angioplasty in aortoiliac disease Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was used to treat 340 aortoiliac lesions in 200 patients who were followed for as long as 90 months (mean, 28.7 months; median, 23 months). The initial success rate was 94.7% for lesions and 93.0% for patients. The indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty included claudication in 117 patients (58.5%), rest pain or ischemic night pain in 47 (23.5%), limb salvage in 33 (16.5%), and aiding in wound healing in three (1.5%). In the series, 70% of the patients had two or more cardiovascular risk factors. Angioplasty was initially unsuccessful in 14 patients, and 10 patients were lost to follow-up. Follow-up was obtained in 176 patients. The long-term results were analyzed using the life table method to determine cumulative patency. Fourteen patients were considered failures because of recurrent disease or symptoms. The projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 85%. When the response to redilatation was considered, the projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 92%. The results indicate that percutaneous transluminal angioplasty can successfully correct aortoiliac lesions and provide a long-term benefit for as long as 7.5 years. 
Evidence for tumor necrosis factor-induced pulmonary microvascular injury after intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. Acute lung injury characterized by increased microvascular permeability is one feature of multiple-organ system failure and the adult respiratory distress syndrome. Intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury has been linked to this type of acute lung injury. The purpose of these experiments was to examine the pathogenic mediators that link the two processes, with particular emphasis on the roles of endotoxin and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha). Previously described characteristics of the acute lung injury in this rat model of intestinal ischemia-reperfusion include pulmonary neutrophil sequestration, depletion of lung tissue ATP, alveolar endothelial cell disruption, and increased microvascular permeability. Plasma levels of TNF in the systemic circulation of sham-operated animals and those with intestinal ischemic injury less than 60 minutes in duration were very low or undetectable. Intestinal ischemia for 120 minutes was associated with TNF elevation to 1.19 +/- 0.50 U/mL. Reperfusion for periods of 15 and 30 minutes generated 5- to 10-fold increases in circulating TNF levels (6.61 +/- 3.11 U/mL, p greater than 0.05 and 10.41 +/- 5.41 U/mL, p = 0.004 compared to sham); however this increase in circulating TNF was transient and largely cleared within 60 minutes after initiating reperfusion. Portal vein endotoxin levels were found to increase significantly before the appearance of TNF in systemic plasma, suggesting that gut-derived endotoxin may induce TNF release from hepatic macrophages into the systemic circulation. Anti-TNF antibody attenuated the increase in pulmonary microvascular permeability in this preparation but did not prevent pulmonary neutrophil sequestration. These observations suggest that endotoxin and TNF have pathogenic roles in this acute lung injury, but that mechanisms of adherence of neutrophils to endothelial cells independent of TNF may be involved. The accumulation of neutrophils in the lung but the prevention of a vascular permeability increase in the presence of antibody to TNF may imply an in vivo role for TNF in the process of neutrophil activation. These studies provide additional evidence of the importance of the endogenous inflammatory mediators in the development of systemic injury in response to local tissue injury. 
Which drug prevents tachycardia and hypertension associated with tracheal intubation: lidocaine, fentanyl, or esmolol? Eighty patients, ASA physical status II-IV, scheduled for noncardiac surgery, were randomly assigned in a double-blind, placebo-controlled manner to receive a preintubation dose of either placebo, 200 mg lidocaine, 200 micrograms fentanyl, or 150 mg esmolol. Induction of anesthesia was accomplished with 4-6 mg/kg thiopental IV followed immediately by the study drug; 1-1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine was given at minute 1. Laryngoscopy and intubation were performed at minute 2 with anesthesia thereafter maintained with 1 MAC (+/- 10%) isoflurane in 60% nitrous oxide in oxygen at a 5 L/min flow for 10 min. Heart rate was recorded every 15 s and blood pressure every minute from induction until 10 min after intubation. Maximum percent increases in heart rate (mean +/- SE) during and after intubation were similar in the placebo (44% +/- 6%), lidocaine (51% +/- 10%), and fentanyl (37% +/- 5%) groups, but lower in the esmolol (18% +/- 5%) group (P less than 0.05). Maximum systolic blood pressure percent increases were lower in the lidocaine (20% +/- 6%), fentanyl (12% +/- 3%), and esmolol (19% +/- 4%) groups than in the placebo (36% +/- 5%) group (P less than 0.05), but not different from each other (P greater than 0.05). Only esmolol provided consistent and reliable protection against increases in both heart rate and systolic blood pressure accompanying laryngoscopy and intubation. 
Thromboembolism. A complication of weekly chemotherapy in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In a retrospective survey of 85 patients who received chemotherapy as treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, the authors found that clinically apparent thromboembolic disorders occurred in four of 11 patients receiving weekly chemotherapy, and in none of 74 patients who were treated on less intensive schedules, suggesting that intensive weekly chemotherapy is thrombogenic. The possible mechanisms of this effect are discussed. 
Felodipine in the treatment of hypertensive type II diabetics: effect on glucose homeostasis. The effect of felodipine on glucose tolerance was evaluated in 18 male type II diabetic patients treated with diet alone, who were hypertensive despite beta-blocker treatment. The study was a double-bind cross-over comparison of placebo and felodipine in addition to beta-blockade. Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed at randomization and at the end of each 4-week double-blind treatment period. The doses of felodipine given were 5 mg b.i.d. for 2 weeks followed by 10 mg b.i.d. for a further 2 weeks. Blood pressure was significantly reduced during felodipine treatment, whereas heart rate remained unaltered. HbA1c and fasting insulin levels did not change during the treatment periods. Fasting and maximal blood glucose levels were not altered between any of the treatment periods. However, there was a small but statistically significant increase (median increase 4%) in the area under the glucose concentration vs. time curve after felodipine as compared to placebo treatment. This increase was not considered to be clinically significant in the short term, but the finding merits further investigation in a rigorous long-term study. 
Response of spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials to aortic ligation. To produce spinal cord ischemia in the lamb, ligation of the thoracic aorta was performed for 15, 30, and 45 minutes in three animals each. Spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials were measured before, during, and after aortic ligation. Ischemia with a blood flow of zero during ligation was encountered in the thoracic and lumbar cords, followed by hyperemia upon release of the ligature. Both somatosensory and motor evoked potentials were obliterated during aortic ligation and gradually recovered following resumption of flow. Motor and sensory evoked potentials behaved similarly to high aortic ligation. 
Vascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation. Over a 57-month period, we performed 430 orthotopic liver transplants in 372 patients. A total of 38 vascular complications were identified including hepatic artery thrombosis (n = 24), portal vein thrombosis (n = 6), combined hepatic artery thrombosis/portal vein thrombosis (n = 3), and hepatic artery rupture (n = 5). A number of potential risk factors for the development of vascular thrombosis were evaluated with only children, weight less than 10 kg, and cold ischemia time found to be significant. The clinical presentation included fulminant hepatic failure, allograft dysfunction, biliary sepsis, and screening ultrasound. Duplex ultrasonography was diagnostic in nearly all cases. Therapeutic modalities included revascularization, revascularization followed by retransplantation, retransplantation alone, and observation. Five cases of hepatic artery rupture occurred in four patients. Infectious arteritis was present in four patients. The 6-month actuarial survival in patients with vascular complications was 70%. Early diagnosis is critical for graft salvage, with surgical intervention the mainstay of therapy. 
Pancreatic transplantation: radiologic evaluation of vascular complications. Transplantation of the pancreas is an increasingly common therapeutic option for preventing or delaying complications of type I diabetes mellitus. The authors studied the relative roles of various radiologic examinations in diagnosing vascular complications in these grafts including arterial and venous thrombosis, stenosis, and anastomotic leak (the most common vascular factors that necessitate pancreatectomy of the transplant), as defined with pathologic or arteriographic data. The results of 78 scintigraphic flow studies, 40 abdominal and pelvic computed tomographic (CT) scans, 27 sonograms, and eight color Doppler studies were evaluated in 52 patients who received a total of 27 cadaveric and 26 living-donor grafts over a 12-year period. These results were correlated with the data from 45 gross and microscopic pathologic studies and 37 arteriograms to determine their relative value in enabling detection of graft thrombosis and other vascular complications. Scintigraphy, CT, sonography, and color Doppler were all sensitive in detection of generalized graft abnormalities but lacked specificity in defining the underlying etiologic factors. 
Alcohol consumption and blood pressure: a comparison of native Japanese to American men. We compared the cross-sectional association of alcohol consumption with blood pressure in 810 Japanese men (JM) living in Tokyo and 946 white men (WM) living in New York. Mean systolic (JM and WM, p less than 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (JM, p less than 0.002; WM, p less than 0.001) were associated with alcohol consumption in both groups. Compared to abstainers, the heaviest drinkers had the highest systolic (JM, p = 0.001; WM, p less than 0.01) and diastolic (JM, p less than 0.002; WM, p less than 0.05) blood pressures. The relation of blood pressure to alcohol intake was J-shaped in the Americans, but linear in the Japanese. Exploratory analyses revealed that the J-shape may have been due to under-reporting of heavy alcohol ingestion by American abstainers. When abstainers were excluded, the relationships were similar in both the American and Japanese. The positive association between blood pressure and alcohol consumption persisted after adjustment for age, cigarette smoking, use of antihypertensive medications, body mass index, heart rate, abdominal skinfold thickness, hematocrit, fasting blood glucose, serum uric acid levels and urinary sodium/potassium ratio. Alcohol use was also related to prevalence of hypertension. These findings confirm the presence of an independent association between alcohol intake and blood pressure in both JM and WM and suggest that, despite differences in the metabolism of alcohol, the relation of alcohol consumption to blood pressure is similar in both nationalities. 
The mechanism of heart failure caused by cardiac allograft rejection. Rejection of the cardiac allograft is often associated with reversible myocardial failure, the mechanism of which is not understood. We have examined this phenomenon in a small animal model that provides the opportunity for multimodality study of the rejection process. Heterotopic cardiac transplantation was performed in the Lewis rat with Lewis X Brown-Norway (allografts) or Lewis (isografts) donors. Without immunosuppression, allografts are completely rejected in 6 to 8 days. At 3 days cardiac grafts were explanted and mounted on a modified Langendorff apparatus for functional measurements or submitted for pathologic examination and biochemical determination of high-energy phosphates. Three-day isografts (n = 9) had minimal histologic changes. Pathologic examination of 3-day allografts (n = 13) showed lymphocytic infiltrate and myocyte necrosis, histologic features for which antirejection treatment is usually given clinically. For grafts subjected to functional studies (n = 11), heart rate, cardiac output, coronary flow, and stroke work were determined at baseline and in response to isoproterenol (3 x 10(-8) mol/ml). Three-day allografts (n = 6) and isografts (n = 5) had similar baseline function. The chronotropic response to isoproterenol was similar in allografts and isografts, but allografts had diminished cardiac output and stroke work after isoproterenol. Adenosine triphosphate levels were normal (41.9 nmol/mg) in 3-day allografts (n = 4). We have evaluated functional, biochemical, and pathologic changes associated with myocardial dysfunction during heterotopic cardiac transplant rejection in a small animal. This model reproducibly demonstrates diminished contractile reserve in 3-day allografts with normal baseline function and high-energy stores but histologically significant rejection. 
Influence of Doppler sample volume location on the assessment of changes in mitral inflow velocity profiles. Previous studies that have validated Doppler indexes of mitral inflow have used pulsed wave sample volume locations either at the level of the mitral valve anulus or at the tips of the mitral valve leaflets. Although significant differences between absolute values for peak velocities and velocity time integrals at these sample volume locations have previously been reported, no information exists that has compared changes in inflow profiles after an intervention to improve left ventricular filling. To address this question, 13 patients with severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure, 50 +/- 13 mm Hg) caused by chronic thromboembolic disease were studied with use of Doppler echocardiography immediately before and after surgical reduction of pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 916 +/- 413 to 233 +/- 89 dynes.sec.cm5). This clinical model has been shown to have abnormal mitral inflow velocity profiles that improve markedly after surgery. Doppler measures of early and late peak velocities were significantly lower both before and after surgery when sampling at the mitral anulus compared with the leaflet tips, although late filling parameters and the deceleration of early flow velocity tended to differ little. With surgery, the significant increase in peak early velocity and the ratio of early to late velocity was present regardless of the sample volume location (peak E at leaflet tips, 47.1 +/- 16.0 to 68.9 +/- 15.4 [p less than 0.001], and at anulus, 40.7 +/- 11.3 to 56.2 +/- 14.6 cm/sec [p less than 0.001]; peak E/A at leaflet tips, 0.95 +/- 0.4 to 1.55 +/- 0.9, and at anulus, 0.78 +/- 0.3 to 1.32 +/- 0.7 [both p less than 0.02]). 
Regurgitant jet size by transesophageal compared with transthoracic Doppler color flow imaging. Combined echocardiography and Doppler color flow mapping from transthoracic imaging windows has become the standard method for the noninvasive assessment of valvular regurgitation. This study compared regurgitant jet areas by Doppler color flow imaging derived from the newer transesophageal approach with measurements obtained from conventional transthoracic apical views. Maximal regurgitant jet area determinations and an overall visual estimate of lesion severity were obtained from 42 patients who underwent color flow examination by both techniques. Seventy-three regurgitant lesions were visualized by transesophageal flow imaging: 34 mitral, 22 aortic, and 17 tricuspid jets. Transthoracic studies in the same patients revealed fewer regurgitant lesions for each valve; 20 mitral, 16 aortic, and 12 tricuspid (p = 0.0009). A comparison of maximal jet areas determined by transesophageal and transthoracic studies showed a good overall correlation (r = 0.85, SEE = 2.8 cm2) and a systematic overestimation by the transesophageal technique (TEE = 0.96 TTX + 2.7). For the subgroup with mitral insufficiency, valve lesions visualized by both techniques were larger by the transesophageal approach (n = 18, 6.0 versus 3.6 cm2, p = 0.008). Semiquantitative visual grading of individual valve lesions by two independent observers revealed a higher grade of regurgitation with more jets classified as mild (38 versus 25), moderate (18 versus 13), and severe (17 versus 10) by esophageal imaging than by transthoracic imaging. Thus, transesophageal color flow mapping techniques yield a higher prevalence of valvular regurgitation than do transthoracic techniques in the same patients. Jet area and the overall estimate of regurgitant lesion severity were also greater by transesophageal color Doppler imaging compared with standard transthoracic imaging. 
Oral contraceptive therapy and the surgical management of ENT patients: a review of current clinical practice. The current policy of British Otolaryngologists with regard to the preoperative cessation of the oral contraceptive pill is reported. This is based on a confidential questionnaire sent to all members of the British Association of Otolaryngologists. The overall response rate was 66%, 91% of which were from practising otolaryngologists and forms the basis of this report, the remaining 9% being from respondents not engaged in active surgery. Although there is evidence to show an increased risk of developing thromboembolic complications after major abdominal, gynaecological and hip surgery in those patients taking the oestrogen-containing contraceptive pill, the risk following minor and intermediate surgery (which forms the bulk of the otolaryngologist's workload) is not known. Not surprisingly therefore the results of the survey show a varied policy across the country with 36.5% of respondents choosing to continue the pill and 25% always stopping the pill preoperatively. The remainder elect to stop the pill only in certain circumstances. 
Renal vascular disease in African-Americans and other racial minorities. Hypertensive end-stage renal disease is about 10-fold more common nationwide in African-Americans than in Caucasians and 17-fold higher in some sections of the United States. These figures are alarming and require a much greater effort in understanding the causes of this disparity and improving blood pressure control in this population to prevent catastrophic renal damage. More information is also needed about the renovascular status of other minorities. Financial obstacles to antihypertensive care appear to be an important contributing factor to the disparities of end-stage renal disease in African-Americans and perhaps other minorities. 
Revascularization of an ischemic limb by use of a muscle pedicle flap: a rabbit model. A rabbit model of hind limb ischemia was designed to demonstrate that new, hemodynamically significant arterial connections will develop between ischemic skeletal muscle and an independently perfused muscle pedicle flap. The right common iliac artery was divided in 15 rabbits. In eight rabbits a muscle flap based on the left deep inferior epigastric artery was transposed to the right thigh (flap group). In seven rabbits a sham operation was performed where the flap was sutured to the abdominal wall (sham group). After 7 days angiography demonstrated arterial connections between the flap and the native limb circulation in all of the flap group animals. The flap increased muscle perfusion in the ischemic limb (2.99 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the flap group, vs 2.06 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the sham group, p less than 0.005). Hemodynamically significant vascular connections will develop between a well-perfused muscle flap and an ischemic limb. The augmentation in perfusion provided by these connections can be quantified. 
A novel mechanical cardiac assist device for reversing left ventricular failure. Diastolic augmentation of aortic pressure is an efficacious means of improving coronary perfusion in heart failure. A novel mechanical cardiac assist device (MCAD), that has advantages over a conventional intraaortic balloon pump and left ventricular assist devices, has been developed. It consists of a high efficiency rotary solenoid, coupled to a pair of actuator plates that clamp on a shunt aortic graft section, and operates in a diastolic counterpulsation mode. The system has been evaluated in six anesthetized, thoracotomized dogs with myocardial ischemia. The MCAD was activated 30-40 min after coronary artery occlusion and synchronized with the R-wave. As illustrated by a representative sample of the data obtained from one of several trials, the preliminary experimental results demonstrated that the MCAD worked effectively to fulfill the primary functions of a counterpulsation assist device, i.e., augmentation of coronary perfusion and reduction in the vascular impedance to ventricular ejection. 
Cardiovascular risk factor clustering and ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in angiographically documented coronary artery disease. High levels of cardiac risk factors tend to cluster together and act synergistically. To develop a suitable and practical marker for clustering, we evaluated 380 consecutive patients at the time of coronary angiography. Analyses of lipid, rheologic, clinical and arteriographic profiles indicated a variety of interwoven relations. Because the ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (total/HDL cholesterol) was closely related to both the presence and extent of greater than or equal to 50% diameter reduction of greater than or equal to 1 coronary arteries, it was used to divide patients into quartiles. Clustering of high- and low-level risk factors was demonstrated in the highest and lowest quartiles of total/HDL cholesterol, respectively (p less than 0.001). The highest quartile may be characterized by an only moderately elevated total cholesterol level but patients in this quartile may have a very low HDL cholesterol level, high triglycerides, a tendency toward high hemoglobin and fibrinogen levels, a history of smoking, previous myocardial infarction and multivessel disease. These results suggest that total/HDL cholesterol serves as a marker not only for obstructive coronary disease but also for a cluster of potentially modifiable risk factors. 
Hemodynamic basis of stasis ulceration--a hypothesis. Approximately 25% of patients with stasis ulceration have normal or below normal ambulatory venous pressures. A reflux index was calculated by multiplying postexercise pressures by Valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. In patients with stasis ulceration, reflux index was found to have an excellent negative predictive value with a clear discriminant line between normal limbs and those with ulcers. Increasing incidence of stasis ulceration was demonstrated with increasing reflux index value. Even when ambulatory venous pressure was within the normal range, the index was found to be abnormal in ulcerated limbs because Valsalva-induced foot venous pressure was elevated in these limbs. Conversely, some patients with stasis ulceration and normal Valsalva foot venous pressure elevation were found to have abnormal ambulatory venous pressure values, yielding an elevated reflux index. Preliminary analysis indicates that reflux index may be a better predictor of surgical outcome after valve reconstruction procedures than either ambulatory venous pressure or Valsalva-induced foot venous pressure elevation. The concept of reflux index is a hypothesis that attempts to explain inconsistencies observed in implicating ambulatory venous hypertension as the sole determinant of venous reflux. 
Automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation without thoracotomy using an endocardial and submuscular patch system. The automatic cardioverter-defibrillator lead system is implanted by a thoracotomy procedure that may result in atelectasis, pleural effusion, cardiac tamponade and lengthy convalescence. A new defibrillator lead system that allows selection of different defibrillating current pathways is implanted without a thoracotomy. Ten patients requiring a cardioverter-defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (five patients) or aborted sudden cardiac death (five patients) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system. A lead configuration with a bidirectional defibrillating current pathway was implanted in nine patients. The defibrillation threshold with this lead configuration was 15 J in five patients, 20 J in three and 30 to 35 J in one patient. In the remaining patient the lead system had a 40 J defibrillation threshold and was not implanted. No perioperative complications occurred. Induced ventricular fibrillation was successfully terminated at the predischarge and intermediate follow-up (8 to 12 weeks) electrophysiologic studies. During the follow-up period, there were three deaths (one sudden, two due to heart failure) and two lead system failures (oversensing with inappropriate shocks in one patient and patch lead fracture in another). Implantation of the cardioverter-defibrillator lead system by a nonthoracotomy approach is feasible, has no significant perioperative complications and is well tolerated by patients. Effective defibrillation was demonstrated immediately as well as at intermediate follow-up study. The occurrence of patch lead fracture and oversensing requires improvement in the present (nonthoracotomy) lead system technology. 
Radiation-associated valvular disease. The prevalence of radiation-associated cardiac disease is increasing due to prolonged survival following mediastinal irradiation. Side effects of radiation include pericarditis, accelerated coronary artery disease, myocardial fibrosis and valvular injury. We evaluated the cases of three young patients with evidence of significant valvular disease following mediastinal irradiation. One patient underwent the first reported successful aortic and mitral valve replacement for radiation-associated valvular disease (RAVD) as well as concurrent coronary artery revascularization. A review of the literature revealed 35 reported cases of RAVD, with only one successful case of valve replacement that was limited to the aortic valve. Asymptomatic RAVD is diagnosed 11.5 years after mediastinal irradiation compared with 16.5 years for symptomatic patients, emphasizing that long-term follow-up is important for patients receiving mediastinal irradiation. This study defines a continuum of valvular disease following radiation that begins with mild asymptomatic valvular thickening and progresses to severe valvular fibrosis with hemodynamic compromise requiring surgical intervention. 
Evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism. Recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism. Experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models. We have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer. Briefly, the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts (RAT-1 cells) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone. Fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic Fisher rats. Human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone (1-84), which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone. These rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week. Levels increase progressively, often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection. Serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl. In this study, 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection. Examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption. Examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts. There was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems, but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes, primarily in subepicardial region. This model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia. 
Post-transplant hypertension. Post-transplant hypertension remains an important risk factor for cardiovascular mortality and graft function. There are multiple mechanisms responsible for post-transplant hypertension. The details of these mechanisms are poorly understood. Steroids, acute and chronic rejection, recurrent renal disease, native kidney disease, and renal artery stenosis have all been implicated in causing post-transplant hypertension. With the addition of cyclosporine, a known hypertensive agent, to the immunosuppressive armamentarium, the evaluation of post-transplantation hypertension has become difficult. Presently, medical therapy is initially directed toward the complications of cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Empirically, converting enzyme inhibitors are added to the antihypertensive regimen. Further management is aimed at identification of specific causes of post-transplant hypertension. Unfortunately, because of the multifactorial etiology of post-transplant hypertension and a lack of detailed information about the mechanisms, medical and surgical therapy are often unrewarding. Further study is needed to clarify the mechanisms involved in post-transplant hypertension, and thus direct therapy. 
Traumatic rupture of aorta. Diagnosis by Doppler echocardiography. Traumatic rupture of aorta is a serious complication in accidents, mainly road accidents, with a high mortality unless an immediate diagnosis and surgical correction is made. A case of traumatic rupture of the aorta shown in the acute phase by Doppler-echocardiography is reported. This technique can be of great value in the study of patients with thoracic trauma who do not show clear signs of aortic rupture which require urgent aortography. 
Nisoldipine--effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and catecholamines. Studies in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. We have studied the effects of nisoldipine, a new calcium channel antagonist, on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and on plasma catecholamines in 10 healthy volunteers and in 29 patients with primary essential hypertension. Of these 29 patients, thirteen had normal renin hypertension (NRH), and sixteen had low renin hypertension (LRH). Eight healthy volunteers received placebo. Short-term (24 h) effects were measured in all subjects and long-term (up to 6 months) effects of 10-40 mg nisoldipine daily were monitored in the 29 hypertensive patients. Plasma renin activity (PRA) increased slightly, although this rise was not statistically significant, 1 h after the first dose of nisoldipine in both normotensive subjects and hypertensive patients. After 2 h PRA had returned to the pre-treatment level. No change in PRA was observed after administration of placebo. Plasma angiotensin II (AII) levels showed considerable variation after nisoldipine administration. Plasma aldosterone levels decreased despite the increase in PRA and AII concentrations. However, no concomitant reduction in urinary aldosterone excretion was observed. Plasma noradrenaline levels increased slightly 2-4 h after administration of nisoldipine, and decreased again thereafter, but no changes in plasma adrenaline levels were seen. Nisoldipine had no long-term effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system or on serum catecholamine levels. 
Introduction: nutritional aspects of palm oil. The production, composition, and food uses of palm oil are outlined in this introduction to a detailed appraisal of the nutritional and health implications of the use of palm oil in the food supply. The putative role of dietary fats and oils in general, and of palm oil in particular, in the etiology of coronary heart disease and cancer is critically assessed. It is concluded that the evidence available is difficult to interpret unambiguously. Some evidence to suggest that the minor components of palm oil might have useful biological effects is also discussed. 
A controlled trial of community based coronary rehabilitation. Two hundred patients who had suffered an acute myocardial infarction 4-6 weeks before entered a randomised controlled trial of exercise treatment at a community sports centre supervised by a general practitioner. Eighty one per cent of the treatment group continued to exercise until they returned to work and 73% completed three months' exercise. There were no serious complications of the exercise course. The prevalence of angina pectoris fell by 10% in the treatment group but rose by 60% in the control group. The perceived energy level rose by significantly more in the treatment group than in the controls. The rise in predicted maximum oxygen uptake was significantly greater in the treatment group than in the control group as was the reduction in the double product (a reflection of myocardial workload) at peak exercise. Coronary rehabilitation in the community can be both safe and effective. 
Hyperhomocysteinemia: an independent risk factor for vascular disease. BACKGROUND. Hyperhomocysteinemia arising from impaired methionine metabolism, probably usually due to a deficiency of cystathionine beta-synthase, is associated with premature cerebral, peripheral, and possibly coronary vascular disease. Both the strength of this association and its independence of other risk factors for cardiovascular disease are uncertain. We studied the extent to which the association could be explained by heterozygous cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency. METHODS. We first established a diagnostic criterion for hyperhomocysteinemia by comparing peak serum levels of homocysteine after a standard methionine-loading test in 25 obligate heterozygotes with respect to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (whose children were known to be homozygous for homocystinuria due to this enzyme defect) with the levels in 27 unrelated age- and sex-matched normal subjects. A level of 24.0 mumol per liter or more was 92 percent sensitive and 100 percent specific in distinguishing the two groups. The peak serum homocysteine levels in these normal subjects were then compared with those in 123 patients whose vascular disease had been diagnosed before they were 55 years of age. RESULTS. Hyperhomocysteinemia was detected in 16 of 38 patients with cerebrovascular disease (42 percent), 7 of 25 with peripheral vascular disease (28 percent), and 18 of 60 with coronary vascular disease (30 percent), but in none of the 27 normal subjects. After adjustment for the effects of conventional risk factors, the lower 95 percent confidence limit for the odds ratio for vascular disease among the patients with hyperhomocysteinemia, as compared with the normal subjects, was 3.2. The geometric-mean peak serum homocysteine level was 1.33 times higher in the patients with vascular disease than in the normal subjects (P = 0.002). The presence of cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency was confirmed in 18 of 23 patients with vascular disease who had hyperhomocysteinemia. CONCLUSIONS. Hyperhomocysteinemia is an independent risk factor for vascular disease, including coronary disease, and in most instances is probably due to cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency. 
Recanalization of chronic total coronary arterial occlusions by percutaneous excimer-laser and laser-assisted angioplasty. A low primary success and high restenosis rate after recanalization of chronic total occlusions by conventional coronary angioplasty have encouraged the application of new interventional techniques like excimer-laser angioplasty. In 39 patients with a coronary occlusion for 1 to 12 months, recanalization was attempted by laser angioplasty through a multifiber-catheter coupled to a pulsed XeCl excimer laser. After successful passage of the occlusion by a standard guidewire in 27 patients (69%), the laser catheter was advanced over the central guidewire and crossed the occlusion in 25 patients (64%). In 2 patients with unsuccessful passage of the laser catheter, the subsequent attempt with a low profile balloon catheter also failed. In 19 of the 25 patients with successful laser recanalization, the residual stenosis exceeded 50% and was therefore followed by additional balloon angioplasty. The average residual stenosis after laser was 61 +/- 17% of the vessel diameter, and after balloon angioplasty 28 +/- 9% (n = 19), whereas after laser angioplasty alone it was 38 +/- 5% (n = 6). No complications associated with the laser application were observed. Angiographic control after 24 hours showed a reocclusion of 2 (8%) recanalized vessels. In this pilot study, laser angioplasty proved to be a safe and feasible method for the treatment of chronic total coronary occlusions. Because it was necessary to guide the catheter by a central wire, the primary success was limited by a successful passage of the wire of the occlusion. The rate of stand-alone laser angioplasty has to be increased by future improvements of the technique to enable a comparative evaluation of this method with conventional angioplasty. 
Epidemiologic and immunogenetic aspects of polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis in northern Italy. We studied the epidemiology of giant cell arteritis (GCA) and polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) in a Mediterranean population. Ninety-nine patients with PMR and/or GCA were identified over a 9-year period (1980-1988) in Reggio Emilia, Italy. The average annual incidence of PMR and GCA was 12.7/100,000 and 6.9/100,000, respectively, in a population aged 50 years or older. Frequencies of HLA antigens were determined in 49 patients with PMR and/or GCA who were followed by staff at our rheumatology unit during the 1980-1988 period. When compared with HLA findings in 242 healthy controls, DR4 was not found to be significantly associated with PMR (24% in PMR patients versus 14% in controls). Patients with GCA also showed an increased frequency of DR4 compared with controls (36% versus 14%), but this difference was also not statistically significant. The immunogenetic features of PMR and GCA and the relationship between the immunogenetic and epidemiologic patterns in different populations are discussed. 
Hypertrophy, fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction in early canine experimental hypertension. To examine the relations among hypertrophy, fibrosis and diastolic performance in early experimental hypertension, 18 control dogs and 12 dogs with experimental left ventricular hypertrophy were studied. Diastolic function was impaired in dogs with left ventricular hypertrophy, with decreased Doppler early to atrial inflow velocity ratio (E/A) (1.35 versus 1.72), increased atrial filling fraction (35% versus 29%), decreased sonomicrometric peak rates of wall thinning (-2.01 versus -3.37 liters/s) and filling (4.33 versus 6.64 liters/s) and prolonged time constant of isovolumetric relaxation (tau; 34.3 versus 28.1 ms). Neither chamber stiffness (k; P = AekV) nor passive elastic stiffness (E; E = k sigma, where sigma = stress) was increased. At postmortem examination, the hypertensive left ventricle weighed significantly more than normal (116 versus 80 g; p less than 0.01) and had greater muscle fiber diameter at endocardial and epicardial sampling sites in the apical free wall, basal free wall and septum (mean diameter 50 +/- 8 microns in hypertensive dogs, 37 +/- 8 microns in normal dogs; p less than 0.01). In contrast, neither percent fibrosis (1.2 +/- 0.8 versus 0.9 +/- 0.6 in normal dogs) nor fibrotic volume (1.21 +/- 0.63 versus 0.72 +/- 0.42%/g in normal dogs) was significantly increased. Peak volumetric filling rate was inversely related to fiber diameter (r = -0.74, p less than 0.001), although no variable of left ventricular function was significantly related to percent or volume fibrosis (all r less than 0.60, all p greater than 0.05). Thus, diastolic dysfunction may exist in the setting of hypertrophy without significant fibrosis. Increased myocyte size was associated with early diastolic filling abnormalities characteristic of the hypertensive left ventricle. Fibrosis appears to be a less important determinant of diastolic performance. 
Inhibition of norepinephrine release from vascular adrenergic neurons by oral administration of beta-blocker in DOCA-salt hypertension. The ability of a beta-blocker to inhibit vascular sympathetic nerve activity associated with hypertension was studied in DOCA-salt hypertension in rats. A seven week treatment of DOCA and salt resulted in a significant increase in the systolic blood pressure of the uninephrectomized rats. The administration of propranolol (40 mg/L and 80 mg/L in drinking water) had little effect on the development of hypertension. After a three week administration of propranolol, perfused mesenteric vasculatures were prepared in vitro, and endogenous norepinephrine release as well as vascular responsiveness were examined. Endogenous norepinephrine and pressor responses during periarterial nerve stimulation were greater in the untreated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats than in the normotensive rats. In the DOCA-salt hypertensive rats treated with propranolol, the stimulation-evoked norepinephrine release and pressor responses were significantly attenuated, at both doses, compared with the untreated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. These results demonstrate that propranolol inhibited the vascular sympathetic nerve activity in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. This occurrence suggests a possible role of presynaptic beta-adrenoceptors in the regulation of sympathetic tone in DOCA-salt hypertension. 
Systolic hypertension in the elderly: reasons not to treat. Isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Accurate measurement of blood pressure in older patients is difficult. Therapy can be associated with various complications, and the special problems of the elderly, such as orthostatic hypotension and hyperkalemia, should be carefully considered. Drugs should be used in low doses and changes in dosage should be made infrequently. Patients should be monitored frequently for untoward effects of therapy. The benefits of blood pressure reduction and the optimal degree of blood pressure reduction remain unknown. 
Severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency. Five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy. There was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with IgA nephropathy in one, mesangial-proliferative changes in two, and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type I in two. Four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance. The association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised. Affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis. 
Echocardiographic evaluation of patients with clinically suspected arterial emboli. 153 patients (mean age 42 years, range 16-60) who had arterial embolic events were examined prospectively by transthoracic and transoesophageal echocardiography. Patients older than 60 years and those with evidence of extracranial carotid artery occlusive disease were excluded. 84 patients had a cerebral ischaemic event, 50 patients had embolic events in an abdominal organ or limb, and 19 patients had acute retinal ischaemia. The transthoracic echocardiographic examination was normal in 92 patients (60%), whereas only 65 patients (42%) had normal findings after both transthoracic and transoesophageal examination (p less than 0.005). Intracardiac masses, including valvular vegetations, were found in 39 patients (25%), including 27% of patients with cerebral embolism and 32% of these with peripheral embolism, but in none of the patients with retinal ischaemia (p less than 0.001). 47 patients (31%) had valvular disease, 10 (7%) had wall motion abnormalities, 23 (15%) had abnormalities of the interatrial septum, and 9 patients (6%) had diseases of the thoracic aorta. Cardiovascular abnormalities were frequently found by echocardiography in patients with arterial emboli. The transesophageal technique significantly increased the chance of detecting such abnormalities, especially intracardiac masses. 
Air embolism of the brain in rabbits pretreated with mechlorethamine. Infusion of 400 microliters air into the left internal carotid artery of five anesthetized rabbits caused transient pial arteriole air embolism, an immediate 41.9 +/- 0.8% dilatation of the embolized vessels, suppression of the cortical somatosensory evoked response to 29.4 +/- 2.7% of baseline, and a progressive decline in ipsilateral cerebral blood flow (measured by hydrogen clearance) to 46 +/- 4.1% of baseline after 2 hours. These values were significantly different from those at baseline and from the responses of 10 control rabbits given equivalent intracarotid saline infusions. Twelve other rabbits were made leukopenic by treatment with 1.5 mg/kg i.v. mechlorethamine 72 hours prior to study. Mean +/- SEM leukocyte count decreased from 6,320 +/- 73/mm3 to 1,890 +/- 66/mm3 without any change in the leukocyte differential or erythrocyte and platelet counts. Intracarotid infusion of saline into seven of the leukopenic rabbits caused no changes. In the other five leukopenic rabbits, infusion of 400 microliters air caused air embolism but did not produce the anticipated declines in cerebral blood flow or the cortical somatosensory evoked response, both of which remained indistinguishable from baseline values and responses in the seven saline-treated leukopenic controls. Similarly, air-embolized arterioles showed nonsignificant dilatation in leukopenic rabbits. Our data suggest that the decreases in both cerebral blood flow and brain function seen after air embolism require the presence of leukocytes. 
Differentiation of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Implantable devices capable of several modes of therapy will require differentiation of various ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Three methods of arrhythmia analysis, magnitude-squared coherence, ventricular rate, and irregularity of cycle length were performed for 45 episodes of induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in 15 patients. Differentiation of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was possible by mean magnitude-squared coherence, less possible by rate, and not possible by beat-to-beat irregularity. Faster monomorphic ventricular tachycardia overlapped with rates of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. Differentiation of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was not possible by rate or irregularity. A progressive decrease in mean magnitude-squared coherence from monomorphic ventricular tachycardia to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia to ventricular fibrillation strengthens previous observations that coherence is a measure of rhythm "organization.". 
Risk of myocardial infarction and death during treatment with low dose aspirin and intravenous heparin in men with unstable coronary artery disease. The RISC Group 796 men with unstable coronary artery disease (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction [MI] ), were randomised to double-blind placebo-controlled treatment with oral aspirin 75 mg/day and/or 5 days of intermittent intravenous heparin. The risk of MI and death was reduced by aspirin. After 5 days the risk ratio was 0.43 (confidence intervals, 0.21-0.91), at 1 month 0.31 (0.18-0.53), and at 3 months 0.36 (0.23-0.57). Aspirin reduced event rate in non-Q-wave MI and unstable angina, independently of electrocardiographic abnormalities or concurrent drug therapy. Heparin had no significant influence on event rate, although the group treated with aspirin and heparin had the lowest number of events during the initial 5 days. Treatment had few side-effects and high patient compliance. 
Salt and hypertension. Lessons from animal models that relate to human hypertension. A high NaCl diet can raise blood pressure in both susceptible people and in susceptible animals, and the mechanisms are probably quite similar for both humans and animals. The possibly harmful effects of a high NaCl diet are not unexpected since both prehistoric man and mammals evolved in a low NaCl world. Evolutionary forces molded mammals to adapt well to a low sodium intake; the modern high NaCl intake goes "against the grain" of this adaptation. The high NaCl diet can cause premature mortality by raising blood pressure in susceptible people. We have new evidence that in a hypertensive setting, a high NaCl diet can increase mortality even though it does not cause a further rise of blood pressure. Multiple small cerebral infarcts are a partial cause of this excess mortality. Recent evidence also indicates that a high potassium diet reduces the rise of blood pressure caused by a high NaCl diet, whereas a low normal potassium intake encourages an NaCl-induced rise of blood pressure. It is the combination of kidneys that tends to retain NaCl together with a high NaCl intake that produces a rise in blood pressure. This combination tends to cause NaCl retention, which can trigger a rise in blood pressure in susceptible humans and animals. Such a rise in blood pressure can augment renal NaCl excretion and regain the previous NaCl balance. In the Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) rat, there are several renal abnormalities that would tend to encourage sodium retention. By analogy, renal "abnormalities" are probably present in people susceptible to hypertension. 
Thromboexclusion of the right ventricle in children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum. Twelve children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum underwent closure of the tricuspid valve as a part of a new surgical procedure. In two cases a concomitant Fontan operation was performed. In each patient the right ventricle was very small and right ventricular pressure was higher than systemic pressure. Ventricle-coronary connections provided flow of desaturated blood from the right ventricle into the coronary arteries in 11 of 12 cases. Five of the 12 children did not survive operation and postmortem examination of each revealed severe acute and chronic myocardial ischemic damage and high-grade obstruction or interruption of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery. Preoperative angiography demonstrated occlusive changes in the coronary arteries, resulting in right ventricular dependent circulation, in all five children who died and in one child who survived operation. Seven children who survived operation are well 4 months to 3.5 years later. Two have undergone subsequent successful Fontan operation and two others are considered suitable candidates for this operation. Tricuspid valve closure is recommended for a carefully selected group of infants with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum provided a right ventricular-dependent coronary circulation can be excluded on the basis of preoperative coronary cineangiography. 
Irrigation device for neuroangiographic procedures. A simple irrigation device for use in diagnostic and interventional neuroangiographic procedures is described. The device is used to flush bubbles and blood clots from catheter hubs. The authors also describe a technique in which this device can be used to prevent filling a catheter with air when a guide wire is removed. 
Lower extremity percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: multifactorial analysis of morbidity and mortality. We analyzed the outcome of 202 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) procedures performed between 1983 and 1989 to quantitate procedural risks and define factors associated with suboptimal results or immediate clinical failure. Premorbid factors studied included age, sex, treatment of single versus multiple lesions, stenoses versus occlusions, premorbid status of the limb (claudication vs limb threat), and most distal level of PTA. Adverse outcomes included complications (hematoma, acute occlusion, or thrombosis of PTA site, distal embolization, failure to dilate or cross, arterial dissection, rupture, and significant systemic derangement), major amputations (below knee and above knee), and deaths. There were 66 complications (32.7%), 22 amputations (10.9%), and 12 deaths (5.9%) in our series. Logistic regression analysis revealed that the major predictive variable for the occurrence of a complication (p = 0.002), and the only predictive variable for the outcomes of amputation and death (p = 0.0001 and p = 0.0139, respectively), was the premorbid clinical status of the limb. Lower extremity PTA is not an intrinsically benign procedure and is associated with a significant risk of complication, amputation, and procedure-associated death. These adverse outcomes cluster in patients with limb threat. Therefore it may be reasonable to restrict the use of PTA to patients with claudication and strictly selected cases of limb threat. 
The population mean predicts the number of deviant individuals OBJECTIVE--To examine the relation between the prevalence of deviation and the mean for the whole population in characteristics such as blood pressure and consumption of alcohol. DESIGN--Re-examination of standardised data from the Intersalt study, an international, multicentre study on the determinants of blood pressure. SETTING AND SUBJECTS--Samples of adults representing 52 populations in 32 countries. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--The relations, expressed as correlation coefficients, between the mean population values for blood pressure, body mass index, alcohol consumption, and sodium intake and the prevalence of, respectively, hypertension (greater than or equal to 140 mm Hg), obesity (body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2), high alcohol intake (greater than or equal to 300 ml/week), and high sodium intake (greater than or equal to 250 mmol/day). RESULTS--There were close and independent associations between the population mean and the prevalence of deviance for each of the variables examined: correlation coefficients were 0.85 for blood pressure, 0.94 for body mass index, 0.97 for alcohol intake, and 0.78 for sodium intake. CONCLUSIONS--These findings imply that distributions of health related characteristics move up and down as a whole: the frequency of "cases" can be understood only in the context of a population's characteristics. The population thus carries a collective responsibility for its own health and well being, including that of its deviants. 
What is the best method for assessing the long-term outcome of surgery for accessory pathways and atrioventricular junctional reentrant tachycardias? The success of surgery for supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is evaluated by a variety of methods in different hospitals. Unfortunately, the predictive values of these methods are not known. We therefore compared the various methods in 261 patients undergoing surgery for SVT at Westmead Hospital since 1981. Surgical outcome was assessed by early tests during the first week after surgery (serial 12-lead electrocardiograms, telemetric monitoring of the electrocardiogram, and electrophysiological study performed using epicardial wires); later tests at 6 months after surgery (12-lead electrocardiograms and electrophysiological study); and symptomatic review done by telephone interview at a median of 34 months after surgery. Early tests were obtained in 97%, later tests were obtained in 76%, and symptomatic review was obtained in 98% of patients. All of the examined tests were inaccurate methods of surgical assessment compared with the late electrophysiological study. A large proportion of the patients proven to be surgical failures at the late electrophysiological study were not detected by early tests (83%), by later electrocardiograms (66%), or by symptomatic assessment (41%). Accurate assessment of surgical outcome requires a late electrophysiological study to permit comparison of surgical techniques. Late electrophysiological study also provides accurate information on the current risks and benefits of proposed surgery for communication to patients to enable them to make an informed decision on future treatment. Most patients are willing to have a late electrophysiological study and usually benefit from clarification of their true surgical outcome. 
Myocardial uptake of indium-111-labeled antimyosin in acute subendocardial infarction: clinical, histochemical, and autoradiographic correlation of myocardial necrosis. Indium-111-labeled antimyosin has been utilized in the diagnosis and localization of acute transmural myocardial infarction. The present report describes a patient who presented with a massive subendocardial infarction. Two days after the injection of antimyosin, the patient's clinical status markedly deteriorated and he expired. Postmortem examination demonstrated severe three-vessel coronary artery disease with extensive myocyte death in the endocardium. Autoradiography and histochemical staining of the prosected heart demonstrated high correlation for myocardial necrosis and corresponded to clinical evidence for diffuse subendocardial infarction. 
Sudden cardiac death while wearing a Holter monitor. The Holter tapes of 61 patients (46 men, mean age +/- standard deviation 65 +/- 11 years) with sudden cardiac death while being monitored were analyzed. Thirty-eight patients were known to have coronary artery disease, 5 had cardiomyopathy, and 7 had aortic valve disease. Etiology remained unknown in 11 patients. Mean New York Heart Association functional class was 2.5 +/- 0.7. Thirty patients had received antiarrhythmic drugs and 32 had received digitalis. Sudden death occurred at rest in 73%. In the hours before death, repetitive ventricular arrhythmias were found in 50 patients (82%), with atrial fibrillation in 34%. Patients with bradyarrhythmic death (18%) had less complex ventricular activity compared to patients with tachyarrhythmic death (p less than 0.01). Lethal arrhythmias--monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, primary ventricular fibrillation, and 1:1 conducting atrial tachycardia--were found in 26 (43%), 15 (25%), 5 (8%), 3 (5%), and 1 patient, respectively. The coupling interval of the final ventricular tachycardia correlated inversely with the initial frequency of ventricular tachycardia (p less than 0.05). For patients with tachyarrhythmic death, an increase of heart rate within the last 3 hours was noted (83 vs 89 beats/min, p less than 0.05). Ventricular premature complexes and the proportion of patients with greater than 2 couplets and greater than 2 triplets increased significantly only within the last hour before death. 
Entrapment of a folded-over introducer sheath in the iliofemoral artery: an unusual complication of PTCA guiding catheter exchange An arterial introducer sheath became folded over in the iliac artery during PTCA. This probably resulted from withdrawal of a doubled over Judkins left coronary guiding catheter through the introducer sheath. Nonsurgical, atraumatic removal was accomplished after the acute bend of the introducer sheath had been withdrawn to the site of arterial entrance. 
Rapid baroreceptor resetting in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. Dahl salt-sensitive rats rapidly become hypertensive when exposed to a high salt diet, but Dahl salt-resistant rats maintain normal blood pressure on a high salt diet. A defect in baroreceptor afferents is thought to play a key role in the low sensitivity of baroreceptor reflexes in Dahl salt-sensitive rats even in the prehypertensive stage during low salt treatment. In the present study, we tested whether differences in rapid resetting ability might contribute to differences in baroreceptor function in Dahl rats. Four groups of rats were tested: salt-sensitive and salt-resistant rats on low salt and high salt diets (0.15% and 8.0% NaCl). We compared the rapidly resetting responses of baroreceptors from each group using an in vitro preparation. Rapid resetting was assessed for each aortic baroreceptor (n = 46) by linear fit of the relation of pressure threshold and conditioning mean arterial pressure. Each group had a wide range of resetting ratios (the slope of the resetting relation). Despite higher initial pressure thresholds in salt-sensitive rats on a high salt diet, resetting ratios among the four groups were similar. Thus, the ability of Dahl salt-sensitive baroreceptors to rapidly reset is preserved, despite high dietary salt and a genetic predisposition to dysfunction. The present findings in Dahl rats reinforce the results of recent studies of rapid resetting during spontaneous and renal hypertension, which suggests that the rapid resetting process is remarkably resistant to factors that compromise baroreceptor function. 
Cardiovascular disease risk profiles. This article presents prediction equations for several cardiovascular disease endpoints, which are based on measurements of several known risk factors. Subjects (n = 5573) were original and offspring subjects in the Framingham Heart Study, aged 30 to 74 years, and initially free of cardiovascular disease. Equations to predict risk for the following were developed: myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease (CHD), death from CHD, stroke, cardiovascular disease, and death from cardiovascular disease. The equations demonstrated the potential importance of controlling multiple risk factors (blood pressure, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, smoking, glucose intolerance, and left ventricular hypertrophy) as opposed to focusing on one single risk factor. The parametric model used was seen to have several advantages over existing standard regression models. Unlike logistic regression, it can provide predictions for different lengths of time, and probabilities can be expressed in a more straightforward way than the Cox proportional hazards model. 
Doxazosin effects on insulin and glucose in hypertensive patients. The Finnish Multicenter Study Group. This study investigates the effects of prolonged doxazosin treatment on serum lipids, glucose, serum insulin, and blood pressure in hypertensive patients. Following 26 weeks of treatment with doxazosin, supine and standing blood pressures were significantly decreased at a final mean daily dose of 6.4 mg. Blood glucose levels were significantly lower at 26 weeks than after the initial placebo period (p less than 0.05) or after 4 weeks' treatment with doxazosin (p less than 0.001). There was a significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in serum insulin levels following 4 weeks of treatment, and a highly significant (p less than 0.001) decrease after 26 weeks. In addition, doxazosin produced a significant reduction in total cholesterol (p less than 0.05) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (p less than 0.01) after 26 weeks, although the levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides showed no significant change. There was a tendency for the ratio of HDL: total cholesterol to increase. The combined changes in blood pressure, blood glucose levels, serum insulin, and serum lipids favorably affect the probability of developing coronary heart disease (CHD). 
Gynecologic vascular abnormalities: diagnosis with Doppler US. The authors describe the use of duplex and/or color Doppler ultrasonography of the pelvis in three women to demonstrate the presence of venous malformations. One patient with a pulsatile vaginal mass was shown to have an arteriovenous malformation of the vaginal wall. The second patient was shown to have an unsuspected venous angioma in the endometrial cavity. The third patient was shown to have adnexal varices that closely mimicked hydrosalpinx. In the latter two cases, the duplex and color flow capabilities of an endovaginal probe were especially important. 
The hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome. Lipid abnormalities in patients with the nephrotic syndrome have long been recognized. However, the significance of these lipid abnormalities, the mechanisms producing them, and their potential treatment have all been a cause of debate. Recent data have helped clarify each of these areas of controversy. Studies of the lipoprotein abnormalities of patients with the uncomplicated nephrotic syndrome have shown that many will have elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, whereas only a few will have elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. If these lipid abnormalities have the same significance in this population as in other populations studied, then some patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome will be at high risk for cardiovascular disease. The elevated cholesterol levels noted in the nephrotic syndrome are caused primarily by enhanced hepatic synthesis, with lesser contributions by decreased clearance and altered enzyme activities. The signal for enhanced hepatic lipogenesis may relate to changes in plasma albumin concentration, plasma oncotic pressure, a local effect of viscosity at the hepatic sinusoidal level, or a loss of urinary proteins or other liporegulatory substances. Recently, a number of short-term studies in nephrotic patients have documented the safety and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs such as the bile acid-binding resins, probucol, and the HMGCoA (hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors. 
The prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with SLE, to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment. The hospital records of 112 patients with SLE were reviewed and screened for endocarditis, heart murmurs, and other valvular pathosis. Two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis. This prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease. The high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with SLE suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management, patients with SLE should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia. 
Angioscopy for intraoperative management of thromboembolectomy. Our experience with angioscopy suggests that direct visualization of the arterial lumen during thromboembolectomy procedures would provide a more reliable method of assessing luminal morphologic characteristics than angiography alone. We inspected 32 grafts (seven aortobifemoral, 18 infrainguinal bypass, and seven dialysis access fistula grafts) in 32 patients. Thirty-one patients had thrombotic events and one patient had an acute embolus. Angioscopy following standard catheter thrombectomy revealed significant amounts of retained thrombus or neointima in all thrombectomies. Angioscopic information from 18 patients with an infrainguinal bypass graft led to graft revision in six cases and placement of a new graft in 10 cases. One graft limb was replaced in seven aortobifemoral grafts, and multiple repeated thrombectomies were employed to extract debris in the remaining six cases. Repeated graft thrombectomy was also beneficial in dialysis access fistulas. Angioscopy allowed us to omit the completion angiogram and led to an improved technical result. We conclude that angioscopy is useful during thromboembolectomy procedures. 
Sex differences in control of cutaneous blood flow. Women are far more likely than men to suffer from Raynaud's disease. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are gender differences in local or central control of cutaneous blood flow that could account for the increased incidence of Raynaud's disease in women. To assess cutaneous blood flow, hand blood flow (HBF), finger blood flow (FBF), or skin perfusion (SP) was measured by fluid plethysmography, mercury strain-gauge plethysmography, or laser Doppler spectroscopy, respectively, in 47 volunteers. Basal HBF in men exceeded that of women (12.1 +/- 2.0 versus 6.2 +/- 1.5 ml/100 ml/min). Likewise, FBF in men surpassed that of women (19.5 +/- 4.1 versus 7.7 +/- 1.8 ml/100 ml/min). Similarly, SP in men was greater than that of women (270 +/- 42 versus 81 +/- 16 perfusion units). However, after total body warming (to induce a thermal sympatholysis), HBF in women exceeded that of men, suggesting that the lower basal HBF in women was due to increased sympathetic outflow to the extremities. Mental stress and deep inspiration reduced HBF and SP in men. Paradoxically, both of these maneuvers increased HBF and SP in women. To determine whether these paradoxical responses in women were due to the women's elevated basal sympathetic tone, these experiments were repeated after total body cooling in men to increase sympathetic tone and after total body warming in women to reduce sympathetic tone. Total body cooling reduced HBF and SP in men. Under these conditions, mental stress and deep inspiration induced vasodilation. In women, total body warming for 10 minutes increased HBF. 
Outcome of prophylactic therapy for idiopathic anaphylaxis. OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of a prophylactic regimen (prednisone, H1 blockade, and sympathomimetic amine therapy) in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis. DESIGN: Clinical trial before and after treatment. SETTING: Referral-based allergy clinic at a major medical center. PATIENTS: Fifty-three patients with a history compatible with idiopathic anaphylaxis for at least 6 months before presentation to the allergy service and with subsequent management by the service for at least 6 months. INTERVENTIONS: Patients with frequent life-threatening symptoms were treated with a prophylactic regimen. Patients with infrequent episodes of idiopathic anaphylaxis were only treated acutely for each episode of anaphylaxis. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The results favored prophylactic treatment with prednisone for patients who were classified as generalized-frequent in the clinical outcome measures of frequency (per patient per year) of episodes (mean before treatment, 7.31 +/- 6.46; after treatment, 3.61 +/- 4.73; P less than 0.02) and emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 1.94 +/- 3.42; after treatment, 0.21 +/- 0.44; P less than 0.005) and for patients classified as angioedema-frequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 14.93 +/- 15.89; after treatment, 2.58 +/- 2.18; P less than 0.003) and emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.76 +/- 1.01; after treatment, 0.07 +/- 0.11; P less than 0.025). No statistically significant difference was found for patients classified as generalized-infrequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 2.01 +/- 1.30; after treatment, 1.36 +/- 1.79) or of the emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.56 +/- 0.71; after treatment, 0.32 +/- 0.75) or for patients classified as angioedema-infrequent in the frequency of episodes (mean before treatment, 1.94 +/- 1.55; after treatment, 2.03 +/- 2.16) or of emergency room visits (mean before treatment, 0.27 +/- 0.44; after treatment, 0.37 +/- 0.59). CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic treatment with prednisone and H1 antihistamines with or without sympathomimetic amines improves clinical outcome in patients who are classified as idiopathic anaphylaxis-angioedema frequent and idiopathic anaphylaxis-generalized frequent. 
Association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage. To test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury (grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage), 67 very low birthweight (VLBW) infants of 32 weeks' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied. Thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure. The groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome. Thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension (89%) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage. This percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure (three of 31, 10%). The risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in VLBW infants. 
Efficacy of percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty with the inoue balloon. Percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty has become an accepted technique for use in selected patients with severe, symptomatic mitral stenosis. Recently, a new balloon catheter with an "hourglass" shape and specially designed guidewires and dilators has become available (Inoue balloon). The design of this balloon provides ease of manipulation and self-stabilization across the mitral valve during inflation. These features should decrease the incidence of complications associated with the procedure. Preliminary results in 12 consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty with the Inoue balloon are presented. The mitral valve area increased from 0.92 +/- 0.21 cm2 before the procedure to 1.75 +/- 0.40 cm2 after the procedure. No complications occurred from the procedure, including no increase in severity of mitral regurgitation or creation of an atrial septal defect. Further follow-up is necessary to determine the long-term efficacy with this new balloon. Nonetheless, the preliminary results are encouraging. 
Parenteral illegal drug use and limb loss. The problem of illegal drug abuse and extremity loss was identified in 27 patients-22 men and 5 women, with a mean age of 26 years. Associated medical problems included: smoking in 27, cardiac disease in 2, diabetes in 3, and hypertension in 3. Six femoral pseudoaneurysms, 2 with distal emboli and all with sepsis and thrombosis, directly contributed to limb loss along with 2 patients with progressive phlegmasia dolens. There were 3 below-the-elbow, 7 above-the-knee, 11 below-the-knee, and 6 transmetatarsal amputations. Eight patients received prostheses; 8 patients subsequently died in follow-up. 
Embolization of a giant renal arterial aneurysm. A 49-year-old man presented with right flank pain. Angiography revealed a giant right renal arterial aneurysm. Giant renal arterial aneurysms are typically treated by nephrectomy. In this patient the aneurysm was embolized successfully with multiple Gianturco-Wallace coils and polyvinyl alcohol. This case indicates that embolization may be a reasonable alternative to nephrectomy. 
In vitro and in vivo evaluation of a right ventricular assist device. A simple right ventricular assist device (RVAD) has been developed. This device will be useful in situations where biventricular failure has been partially treated by placement of a left ventricular assist device, or when right ventricular failure occurs in isolation. This pneumatically actuated, R-wave synchronized, sac type pump contains no valves, and is connected by a graft to the pulmonary artery. The RVAD was tested in a circulation simulator to verify its hemodynamic efficacy and then implanted in six calves for 2-4 weeks to evaluate its biocompatibility. In vitro testing of the RVAD demonstrated that it restored normal hemodynamics in the presence of severe simulated RVF. In six animal implantations, a small amount of thrombus was found in one pump. No anticoagulants were employed. Thrombus was present in the connecting graft in three animals; in two this was clearly related to technical implant errors. No evidence of significant hemolysis was found. This simple RVAD has been found to be hemodynamically effective, is simple to use, and is well tolerated. Refinements in the interconnection graft between the pulmonary artery and the device are necessary. 
Coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with cryoglobulinemia. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was performed in a patient with cryoglobulinemia. In order to decrease the concentration of cryoglobulin, the patient underwent double filtration plasmapheresis (DFPP) pre- and postoperatively as well as during cardiopulmonary bypass. Bypass surgery was performed under total cardiopulmonary bypass, moderate systemic hypothermia, and ventricular fibrillation without aortic crossclamping. No adverse effects of cryoglobulin appeared during the peri- and postoperative course. Technical considerations for open heart surgery in patients with cryoglobulinemia are described. 
Retrograde recanalization of an occluded posterior tibial artery by using a posterior tibial cutdown: two case reports. Recanalization of two occluded posterior tibial arteries was successfully achieved by utilizing a retrograde approach via a posterior tibial artery cutdown at the level of the ankle. Both cases were previously unsuccessfully attempted by using an antegrade approach. Thus, the choice of access vessel (arterial entry site) becomes a crucial determinant of angioplasty success. 
Resistance to ischaemia of small afferent nerve fibres in diabetes mellitus. Thermal thresholds were measured in the left forearms of 26 healthy subjects and 10 patients with diabetes mellitus during ischaemic compression block. During the period when ischaemic block of large fibres caused paraesthesia and loss of touch sensation, the cold threshold rose in normals. The cold threshold was less clearly elevated and the warm perception remained unaltered by ischaemia in diabetics. These results show that not only large afferent and efferent nerve fibres but also thinly myelinated A delta and unmyelinated C fibres are resistant to ischaemia in the diabetic nerve. 
Noninvasive assessment of cardiac output in children using impedance cardiography. This study evaluated the effect of intracardiac shunting on the accuracy of thoracic bioimpedance-derived cardiac output determinations. Twenty-six patients, ranging in age from 3 months to 17 years, underwent cardiac catheterization during which simultaneous Fick and impedance measurements of cardiac output were obtained. The subjects were divided into three groups: 10 children with no intracardiac shunts, nine children with predominant left-to-right intracardiac shunts, and seven children with predominant right-to-left intracardiac shunts. Positive correlations between impedance and Fick-derived cardiac output determinations were obtained in the non-shunt group (r = 0.84), with lower correlations in the left-to-right shunt group (r = 0.70). In the right-to-left shunt group, the impedance derived cardiac output correlated with Fick pulmonary flow (r = 0.82), but the variability was unacceptably large. Although further study is needed, impedance cardiography appears to have validity as a methodology in pediatric critical care and cardiovascular health research. 
Coarctation of the aorta and post-stenotic aneurysm formation. Despite earlier angiography, post-stenotic aneurysm of the aorta was an unexpected finding at operation in two patients with coarctation. One aneurysm was found in an intercostal artery in a 19 year old man and the other was a false aneurysm just distal to the coarctation site in a 7 year old boy. These aneurysms are fragile, apt to rupture, and difficult to diagnose preoperatively. Though local factors such as jet streams and bacterial endocarditis may influence their formation there must be an underlying generalised weakness in the arterial wall. A coarctation should not be regarded as an isolated arterial abnormality because it may be a feature of a more generalised disease. Because of the risk of rupture, which may not be prevented by antihypertensive treatment, operation should not be delayed in any age group. 
Multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene. The medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed. It was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss. Although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts, the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee (AK) procedures. Prior arterial surgery was not shown to make AK amputation more likely, but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures. This initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level. Those patients requiring AK amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment (aortoiliac and femoropopliteal) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels. A follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed. Eighteen (Group I) underwent inflow procedures only, while 23 (Group II) also underwent distal revascularization. The groups were similar with respect to age, risk factors, extent of tissue loss and sepsis. At 1 year 10 (56%) Group I and only 3 (13%) Group II patients required major amputation (P = 0.01). Distal bypass, in addition to an inflow procedure, is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion. 
High incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease. DESIGN: Prospective study with partially matched historical controls. SETTING: Tertiary care community medical center. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seven patients with advanced Parkinson's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus. These patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery. RESULTS: In the study group, six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions, lobar atelectasis, pneumonia, upper airway obstruction, and cardiac arrest. Three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions, subsegmental atelectasis, purulent bronchitis, mild congestive heart failure, and atrial flutter/fibrillation. One patient had an unremarkable postoperative course. The first control group, whose only surgery was a craniotomy, had only one major complication. The second control group, the abdominal surgery control group, had one major and five minor complications. CONCLUSION: The particular neurologic disease, its severity, and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group. 
Synthesis of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta by arterial cells in atherosclerosis. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) has been implicated as a regulatory protein in the development and clinical sequelae of atherosclerosis. To determine which cells in the atherosclerotic plaque synthesize IL-1 in situ, the authors evaluated histologic sections of iliac arteries from cynomolgus monkeys using probes for IL-1 alpha and beta. A polyclonal antibody to IL-1 alpha and beta was used to determine if proteins were concomitantly produced. The predominant cells expressing IL-1 alpha and beta mRNA were foam cells in the intima. Adherent leukocytes and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) expressed mRNA for IL-1 alpha. Microvascular endothelium expressed mRNA for both IL-1 alpha and beta. IL-1 proteins were located frequently in cells expressing IL-1 mRNA. These results indicate that endothelium and VSMCs, in conjunction with macrophages, serve as localized sources of IL-1 protein synthesis. These findings suggest that vascular cells may contribute directly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic vascular disease by actively secreting potent biologic mediators that modify vascular and immune cell function. 
Interleukin-2 does not attenuate hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. It was recently reported that interleukin-2, when administered as a single bolus injection (5,000 units/kg), could prevent the development of hypertension in young spontaneously hypertensive rats and lower blood pressure to normotensive levels in spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension. Consequently, efforts were made to duplicate this finding. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats (35 days old) were injected subcutaneously with 50,000 units/kg (3,500 units/rat) of recombinant interleukin-2 (Amgen) and had systolic blood pressure measured twice weekly by the tail-cuff technique. Systolic blood pressure in the interleukin-2-treated group was not significantly different from the vehicle-treated control group at any time point over 32 days of follow-up. A second injection of recombinant interleukin-2 (5,000 units/kg) was administered 32 days after the first injection. Again, no reduction in blood pressure was observed in the interleukin-2-treated group over an additional 38 days. Mean arterial pressure (+/- SEM) measured via intra-arterial cannula in conscious rats at age 105 days (38 days after the second treatment) was 168.5 +/- 3.5 mm Hg in interleukin-2-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and 170.3 +/- 3.6 mm Hg in vehicle-treated controls. Both recombinant interleukin-2 preparations conformed to their respective manufacturer's indicated specific activity as determined by the ability of the interleukin-2 to induce proliferation of the interleukin-2-dependent cell line HT-2. Thus, this study demonstrated that interleukin-2 was ineffective in preventing or attenuating hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. 
Long-term amiodarone administration protects against global myocardial ischemia. Reports on the effects of amiodarone on cardiac function have been variable. This study addresses the effect of long-term amiodarone administration on recovery of cardiac function after a period of global ischemia. Normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats were used. Normotensive rats (n = 6) received 240 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks, for a total of 72 +/- 3 mg. Hypertensive rats (n = 6) received 500 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks, for a total of 116 +/- 5 mg. Final myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone were 1.85 +/- 1.75 and 0.50 +/- 0.61 micrograms/g wet weight for the normotensive rats and 1.30 +/- 0.58 and 0.31 +/- 0.17 micrograms/g for the hypertensive rats (p = nonsignificant). Equal numbers of controls received sterile saline solution for 4 weeks. The hearts were excised and perfused in a Langendorff apparatus. The results indicate that, after 15 minutes of normothermic ischemia, hearts treated with this relatively low dose of amiodarone recovered a greater percentage of preischemic work (97% +/- 13%) as compared with the controls (76% +/- 17%) (p less than 0.005). 
Edgar J Poth lecture. Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of thrombosis. Thrombosis and its major sequela, embolism, continue to contribute significantly to morbidity and mortality, both as primary disorders and as complications of other systemic systems. The understanding of the etiology of thromboembolism and the role of platelets, endothelium, and the plasma proteins in the development of thrombotic disorders has recently improved. Other blood cells, in particular neutrophils, have been suggested as possible mediators of thrombosis in clinical disorders characterized by decreased capillary blood flow. Newer imaging techniques such as duplex scanning have improved the accuracy and ease of diagnosis. Thrombolytic therapy is a more physiologic approach to the management of thrombosis, but its role is limited by systemic fibrinolysis. The development of fibrin-specific agents and better delivery techniques in combination with thromboembolectomy and anticoagulation should improve the management of patients with thrombosis. 
Failure of surgery to improve outcome in hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage. A prospective randomized trial. Hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage remains a major cause of hemorrhagic stroke carrying extremely high morbidity. Considerable controversy remains regarding the optimal form of therapy. Between 1983 and 1989 we conducted a prospective randomized trial with three treatment strategies: best medical management, best medical management plus intracranial pressure monitoring, and surgical evacuation. Only patients with significant deficit harboring a putaminal hematoma at least 3.0 cm in diameter were entered. The study was interrupted after 21 patients had been studied (9, best medical management; 4, intracranial pressure monitoring; and 8, surgical evacuation). No differences were found among groups for age, admission blood pressure, and time interval between onset of symptoms and arrival at hospital. None of the subjects were capable of returning to prestroke activity. Fifteen (71%) died or remained vegetative at 6 months, and only 4 (19%) were capable of independent life at home. Of the 9 patients in the best medical management arm, 7 were dead or vegetative. In the surgical group, 4 patients died and only 2 were capable of independent life. These results suggest that current medical and neurosurgical therapies remain ineffective in preventing the devastating neurologic consequences of hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage. 
Use of computed tomographic scanning and aortography in the diagnosis of acute dissection of the thoracic aorta. Before the introduction of computed tomographic (CT) scanning, aortography was the investigation of choice for acute aortic dissection. Between 1978 and 1982, 24 patients were referred to the Brompton Hospital with suspected acute thoracic aortic dissection; all had aortography with diagnosis confirmed at surgery (n = 12) or necropsy (n = 2) or supported by clinical outcome (n = 8). One patient in whom aortography was negative had type B dissection at necropsy and another patient was lost to follow up. CT scanning became available in this unit in 1983 and between 1983 and 1987 was used as the only imaging investigation in 32 patients with suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta while in a further 22 patients aortography was used alone. Results were confirmed at surgery (n = 18), necropsy (n = 3), or supported by clinical outcome (n = 31). Two patients were lost to follow up. In an additional 16 patients both aortography and CT scanning were performed with concordant findings in 10. In six in whom the results were discordant, aortography was normal in three in whom subsequent CT scanning showed type B dissection and CT scanning was normal in three patients in whom aortography showed type A dissection. Both CT scanning and aortography are reliable techniques for assessment of suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta. Both techniques misdiagnose occasionally and the frequency of misdiagnosis will be minimised by performing both investigations in patients where the level of clinical suspicion is high and the initial investigation negative. CT scanning tends to miss type A dissection and in view of the success of surgery in this condition this failing has the more serious clinical consequences. 
The renin-angiotensin system and renal function in kidney transplantation. The use of converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) has permitted us to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of arterial pressure and renal function in various conditions. In renal transplant recipients treated by azathioprine and steroids, the occurrence of CEI-induced deterioration of renal function is highly suggestive of renal artery stenosis, whereas renal vasodilatation associated with unchanged glomerular filtration rate in response to CEI is indicative of a significant role of native kidneys. In hypertensive recipients without renal artery stenosis, the absence of renal hemodynamic changes after CEI may be predictive of subsequent chronic rejection. The information provided by CEI is rather different in cyclosporine treated subjects. In this setting, no acute effect of CEI on renal hemodynamics is detectable. Whether the renal response to CEI is similar in cyclosporine when compared to conventionally treated patients with renal artery stenosis remains to be demonstrated. 
Arterial protection: a neglected but crucial therapeutic goal. Hypertension is accompanied by 2 major types of arterial pathologic conditions: smooth muscle hypertrophy of arteriolar resistance vessels and atherosclerosis, primarily involving the larger arteries. Smooth muscle hypertrophy may develop either as a secondary defense against elevated intravascular pressure or as a primary defect responsible for the increased pressure. Insulin and a number of other trophic stimuli may play a pathogenetic role in vascular hypertrophy. Reducing blood pressure and trophic stimuli may cause hypertrophy to be reversed. Because atherosclerosis may be markedly accelerated by hypertension, especially in the presence of concomitant risk factors, such as hypercholesterolemia, cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus, antihypertensive treatment may attenuate or even reverse the extent of atherosclerosis, but only when the causative factors are also corrected. Some commonly used antihypertensive agents, e.g., diuretics and beta blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, often aggravate hypercholesterolemia and glucose intolerance, thereby diminishing their potential protective value. Other types of drug therapy, such as alpha blockers, beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity or other vasodilator activity, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium entry blockers that may not induce biochemical changes, should provide better control of multiple risks and thereby better protection against atherosclerosis. With a better understanding of how hypertension induces arterial damage, clinicians will be able to provide more appropriate treatment and, it is hoped, alleviate such damage. 
Perforin-mediated myocardial damage in acute myocarditis. Endomyocardial specimens were obtained from 7 patients with acute myocarditis. Immunohistochemical examination of the mononuclear infiltrate showed mainly cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Perforin (a pore-forming protein found in cytotoxic lymphocytes) was identified in this myocardial lymphocytic infiltrate and electron microscopy showed myocardial cell damage that may have been associated with these perforin containing lymphocytes. The results indicate that in acute idiopathic and viral myocarditis, myocardial damage may be due to the action of perforin-secreting lymphocytes. 
Nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes. Enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy. We compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen (hydralazine and metoprolol) on kidney function, albuminuria, and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats. Diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats. Antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups. Blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic SHR rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol. In diabetic SHR rats, there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk, which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats. Both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic SHR rats to a similar degree. Enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic SHR rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume. Thus, antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria, glomerular basement membrane thickening, and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes. No specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy. Human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function, proteinuria, and glomerular morphology are warranted. 
Cor triatriatum dexter: antemortem diagnosis in an adult by cross sectional echocardiography. Cor triatriatum dexter is a rare cardiac abnormality in which the right atrium is subdivided into two distinct chambers. This anomaly is generally attributed to the persistence of the right sinus venosus valve and it is frequently associated with severe malformations of other right heart structures. The antemortem diagnosis of the membrane may be difficult and its presence is often only established at necropsy. In a woman of 56 with Ebstein's anomaly the echocardiographic features of cor triatriatum dexter were examined before and during cardiac catheterisation. These investigations showed the position of the membrane, that there was no gradient between the two atrial chambers, and that there were perforations in the centre of the membrane. 
Impact of the availability of a prior electrocardiogram on the triage of the patient with acute chest pain STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether information from a prior electrocardiogram (ECG) improves diagnostic accuracy in the emergency department (ED) evaluation of patients with acute chest pain. DESIGN: Analysis of prospectively collected data from a cohort study. SETTING: Emergency departments of four community and three university hospitals. PATIENTS: 5,673 patients aged greater than or equal to 30 years who presented to the EDs of participating hospitals for evaluation of acute chest pain, including 772 (14%) with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After adjusting for clinical characteristics, no significant difference was found in the sensitivities of admission to the hospital or to the coronary care unit (CCU) between AMI patients with and without prior ECGs available for review. However, non-AMI patients with prior ECGs available for review were more likely to avoid CCU admission than were non-AMI patients without prior ECGs. This improvement in specificity was most marked in the 2,024 patients whose current ED ECGs had changes consistent with ischemia or infarction: when a prior ECG was available, non-AMI patients were more than twice as likely to be discharged (26% vs. 12%) and about 1.5 times as likely to avoid CCU admission (39% vs. 27%) (both p less than 0.0001). Admission rates of AMI patients with and without prior ECGs were similar. CONCLUSION: When the current ECG is consistent with ischemia or infarction, the availability of a prior ECG for comparison to determine whether the ECG changes are old or new improves diagnostic accuracy and triage decisions by reducing the admission of patients without AMI or acute ischemic heart disease (increased specificity) without reducing the admission of patients with these diagnoses (unchanged sensitivity). 
Hemodynamic and metabolic effects of dobutamine in 18 patients after open heart surgery. Low cardiac output syndrome frequently follows cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery. In the present study, we used dobutamine to increase cardiac index (CI) and oxygen delivery (DO2) in 18 patients after open heart surgery. Using increasing doses of dobutamine up to 10 micrograms/kg.min-1, we observed statistically significant (p less than .01) increases in mean CI (2.50 +/- 0.10 to 3.56 +/- 0.18 L/min.m2) and in mean heart rate (HR) (83 +/- 3 to 105 +/- 3 beat/min). Mean systemic vascular resistance index decreased significantly (p less than .01) in all patients (2271 +/- 101 to 1648 +/- 83 dyne.sec/cm5.m2). Pulmonary vascular resistance index did not change in the ten coronary artery bypass graft patients, but decreased significantly (p less than .01) in the eight valve replacement patients (561 +/- 98 to 421 +/- 79 dyne.sec/cm5.m2). Mean DO2 increased in all patients, although there was no concomitant increase in oxygen consumption (VO2) in four patients. We observed a significant (p less than .01) increase in mean VO2 in the remaining 14 patients (110 +/- 6 to 148 +/- 12 ml/min.m2), in spite of significant decreases in PaO2 and increases in right-to-left intrapulmonary shunting. Although increases in HR and ventricular arrhythmias may limit its use, dobutamine increases CI and DO2 in patients after CPB. In the present study, dobutamine's varying metabolic effect exemplifies the need for close monitoring of hemodynamic and metabolic variables when using vasoactive drugs in the postoperative period. 
Plasma fibrinogen and coronary risk factors: the Scottish Heart Health Study. Plasma fibrinogen was measured in a sample of 8824 men and women aged 40-59 years participating in the Scottish Heart Health Study, and related to cardiovascular risk factors. Women had higher fibrinogen levels than men. In both sexes, multivariate analysis showed that fibrinogen was positively associated with age, smoking, total cholesterol and body mass index and negatively associated with alcohol consumption. Among women, early menopause and systolic blood pressure were also associated with fibrinogen levels. Univariate analyses showed weak positive associations with fish consumption for both sexes although only male white fish consumption entered the final model. Women with a history of contraceptive pill usage had significantly lower fibrinogen levels. The relationship between fibrinogen and physical activity was complex, and could largely be explained by smoking. These findings support the hypothesis that raised fibrinogen is one mechanism by which several major risk factors may promote coronary heart disease. However, known risk factors explained, at most, 10% of the total variance in fibrinogen levels among the general population. 
Early and late results after isolated coronary artery bypass surgery in 159 patients aged 80 years and older. We have studied 159 patients 80 years of age or older who have had isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) since 1977. Eighty-seven percent have had surgery since 1984. Two thirds of the patients were male, and the mean age was 82 years. Most patients (97%) were in New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class III or IV, 89% had unstable/postinfarction angina pectoris, and 67% had rest pain. Almost half (47%) required preoperative admission to the coronary care unit, 6% required preoperative use of an intra-aortic balloon pump, and 20% were operated on emergently. Significant left main coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) was present in 41%. Ten patients (6.3%) died within 30 days of surgery, with seven more patients dying during the same hospital admission or soon after transfer to another institution. This resulted in an overall hospital mortality of 10.7%. The median hospital stay was 10 days. On univariate analysis, the significant predictors of hospital mortality were NYHA IV, angina at rest, preoperative admission to the coronary care unit, emergency operation, ejection fraction less than 0.50, and the presence of mitral regurgitation. On multivariate analysis, ejection fraction less than 0.50 was the only significant risk factor (p less than 0.01). Of hospital survivors, 98% have been followed for a mean of 29 months. The estimated 5-year survival (+/- SEM) of all patients was 71 +/- 4.5%, and for hospital survivors, 80 +/- 4.5%. The most important predictor of adverse survival was an ejection fraction less than 0.50. Seventy-nine percent are angina-free, and 89% are in NYHA classes I and II. The majority of patients felt that they were improved by surgery. We conclude that CABG in patients 80 years or older, although associated with increased operative risk, gives excellent relief of symptoms and good 5-year survival. Patients should not be denied CABG because of age alone. 
Natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin Data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited. To define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke, we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the Cornell Neurology Database from October 1979 to June 1985. Analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables. Twenty-five patients (36%) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin, another two (3%) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage, and a total of 10 patients (14%) had bleeding complications. No clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin. Clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time. Without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke, many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin. Our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke. Furthermore, frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome. 
Disproportionate septal hypertrophy associated with erythroblastosis fetalis. We retrospectively reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 10 newborns with erythroblastosis fetalis who were admitted to our nurseries between 1984 and 1988 and who required a double-volume exchange transfusion and neonatal intensive care. Echocardiograms were performed in the first 48 hours of life. In 5 patients, disproportionate septal hypertrophy was demonstrated; 1 additional patient had biventricular hypertrophy with a thickened septum but not disproportionate septal hypertrophy. The mean septal: left ventricular free-wall ratio for the group (n = 10) was 1.37. No correlation was apparent between the occurrence of disproportionate septal hypertrophy and newborn glucose, bilirubin, or hematocrit values. When analyzed separately, the 4 patients who did not receive intrauterine blood transfusions had a ratio of 1.73 +/- 0.21 (mean +/- SEM); this was significantly greater than the ratio in the 6 patients who were transfused in utero (1.13 +/- 0.24). In patients who underwent transfusions, there was no correlation between the number of transfusions and the septal:left ventricular ratio. This study reports a significant but previously unrecognized cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy in patients with erythroblastosis fetalis. Our data suggest a sparing effect of intrauterine fetal transfusions. The mechanism by which these transfusions may affect the hypertrophic development of the myocardium remains to be determined. 
Comparison of coronary angiographic features and oral dipyridamole thallium 201 tomography. Coronary angiography and left ventriculography is commonly used to identify those patients with incomplete infarctions and therefore, a need for revascularization. The authors compared coronary angiography and left ventriculography with thallium 201 tomography using oral dipyridamole to identify patients with potential ischemia in the infarct zone indicating viable tissue. Forty-five patients (37 men, 8 women) with acute myocardial infarctions (29 anterior, 16 inferior) who received intravenous thrombolytic therapy were studied. On the basis of the left ventriculograms, only 16 patients were judged to have residual function in the infarct zone. Six of these patients had no thallium redistribution in the infarct zone, indicating lack of residual ischemia. Of the 29 patients with no residual function in the infarct zone, 18 had redistribution in the infarct zone, suggesting residual ischemic myocardium and thus viable tissue. Among the 32 patients with open infarct vessels, 15 had no redistribution in the infarct zone, but of the remaining 13 patients with occluded infarct vessels, 9 had redistribution in the infarct zone indicating residual ischemia and thus viable tissue. The authors' data suggest that neither wall motion analysis by left ventriculography nor the angiographic status of the infarct vessel identifies those patients with residual ischemia as evidenced by thallium tomography using oral dipyridamole. 
Lung injury in a surfactant-deficient lung is modified by indomethacin. Repetitive total lung lavage in adult rabbits leads to a reproducible severe surfactant-deficient lung injury. Hypoxemia requiring mechanical ventilation occurs, accompanied by a substantial pulmonary hypertension, a large intra-alveolar protein leak, peripheral neutropenia, and pathological features of marked neutrophil infiltration with extensive hyaline membrane formation. Pretreatment with indomethacin abolishes postlavage pulmonary hypertension, preserves a slightly better lung function with higher arterial PO2, and prevents the postlavage peripheral neutropenia found in untreated animals. Pretreatment with a thromboxane A2 receptor blocker (L 655,240, Merck Frosst, Canada) also completely attenuated pulmonary hypertension, providing evidence that thromboxane A2 mediates pulmonary arterial hypertension after lung lavage. However, specific thromboxane receptor blockade had no other long-lasting beneficial effects on the ongoing injury in this model. 
Hepatic resection for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with removal of portal vein tumor thrombi. In 13 of 398 patients who underwent hepatectomy, tumor thrombi of the remnant portal vein was concomitantly removed by the balloon catheter method in 8, an open method under hepatic vascular exclusion in 1, and resection of the occlusive portal segment followed by portal reconstruction in 4. In 8 of these patients the liver was cirrhotic. The mode of hepatectomy consisted of bisegmetectomy or trisegmentectomy in 11, segmentectomy in one, and partial resection in one patient. Two patients died of portal thrombosis or hepatic failure in the hospital. The mean survival in four patients was 12 months. Seven are still alive (mean, 16 months). In the corresponding period, nine patients with occlusive tumor thrombi of the portal confluence were hospitalized without operation and survived up to 4 months (mean, 64 days) after detection of the tumoral occlusion. The causes of death of the nine patients were bleeding esophageal varices, rupture of the tumor, or hepatic failure. It was revealed that removal of tumor thrombi in the remnant portal vein contributes to (1) portal decompression, (2) feasibility of arterial embolization, and (3) increase in resectability of the main tumor. At present, this procedure might be regarded as an emergency procedure for the avoidance of the above lethal impendence, but it may open the door to an adjuvant therapy. 
Catastrophic thrombosis of porcine aortic bioprostheses. Hemodynamically critical thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position without thrombotic predisposition is rare. Two patients at our institution abruptly manifested thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position within 3 months of implantation without apparent predisposing factors. Clinicians should consider this rare but catastrophic complication in the appropriate setting. 
Preservation of regional myocardial function during coronary angioplasty with an autoperfusion balloon catheter: a case report. Echocardiographic assessment of regional myocardial function was performed during standard balloon coronary angioplasty followed by autoperfusion balloon angioplasty of a proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis. Septal and apical akinesis occurred within 60 seconds of standard balloon inflation, but regional function was well preserved during prolonged autoperfusion balloon inflation. 
Successful direct PTCA on LAD after first episode of acute myocardial infarction: does it improve cardiac function? Patients who received direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) after acute mycardial infarction and maintained potency but with unimproved cardiac function were studied. In 15 patients, the first episode of acute myocardial infarction was caused by a left anterior descending branch lesion; 11 had an ejection fraction of 50% or more in the left ventriculogram in the follow-up period (improved group), and 4 patients had ejection fraction of less than 50% (unimproved group). There was so significant difference between the groups in the mean time between the onset of infarction and revascularization (improved group, 259.3 +/- 76.9 min; unimproved group, 168.0 +/- 101.6 min) or in the sigma Q. which was the sum of the Q wave depth of V2, V3, and V4 at the time of admission (improved group, 12.1 +/- 15.6 mm; unimproved group 29.8 +/- 13.4 mm). The maximum creatine kinase concentration was significantly higher in the unimproved group (improved group 2670 +/- 893 IU/L; unimproved group, 7243 +/- 1928 IU/L, p less than 0.05), and the time taken from the onset to reach its peak was significantly shorter in the unimproved group (improved group, 13.0 +/- 5.1 hr; unimproved group, 6.8 +/- 1.3 hr, p less than 0.05.) These results suggest the probability of sudden deterioration of myocardium, and factors other than microcirculatory thromboembolism should be considered as the cause of unimproved cardiac function after successful direct PTCA. 
Traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta presenting as transient paraplegia. A patient involved in a high-speed motor vehicle accident presented paraplegic to the emergency department. He was noted to have an abnormal chest x-ray and, subsequently, underwent aortography which revealed aortic transection. The patient's paraplegia resolved spontaneously prior to definitive aortic repair hours later. Aortic rupture presenting as paraplegia is a rare association, but one an emergency physician should be cognizant of, especially in the case of blunt or decelerating trauma. 
Transesophageal echocardiography is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in the diagnosis of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. The purpose of this study was to compare transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of various types of atrial septal defects. Forty-one adult patients with the clinical diagnosis of atrial septal defect were studied by transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography (30 women, 11 men; 18 to 81 years of age). Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated the atrial septal defect in 33 patients (secundum type in 28, primum type in 3 and sinus venosus type in 2). Transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated the defect in all 41 patients. Thus, in 8 (20%) of 41 patients the atrial septal defect was demonstrated by transesophageal and not by transthoracic echocardiography. Six of the eight had a sinus venosus type atrial septal defect; the other two patients had a secundum atrial septal defect (one of these two had a technically poor transthoracic echocardiogram and the other had a small atrial septal defect). Transthoracic echocardiography, therefore, failed to demonstrate the sinus venosus defect in six (75%) of eight patients. An anomalous venous connection associated with the sinus venosus defect was visualized by transesophageal echocardiography in seven of the eight patients but was not seen on transthoracic echocardiography in any patient. Sinus venosus type atrial septal defects are frequently not visualized in adults by conventional transthoracic echocardiography. Transesophageal echocardiography is recommended when an atrial septal defect is clinically suspected but cannot be visualized by transthoracic echocardiography. 
A rare case of renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection. A report of successful surgical treatment in childhood. Renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection in an 8-year-old girl with aortic valvular stenosis is presented. A splenorenal arterial anastomosis without splenectomy was successfully performed. This procedure is considered best suited for children with thoracoabdominal aortic dissection as the autogenous graft is expected to grow and provide long-term patency. The spleen left in situ was expected to be advantageous, from the immunological aspect, at the time of open heart surgery for aortic valvular stenosis, which was anticipated in the near future in this child. 
Reentrant ventricular arrhythmias in the late myocardial infarction period: mechanism by which a short-long-short cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of reentry. The electrophysiological mechanism by which a short-long-short stimulated cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmia was investigated in dogs 4 days after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. In these dogs, reentry develops in the surviving electrophysiologically abnormal epicardial layer that overlies the infarct zone when premature stimulation results in a critically long arc of functional conduction block. The activation wavefront circulates around both ends of the arc, coalesces, and conducts slowly distal to the arc before reactivating sites proximal to the arc to initiate a figure-eight reentrant circuit. Epicardial isochronal activation maps and effective refractory periods (ERPs) were determined during three different stimulation protocols: A, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec followed by a single premature stimulus (S2); B, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec with abrupt lengthening of the last cycle of the train before S2 to 600 msec; C, a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 600 msec followed by S2. Protocol B was found to result in a differential lengthening of ERP at adjacent sites within the border of the epicardial ischemic zone, whereas protocols A and C induced, respectively, comparable shortening and lengthening of ERPs at the same sites. The differential lengthening of ERPs at adjacent sites resulted in an increased dispersion of refractoriness so that a premature stimulus induced functional conduction block between those sites. The development of a longer arc of conduction block and, hence, a longer reentrant pathway as well as slower conduction of the circulating wavefront during protocol B allowed more time for refractoriness to expire proximal to the arc and for the circulating wavefront to reexcite those sites to initiate reentry. The lengthening of ERP, associated with a single long cycle (protocol B), ranged from 44% to 79% of the total increase in ERP after a series of eight long cycles (protocol C). Epicardial sites with longer ERPs located close to the center of the ischemic zone showed more lengthening of refractoriness during protocol B compared with more normal sites near the border of the ischemic zone. This strongly suggests that the increased dispersion of refractoriness during protocol B is caused by the shorter memory of ischemic myocardium to the cumulative effects of preceding cycle lengths. 
Calcium channel blockers in geriatric hypertension. Though the calcium channel blockers have been used to treat angina pectoris for almost a decade, the long-acting forms of these agents that have become available in the last few years have made them practical for use as antihypertensive agents as well. They are becoming increasingly popular in this role, especially to treat elderly hypertensive patients. Because they are vasodilators with a mild diuretic action, they are logical treatment choices for the majority of hypertensive patients who have increased peripheral vascular resistance. They offer the advantage of a dual benefit for hypertensive patients with angina, and they have no effect on carbohydrate or lipid metabolism. Disadvantages include cost and a side effect profile that includes headaches, palpitations, ankle edema, and constipation. 
Neonatal calves develop airflow limitation due to chronic hypobaric hypoxia. Neonates and infants presenting with pulmonary hypertension and chronic hypoxia often exhibit airway obstruction. To investigate this association, we utilized a system in which neonatal calves are exposed to chronic hypobaric hypoxia and develop severe pulmonary hypertension. For the present study, one of each pair of six age-matched pairs of neonatal calves was continuously exposed to hypobaric hypoxia at 4,500 m (CH); the other remained at 1,500 m. At 2 wk of age, mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP), dynamic lung compliance (Cdyn), resistance (RL), and static respiratory system compliance (Crs) were measured at 4,500 m in both CH and control calves exposed acutely to hypoxia (C). These measurements were repeated after cumulative administrations of nebulized methacholine (MCh). Tissues were removed for histological examination and assessment of bronchial ring contractility to MCh and KCl. After 2 wk of hypobaric hypoxia, MPAP (C 35 +/- 1.7 vs. CH 120 +/- 7 mmHg, P less than 0.001) and RL (C 2.64 +/- 0.16 vs CH 4.99 +/- 0.47 cmH2O.l-1s, P less than 0.001) increased. Cdyn (C 0.100 +/- 0.01 vs. CH 0.082 +/- 0.007 l/cmH2O) and Crs (CH 0.46 +/- 0.003 vs. C 0.59 +/- 0.009 l/cmH2O) were not significantly different. Compared with airways of C calves, airways of CH animals did not exhibit in vivo or in vitro MCh hyperresponsiveness; however, in vitro contractility to KCl of airways from CH animals was significantly increased. Histologically, airways from the CH calves showed increases in airway fibrous tissue and smooth muscle. 
Rash after treatment with anistreplase. A palpable purpura developed on the legs and lower abdomen of a woman of 54 five days after she was treated with anistreplase anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (APSAC) for an acute myocardial infarction. Histological examination of a skin biopsy specimen taken 6 days after treatment showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis. The rash resolved within two weeks and there were no other complications. 
Detection of Coxsackievirus B3 RNA in myocardial tissues by the polymerase chain reaction. Coxsackievirus B3 is a possible etiologic agent in some forms of myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. A method for the detection of coxsackievirus B3 RNA was developed using the polymerase chain reaction based on the amplification of a cDNA copy of the positive-strand viral RNA. The fidelity of the method was established in two murine models for coxsackie B3 myocarditis. All cardiac specimens with adequate RNA for study from coxsackie B3-infected mice contained detectable viral RNA, in contrast to none of control specimens from noninfected mice. The sensitivity of the technique was established at approximately 1 to 100 plaque-forming units of virus per gram of tissue, and the specificity was established as limited to the coxsackievirus B3 serotype among nine viruses tested. In patients with myocarditis, one of five specimens contained detectable viral RNA, whereas none of 11 specimens from patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or 21 myocardial specimens from patients with a wide variety of other cardiac disorders contained detectable coxsackie B3 viral RNA. The results show that the polymerase chain reaction is a useful means for detecting coxsackie viral RNA and its application should help in the evaluation of hypotheses concerning the infectious etiology of human myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. 
A new single catheter technique for simultaneous measurement of action potential duration and refractory period in vivo. In vivo correlations of action potential duration measured by a monophasic action potential catheter and effective refractory period measured by a separate pacing catheter have been poor, probably because of the known variability of both action potential duration and effective refractory period between different ventricular sites. In this study, a new quadripolar contact electrode catheter designed for simultaneous pacing and monophasic action potential recording at closely adjacent sites (2 mm separation between recording electrodes and pacing electrodes) was tested in five closed chest dogs and four patients. Dog studies: Pacing thresholds were extremely low, ranging from 0.02 to 0.25 mA (mean +/- SD 0.099 +/- 0.051, n = 36) and were stable over time (less than 20% increase during 1 h of continuous pacing). Because of the close proximity of pacing and recording electrodes, the pacing artifact nearly coincided with the monophasic action potential upstroke. Because of the low pacing threshold, however, pacing artifacts were small (33 +/- 17% of the monophasic action potential amplitude at twice diastolic threshold strength) and did not affect the duration or configuration of the simultaneously recorded monophasic action potential. The short stimulus response time and the undisturbed monophasic action potential signal fidelity during pacing allowed precise simultaneous measurements of action potential duration and effective refractory period at the same endocardial site. 
Oscillometric finger blood pressure versus brachial auscultative blood pressure recording. In this study, a recently marketed proprietary finger blood pressure monitor, the Marshall, Astro F-88, was compared with the standard auscultative brachial mercury sphygmomanometer on 125 subjects. Measurements were undertaken according to the standards set by the American Heart Association. Sensitivity of the finger blood pressure measurement was 76% for systolic and 75% for diastolic blood pressure in diagnosis of high blood pressure (systolic greater than 140 mm Hg and diastolic greater than 90 mm Hg). Specificity was 86% for systolic and 82% for diastolic blood pressure. Positive predictive values were 58% for systolic and 38% for diastolic blood pressure in the study population in which prevalence of hypertension was 12%. The correlation coefficient (Pearson) for systolic values between devices was 0.76 (P less than .0001) and 0.57 (P less than .0001) for diastolic pressure. Values obtained by the finger monitor were found to be higher than those obtained by the mercury sphygmomanometer. Mean differences and standard deviations (paired t test) for systolic and diastolic pressures between the two devices were 2.3 +/- 14.9 mm Hg (P less than .08) and 2.9 +/- 14.5 mm Hg (P less than .02), respectively. These values are not in accordance with the proposed national standards because only 48% of the systolic and 37% of the diastolic blood pressure measurements were within 5 mm Hg of the mercury sphygmomanometer measurements. Therefore, although these differences may well be due to different techniques of monitoring employed by the devices, this device is not recommended for evaluation of blood pressure. 
Hemodynamic consequences of carotid-carotid bypass for innominate artery stenosis. The carotid-carotid cervical bypass is one surgical option for symptomatic atherosclerotic lesions of the innominate artery. Controversy exists regarding the necessity of surgically excluding the innominate plaque from the cerebral circuit. A canine study was instituted to characterize the hemodynamic alterations that occur in the right common carotid artery proximal to the bypass graft, termed the critical segment. The direction of flow in the critical segment determines whether emboli originating in the innominate may be propelled cranially despite a patent bypass graft. Six mongrel dogs underwent placement of an autogenous arterial crossover graft as a carotid-carotid bypass. A stenosis of the innominate artery was quantitatively altered, and an electromagnetic flowmeter measured the magnitude and direction of flow in the critical segment at three levels of diameter reduction in the innominate artery. For low-grade stenoses, flow in the critical segment was always prograde. For high-grade stenoses, the flow was always reversed. Stenoses between 57% and 67% yielded flow values of 10 +/- 24 ml/min, and it was in this range that mean flow reversal was found to occur. Even when the mean flow was near zero in the critical segment, flow was not stagnant but oscillated in antegrade and retrograde directions throughout the cardiac cycle. These data indicate that a carotid-carotid bypass causes complete flow reversal in the critical segment when there is high-grade stenosis in the innominate artery. Theoretical analysis of the hemodynamic circuit indicated that arm exercise would augment retrograde flow in the critical segment. 
The "all-autogenous" tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned. In 33% of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for limb-threatening ischemia (mean preoperative ankle-arm index [AAI] = 0.26), no suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible. In 40% of cases, intraoperative pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial or pedal artery. The results of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and autogenous bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years. After 1 year, patency was 85% and 67% for autogenous and PTFE bypasses, respectively. Limb salvage was 90% for autogenous bypass and 70% for PTFE bypass. Cumulative patency rates at 3 years were 80% for autogenous and 57% for PTFE grafts. Graft surveillance with duplex scanning and AAI was valuable in detecting failing grafts. For both types of reconstruction, secondary procedures were required to maintain patency. We attribute the excellent results with PTFE in part to long-term aspirin and warfarin therapy. In cases of combined superficial femoral and severe infra-popliteal occlusive disease, PTFE bypass is an excellent alternative when no autogenous conduit is available. 
Repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis: cardiovascular morphometric and hemodynamic results. Supravalvar aortic stenosis is associated with normal systolic pressure in the aorta and its branches with the singular exception of the coronary arteries, which are hypertensive. This uncommon lesion has been treated by patch aortoplasty of several types. We examined hemodynamics and morphometrics in 13 patients who underwent operation for supravalvar aortic stenosis from 1979 through 1988. They ranged in age from 2 to 43 years (mean age, 14.5 +/- 3.8 years [+/- standard error of the mean]). There were no operative deaths. Preoperative and postoperative (1 to 5 years) catheterization or echocardiography or a combination of these was done in all but 3 patients (1 died late suddenly without a postmortem examination; 1 was lost to follow-up; and 1 has not yet been restudied). Pressure gradients across the stenosis in patients treated with a single-sinus patch (n = 4) were 65 +/- 18 mm Hg preoperatively and 5 +/- 3 mm Hg postoperatively (p less than 0.05) and in patients with a bisinus patch (n = 6), 83 +/- 15 mm Hg preoperatively and 6 +/- 2 mm Hg postoperatively (p less than 0.05); the two groups were not significantly different. Measurements of the diameters of the coronary arteries, aortic annulus, and descending aorta were made, and calculation of the ratio of the coronary artery and annulus diameters to the descending aortic diameters both preoperatively and postoperatively was possible in 5 patients. The left coronary artery was larger than normal before and after operation. Preoperatively there was a disproportionate increase in left coronary artery and annulus size during systole. Left ventricular wall thickness decreased significantly postoperatively (p less than 0.05). Repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis (localized and diffuse) by both single sinus and bisinus patch repair is safe and hemodynamic results are good. 
A 47-kDa human nuclear protein recognized by antikinetochore autoimmune sera is homologous with the protein encoded by RCC1, a gene implicated in onset of chromosome condensation. Several autoimmune sera from patients with Raynaud phenomenon decorated mammalian kinetochores and bound to a 47-kDa protein on immunoblots of nuclear lysates. Antibody affinity-purified from immunoblots of the 47-kDa band recognized kinetochores, but due to crossreaction with an 18-kDa protein, localization remains elusive. We used one of these sera to purify the antigen from HeLa cells synchronized in mitosis as a noncovalent complex with a 25-kDa protein. The antigen was released from DNA by intercalation with 25 mM chloroquine. Ion-exchange chromatography yielded the pure complex with an apparent molecular size of 68 kDa, which was separated into its components by gel filtration in 6 M guanidinium chloride. Upon two-dimensional gel electrophoresis the 47-kDa protein gave two main spots of pI 6.6 and 6.7, respectively. Posttranslational modification is indicated by additional antigenic spots, by lack of a free alpha-amino group, and by chromatographic behavior of peptides on reversed-phase chromatography. The amino acid sequence for 205 residues of the 47-kDa protein has been established. This sequence is highly homologous with the translated reading frame of RCC1, a gene reportedly involved in regulating onset of mammalian chromosome condensation. 
Suggested standards for reporting on arterial aneurysms. Subcommittee on Reporting Standards for Arterial Aneurysms, Ad Hoc Committee on Reporting Standards, Society for Vascular Surgery and North American Chapter, International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery. The literature on arterial aneurysms is subject to potential misinterpretation because of inconsistencies in reporting standards. The joint councils of the Society for Vascular Surgery and the North American Chapter of the International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery appointed an ad hoc committee to address this issue. This communication, prepared in response to the need for standardized reporting, defines and classifies arterial aneurysms and recommends standards for describing the causes, manifestations, treatment, and outcome criteria that are important when publishing data on aneurysmal disease. 
Mortality in hereditary antithrombin-III deficiency--1830 to 1989 To determine whether antithrombin-III (AT-III) deficiency leads to an excess mortality, we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency. 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of AT-III concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns. 98 individuals had a high probability (0.5) of deficiency. The 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age, sex, and calendar period. We suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with AT-III deficiency cannot be recommended. 
Microalbuminuria in essential hypertension. Clinically apparent proteinuria in essential hypertension is associated with increased cardiovascular and total mortality and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. Subclinical elevation of urinary albumin excretion is seen more frequently than clinical proteinuria in essential hypertension and the levels of microalbuminuria (excretions of 30 to 300 mg/24 h) correlate with blood pressure. The increased urinary albumin excretion in hypertension may be explained by several factors such as renal hemodynamic changes, permselectivity changes of the glomerular filter, and structural arteriolar and glomerular changes due to nephrosclerosis. It has been clearly demonstrated that microalbuminuria is a risk factor for the development of clinical proteinuria, renal failure and increased cardiovascular mortality in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. It is still not known whether microalbuminuria also predicts development of proteinuria and decline in renal function in hypertension but there is some evidence indicating that microalbuminuria may be a marker of increased cardiovascular risk in hypertensives. 
Longitudinal dissociation of atrioventricular accessory pathways. Unusual properties of atrioventricular (AV) accessory pathways were found during electrophysiologic investigations in four patients (three men and one woman). Anterograde longitudinal dissociation of the accessory pathway was observed in two patients and retrograde longitudinal dissociation in two others. Two patients had an accessory pathway with a slow conduction time, one in anterograde direction and one in retrograde direction. These observations further expand our knowledge of the spectrum of electrophysiologic properties of accessory AV pathways. 
Hemopump ventricular support for patients undergoing high risk coronary angioplasty. Prophylactic implantation of a Hemopump (Johnson and Johnson, Skillman, NJ) has been evaluated in nine patients selected for high risk coronary angioplasty. They were unstable patients, refractory to maximal pharmacology, with indications for revascularization, but contraindications for surgery such as low ejection fraction and lack of material for bypass. In all, the target lesion was located on the last patent vessel. The pump was inserted under local anesthesia, without any graft. A specially designed occluder permitted avoidance of retrograde bleeding during implantation. The bypass flow ranged from 2.5 to 3.2 L/min, and permitted a rise in cardiac index from 2.05 to 2.55 L/min/m2, with a drop in capillary wedge pressure from 13 (7-18) to 10 (7-13) mmHg. During balloon inflation, no electrocardiographic changes were observed, because only minor ventricular arrhythmias occurred. No significant hemolysis was seen (plasma free hemoglobin less than 10 mg/dl in all) after 2 hr of pumping. The only limitation of the technique appears to be difficulty at the time of implantation from narrow, stenosed, or tortuous iliofemoral arteries (3 patients). This experience strongly supports the benefit of temporary left ventricular Hemopump support in high-risk situations and clearly shows the need for a smaller pump. 
Regression of infundibular pulmonary stenosis after successful balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in adults. Between July 1985 and March 1988, 22 adult patients with congenital pulmonary stenosis underwent balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty. There were 10 males and 12 females aged 16-45 (average 25 +/- 9.9) years. All patients had additional mild to severe infundibular stenosis; 16 were restudied 6-36 (mean 12.6) months later by repeat catheterization. Student's t-test was used for comparison of data. Right ventricular (RV) systolic pressure before dilatation was 84-196 (mean 129 +/- 32.3) mm Hg, and the peak pulmonary gradient (PPG) was 60-176 (mean 111 +/- 33.2) mm Hg immediately after dilatation. The RV systolic pressure dropped to 32-140 (mean 59.2 +/- 27) (P less than 0.001); and PPG dropped to 10-113 (mean 37.8 +/- 26.4) (P less than 0.001), and the infundibular gradient ranged from 8 to 113 (mean 35.1 +/- 25.8) mm Hg. The infundibular diameter, before dilatation, ranged from 2 to 15 (mean 9.5 +/- 4) mm Hg. At repeat catheterization, the RV systolic pressure dropped further to 33-66 (mean 42.8 +/- 9.7) mm Hg and the PPG was reduced to 0-48 (mean 18.4 +/- 10.9) mm Hg (P less than 0.001). The infundibular gradient regressed to 0-34 (mean 15 +/- 8.8) mm Hg (P less than 0.001). The infundibular diameter increased to 8-25 (mean 15.8 +/- 5.4) (P less than 0.001). It is concluded that moderate to severe infundibular stenosis, in adults, can regress after successful pulmonary valvuloplasty. 
Erythrocyte fatty acids, plasma lipids, and cardiovascular disease in rural China. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality (coronary heart disease, hypertensive heart disease, and stroke), plasma lipids, and red blood cell fatty acid composition were examined in an ecologic study in 65 rural counties in the People's Republic of China. Means of plasma total cholesterol, triglyceride, low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentrations were substantially lower and the ratio of HDL cholesterol to total cholesterol was higher in this Chinese population than in Western populations. Mortality rates for CVD in China were well below Western values. Within China neither plasma total cholesterol nor LDL cholesterol was associated with CVD. A strong inverse correlation between red blood cell oleate concentrations and CVD was observed. However, red blood cell oleate concentrations were not associated with plasma cholesterol but were strongly negatively associated with arachidonate concentrations, suggesting potential diminution of CVD by oleate through reduced platelet aggregability. The results indicate that geographical differences in CVD mortality within China are caused primarily by factors other than dietary or plasma cholesterol. 
Effect of propranolol on endothelin-induced increase in cytosolic free calcium. This study was designed to investigate the effect of propranolol on endothelin (ET)-1-induced increase in cytosolic Ca2+ [( CA2+]i) in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) obtained from rat aorta. Propranolol (0.01 to 1 mmol/L) reduced the changes in the initial transient and the later sustained phase of [Ca2+]i induced by 100 nmol/L ET-1 as well as 10 mmol/L procaine. The inhibitory action of propranolol on the change in [Ca2+]i induced by ET-1 may be involved in one of the mechanisms of propranolol-induced reduction of vasospasms. 
Acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy with cerebral involvement. In a patient with angiographically proven cerebral vasculitis five months after acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy (APMPPE) neurological symptoms promptly responded to steroid treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a lymphocytic pleocytosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multifocal white matter lesions in the hemispheres and the brain stem suggesting a diffuse subcortical vasculitis. 
Correction of metabolic acidosis in experimental CPR: a comparative study of sodium bicarbonate, carbicarb, and dextrose. STUDY OBJECTIVE: Carbicarb, sodium bicarbonate, and 5% dextrose were compared for effects on resuscitability in a canine model of electromechanical dissociation after ventricular fibrillation. DESIGN/INTERVENTIONS: 21 healthy mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital, intubated, and mechanically supported. They were instrumented to measure heart rate, arterial pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, right atrial pressure, cardiac output, and arterial and mixed venous blood gases. The dogs were then subjected to a protocol that consisted of three successive CPR episodes. During each episode they were treated with repeated injections of one of the three substances, randomly chosen. After two minutes of ventricular fibrillation and four minutes of electromechanical dissociation, CPR was started with a thumper (rate, 60; duty cycle, 50%). If recovery was not obtained after five minutes of CPR, 1 mEq/kg carbicarb or sodium bicarbonate or 5 mL D5W was injected in the right atrium. Half the dose of the same substance was injected every five minutes thereafter; 1 mg epinephrine was also injected every five minutes until recovery. Hemodynamic and gasometric evaluations were performed five and 20 minutes after recovery. This later evaluation served as baseline for the next CPR episode. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The duration and success rates of CPR are similar in the three CPR groups. Hemodynamic parameters were also similar during recovery. Bicarbicarb and sodium bicarbonate increased bicarbonate levels and corrected pH in the arterial and mixed venous blood. There was no difference in the blood gas values after carbicarb and sodium bicarbonate. CONCLUSION: In this model of cardiac arrest, carbicarb was not superior to sodium bicarbonate in the correction of metabolic acidosis during CPR. 
Future directions in vasodilator therapy for heart failure. Vasodilator therapy has become a major pharmacologic approach for improving left ventricular function, and consequently, vasodilator drugs are being used increasingly in the treatment of heart failure. Ideally, vasodilator drugs used in the long-term management of heart failure should show clearly defined pharmacodynamic effects. These include reduced impedance to left ventricular ejection, increased venous capacitance, increased left ventricular ejection fraction and reduced heart size, absence of neurohormonal stimulation, and slowed progression of left ventricular dysfunction. The mechanisms of action and sites of activity of the various vasodilator drugs currently available vary considerably, and none as yet has proved ideal for the treatment of heart failure or hypertension. The complexity surrounding the multiple vasoconstrictor mechanisms involved in heart failure has led to a rationale for combined vasodilator therapy and certain combinations are discussed. From a therapeutic standpoint, the development of drugs with multiple mechanisms of action is particularly attractive. Flosequinan is a new vasodilator agent whose cellular mechanism of action remains uncertain. Flosequinan has the advantage of being able to relax both arterial and venous beds and as such may be particularly beneficial in the treatment of heart failure. 
Left ventricular asynchrony: an indicator of regional myocardial dysfunction. There is a marked heterogeneity of myocardial wall thickening within the left ventricle and among different individuals. It is therefore difficult to detect regional myocardial dysfunction from absolute values of systolic wall thickening. We tested whether the extent of left ventricular asynchrony during ischemia and reperfusion can be used to quantify the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction when nonischemic baseline function is not known. In six anesthetized, open-chest dogs regional myocardial wall thickness was measured by means of sonomicrometry under control conditions, at three degrees of ischemic dysfunction (mild, moderate, and severe), and after release of a 15-minute occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery, when degrees of moderate and mild reperfusion dysfunction similar to the preceding ischemic dysfunction were present. Two indexes of left ventricular asynchrony were calculated: (1) postejection thickening (PET) and (2) the phase difference of the first Fourier harmonic of posterior versus anterior myocardial wall motion (PD). Systolic myocardial wall thickening was decreased from 15.3 +/- 3.1 (standard deviation) % (control value) to 9.7 +/- 1.4% (mild ischemia), 4.2 +/- 1.6% (moderate ischemia), and -3.7 +/- 3.1% (severe ischemia). Conversely PET increased from 0.02 +/- 0.04 mm (control value) to 0.15 +/- 0.22 mm (mild ischemia), 0.19 +/- 0.15 mm (moderate ischemia), and 0.50 +/- 0.26 mm (severe ischemia). PD increased from 9 +/- 28 degrees (control value) to 22 +/- 19 degrees (mild ischemia), 54 +/- 18 degrees (moderate ischemia), and 107 +/- 21 degrees (severe ischemia). After release of the 15-minute left circumflex coronary artery occlusion, PET and PD recovered to 0.34 +/- 0.19 mm and 36 +/- 24 degrees (moderate dysfunction) and 0.25 +/- 0.31 mm and 29 +/- 8 degrees (mild dysfunction), respectively. There were inverse linear relationships between systolic wall thickening and PET (r = -0.86, p less than 0.001) and between systolic wall thickening and PD (r = -0.87, p less than 0.001). Inotropic stimulation by postextrasystolic potentiation increased regional systolic myocardial posterior and anterior wall thickening but did not alter the extent of left ventricular asynchrony. Thus, when normal baseline function is not known, the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction at a given inotropic state can be determined by analysis of left ventricular asynchrony. There was no significant correlation between the extent of PET and PD during ischemia and at early reperfusion and the recovery of contractile function at late reperfusion. Thus PET does not provide a prospective marker for the functional outcome of reperfusion. 
Postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly. The role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established. Between November 1985 and July 1989, 18 patients 65 years of age or older (mean age, 71 years; range, 65 to 82 years) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device. This group comprised 1.9% of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69% of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval. Before institution of mechanical support, all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted. Univentricular support was used in 9 patients (6 left, 3 right) and biventricular support in 9 patients. The mean duration of support was 45 hours (range, 8 to 118 hours). Twelve patients (67%) were successfully weaned, 8 (44%) were discharged from the hospital, and 6 (33%) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively. Four of the 6 survivors are in New York Heart Association class I, 1 is in class II, and 1 is in class IV. The Combined Registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12% in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6% in those older than 70 years. Our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly. 
Pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension: prevalence and relation to splanchnic hemodynamics. The prevalence of pulmonary hypertension in 507 patients hospitalized with portal hypertension but without known pulmonary hypertension who underwent cardiac catheterization was prospectively studied. Ten (2%) of these patients, 6 of whom were clinically asymptomatic, had primary pulmonary hypertension. Second, 26 patients with symptomatic pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension were reviewed. Pulmonary hypertension occurred later after diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with a surgical shunt (10 patients) than in those without a shunt (147 +/- 49 vs. 44 +/- 27 months; P less than 0.0001). Cardiac index correlated inversely with pulmonary arterial pressure (r = -0.45; P less than 0.01) and was lower in the 5 patients who died of pulmonary hypertension than in the 5 who died of liver failure (1.52 +/- 0.14 vs. 3.69 +/- 1.88 L/min.m2; P less than 0.05). Third, systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics were compared in 285 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 29 controls. No significant relation was found between elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased portal pressure, zzygos blood flow, or cardiac index. Pulmonary hypertension is considerably more frequent than was previously estimated in patients with portal hypertension. The risk of developing pulmonary hypertension could increase with the duration of portal hypertension without any clear relation to the degree of portal hypertension, hepatic failure, or amount of blood shunted. 
Surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person, presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition. For this reason, patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically. Since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (nine women and two men, mean age 73 years) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy. Nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage, which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times, the frontal lobes four times, the temporal lobes four times, and the occipital lobes twice. These nine patients underwent hematoma removal, with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage. Six patients improved neurologically, and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period. During follow-up in seven patients (median 11 months, range 1 week to 74 months) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve. Two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia, also without surgical complications. This series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures, and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma. 
Left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis. An unusual case of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented. Echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color Doppler test. Emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient's preoperative course. Surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence. 
An analysis of randomized trials evaluating the effect of cholesterol reduction on total mortality and coronary heart disease incidence. The primary aim of this study was to estimate the relation between cholesterol reduction and total mortality and coronary heart disease (CHD) incidence. Secondarily, the clinical issues of whether the efficacy of cholesterol lowering is dependent on the treatment modality, presence of CHD at baseline, or the simultaneous introduction of other interventions was explored. All randomized clinical intervention trials of cholesterol reduction were used in an overview analysis of total mortality rate and CHD incidence; analysis was performed with weighted linear regression. The trials include those that used primary and secondary intervention, diet and drugs, and single or multifactor design. Nineteen trials were analyzed for total mortality, and of the 19, 16 were analyzed for CHD incidence rate. Net difference in cholesterol change between study groups was used as the independent variable, and the three previously mentioned dichotomous design characteristics were used as additional independent variables. For every 1% reduction in cholesterol, an estimated 2.5% reduction in CHD incidence is indicated (95% CL: 1.1, 3.9). With regard to CHD drug trials tended toward better efficiency in cholesterol lowering than did dietary trials. With regard to total mortality, this efficiency was higher in secondary than in primary preventive trials. The efficiency was also somewhat dependent on the baseline cholesterol level. This study shows that cholesterol reduction is effective in lowering CHD incidence, but cholesterol reduction must be at least 8-9% to be effective in lowering total mortality. 
Elderly patients with congestive heart failure under prepaid care. PURPOSE: Because of concern about the quality of care received by Medicare patients in health maintenance organizations (HMOs), the care of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) in eight HMOs was compared with the care of fee-for-service (FFS) Medicare cases. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We compared the care of 170 patients with CHF enrolled in one of eight Medicare HMOs with the care of 191 similar FFS patients. Panels of expert physicians developed criteria for evaluating quality of care, and specially trained nurse clinicians abstracted medical records. RESULTS: Outpatient evaluation and management were similar in both settings, although HMO patients were significantly more likely to be advised to restrict salt intake. However, FFS patients with uncontrolled hypertension were more likely to have their medication regimens changed (62% versus 36%, p less than 0.01). Ejection fractions were obtained equally as often, and inpatient management was similar for both groups. Nonetheless, HMO providers scheduled follow-up visits within 1 week of hospital discharge more often (42% versus 27%, p less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that financial incentives of prepaid care are not detrimental to most aspects of care for CHF patients. More rapid follow-up after hospital discharge for patients with CHF suggests that HMOs may be more effective in delivering continuity of care for patients with chronic illness. 
Phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle. Phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations (15 to 40 micrograms/mL serum) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages. Although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial, phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles. In this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles. At anticonvulsant dosage, phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure. This phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis, and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis. Phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow, with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure. 
Long-term follow-up of medical versus surgical therapy for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a retrospective study In a retrospective analysis 139 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were followed up for 8.9 years (range 1 to 28 years). Patients were divided into two groups: Group 1 consisted of 60 patients with medical therapy and Group 2 of 79 patients with surgical therapy (septal myectomy). Groups 1 and 2 were subdivided according to the medical treatment. Group 1a received propranolol, 160 mg/day (n = 20); Group 1b verapamil, 360 mg/day (n = 18); and Group 1c, no therapy (n = 22). Group 2a received verapamil, 120 to 360 mg/day, after septal myectomy (n = 17) and Group 2b had no medical therapy after surgery (n = 62). In Group 1, 19 patients died (annual mortality rate 3.6%) and in Group 2, 17 patients died (mortality rate 2.4%, p = NS). Of the patients who died, approximately one half to two thirds in both Groups 1 and 2 died suddenly and the other one half to one third died because of congestive heart failure. The 10 year cumulative survival rate was 67% in Group 1, significantly smaller than that in Group 2 (84%, p less than 0.05). In the subgroups, the 10 year survival rate was 67% in Group 1a, 80% in 1b (p less than 0.05 versus 1a) and 65% in 1c (p less than 0.05 versus 1b). The 10 year survival rate was 100% in Group 2a (p less than 0.05 versus 1a, 1b, 1c) and 78% in Group 2b (p less than 0.05 versus 2a). It is concluded that cumulative survival rate is significantly better in surgically than in medically treated patients. 
Effect of diltiazem and thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitor (OKY-046) on vessels following experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. In order to examine the functional changes in the vascular smooth muscle, the effects of a thromboxane A2 synthetase inhibitor (OKY-046) and a calcium channel blocker (diltiazem) on vessels following subarachnoid hemorrhage, and the contractile activity of cerebral vessels with various vasoactive agents, were investigated by studying isometric tension recordings in rings of cat basilar artery. The maximum contractile activities of the vessels in response to noradrenalin and adrenaline during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage were significantly less than those in the control group. On the other hand, the maximum contractile activity of the vessels in response to prostaglandin F2 alpha on the seventh day following subarachnoid hemorrhage was significantly augmented compared with that in the control group. A significant decline in the relaxation of responsiveness to diltiazem during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage was observed compared with that of diltiazem in the control group. This responsiveness to vasoactive agents was not influenced by the application of OKY-046. The present study reveals functional changes in vascular smooth muscle exposed to subarachnoid hemorrhage in response to vasoactive agents and a calcium entry blocker. Thromboxane A2 may not be a significantly influential factor in the present results. It is suggested that cerebral vasospasm may well be related to functional changes of the arterial wall, which appear to be associated with derangement of the mechanisms of smooth muscle constriction and dilatation based on organic changes. 
Nonuniform regional deformation of the pericardium during the cardiac cycle in dogs. We hypothesized that local contact forces between the pericardium and the heart cause regional variation in pericardial deformation during the cardiac cycle, reflecting volume changes of the underlying cardiac chambers. To test this, we measured regional pericardial area over the right atrium (RA) and right ventricle (RV) with orthogonal pairs of sonomicrometers in six open-chest dogs. At a left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 5 mm Hg, RV pericardial area paralleled RV volume, that is, shrinkage during ejection by 10 +/- 8% and expansion during filling. RA pericardial area was reciprocally related to RV pericardial area, with average expansion during ventricular ejection of 2 +/- 2%, thus paralleling RA volume during RV ejection. With volume loading, RV pericardial shrinkage during ejection increased to 14 +/- 6%, but the RA pericardial area change was no longer reciprocal (0 +/- 3% change during RV ejection). Elimination of contact forces by cardiac tamponade resulted in both marked attenuation of RV pericardial area changes and synchronization of the RV and RA pericardial area pattern; that is, both shrank during RV ejection. In two additional dogs, measurement of pericardial area over left ventricle and atrium showed similar results. We conclude that dynamic pericardial contact forces cause regional variation in pericardial deformation, which reflects volume changes of the underlying chambers. These findings imply that the influence of the pericardium on filling and ejection may be more complex than previously recognized, varying both by chamber and dynamically over the course of the cardiac cycle. 
Sympathovagal interaction during mental stress. A study using spectral analysis of heart rate variability in healthy control subjects and patients with a prior myocardial infarction. We tested the hypothesis that psychological stress testing in the clinical laboratory provokes changes in the sympathetic and vagal activities regulating heart rate that can be assessed noninvasively using spectral analysis of RR variability. To account for the effects on respiration produced by talking, this study was performed with two different procedures: the I.K.T. (i.e., a computer-controlled mental task that is performed in silence and does not entail human confrontation) and a stressful interview. Finally, we assessed whether ischemic heart disease modifies the spectral changes induced by psychological stress by comparing a group of healthy subjects (age, 38 +/- 2 years) with a group of patients (age, 52 +/- 3 years) recovering from 1-month-old myocardial infarctions. The findings indicate that psychological stress induced marked changes in the sympathovagal balance, which moved toward sympathetic predominance. The low-frequency component of RR variability, a marker of sympathetic activity, increased from 58 +/- 5 normalized units (NU) to 68 +/- 3 NU with the I.K.T. and to 76 +/- 3 NU with the interview. This increase was absent in the group of post-myocardial infarction patients. However, arterial pressure increased significantly in both groups of subjects. The possibility of age playing an important role in determining the differences observed was disproved by the findings of a marked increase in low frequency with mental stimuli in an additional group of borderline hypertensive subjects with ages (55 +/- 2 years) comparable to those of post-myocardial infarction patients. 
Digoxin Immune Fab therapy in the management of digitalis intoxication: safety and efficacy results of an observational surveillance study. An observational surveillance study was conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with Digoxin Immune Fab (Ovine) (Digibind) in patients with digitalis intoxication. Before April 1986, a relatively limited number of patients received treatment with digoxin-specific Fab fragments through a multicenter clinical trial. Beginning with commercial availability in July 1986, this study sought additional, voluntarily reported clinical data pertaining to treatment through a 3 week follow-up. The study included 717 adults who received Digoxin Immune Fab (Ovine). Most patients were greater than or equal to 70 years old and developed toxicity during maintenance dosing with digoxin. Fifty percent of patients were reported to have a complete response to treatment, 24% a partial response and 12% no response. The response for 14% of patients was not reported or reported as uncertain. Six patients (0.8%, 95% confidence interval 0.3% to 1.8%) had an allergic reaction to digoxin-specific antibody fragments. Three of the six had a history of allergy to antibiotic drugs. Twenty patients (2.8%, 95% confidence interval 1.7% to 4.3%) developed recrudescent toxicity. Risk of recrudescent toxicity increased sixfold when less than 50% of the estimated dose of antibody was administered. A total of 215 patients experienced posttreatment adverse events. The events for 163 patients (76%) were judged to result from manifestations of underlying disease and thus considered unrelated to Fab treatment. Digoxin-specific antibody fragments were generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients judged by treating physicians to have potentially life-threatening digitalis intoxication. 
Salt and hypertension--future directions. The comments that follow reflect the personal views of this author regarding some useful directions of research in the field of salt and hypertension. From a physiological perspective, salt sensitivity is defined, and the merits and limitations of certain animal models of hypertension used to study this issue are discussed. The need to more clearly define the mechanisms that detect sodium intake and control the renal excretion of sodium is discussed. Additionally, the need to better understand the relation between sodium homeostasis, volume regulation, and the consequences of dysfunction in these regulatory system on the arterial vasculature and interstitial matrix is emphasized. The necessity for the application of new tools and approaches in a number of investigative areas is discussed. Finally, the necessity of equally imaginative whole animal and cell/molecular research and efforts to merge and integrate the data obtained at the cellular level with that of intact systems is emphasized. 
Outlook after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly compared with that in patients aged 65 to 75 years Little is known concerning late outcome and prognostic factors after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly (greater than 75 years of age). Accordingly, this study compared the clinical course and mortality rate for up to 1 year in a large multicenter data base that included 702 patients greater than 75 years of age (mean +/- SD 81 +/- 4 years), with a less elderly subset of 1,321 patients between 65 and 75 years of age (mean 70 +/- 3 years). The postdischarge 1 year cardiac mortality rate was 17.6% for those greater than 75 years of age compared with 12.0% for patients between 65 and 75 years of age (p less than 0.01). There were differences in the prevalence of several factors, including female gender, history of angina pectoris, history of congestive heart failure, smoking habits and incidence of congestive heart failure during hospitalization. Multivariate analyses of predictors of cardiac death in hospital survivors selected different factors as important in the two age subgroups; age was selected in the 65 to 75 year age group but was not an independent predictor in the very elderly. The survival curves beginning at day 10 for patients 65 to 75 and in those greater than 75 years old were similar for up to 90 days but diverged later. In the very elderly, 63% of late cardiac deaths were sudden or due to new myocardial infarction, similar to the causes of 67% of deaths in the younger age group. 
Traumatic rupture of the aorta--critical decisions for trauma surgeons. The diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta (TRA) is performed by trauma surgeons. The resuscitations of 54 TRA patients at a Level I trauma center are reviewed. Although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good (75%), 21/27 (78%) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon. The techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome. Pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with TRA. In fact, PASG were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest. Awake, unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients. Pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary. The amount of fluid, blood transfusion, and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome. The average time from arrival in the ER to angiogram was 64.7 minutes. The average time ER to operating room was 159.7 minutes. Seven cases of TRA had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted CXR (5/7). Delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths. Associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths. Fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and TRA were identified. Four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries. Operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries. 
No effect of experimental noise exposure on human pregnancy. The effect of experimental noise exposure (15 minutes of 90-dB white noise via headphones) was examined on systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures; heart rate; and stress hormones (ACTH, cortisol, prolactin, epinephrine, and norepinephrine) in normotensive and hypertensive pregnant women. No significant effects induced by noise exposure could be registered in these variables. Fetal and uterine blood circulation was also examined with a duplex pulsed Doppler system. No changes were seen on the fetal side as measured from the descending aorta in blood flow velocity (cm/second) or pulsatility or resistance indexes in either normotensive or hypertensive pregnancy. The only change observed was an increase in fetal heart rate in normotensive pregnancy. However, this increase could not be confirmed by cardiotocographic registration and is not clinically important. Uterine blood circulation was recorded from the proximal uterine artery on the placental side, and no effect of exposure was seen on pulsatility or resistance indexes. 
Prolonged extracorporeal life support of pediatric and adolescent cardiac transplant patients. Options for mechanical support of pediatric patients with severe heart failure who are awaiting transplantation or have undergone transplantation are limited. This report examines 3 patients placed on extracorporeal life support (ECLS) while awaiting transplantation and 3 patients who underwent transplantation and suffered subsequent heart failure due to rejection or postoperative myocardial dysfunction. The overall survival rate was 2 of 6. The 2 surviving patients had a failing transplanted heart. There were no survivors among the patients placed on ECLS as a bridge to transplantation. In each case a contraindication to transplantation developed before a donor heart could be obtained. The mean time of ECLS support was 147.5 hours (range, 70 to 370 hours). The ECLS circuit did not affect cyclosporin levels or antirejection therapy. Extracorporeal life support can be used to support pediatric cardiac transplant patients with biventricular failure due to acute rejection or postoperative dysfunction. Although the results have been discouraging, ECLS may still have a role as a bridge to transplantation. However, complications can develop during ECLS that may preclude transplantation. 
The frequency-dependent behavior of cerebral autoregulation. Cerebral autoregulation is a complex physiological process composed of both fast and slow components that may respond differently to different rates and patterns of blood pressure variation. To assess the temporal nature of autoregulation, transcranial Doppler velocity recordings of the middle cerebral artery obtained over prolonged periods were compared with blood pressure recordings in 5 patients without cerebral disease and in 13 patients with intracranial pathological changes. Correlations between the velocity and pressure wave forms at various frequencies of variation were measured with systems analysis techniques. Patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage had high correlations indicating pressure-dependent flow and impaired autoregulation. Patients without cerebral disease had significantly lower correlations (P less than 0.01), indicating intact autoregulation. Examples of increasing correlations and correlations at new frequencies emerging as the clinical condition worsened are given. These preliminary examples suggest that the application of systems analysis techniques to velocity and pressure data allow measurement of the temporal nature of cerebral autoregulation. 
Results of coronary surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary surgery The results of coronary artery bypass surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients who have undergone prior coronary surgery are unknown. Coronary angioplasty may be performed to relieve angina after surgery either to the native coronary vessels or to grafts. Failure of attempted coronary angioplasty may mandate repeat coronary surgery, often in the setting of acute ischemia. From 1980 to 1989, 1,263 patients with prior coronary bypass surgery underwent angioplasty; of these patients, 46 (3.6%) underwent reoperation for failed angioplasty during the same hospital stay. Of the 46 patients who underwent reoperation, 33 had and 13 did not have acute ischemia. In the group with ischemia, 3 patients (9.1%) died and 14 (42.4%) died or had a Q wave myocardial infarction in the hospital compared with no deaths (p = NS) and no deaths or Q wave myocardial infarction (p = 0.005) in the group without ischemia. At 3 years, the actuarial survival rate was 88 +/- 6% in the group with ischemia, whereas there were no deaths in the group without ischemia (p = NS), and freedom from death or myocardial infarction was 51 +/- 10% in the group with ischemia, versus no events in the group without ischemia (p = 0.006). In most patients with prior coronary bypass surgery, coronary angioplasty was performed without the need for repeat coronary bypass surgery. Should coronary angioplasty fail, reoperation in patients without acute ischemia can be performed with overall patient survival comparable to that of elective reoperative coronary bypass without coronary angioplasty. 
Atrial activation sequence during atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model and its effects on the polarity of the flutter wave in the electrocardiogram. Stable atrial flutter induced in both conscious and open chest states was studied in 30 mongrel dogs after production of sterile pericarditis. During the conscious state studies, induced atrial flutter (mean cycle length 128 +/- 15 ms) was always sustained greater than 15 min and was stable. Three types of flutter wave polarity were noted in electrocardiogram (ECG) lead II: positive in 16 dogs, negative in 3 and flat or slightly positive in 11. Sequential site atrial mapping during atrial flutter (mean cycle length 133 +/- 18 ms) in the open chest state showed either clockwise (18 dogs) or counterclockwise (12 dogs) circus movement in the right atrium. In 19 of 30 dogs, the circus movement clearly did not require any naturally existing anatomic obstacle; in 11, the orifice of the superior vena cava probably was also involved. Double potentials were recorded from the center of the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter, and fractionated electrograms were recorded from a pivot point of the reentrant wave front. A positive flutter wave in ECG lead II (12 dogs with counterclockwise circus movement) was associated with early activation of the Bachmann's bundle region compared with the posteroinferior left atrium and activation of the left atrium mainly in a superoinferior direction. A negative flutter was associated with the early activation of the posteroinferior left atrium compared with Bachmann's bundle and activation of a considerable portion of the left atrium in an inferosuperior direction. A flat or slightly positive flutter wave (14 of 18 with clockwise circus movement) was associated with activation of the left atrium almost simultaneously by two wave fronts coming from both these sites. In conclusion, atrial flutter in this dog model is due to circus movement in the right atrium, the center of which does not necessarily require an anatomic obstacle. Although atrial flutter is generated by circus movement in the right atrium, the flutter wave polarity in the ECG is determined primarily by the activation sequence of the left atrium. 
Epidemiologic studies demonstrating increased morning incidence of sudden cardiac death. To determine if sudden cardiac death shows a circadian variation, the mortality records of the Massachusetts population and the Framingham Heart Study were analyzed. The Massachusetts mortality data analysis revealed an increased morning incidence for out-of-hospital cardiac deaths similar to that previously described for nonfatal myocardial infarction. The records of the Framingham Heart Study allowed more comprehensive analysis of the time of sudden cardiac death. In this study, a prominent circadian variation was also identified in which frequency of sudden cardiac death increased sharply between 6 A.M. and 9 P.M.; distribution was fairly even throughout the rest of the day. This circadian pattern may be explained in part by physiologic changes that increase the likelihood of ventricular fibrillation or increase the risk of thrombosis in the morning hours. The possible role of the morning increase in physical and mental activity as a trigger of sudden cardiac death requires further investigation. 
Coronary collateral recruitment: functional significance and relation to rate of vessel closure. Studies in animals and humans have demonstrated the anatomic presence and functional significance of coronary collaterals. The extent of collateralization varies among species and among individuals. Collateral vessels are usually adequate for preserving resting regional and global ventricular function in the face of coronary obstruction. During stress, however, collateral supply may be inadequate. Collateral development is a time-dependent process during both the initial occlusion and following transient reflow and reclosure. Therefore when a previously collateralized coronary occlusion is recanalized and then recloses, the extent of the resulting collateral recruitment will depend, at least in part, upon the period of reflow between the two occlusions. The longer the reflow period, the less enhanced will be the collateralization. This is illustrated in the cases presented and has also been demonstrated in animal studies. The exact mechanisms for this recurrent collateral recruitment need further study. 
Physiology and pharmacology of cardiovascular catecholamine receptors: implications for treatment of chronic heart failure. In the sympathetic nervous system the physiologic effects of the endogenous catecholamines noradrenaline (NA) and adrenaline (A) are mediated by alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptors (ARs). Both AR-types can be subdivided into two major subtypes: alpha-ARs into alpha-1 (predominant effect: vasoconstriction) and alpha-2 (presynaptic: inhibition of NA-release; postsynaptic: vasoconstriction), beta-ARs into beta-1 (cardiac effects, renal renin release, and lipolysis) and beta-2 (presynaptic: facilitation of NA-release; postsynaptic: vascular, bronchial, and uterine smooth muscle relaxation, glycogenolysis and possibly part of the A-mediated cardiac effects). During the last 30 years growing evidence has accumulated that dopamine (DA), the third endogenous catecholamine and the immediate precursor of NA, may also cause peripheral effects through stimulation of specific DA-receptors, in addition to its known action at alpha- and beta-ARs. It is now well accepted that at least two different DA-receptors are present in many peripheral tissues (DA1 and DA2), including those of the cardiovascular and autonomic nervous system. They seem to be involved in dilation of certain vascular beds, inhibition of NA-release during nerve stimulation, natriuresis, and aldosterone release. In chronic heart failure cardiac beta-AR function decreases (presumably due to endogenous "down-regulation" by the elevated catecholamines), and this decrease is related to the severity of heart failure (judged clinically by New York Heart Association functional class). The human heart contains both functional beta-1 and beta-2 ARs; cardiac beta-1 and beta-2 ARs seem to be differentially affected by different kinds of heart failure; in end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy beta-1 ARs are selectively reduced, whereas beta-2 ARs are nearly normal. 
Catheterization of coronary artery bypass graft from the descending aorta. The increasing frequency of reoperation for coronary artery disease has led to the use of a variety of grafts. This report describes the catheter technique for selective opacification of a saphenous vein graft from the descending thoracic aorta to the posterior coronary circulation. 
Sensitivity of a set of myocardial infarction screening criteria in patients with anatomically documented single and multiple infarcts. A subset of 3 screening criteria (Q wave greater than or equal to 30 ms in lead aVF, any Q or R wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mV in lead V2, and R wave greater than or equal to 40 ms in V1) has been proposed to identify single nonacute myocardial infarcts. Cumulatively, these 3 criteria achieved 95% specificity, and 84 and 77% sensitivities for inferior and anterior myocardial infarcts, respectively, among patients identified by coronary angiography and left ventriculography. This study establishes the true sensitivities of the set of screening criteria in 71 patients with anatomically proven single myocardial infarcts and 32 patients with multiple myocardial infarcts. In the single inferior infarct group, the aVF criterion was 90% sensitive. The V2 criterion (any Q or R wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mV) was 67% sensitive in the single anterior infarct group. No single criterion proved sensitive in identifying a posterolateral infarct. The set of screening criteria performed just as well for multiple infarcts as it did for single infarcts, with a cumulative sensitivity of 72%. The overall sensitivity of the screening set in the 103 patients in all groups was 71%. 
Computed tomography in the evaluation of the aorta in patients sustaining blunt chest trauma. Computed tomography is used with increasing frequency to evaluate blunt chest trauma. Since traumatic aortic rupture (TAR) is a rapidly lethal condition, unnecessary CT scanning may not be justified. To determine the accuracy of chest CT scanning for TAR, we reviewed 17 patients who underwent both chest CT scanning and aortography. Five patients had TAR by aortography. CT scanning yielded three true positives and two false negatives. In 12 patients with a negative aortogram, CT scanning recorded four false positives and eight true negatives. The specificity was 23% and the sensitivity was 83% compared with aortography. The overall accuracy for CT scanning was 53%. From these data we conclude that in the presence of an unstable patient or where there is a strong clinical suspicion of TAR the patient should proceed directly to aortography. 
Lung thallium-201 uptake during exercise emission computed tomography. To test whether the analysis of lung uptake is worth adding to the interpretation of exercise thallium-201 (201TI) emission computed tomography (ECT), a lung/heart ratio of 201TI uptake was measured from an anterior image during ECT in 25 clinically normal (Group 1), 91 angiographically normal (Group 2), and 265 subjects with coronary artery disease (Group 3). The mean +2 s.d. of ratios in Groups 1 and 2 were the same (0.37). In Group 3, 80 subjects (30%) with increased ratios (greater than 0.37) had higher frequencies of prior infarction and multi-vessel disease, more severe left ventricular dysfunction, and 201TI defects than 185 subjects with normal ratios. Subjects with markedly increased ratios (greater than 0.45) had three-vessel disease more frequently than those with slightly or moderately increased ratios (67% versus 14% or 35%). Thus the measurement of lung/heart ratios may provide information regarding the severity of coronary artery disease and should be added to the routine interpretation of exercise ECT. 
Histologic investigation of vascular malformations of the face after transarterial embolization with ethibloc and other agents. Twenty-one vascular malformations located in the facial area, 11 high-flow arteriovenous malformations and 10 slow-flow malformations, underwent combined treatment by embolization and later surgery. Embolization was performed simultaneously with superselective angiography of the branches of the external carotid artery. The new biodegradable fibrosing agent Ethibloc was used in 16 cases. Histologic examination of the surgical specimens confirmed the good target orientation by the transarterial injection of Ethibloc. Limitations of this technique are discussed. The agent proved to have thrombogenic and fibrogenic properties. Some of the vascular walls degenerated and ruptured following the embolization, but there were no instances of necrosis of interstitial tissue or skin. Embolization treatment of vascular malformations of the face was not curative, but it facilitated subsequent surgery in all examined cases. 
The fat embolism syndrome. A review. While fat embolism occurs in most (more than 90%) patients with traumatic injury, the fat embolism syndrome (FES) occurs in only 3%-4% of patients with long-bone fractures. FES involves multiple organ systems and can cause a devastating clinical deterioration within hours. The major clinical features of FES include hypoxia, pulmonary edema, central nervous system depression, and axillary or subconjunctive petechiae. Improvements have been made in supporting the respiratory compromise and adult respiratory distress syndrome that these patients develop. Aggressive measures to improve the pulmonary function, i.e., positive pressure ventilation and effective fluid management, are important and expedite fixation of bone fractures. 
Cardiac Arrest in Seattle: Conventional Versus Amiodarone Drug Evaluation (the CASCADE study). This randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (VF) not associated with a Q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of VF. It compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or Holter recording, or both. The goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia (VT) or VF. Holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study. Patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis, ejection fraction, and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias. The primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality. The first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on April 26, 1984. By October 1988, 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and, as of May 1990, 199 patients have been enrolled. Compliance with therapy has been good, with no patients lost to follow-up and 8% of patients, equal in both drug groups, crossing over to alternate therapy. Baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups. Pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7% at 1 year, with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity. In the first 142 patients, the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19%, with a 17% arrhythmic mortality (either VF or presumed arrhythmic death). 
Sports-related and non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in young adults. Sports-related sudden cardiac deaths were compared with non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in individuals (14 to 40 years old) who were autopsied from 1981 to 1988 at the Maryland Medical Examiner's Office. Thirty-four of 690 total cases of sudden cardiac death were sports-related, which represents 5% of sudden cardiac death in this age group. Causes of death were severe atherosclerosis (nine), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry (eight), coronary artery anomalies (four), idiopathic concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (three), myocarditis (two), arrhythmogenic right ventricle (one), Kawasaki disease (one), and unknown (six); two of the cases with unknown causes had tunnel arteries. Exercise-related deaths were more likely due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0007) compared with 102 age-, sex-, and race-matched controls in the non-exercise group; there was no difference in the incidence of severe atherosclerosis (p = 0.4). The mean age of individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry was less than that of those with severe atherosclerosis (24 vs 32 years, p = 0.03). Thus exercise precipitates sudden cardiac death in younger individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application. We describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis. He did not have goiter, and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck. Serum iodine levels were elevated, explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland. He had multiple pressure sores, which were treated with povidone-iodine (Betadine) soaks. Biochemical data were consistent with Graves' disease unmasked by topical iodine application. Povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders. We have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication. 
Recovery of retrograde fast pathway excitability in the atrioventricular node reentrant circuit after concealed anterograde impulse penetration. The recovery of the retrograde fast pathway excitability in atrioventricular (AV) node reentry has been difficult to assess with ventricular extrastimulation because of difficulty in achieving sufficiently short intranodal coupling intervals and the potential interposition of "lower common pathway" nodal tissue. To circumvent these methodologic obstacles in 10 patients with inducible AV node reentrant tachycardia, a fixed atrial extrastimulus (A2) coupled to a basic atrial drive (A1) at a cycle length of 500 ms was utilized to reproducibly initiate AV node reentrant echoes. A ventricular extrastimulus (V3) was then introduced after A2 at progressively shorter coupling intervals (A2V3) in an attempt to pre-excite the retrograde fast pathway after concealed anterograde penetration by A2. In six patients, retrograde fast pathway pre-excitation was achieved at critical A2V3 intervals, as evidenced by the appearance of A3 by up to 28 +/- 6 ms in advance of the expected first AV node reentrant echo. In five of the six cases, the V3A3 interval was virtually unaltered (less than or equal to 5 ms decrease) when A2 was omitted. In seven patients, at a critically short A2V3 coupling interval (195 +/- 27 ms ), V3 abruptly failed to elicit A3 and concomitantly abolished all AV node echoes; yet when A2 was omitted, an A3 response returned, with V3A3 identical to previous values. 
Coronary artery dissection--a case report. Coronary artery dissection, both spontaneous and catheter-induced, is associated with a significant morbidity and mortality. The authors present a case of a middle-aged woman with spontaneous right coronary artery dissection causing inferior wall myocardial infarction and left coronary artery dissection at the time of coronary arteriography. It is suggested that emergency aortocoronary bypass surgery be performed preceded by insertion of an intra-aortic balloon in acute evolving cases where coronary anatomy is favorable to limit infarction and avert loss of life. 
Reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot. Following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action, a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially. In a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling; pain also was alleviated. Evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided. We present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump, based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation. The hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important. 
A clinically applicable method for long-term salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle. The clinical significance and applicability of interventions aimed at reducing reperfusion injury in postischemic skeletal muscle remain unproven, since long-term muscle salvage has not been demonstrated by most treatment protocols that attenuate early reperfusion injury. We have shown that reperfusion of ischemic skeletal muscle results in an early and prolonged sequestration of white blood cells and activation of the alternative complement cascade. The purpose of this study was to determine if 40 minutes of reperfusion with blood depleted of white blood cells and complement proteins, followed by 2 days of normal perfusion, would reduce muscle necrosis after 5 hours of ischemia. The isolated paired canine gracilis muscle model was used. The treatment muscle was initially reperfused with arterial blood that had been spun, washed, passed through a leukocyte removal filter, and resuspended in hydroxyethyl starch (greater than 99.9% removal of white blood cells and the complement proteins factor B and C4). The contralateral control muscle was subjected to unaltered reperfusion. Blood flow (ml/min/100 gm) was measured by timed collection of gracilis venous blood. Myeloperoxidase activity (absorbance at 655 nm/min/mg tissue protein) in muscle biopsies was used to monitor white blood cell sequestration. After 48 hours of reperfusion in vivo, necrosis was quantified by nitroblue tetrazolium staining. Initial reperfusion with white blood cell and complement depleted blood significantly reduced muscle necrosis (53% +/- 3% vs 29% +/- 8%, p less than 0.0025, paired t test). Early blood flow was improved, (p = 0.0025, repeated measure-ANOVA), but subsequent white blood cell sequestration was not altered (p = 0.33, repeated measure-ANOVA). This suggests that a significant amount of white blood cell mediated injury occurs during the first 40 minutes of reperfusion. Preventing early complement activation and white blood cell mediated reperfusion injury is an intervention that is feasible during surgery and may result in clinically significant salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle. 
Morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation. Repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation. These aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations. Specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection. Histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients (93%), foreign body reaction in 11 patients (78%), and intimal thickening in 3 patients (21%). The three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms. On the basis of these results, we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms. 
Effects of prolonged infusion of human alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide on hemodynamics, renal blood flow and hormone levels in congestive heart failure. We have previously demonstrated that short-term infusion of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has beneficial effects in congestive heart failure. The effects of prolonged infusion of CGRP on hemodynamic functions, plasma hormones and renal blood flow were studied in 9 patients with congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association class III or IV, ejection fraction less than 35%). Hemodynamic variables were measured at 30-minute intervals for 8 hours during CGRP infusion (8 ng/kg/min) and for 2 hours after discontinuation. CGRP caused a decrease in right atrial (28%, p less than 0.05), pulmonary artery (22%, p less than 0.02), pulmonary artery wedge (37%, p less than 0.001) and systemic arterial (18%, p less than 0.05) pressures. Systemic vascular resistance decreased more than pulmonary vascular resistance. Cardiac output (72%, p less than 0.001) and stroke volume (60%, p less than 0.02) increased. Heart rate did not change. There was no evidence of tolerance throughout the infusion. The hemodynamic effects were lost within 30 minutes of stopping CGRP. Renal blood flow (34%, p less than 0.01) and glomerular filtration rate (43%, p less than 0.01) increased. Atrial natriuretic peptide decreased (p less than 0.05), while plasma cortisol (p less than 0.02) increased. Plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, renin activity, aldosterone and growth hormone were unchanged. It is concluded that in patients with severe congestive heart failure, CGRP has sustained beneficial effects on hemodynamic functions and has no adverse effects on hormones. Unlike many other vasodilators, CGRP also increases renal blood flow and glomerular filtration. 
Azathioprine. An effective, corticosteroid-sparing therapy for patients with recalcitrant cutaneous lupus erythematosus or with recalcitrant cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Azathioprine sodium has been reported to be effective therapy for chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus (LE) but rarely for chronic cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LV). We used azathioprine in the treatment of six patients with cutaneous LE, four of whom had subacute cutaneous (nonscarring) LE and two of whom had chronic cutaneous (scarring, discoid) LE, and six patients with chronic cutaneous LV. The conditions of all patients had been resistant to conventional therapy, and they required long-term oral corticosteroid therapy for control of their disease. Two of the patients with LE had prominent palmar and/or plantar involvement. Three patients with LE had an excellent response to azathioprine, with near complete clearing of the skin lesions, allowing a decrease in prednisone dosage. One patient with LE initially demonstrated significant improvement, but azathioprine therapy had to be discontinued because of pancreatitis. The treatment failed in two patients with LE; one had nausea and the other repeatedly developed a drug-induced fever. Five of the six patients with LV had improved conditions, with complete control of the disease occurring in two patients and partial control in three patients. Azathioprine is effective for some patients with cutaneous LE and chronic cutaneous LV, but it should be reserved for patients with severe disease in whom more conventional treatment fails. 
Everted cervical vein for carotid patch angioplasty. Because of the theoretic benefits of autologous vein we undertook an investigation to evaluate cervical veins (facial, external jugular) as patch material after carotid endarterectomy. A device that stimulated both circumferential fixation by sutures and radial tension exerted on in vivo patches was constructed to measure burst strength of tissue. Mean bursting pressure for groin saphenous vein (n = 10) was 94.5 +/- 15.1 pounds per square inch (psi), 75.5 +/- 8.9 psi for ankle saphenous vein (n = 10), 83.3 +/- 14.5 psi for everted (double layer) cervical vein (n = 5) and 10 +/- 3.3 psi for single layer cervical vein (n = 5). No significant differences between saphenous vein at any level and everted (double layer) cervical vein, but all were significantly different from single layer cervical vein (p less than 0.05). From June 1987 through November 1989, 19 patients underwent 21 carotid endarterectomies complemented with adjunctive everted cervical vein patch angioplasty. Indications for surgery were asymptomatic stenosis (53%), transient ischemic attack (29%), and cerebrovascular accident with recovery (18%). All patients were studied after surgery with duplex scanning. Asymptomatic recurrent stenosis was observed in one patient. Transient hypoglossal nerve dysfunction occurred in one other patient. One postoperative death occurred as a result of massive aspiration. These results indicate that everted cervical vein is comparable to the saphenous vein in resistance to bursting and can yield similar results as patch material after carotid endarterectomy. Accordingly, saphenous vein can be spared and lower extremity incisions avoided. 
Caffeine and ventricular arrhythmias. An electrophysiological approach. Little information is known regarding caffeine's effect on the substrate supporting sustained ventricular arrhythmias. This prospective study evaluated the effect of coffee (275 mg of caffeine) on this substrate with programmed ventricular stimulation in 22 patients with a history of symptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation. Patients underwent electrophysiological testing before and 1 hour after coffee ingestion. Mean (+/- SEM) plasma caffeine level achieved after coffee consumption was 6.2 +/- 0.5 mg/L. Mean plasma catecholamine and potassium values were not altered significantly 1 hour following caffeine ingestion. The number of extrastimuli required to induce an arrhythmia was unchanged in 10 patients (46%), increased in six (27%), and decreased in six (27%). Rhythm severity was unchanged in 17 patients (77%), more severe in two (9%), and less severe in three (14%). In those patients with clinical ventricular arrhythmias, caffeine did not significantly alter inducibility or severity of arrhythmias, suggesting little effect on the substrate supporting ventricular arrhythmias. 
The real impact of mechanical bridge strategy in patients with severe acute infarction. Results obtained in the past 3 years in patients referred with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and cardiogenic shock for a mechanical bridge to urgent transplantation permit one to assess the real impact of the present strategy in clinical practice. Ten patients (mean age = 49) were admitted in serious condition (CI = 1.8 +/- 0.2 L/min/m2, PCWP = 28 +/- 6 mmHg, systolic aortic pressure = 88 +/- 20 mmHg, urine output 11 +/- 20 ml/hr) and were treated by maximal sympathomimetic support and i.v. enoximone. Two had to be implanted with a total artificial heart (TAH) and one with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) for recurrent fibrillation despite hemodynamic improvement, within 8 hr. Two have received transplants and are living well after 20 months. Seven who initially improved markedly have been listed as urgent transplant candidates: two of these have been successfully transplanted, and three died suddenly after 6, 25, and 45 days, respectively. One has undergone successful coronary surgery. One patient (age 62, diabetic) was secondarily rejected for a transplant and died. This experience clearly shows that despite initial spectacular hemodynamic improvement, which was due to optimized medical management, death rate before transplant because of sudden ventricular fibrillation remains unacceptably high. This should prompt early mechanical support, with less invasive systems, in patients with AMI. 
Glomerular hyperfiltration indicates early target organ damage in essential hypertension In 111 patients with essential hypertension (World Health Organization stage I or II), we examined the relationship between renal hemodynamics and left ventricular hypertrophy. Left ventricular structure was determined by two-dimensional guided M-mode echocardiography, renal blood flow by iodine I 131 aminohippuric acid clearance, and glomerular filtration rate by creatinine clearance. The glomerular filtration rate correlated with left ventricular mass (r = .52) and left ventricular cross-sectional area (r = .21). Conversely, at a similar age, body mass index, body surface area, and arterial pressure, hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy disclosed a higher glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction than those without left ventricular hypertrophy, whereas renal blood flow and renal vascular resistance measurements were not significantly different. Thus, at similar levels of arterial pressure and renal blood flow, glomerular hyperfiltration was linked to early cardiac structural changes in essential hypertension. We conclude that, in a hypertensive patient with normal renal function, a high glomerular filtration rate may be an indicator for early target organ damage in essential hypertension. 
Possible triggering of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in normal hearts by psychological stressors: a report of two cases. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was triggered by psychological stress in two patients, both of whom had normal echocardiograms and coronary angiography. Neither patient was alcoholic or had ingested ethanol in relation to the onset of atrial fibrillation and both were free of metabolic derangements. Possible mechanisms involved in the triggering of atrial fibrillation are discussed. 
Valvular and coronary surgery in renal transplant patients. The Authors report aortic valvular replacement (AVR) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) successfully performed in two renal transplant patients. The postoperative blood urea and creatinine levels were comparable to the preoperative values. The first patient underwent isolated AVR. The second patient had an initial AVR combined with CABG followed two years later by a further AVR for prosthetic dysfunction. For many reasons, coronary artery (CAD) and valvular diseases are not uncommon in renal transplant patients. Cardiac surgery is feasible without impairment of the renal function provided some precautions are taken, ie good mean perfusion pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), adequate volume replacement, and selected use of mannitol and dopamine. 
Family history fails to identify many children with severe hypercholesterolemia. Optimal strategies for identifying children with hypercholesterolemia have not been established. Several groups have advocated that testing of serum cholesterol levels be limited to those children who have family histories of hyperlipidemia or premature coronary heart disease. We studied the ability of comprehensive family histories to identify children with hyperlipidemia in a group of 114 children (mean age, 8 +/- 4 years) who were referred for treatment of hypercholesterolemia. A positive family history was defined according to guidelines of the American Academy of Pediatrics. The mean fasting total cholesterol in the children was 5.74 +/- 1.42 mmol/L (222 mg/dL). Family history was negative for hypercholesterolemia or premature coronary heart disease in 22 (22%) of 100 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 75th percentile for their ages, in 13 (18.3%) of 71 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 95th percentile for their ages, and in four (11.8%) of 34 children with presumed heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Of the 78 children who had both hypercholesterolemia and positive family histories, hyperlipidemia was reported in 72 families, whereas premature heart disease was reported in only 27. We conclude that in a population of children referred because of known hypercholesterolemia, a detailed family history not only fails to identify many children with mild hypercholesterolemia, but also fails to identify a significant proportion of children with markedly elevated cholesterol levels. Additionally, in families of children with hypercholesterolemia, a history of hyperlipidemia is more common than a history of premature heart disease. 
Therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine. We investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months. After stroke had occurred, the rats were divided into three groups: 1) parathyroidectomy, 2) nimodipine, and 3) controls. In the nimodipine group, the rats survived longer than those in the other groups. Blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals. The increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity, urea, and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy. The histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats. In the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups, healing of the lesions was detectable. Cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis. Nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions. In old, diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate. The cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated, and morphologic signs of healing were observed. Reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy, even in an advanced stage of disease, had a therapeutic effect. 
Moderate hypothermia after cardiac arrest of 17 minutes in dogs. Effect on cerebral and cardiac outcome. Moderate hypothermia (30 degrees C) induced before circulatory arrest is known to improve neurologic outcome. We explored, for the first time in a reproducible dog outcome model, moderate hypothermia induced during reperfusion after cardiac arrest (resuscitation). In three groups of six dogs each (N = 18), normothermic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest (no blood flow) of 17 minutes was reversed by cardiopulmonary bypass--normothermic in control group I (37.5 degrees C) and hypothermic to 3 hours in groups II (32 degrees C) and III (28 degrees C). Defibrillation was achieved in less than or equal to 5 minutes and partial bypass was continued to 4 hours, controlled ventilation to 20 hours, and intensive care to 96 hours. All 18 dogs survived. Electroencephalographic activity returned significantly earlier in groups II and III. Mean +/- SD best neurologic deficit between 48 and 96 hours was 44 +/- 8% in group I, 38 +/- 12% in group II, and 35 +/- 7% in group III (differences not significant). Best overall performance category 2 (good outcome) between 48 and 96 hours was achieved in none of the six dogs in group I and in four of the 12 dogs in the combined hypothermic groups II and III (difference not significant). Mean +/- SD brain total histologic damage score was 130 +/- 22 in group I, 93 +/- 28 in group II (p = 0.05), and 80 +/- 26 in group III (p = 0.03). Gross myocardial damage was greater in groups II and III than in group I--numerically higher overall and significantly higher in group III for the right ventricle alone (p = 0.02). Moderate hypothermia after prolonged cardiac arrest may or may not improve cerebral outcome slightly and can worsen myocardial damage. 
Scatter photocoagulation restores tissue hypoxia in experimental vasoproliferative microangiopathy in miniature pigs. Experimental retinal branch vein occlusion using argon laser photocoagulation in miniature pigs induced the development of ischemic retinal territories associated with preretinal neovascularization. Preretinal partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) measurements on the ischemic territories, using O2-sensitive microelectrodes, established that the ischemic retinal areas were hypoxic. Scatter photocoagulation of these ischemic hypoxic territories restores the local PO2 to the normal values within 2 weeks. Hence, the reported inhibitory effect of photocoagulation on the development of retinal neovascularization could be due to a reversal effect on tissue hypoxia. 
Outcome probabilities and life history after surgical mitral commissurotomy: implications for balloon commissurotomy. From 1967 to 1988, 339 patients with mitral stenosis underwent surgical commissurotomy, 103 with a closed and 236 with an open technique. The 1 month and 1, 5, 10 and 20 year overall survival rate was 99.7%, 99%, 95%, 87% and 59%, respectively, and the technique (open versus closed) was not a risk factor. Technique was also not a risk factor for a second mitral commissurotomy, subsequent mitral valve replacement, thromboembolism or poor functional status. Risk factors were older age at commissurotomy, black race, higher pulmonary vascular resistance, mitral leaflet calcification, left ventricular enlargement and postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence. The closed technique was a risk factor for mitral incompetence immediately after commissurotomy, but important incompetence developed in only 2 of the 103 patients undergoing closed commissurotomy. Mitral valve replacement was not required within 10 years in 78% of patients and within 20 years in 47%. Despite some increased prevalence of postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence and particularly in view of the considerable long-term likelihood of mitral valve replacement, initial therapy for most patients with mitral stenosis should probably be surgical closed (or percutaneous balloon) mitral commissurotomy. The equations developed in the present study can be used to predict and compare outcome probability after percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with that after surgical commissurotomy and to compare these with outcome probability after mitral valve replacement. 
Persistent uptake of indium-111-antimyosin monoclonal antibody in patients with myocardial infarction. Indium-111(111In)-antimyosin scintigraphy was investigated in 27 patients with myocardial infarction. 111In-antimyosin Fab was administered intravenously, and planar and single photon emission computed tomographic images were obtained 48 hours later. Uptake of 111In-antimyosin was present in 9 of 10 patients (90%) studied within 6 days of infarction. During the second week positive scans were seen in 16 of 16 patients (100%) including 13 (81%) who had normal creatine kinase levels. The mechanism of persistent positive antimyosin images in the subacute stage of myocardial infarction remains to be clarified. 111In-antimyosin scintigraphy may be useful as a noninvasive method for the detection of myocardial injury late and early after a suspected acute myocardial infarction. 
Transvascular intracardiac applications of a miniaturized phased-array ultrasonic endoscope. Initial experience with intracardiac imaging in piglets. BACKGROUND. Recent advances in miniaturization of phased-array and mechanical ultrasound devices have resulted in exploration of alternative approaches to cardiac and vascular imaging in the form of transesophageal or intravascular imaging. Preliminary efforts in adapting phased-array endoscopes designed for transesophageal use to a transvascular approach have used full-sized phased-array devices introduced directly into the right atrium in open-chested animals. The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of using a custom-made, very small phased-array endoscope for intracardiac imaging introduced intravascularly through a jugular venous approach in young piglets. METHODS AND RESULTS. Experimental atrial septal defects created in four piglets (3-4 weeks old) had been closed with a buttoned atrial septal defect closure device consisting of an occluder in the left atrium and a counteroccluder in the right atrium. Five to 15 days after atrial septal defect closure, the piglets were returned to the experimental laboratory, where a 6.3-mm, 17-element, 5-MHz phased-array probe mounted on a 4-mm endoscope was introduced through a cutdown incision of the external jugular vein and advanced to the right atrium. From the right atrium all four cardiac chambers, their inflows and outflows, and all four valves were well imaged with minimal superior and inferior rotation. High-resolution imaging of the atrial septum defined with anatomical accuracy, later verified by autopsy, the exact placement of both the occluder and counteroccluder in the left and right sides of the atrial septal defects and the absence of any shunting across the atrial septum in any of the four animals. CONCLUSIONS. Our efforts indicate that transvascular passage of small phased-array probes can be easily accomplished and is a promising technique for detailed visualization of cardiac structures. This approach may provide an alternative to transesophageal echocardiography, particularly for guiding interventional procedures such as placement of transcatheter closure devices in pediatric patients. 
Short- and long-term results of catheter balloon percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy. Percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) was performed in 219 patients with symptomatic, severe rheumatic mitral stenosis. There were 59 men and 160 women, aged 19 to 76 years (mean 43). Pliable, noncalcified valves were present in 139 (group 1), and calcified valves or severe mitral subvalvular lesions, or both, in 80 patients (group 2). Atrial fibrillation was present in 133 patients (61%) and 1+ or 2+ mitral regurgitation in 59 (27%). Technical failure occurred with 3 patients in our early experience. There was no cardiac tamponade or emergency surgery. The only in-hospital death occurred 3 days after the procedure in a group 2 premoribund patient in whom last-resort PTMC created 3+ mitral regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation appeared or increased in 72 patients (33%); 3+ mitral regurgitation resulted in 12 patients (6%). There were 3 systemic embolisms. Atrial left-to-right shunts measured by oximetry developed in 33 patients (15%). Immediately after PTMC, there were significantly reduced (p = 0.0001) left atrial pressure (24.2 +/- 5.6 to 15.1 +/- 5.1 mm Hg), mean pulmonary artery pressure (39.7 +/- 13.0 to 30.6 +/- 10.9 mm Hg) and mitral valve gradient (13.0 +/- 5.1 to 5.7 +/- 2.6 mm Hg). Mitral valve area increased from 1.0 +/- 0.3 to 2.0 +/- 0.7 cm2 (p = 0.0001) and cardiac output from 4.4 +/- 1.4 to 4.7 +/- 1.2 liters/min (p less than 0.01). The results mirrored clinical improvements in 209 patients (97%). Multivariate analysis showed an echo score greater than 8, and valvular calcification and severe subvalvular lesions as independent predictors for suboptimal hemodynamic results. 
Early diagnosis and survival of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. The hospital records of patients treated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a recent 5-year period were reviewed to collect data on factors which may be associated with mortality. Overall mortality was 62%. Patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality (97%) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture (25%). Patients at increased risk were older than 80 years, presented with syncope, experienced a short duration of symptoms prior to emergency department (ED) arrival, had initial systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg, and/or initial hemoglobin level less than eight on arrival at the ED and delay in beginning surgery. Multivariate analysis demonstrated preoperative blood pressure, preoperative hemoglobin, presence of syncope, and the amount of blood transfused were largely reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality. The authors concluded that treating emergency physicians and surgeons have little control over the most important risk factors for mortality after aneurysm rupture, but may improve the prognosis by expediting diagnosis in the ED and surgical therapy. 
Left ventricular mid-cavitary obstruction after balloon dilation in isolated aortic valve stenosis in children. A hyperdynamic left ventricle can lead to post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction in the absence of any preballoon mid-cavitary obstruction in children with aortic valve stenosis. The purpose of this study was to define the incidence and course of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction. We reviewed the catheterization and echocardiographic data of 35 patients, ages 3 days to 18 years (mean = 7.9 years), with isolated aortic valve stenosis who underwent balloon dilation with a fall in aortic valve gradient to less than 20 mm Hg. Post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction was suspected from post-dilation left ventricular angiogram and was quantitated by echocardiographic and Doppler examinations performed immediately after dilation and in a 1-3 month follow-up period. Continuous wave Doppler directed by color flow Doppler was used for evaluation and differentiation of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction and residual aortic valve stenosis. Three children (3/35 [9%]) all under 2 years of age developed post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction immediately after dilation. The obstruction within the cavity resolved spontaneously in all three patients. Conclusions: 1) Post-dilation left ventricular mid-cavitary obstruction can occur in children under 2 years of age after balloon dilation of severe aortic valve stenosis, and 2) total regression of post-dilation mid-cavitary obstruction occurs spontaneously in all patients. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in acute aortic transection. Confirming the diagnosis of acute transection of the descending aorta can be problematic. Unnecessary patient movement and time delay are often associated with conventional investigations. We describe a patient in whom such an injury was clearly and quickly defined at the bedside by transesophageal echocardiography. 
Interpreting results of exercise studies after acute myocardial infarction altered by thrombolytic therapy, coronary angioplasty or bypass. Numerous studies have assessed the ability of exercise modalities to predict patient outcome after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Implicit in the use of these prior data to assess the prognosis of patients currently undergoing exercise studies is the assumption that patients selected for exercise assessment are similar over time and that the data generated in the past are therefore applicable to the current patient populations. This study retrospectively assessed the clinical, exercise, and rest and exercise radionuclide angiographic data in 791 consecutive patients referred for exercise radionuclide angiography within 1 month after AMI during a 5-year period to determine if the clinical and exercise characteristics of patients referred for exercise evaluation after infarction have changed significantly over time. Most parameters examined demonstrated significant increasing trends, including thrombolytic therapy at the time of AMI, revascularization procedure between AMI and exercise assessment, age, beta-blocker usage, Q-wave AMI, inferior infarction, exercise double product, exercise capacity, significant ST-segment depression with exercise, peak ejection fraction, and change in ejection fraction with exercise. These data indicate that the characteristics of patients selected to undergo exercise after AMI in a large referral center have changed significantly over time. If these data are applicable to other referral centers and to other exercise testing modalities, previously published results regarding exercise assessment after AMI will need to be reconfirmed in patients currently selected for testing, since these results may no longer be applicable in this current era of aggressive medical and interventional management. 
Effects of two chest tube clearance protocols on drainage in patients after myocardial revascularization surgery. The purpose of the study was to determine the effects of two methods of clot clearance on chest tube drainage in patients undergoing myocardial revascularization. Two hundred adult patients immediately after myocardial revascularization were randomly assigned to a specific chest tube manipulation group. The dependent variables were drainage, incidence of cardiac tamponade, incidence of surgical reentry, hemodynamic values, and number of manipulation episodes. Statistical analyses revealed no difference in any of the dependent variables when milking and stripping were used. Of the 200 patients, 78 did not require any manipulation of the chest tubes in the first 8 hours after surgery. One patient had signs of cardiac tamponade and six other patients required surgical reentry. Positioning of the connecting tube in a nondependent position assisted with the removal of drainage from the chest cavity. In conclusion, patients having myocardial revascularization did not need their chest tubes manipulated the first 8 hours after surgery. Visible drainage in the chest tube did not cause a lack of patency. 
Interaction of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and plasma renin activity in high renin essential hypertension. Renin secretion by the kidney is inhibited by an increase in free intracellular calcium concentration. This increase in free intracellular calcium content may be augmented by serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. In 10 subjects with high renin hypertension, an increase in dietary sodium intake resulted in an increase in urinary calcium excretion (2.5 to 3.4 mmol/L, P = .011) and an increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (51.2 to 61.0 pmol/L, P = .045). An inverse correlation existed between the change in vitamin D and the change in plasma renin activity (r = -0.765, P = .01). An inverse correlation also existed between the change in plasma renin activity and the change in mean arterial blood pressure (r = -0.757, P = .011). It is postulated that the increase in dietary sodium led to an increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentration, which may have contributed to an increase in intracellular calcium concentration, a decrease in renal secretion of renin, and a fall in plasma renin activity. The resultant fall in PRA in part effected the change in blood pressure to the increased sodium intake. Therefore, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D may be a mediator in the response of high renin hypertension to increased sodium intake. 
Ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications. Four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications. There was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index. However, lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Of these patients, forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex, age, concomitant illness and operation performed. The cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls (11.98 versus 12.43). The increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36, and less than 13 was 3.44. Surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients. 
Randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery. Comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery. We have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection, using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery. Our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin (p less than 0.001). Gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively (p less than 0.05). Significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure. Cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum. 
Dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformation. After multiple hospital admissions and an inpatient rehabilitation stay, a 68-year-old woman was transferred to our rehabilitation facility with a paraparesis of unknown etiology. Previous studies included four CT scans and three MRIs which did not demonstrate the lesion. A myelogram was noncharacteristic. The correct diagnosis, confirmed by selective angiography, was ultimately contingent upon recognition of the clinical features and natural history of dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformations (SCAVM). The unusual combination of this multitude of nondiagnostic imaging studies in the uncommon dural SCAVM served to delay diagnosis and treatment. Such delay may have great functional consequences. This report illustrates the importance of suspecting SCAVM and recognizing its features. Emphasis is placed on the physiatrist's role in assuring proper diagnosis to expedite a timely treatment and to obtain the best functional outcome. A brief review of the classification, clinical features, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and prognosis of SCAVM is presented. 
Clinical cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a powerful tool providing high-resolution images of the heart and great vessels without the use of ionizing radiation or contrast agents. MRI systems currently in use at many hospitals can be used effectively in the routine, clinical evaluation of many forms of cardiovascular disease, including great vessel disease, ischemic cardiac disease and congenital cardiac disease. Moreover, quantitative and cine MRI techniques are now available, which provide highly accurate measures of chamber size, wall motion and wall thickening. Recent developments in the areas of myocardial tagging, high-speed imaging and MR assessments of flow and perfusion suggest potential for an increasing role of MRI in the clinical evaluation of the cardiovascular system. 
Probe angioplasty of total coronary occlusion using the Probing Catheter technique. Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of total coronary occlusion is limited by the inability of guidewires and conventional dilating catheters to cross all such lesions. A new technique was therefore prospectively evaluated for PTCA of these lesions using the ultra-low-profile Probe "balloon on a wire" device. An intracoronary Probing Catheter was used to facilitate crossing the stenosis with a guidewire and then to deliver a Probe into the obstruction for balloon dilatation. This technique was utilized in 64 consecutive patients with "absolute" coronary occlusions demonstrating no angiographically detectable antegrade coronary flow. Successful dilatation was achieved in 47 (73%). Among 33 occlusions of less than 3 mo duration 31 (94%) were successfully dilated whereas only 16 of 31 more chronic occlusions were dilated (P less than .01). Chronic occlusions with a tapered morphology and those located more than 1 cm from a branch point were more frequently dilatable. There were no serious complications including no vessel perforations with this technique. The Probing Catheter technique offers a safe and effective method for the dilatation of recent coronary occlusions by using balloon on a wire technology. 
Transient myocardial ischemia and its relation to determinants of myocardial oxygen demand. Because of conflicting data and a clear need to establish the relative role of increase in myocardial oxygen demand versus reduction in coronary blood flow in the causation of transient ischemia, the role of heart rate and blood pressure changes immediately preceding and during the transient ischemic events observed during daily life were evaluated in 25 patients with coronary artery disease. Elevations in heart rate before onset of ischemia were observed in 61% of the episodes. Similarly, 73% of the ischemic events were preceded by an increase in arterial pressure. These data provide evidence for a significant role of increased myocardial oxygen demand in the genesis of transient myocardial ischemia. 
Essential thrombocythemia in young adults. Essential thrombocythemia is typically a disorder of adults in the sixth or seventh decade of life and is characterized by frequent thrombohemorrhagic complications. In young patients, the optimal management of complications is controversial. We studied 56 young adults (33 female and 23 male patients) with a diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. The mean duration of follow-up was 4.68 years. The mean platelet count at diagnosis was 1,328,000/mm3. Platelet aggregation studies in 21 patients demonstrated hypoaggregation to epinephrine; spontaneous platelet aggregation was present in 4. At diagnosis, 39 patients were asymptomatic, and thrombocytosis was discovered incidentally. Throughout follow-up (up to 20 years), 24 patients remained asymptomatic. Thrombotic complications developed in 24 patients; they were life-threatening in only 3. The most common vaso-occlusive symptoms were migraine headache (in 12 patients) and erythromelalgia (in 3). Minor hemorrhagic complications occurred in six patients, and none was life-threatening. Serious complications (one cerebral and two myocardial infarctions) occurred in three patients, all of whom recovered. Two deaths occurred, neither of which was attributable to essential thrombocythemia. The treatment regimens used were chemotherapy in 9 patients, antiaggregating agents in 7, radioactive phosphorus in 1, the newer platelet-lowering agent anagrelide in 10, and only observation in 29. No treatment-related acute leukemias developed. This series of young patients with essential thrombocythemia, the largest to date, demonstrates a low incidence of life-threatening complications and a favorable long-term prognosis. Therapeutic recommendations should remain conservative, and potential leukemogens should be avoided unless serious complications develop. Anagrelide may be useful in young patients with thrombocythemia who are symptomatic. 
New technologies for the treatment of obstructive arterial disease. The well-known limitations of balloon angioplasty include unpredictable abrupt closure, chronic total occlusion, diffuse disease, and restenosis, among other factors. These limitations have prompted the development of new technologic approaches to angioplasty including laser applications for plaque ablation, mechanical device applications for plaque removal/debridement, and stent devices for structural maintenance of vascular lumen patency. Devices which directly apply laser energy for ablation of plaque material include a balloon-centered laser angioplasty system, excimer laser ablation catheter systems, and a fluorescence-guided spectral feedback laser system. Experience with these devices indicates that plaque can be successfully ablated by using laser energy. Vessel perforation and dissection are complications reported with these devices and the effects of laser angioplasty on restenosis remain unclear. Indirect application of laser energy has been tested by using a "hot tip" catheter and a laser balloon angioplasty system. Although the hot tip device has received FDA approval for use in peripheral arteries, it appears to have very limited applications in the coronary arteries. Laser balloon angioplasty appears to be beneficial in the setting of threatened acute closure; the device continues to be evaluated for potential beneficial impact on restenosis. Mechanical atherectomy catheters are designed to remove atherosclerotic plaque from the arterial system and include the AtheroCath, the Transluminal Extraction Catheter (TEC), and the Pullback Atherectomy Catheter (PAC). The Rotablator is an atheroablation device which debrides the obstructing plaque material with distal embolization of the particulate debris. Successful removal/debridement of atherosclerotic plaque has been demonstrated with the AtheroCath, Rotablator, and the TEC device. Pre-clinical studies demonstrate successful removal of plaque material with the PAC device. Despite the theoretic advantage of removing plaque material when performing angioplasty with these devices, there has been little or no reduction in restenosis rates based on a significant experience with the AtheroCath and the Rotablator. Intravascular stent devices including one self-expanding device design and two balloon-expandable device designs have been employed successfully in the elective setting to treat recurrent restenosis lesions. Two of the devices have been successfully tested in the setting of threatened acute closure. Early follow-up studies suggest some improvement in restenosis rates in certain clinical settings following intravascular stenting. Acute and subacute thrombosis remain substantial problems for stent devices and very aggressive anticoagulation regimens are necessary to minimize the adverse events. In summary, a number of a new technologic approaches for treatment of atherosclerotic lesions have been developed and are undergoing significant clinical evaluation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Simulated left ventricular aneurysm and aneurysm repair in swine. Patch reconstruction of left ventricular aneurysm may be superior to linear closure, but this hypothesis has not been tested experimentally. Accordingly, six anesthetized domestic pigs were instrumented to measure regional left ventricular wall thickening, stroke volume, systolic left ventricular pressure, and myocardial oxygen consumption. With total bypass and cardioplegia, a 6 by 8 cm Dacron patch was inserted into the anteroapical left ventricle. Simulations were as follows: left ventricular aneurysm, patch open; patch reconstruction, 50% patch plication; standard repair, ventriculotomy edges approximated. Global function, from stroke work (stroke volume x integral of left ventricular pressure)-left ventricular end-diastolic pressure curves, was depressed in all three simulations compared with control. A tendency for stroke work to be greater for standard repair than for left ventricular aneurysm and patch reconstruction at higher preloads was not statistically significant. Mechanical efficiency, from stroke work/myocardial oxygen consumption (joules per milliliter oxygen per beat), was 2.43 +/- 0.52 (mean +/- standard error of the mean) (control), 2.22 +/- 0.94 (standard repair), 1.27 +/- 0.39 (patch reconstruction), and 1.09 +/- 0.37 (left ventricular aneurysm) (no significant differences). Regional work was calculated as regional left ventricular wall thickening x integral of left ventricular pressure. The slope of the regional work-end-diastolic wall thickness relation decreased in the posterior wall 14.0 +/- 2.9 (control) versus 8.4 +/- 2.0 (left ventricular aneurysm), 6.9 +/- 1.4 (patch reconstruction), and 7.4 +/- 1.4 (standard repair) (p less than 0.05). In the anterior wall, contractility did not change significantly (7.4 +/- 1.2, control; 7.8 +/- 2.7, left ventricular aneurysm; 5.0 +/- 0.4, patch reconstruction; and 5.3 +/- 0.4, standard repair). Decreased end-diastolic wall thinning anteriorly suggested tethering. These results in the normal left ventricle suggest that patch ventriculoplasty is of no greater benefit than linear repair. Either repair may impede function of adjacent myocardium through restriction of regional diastolic lengthening. 
Normalization of increased sodium sensitivity by maintenance hemodialysis. Blood pressure (BP) becomes more sodium and body fluid sensitive as renal function deteriorates. Thus, hypertension in chronic renal failure is mostly of the sodium sensitive type. We studied whether the increased sodium sensitivity (SS) can be restored to normal on the maintenance phase of hemodialysis (HD) therapy. Body weight (BW) and BP (specifically, mean arterial pressure [MAP]) were measured after HD and before the next HD, and the body fluid sensitivity (BFS) was calculated as the ratio of changes in these factors on both introduction and maintenance phases in HD patients (n = 56) who were not taking any antihypertensive drugs (BFS = delta MAP/delta BW). In a preliminary study, the amount of interdialytic sodium intake (QNa+) was measured (n = 30), and SS was calculated as the ratio of the change in MAP to QNa+ (SS = delta MAP/QNa+). Interdialytic BW gain (3.1 +/- 0.1 kg) was correlated with the amount of sodium intake (136 +/- 17 mEq), resulting in a positive relationship between BFS and SS (r = 0.79, P less than .0001). Therefore, BFS was used as an index of SS. As a whole, BFS decreased from the introduction to the maintenance phase (6.5 +/- 1.0 to 3.5 +/- 0.6 mm Hg/L, P less than .01). This decrease was marked (6.2 +/- 1.1 to 2.9 +/- 0.6 mm Hg/L, P less than .01) in patients (n = 46) whose BP was normalized in the maintenance phase, while not significant (7.9 +/- 1.9 to 6.3 +/- 1.3 mm Hg/L) in patients (n = 10) whose BP was still high. 
Pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody in murine experimental viral myocarditis. The pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody Fab were investigated with use of murine experimental viral myocarditis as a model. The biodistribution of indium-111-labeled antimyosin antibody Fab on days 3, 5, 7, 14, 21 and 28 after encephalomyocarditis virus inoculation demonstrated that myocardial uptake increased significantly on days 5, 7 and 14 (maximum on day 7) in infected versus uninfected mice (p less than 0.001). In vivo kinetics in infected mice on day 7 demonstrated that the heart to blood ratio reached a maximum 48 h after the intravenous administration of indium-111-labeled antimyosin Fab, which was considered to be the optimal time for scintigraphy. The scintigraphic images obtained with indium-111-labeled antimyosin Fab demonstrated positive uptake in the cardiac lesion in infected mice. The pathologic study demonstrated that myocardial uptake correlated well with pathologic grades of myocardial necrosis. High performance liquid chromatography revealed the presence of an antigen-antibody complex in the circulation of infected mice after the injection of indium-111-labeled antimyosin Fab. This antigen bound to indium-111-labeled antimyosin Fab in the circulation might be whole myosin and this complex may decrease myocardial uptake and increase liver uptake. It is concluded that indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody Fab accumulates selectively in damaged heart tissue in mice with acute myocarditis and that indium-111-labeled antimyosin Fab scintigraphy may be a useful method for the visualization of acute myocarditis. 
Use of the metabolic tracer carbon-11-acetate for evaluation of regional myocardial perfusion. The high first-pass myocardial extraction fraction of carbon-11-acetate suggests that its initial uptake depends on blood flow. Accordingly, regional uptake of 11C-acetate at 4 min was compared to regional perfusion determined with nitrogen-13-ammonia in 119 segments in 15 patients with stable coronary artery disease by two methods. A close correlation was observed between initial relative myocardial concentrations (segmental activity normalized to maximal activity) of both tracers (11C-acetate = 0.88; 13N-ammonia + 0.079; s.e.e. = 0.064, r = 0.94, p less than 0.001). Furthermore, segmental net extractions (E.F), as calculated from the input function and segmental activities, of the two tracers correlated closely by E.FC-11 = 0.55E.FN-13 + 0.080 (s.e.e. = 0.045, r = 0.87, p less than 0.001). These relationships indicate that initial regional myocardial uptake of 11C-acetate reflects perfusion and that 11C-acetate permits near simultaneous evaluation of regional oxidative metabolism and of regional myocardial perfusion. 
Progress in cardioprotection: the role of calcium antagonists. Calcium antagonists are now widely used for the treatment of clinical hypertension and angina pectoris. They are efficacious for the treatment of vasospastic, fixed atherosclerotic and mixed angina; they reduce the incidence of silent ischemia; and they have been shown to reduce postmyocardial infarct angina. Experimental data suggest that they may have certain cardioprotective properties in cases of acute myocardial ischemia and infarction, stunned myocardium, diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular hypertrophy and atherosclerosis. Moreover, they have been shown to improve exercise performance, as well as the diastolic abnormalities in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In animals, they may delay or reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary occlusion or coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion, and in low doses that do not alter the hemodynamic profile, they have been shown to enhance the return of ventricular function in animals with stunned myocardium. However, the early first-generation calcium antagonists (nifedipine, verapamil, diltiazem) have not been shown to reduce myocardial infarct size or to enhance survival in patients with acute myocardial infarction. There now are clinical studies that suggest that, unlike beta blockers or nitrates, nifedipine may slow the development of atherosclerotic progression in humans over a 2-year period, and it seems likely that in the 1990s there will be further expansion of the use of calcium antagonists for not only angina and hypertension but also for aspects of cardioprotection. That calcium antagonists may delay, prevent or possibly regress atherosclerotic lesions is an exciting possibility. 
Cardiac contractility and conduction: a comparison of antihypertensives. The four classes of first-line antihypertensive agents recommended in the 1988 report of the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure are reviewed here. Particular consideration is given to the effects of these agents on heart rate, atrioventricular nodal conduction, and myocardial contractility in patients with other cardiovascular diseases. Diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have no significant direct effects on cardiac function. beta-Blockers inhibit catecholamine stimulation of the heart and may be particularly beneficial in treating patients with a history of myocardial infarction. Calcium channel blockers reduce blood pressure by dilating arterial resistance vessels. They are structurally heterogeneous and highly selective in their sites of action. As a consequence, cardiac effects can be minimized by selecting a calcium channel blocker with more potent peripheral vasodilatory effects. A new calcium channel blocker, isradipine, currently undergoing clinical trials, is highly selective for arterial smooth muscle and appears to be a safe and effective antihypertensive agent. 
Indapamide: a diuretic of choice for the treatment of hypertension? In recent years, the therapeutic approach to mild hypertension has evolved from a stepped care approach to one including varied, initial monotherapies, with the selection of drug based on factors present in an individual patient, followed by combination therapy. The greatest cumulative experience of the value of antihypertensive therapy has been obtained with diuretics. The reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease with successful antihypertensive therapy using conventional agents, including diuretics, is not as great as might have been anticipated by the magnitude of change in blood pressure. This could be due to antecedent cardiovascular injury prior to therapy or to risk factors induced by therapy. The recent introduction of a new generation of drugs with combined diuretic and hypotensive effects that reduce blood pressure without inducing the biochemical changes associated with thiazides, offers an opportunity to evaluate this question. Indapamide is the first of this new generation to be released. Its pharmacologic characteristics show that it has the prerequisites to be considered a first-line drug for use in hypertension. It meets the requirements of a Phase II or second generation drug in that it has similar efficacy, but less short term toxicity than first generation drugs. It has been introduced at a cost that is competitive with thiazides and potassium-sparing combination drugs and is cheaper than many other classes of antihypertensive drugs. The major caution in promoting its use is that its long term effect on morbidity and mortality in hypertensive disease has not yet been evaluated. In summary, this is a promising new drug that has the potential to replace first generation thiazides in the routine management of hypertension. 
Ventricular responses to mental stress testing in patients with coronary artery disease. Pathophysiological implications. Recent research examining the effects of mental stress on left ventricular wall motion and/or ejection fraction has used four techniques to measure contractile function: radionuclide ventriculography, a stationary nuclear probe, two-dimensional echocardiography, and an ambulatory radionuclide left ventricular function monitor. This research has consistently revealed that mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia occurs frequently during laboratory stress testing, particularly among patients with exercise-induced ischemia. This ischemia is usually silent, occurs at low heart rate elevations but with significant blood pressure increases compared with exercise-induced ischemia, and is frequently not detected when electrocardiographic markers are used alone. Exploration of factors underlying differences between mental stress- and exercise-induced ischemia has provided a means for studying the complex pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia. 
Cardiovascular sequelae of therapeutic thoracic radiation. Mediastinal radiation damages endothelial cells, with resulting loss of capillaries and ischemia at the level of the microcirculation. These changes lead to increases in collagen and proliferation of fibrous tissue throughout the heart. Cardiac dysfunction following radiotherapy is surprisingly common and may be due to pericardial, myocardial, valvular, conduction system, or coronary artery disease. Greater awareness of cardiotoxicity has prompted changes in radiation techniques that appear to reduce clinical cardiovascular complications. 
Linking in accessory pathways. Functional loss of antegrade preexcitation. BACKGROUND. Concealed retrograde activation has been proposed as a mechanism for antegrade conduction block in the bundle branches and atrioventricular accessory pathways. We studied this hypothesis (linking) in 10 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome in whom antegrade preexcitation could be persistently blocked by overdrive atrial pacing. METHODS AND RESULTS. An atrial pacing protocol, with a decremental ramp followed by an incremental ramp, defined a range of atrial paced cycle lengths (linking window) associated with both persistent conduction and block in the accessory pathway. Within the limits of the linking window, the ability of an atrial impulse to conduct over the accessory pathway was dependent on the preceding state (i.e., conduction or block). The observed linking window ranged from 70 to 290 msec (mean, 185 +/- 68 msec) and closely approximated the measured delay in retrograde activation of the accessory pathway during persistent antegrade block. The mean antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathways was long (486 +/- 156 msec), and in each case, it exceeded the antegrade refractory period of the normal atrioventricular pathway. Critically timed premature ventricular extrastimuli, delivered while linking was maintained in the accessory pathway, were able to interrupt the linking and restore antegrade accessory pathway conduction. CONCLUSIONS. These observations suggest that accessory pathway linking is associated with bidirectional block in the accessory pathway. The ability to initiate linking (and the stability of the phenomenon) depends on a critical relation between antegrade accessory pathway refractoriness and the magnitude of retrograde accessory pathway activation delay. 
An assault on old friends: thiazide diuretics under siege. The adverse biochemical effects of thiazide use are of uncertain clinical significance. Thiazides raise LDL cholesterol only slightly in long-term studies and do not decrease HDL cholesterol. The evidence linking thiazide-induced hypokalemia with arrhythmias and sudden death is tenuous at best. Thiazide diuretics cause glucose intolerance, but no strong evidence has been advanced to suggest that this is dangerous. Because these effects are probably related to hypokalemia, a randomized trial comparing the effects of thiazides with thiazides plus a potassium-sparing diuretic on LDL cholesterol, ectopy on 48 hour ambulatory cardiac monitoring, fasting glucose and insulin, and post-glucose tolerance glucose and insulin would be of interest. The most compelling reason for continuing to use thiazides is that they have been shown in long-term randomized studies to reduce cardiovascular risk. Beta-blockers are the only other class of anti-hypertensive agent for which this claim can be made. The importance of long-term clinical trials in assessing the efficacy and toxicity of therapeutic agents is illustrated by the study that found clofibrate reduced cholesterol levels and coronary disease but increased total mortality. This finding remained undetected until a large randomized long-term trial was completed. Thiazide diuretics have not reduced the rate of coronary disease to the degree expected from epidemiologic studies, but the short length of the randomized trials may be responsible. It is not clear that other anti-hypertensive agents will be superior. Thiazides are less expensive than other anti-hypertensive agents being touted as metabolically safer; the cost issue is not a trivial matter. 
Low-dose aspirin does not influence the clinical course of women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension. The effect of low doses of aspirin on women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension was investigated by means of a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. Forty-seven women hospitalized at 30-36 weeks' gestation because of mild pregnancy-induced hypertension were treated by a daily dose of either 100 mg aspirin or placebo. The mean blood pressure values, rates of development of severe preeclampsia, gestational ages at delivery, newborn weights, and 5-minute Apgar scores were similar in the aspirin-treated and the placebo-treated groups. We conclude that low-dose aspirin is not curative but is essentially a preventive treatment which, in order to be effective, should be started weeks before clinical signs of preeclampsia are present. 
Treatment of congenital coronary arteriovenous malformations with micro-particle embolization. The successful treatment of a symptomatic coronary arteriovenous malformation (CAVM) by a percutaneous embolization technique with micro-particles is described. Objective evidence of ischemia and its subsequent disappearance after embolization is presented. The embolization technique and possible indications and contraindications are discussed. 
The dynamics of antegrade cardioplegia with simultaneous coronary sinus occlusion. Effects on aortic root infusion pressure, coronary sinus pressure, and myocardial cooling. It has been suggested that antegrade cardioplegia with coronary sinus occlusion improves homogeneous myocardial cooling and reduces myocardial injury in the presence of coronary artery occlusion. Little data are available on the exact relationships among the basic elements or this intervention, including antegrade infusion rate, aortic root pressure, the degree of coronary sinus occlusion, coronary sinus pressure, and myocardial cooling. The purpose of this study was to determine these relationships and to provide some basic guidelines for better understanding of this intervention. Twenty-two sheep were placed on cardiopulmonary bypass, the distal left anterior descending artery was occluded, and the proximal coronary sinus was snared. Sixteen combinations of infusion rate (3, 5, 7, or 9 ml/kg/min) and coronary sinus occlusion (total, subtotal, or moderate occlusion or no occlusion) were adopted for each 2 minutes of antegrade cardioplegia, yielding 96 measurements. Myocardial temperatures in the occluded and nonoccluded regions, aortic root infusion pressure, and coronary sinus pressure were measured during each infusion of cardioplegic solution. Coronary sinus occlusion was then released, and the whole heart was reperfused for 30 minutes for another infusion of cardioplegic solution and measurements. Results showed good degrees of linearity between infusion rate and aortic root infusion pressure for all coronary sinus occlusion and noninfusion groups (p less than 0.01). A positive effect of coronary sinus occlusion on aortic root infusion pressure was observed. The graded increases in infusion rate with various degrees of coronary sinus occlusion were constantly associated with elevation of coronary sinus pressure (p less than 0.01). It was also noted that myocardial temperatures in the region of the occluded left anterior descending artery were significantly lower in coronary sinus occlusion groups than in nonocclusion groups (p less than 0.01 or 0.05). Myocardial temperature in the nonoccluded region decreased significantly with the stepwise increases in infusion rate (p less than 0.01), but not with the increases in coronary sinus occlusion (not significant). Based on this and previous studies, we recommend that the induced coronary sinus pressure be safely maintained in the range of 25 to 35 mm Hg and that further studies be focused on the infusion rate of 5 ml/kg/min with subtotal or total coronary sinus occlusion for the intervention of antegrade cardioplegia plus coronary sinus occlusion. 
Digital cutaneous vascular responses to histamine and neuropeptides in Raynaud's phenomenon. The pathophysiology of Raynaud's phenomenon is not well defined, but active cutaneous microvascular vasoconstriction and emptying must occur to account for the pallor and are reasons for studying the microvasculature. It has been proposed that there may be a defect in a local histamine vasodilator mechanism. The role of the peptidergic nervous system in Raynaud's phenomenon has not been previously investigated. To study the histaminergic and peptidergic axes in Raynaud's phenomenon, we measured the cutaneous microvascular responses of patients with Raynaud's phenomenon to digital intradermal injections of saline, histamine, the histamine-releasing agent, compound 48/80, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide. We compared these results with those obtained in normal subjects. Intradermal cutaneous microvascular blood flow responses were quantified by planimetry and laser Doppler flowmetry. The results show: a) that in primary Raynaud's phenomenon there is no evidence of local deficiency in histamine release or insensitivity to histamine in the cutaneous microvasculature; and b) that patients with Raynaud's phenomenon react normally to the neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P, providing a rationale for treating Raynaud's phenomenon with vasoactive peptides. 
Tetralogy of Fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections: a rare but clinically important association. Anomalous pulmonary venous connections were found in seven (0.6%) of 1183 patients with tetralogy of Fallot. Three patients had totally anomalous connections (one supracardiac, one direct to coronary sinus, and one mixed supracardiac and infracardiac) and four patients had partially anomalous pulmonary venous connections. All patients presented with the clinical features of tetralogy of Fallot. Anomalous pulmonary venous drainage was suspected clinically in only one patient in whom there was a scimitar sign on the chest radiograph. The exact diagnosis was established by cross sectional echocardiography (one), preoperative or postoperative angiography (five), or at necropsy (one). Surgery was performed in six patients. Total correction without re-routing of the anomalously draining veins was successful in all those with partially anomalous connections, with no significant long term sequelae (follow up median 17 years). Of those with totally anomalous connections, the full diagnosis was made only at necropsy in one patient, successful one-stage correction was performed in one, and the other patient, who had partially obstructed mixed drainage, died shortly after one-stage correction. Histological examination of the lung biopsy specimen in this patient showed grade 2 pulmonary vascular disease. Tetralogy of Fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections is a rare association. Careful preoperative assessment is required in those with totally anomalous connections. 
Cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord: report of 2 unusual cases. We present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions. Diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of MRI. 
Home blood pressure readings in borderline hypertensive patients. Home blood pressure monitoring can provide valuable information for physicians managing borderline hypertensive patients. This study was conducted to compare office and home blood pressures in 36 borderline hypertensive subjects, and to determine the accuracy of the home monitoring unit used. The patients were very willing to record their home blood pressures for an extended period of time. The home blood pressure monitors were found to be quite accurate, and blood pressures measured at home were significantly lower than readings obtained in the office. In 39% (14 of 36) of the subjects studied, the average home blood pressures were more than 10 mmHg lower than their office readings. These findings support the hypothesis that home blood pressure monitoring can be useful in the management of borderline hypertensive patients. 
Effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on lung vascular permeability and resistance. The effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on pulmonary vascular permeability and resistance was studied in 25 isolated blood-perfused dog lungs. Vascular permeability, assessed by determining filtration coefficient (Kf), and vascular resistances were measured at the beginning and end of the experiment. Ischemia reperfusion was produced by occluding blood flow to the lung for 3 h and reperfusing for 1 h, whereas hypoxia reoxygenation was obtained by ventilating the lung with 95% N2-5% CO2 for 3 h and then ventilating with 95% O2-5% CO2 for 1 h with no interruption of perfusion. There was a significant increase in Kf in both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation groups (51 and 85%, respectively), and total vascular resistance increased greatly in both groups (386 and 532%, respectively). Two additional groups were also studied in which the ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation lungs were pretreated with allopurinol (20 micrograms/ml). The Kf did not significantly increase in either the allopurinol ischemia reperfusion or the allopurinol hypoxia reoxygenation groups (22 and 6%, respectively). However, total vascular resistance significantly increased in both groups (239 and 224%, respectively). Although vascular permeability is modestly increased by both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation, the predominant change in these conditions is the increased vascular resistance, which predominantly affects the postcapillary resistance and would result in a greater tendency for edema to develop in these slightly damaged lungs. Allopurinol, which inhibits xanthine oxidase, attenuated the permeability changes in both groups and may be useful in preventing ischemia reperfusion injury in certain conditions. 
Pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in The Netherlands. Differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young (25-35 years of age) and older adults (55-65 years). Antibody concentrations were determined by ELISA, using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen. No differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults (either healthy or asthmatic) or among older adults (healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease). Each group included individuals with low antibody levels. Therefore, the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk, that is, elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease, cannot be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations. 
A consensus approach to electrolytes and blood pressure. Could we all be right? This commentary sets forth the hypothesis that the putative beneficial or detrimental effects of specific electrolytes on blood pressure regulation in fact reflect highly integrated responses to interactions among these cationic and anionic species. In this paradigm, the impact of any given intake of an electrolyte on arterial pressure will be influenced by the concurrent consumption of other electrolytes. Thus, the heterogeneous blood pressure response in humans to isolated manipulations of nutrients such as sodium, calcium, and potassium may be determined, in part, by the adequacy of the dietary intake of other mineral elements. If this hypothesis is validated by continued research in this area, we would have new strategies available to improve blood pressure control in humans. For example, treatment of "NaCl sensitivity" in some humans might be more effectively approached by correcting dietary deficiencies of either potassium or calcium than by restricting dietary NaCl. 
Termination of acute atrial fibrillation in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome by procainamide and propafenone: importance of atrial fibrillatory cycle length. The effects of intravenous procainamide (n = 30) or propafenone (n = 25) were evaluated in 55 patients with acute atrial fibrillation and the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. All patients received either procainamide (12 to 15 mg/kg body weight) or propafenone (1 to 2 mg/kg) during sustained (greater than 10 min) atrial fibrillation or after termination of nonsustained atrial fibrillation. Termination of atrial fibrillation was attributed to a drug if it occurred less than or equal to 15 min after infusion. Measurements included mean cycle length of fibrillatory electrograms (mean AA interval) as measured at the high right atrium and shortest RR interval between pre-excited cycles during atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation terminated more frequently after procainamide administration (65%) than after propafenone (46%), although this difference was not significant. Procainamide prolonged the shortest pre-excited RR interval (228 +/- 41 to 339 +/- 23 ms, p = 0.0001) as did propafenone (215 +/- 40 to 415 +/- 198 ms, p = 0.0001) and the magnitude of increase was greater for propafenone (p = 0.048). Patients with sustained atrial fibrillation had shorter mean AA intervals than did their counterparts with nonsustained atrial fibrillation (123 +/- 25 versus 186 +/- 35 ms, p = 0.0001). Termination of sustained atrial fibrillation by either drug was accompanied by prolongation of the mean AA interval but not necessarily by the shortest pre-excited RR interval. Termination of atrial fibrillation was heralded by a 68% increase in the mean AA interval after procainamide administration compared with a 30% increase when the arrhythmia persisted. For propafenone the increases were 90% and 68%, respectively. 
Hemifacial spasm caused by a spontaneous dissecting aneurysm of the vertebral artery. Case report. The authors describe the first reported case of dissecting aneurysm presenting with hemifacial spasm. The patient was a 58-year-old woman with left hemifacial spasm of 2 years' duration. Cranial nerve examination was otherwise normal and no other clinical symptoms were observed. Vertebral angiography revealed a fusiform enlargement of the left vertebral artery and contrast medium remaining in the intramural false lumen in the venous phase. Microvascular decompression of the facial nerve with wrapping of the aneurysm resulted in complete relief of the hemifacial spasm. 
Insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia: role in hypertension, dyslipidemia, and coronary heart disease. Resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and hyperinsulinemia may play a central role in the cause and clinical course of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, and coronary heart disease. This article summarizes the evidence in support of this general hypothesis. 
Prediction of pregnancy-induced hypertensive disorders by angiotensin II sensitivity and supine pressor test. An angiotensin II sensitivity test and a supine pressor test were done consecutively at 28 weeks gestation in 90 healthy, normotensive nulliparous women. None of the supine pressor tests was positive, applying the predefined threshold of a rise of 20 mmHg in diastolic blood pressure after rolling over; nine tests were positive using a corrected 9 mmHg cut-off level. Ten women had a positive angiotensin sensitivity test using a threshold of the effective pressor dose of 8 ng/kg/min; 22 women were positive using an effective pressor dose of less than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min. Later in pregnancy 12 women (13%) developed pregnancy-induced hypertensive disease (PIH). The specificity of both tests of predicting the development of PIH was about 90%. The sensitivity of the angiotensin sensitivity test at the 10 ng/kg/min level was 92%. Because of its low sensitivity of 25% the supine pressor test appears to have no value for the prediction of PIH. There was a significant positive association between angiotensin II refractoriness and birthweight. 
Association between primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension: analysis of its pathophysiology and clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic manifestations. To determine the clinical, laboratory and hemodynamic profile in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and associated portal hypertension, 7 new cases and 71 previously reported cases were analyzed. There was no gender predilection and the average age at diagnosis was 41 years. Liver cirrhosis was the most frequent cause of hypertension (82%) and a surgical portosystemic shunt was present in 29%. Almost invariably, portal hypertension either preceded or was diagnosed concurrently with pulmonary hypertension, favoring the hypothesis that in portal hypertension, the pulmonary vasculature may be exposed to vasoactive substances normally metabolized or produced by the diseased liver, possibly inducing vasoconstriction or direct toxic damage to the pulmonary arteries. Clinically, exertional dyspnea was the most frequent presenting symptom (81%); other symptoms, such as syncope, chest pain and fatigue, were present in less than 33%. An accentuated pulmonary component of the second heart sound (82%) and a systolic murmur (69%) were the most common physical findings. At least 75% of these patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension on electrocardiography (right ventricular hypertrophy) or roentgenography (cardiomegaly or dilated main pulmonary arteries, or both). Hemodynamic findings included severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure 59 +/- 19 mm Hg) with normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and cardiac output. Treatment was basically palliative and the mean and median survival times were 15 and 6 months, respectively. In brief, on the basis of clinical presentation and laboratory features, patients with combined primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension seldom represent a diagnostic challenge. Further research is needed on treatment, which remains palliative. The survival rate is poor and worse than that seen in isolated primary pulmonary hypertension. 
Life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [published erratum appears in Anaesthesia 1991 Mar;46(3):241] A 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described. Anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia. The patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism. The pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined. It is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension. 
Brief angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats reduces blood pressure long-term Our study examines the long-term cardiovascular effects after a brief period of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). SHR were treated with perindopril (3 mg/kg/day) by gavage from 2 to 6, from 6 to 10, or from 2 to 10 weeks of age. Systolic blood pressure was measured in the tail weekly until 25 weeks of age. Corresponding control groups received distilled water for the same periods. In each treatment group blood pressure was reduced significantly during treatment, rose when treatment stopped, but plateaued significantly below control SHR thereafter. This difference in blood pressure at 25 weeks of age was due to reduced total peripheral resistance as determined by microsphere methods, but plasma renin activity and angiotensin II concentrations were not different. Cardiac hypertrophy was also reduced in treated SHR. In a separate experiment, perindopril treatment from 6 to 10 weeks of age resulted in a significant reduction in the media/lumen ratios of mesenteric resistance vessels at 32 weeks of age. Concomitant administration of angiotensin II with perindopril from 6 to 10 weeks of age not only prevented the long-term effects on blood pressure seen with perindopril treatment alone but was associated with cardiovascular hypertrophy in excess of untreated control SHR. Finally, perindopril given for a shorter period (6 to 7 weeks) or later in life (20 to 24 weeks) had no significant long-term effects on blood pressure. These results demonstrate that a 4-week period of ACE inhibitor treatment in young SHR is sufficient to prevent the full expression of genetic hypertension and cardiovascular hypertrophy and that angiotensin II might be important in the development of hypertension in this model, its role in later life being less important. 
Low rate of treatment of hypercholesterolemia by cardiologists in patients with suspected and proven coronary artery disease. BACKGROUND. Although specific guidelines for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia have been published, it is not known whether physicians treating patients likely to have lipid disorders have adopted the recommendations. METHODS AND RESULTS. The approach of cardiologists to the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in a metropolitan teaching hospital was assessed by interviewing patients with chest pain who were admitted for coronary angiography in 1988-1989 and by measuring fasting blood lipid profiles. At 1 month and again 12-24 months later, patients were contacted by telephone to determine if there had been any changes in treatment. Of 95 patients evaluated, 81 had coronary artery disease. Only 17% of those with high levels of total cholesterol and/or low density lipoprotein cholesterol were being actively treated with diet and/or drugs. In the remaining patients, either lipid studies had not been done or abnormal results had not been addressed. There was little change in treatment approach during the month after the diagnostic procedure. Furthermore, the experience was similar in those patients subjected to coronary revascularization. One to 2 years after the initial intervention, 69 of the original study group could be contacted again. Although active dietary or pharmacological therapy was initiated in some individuals during this interval, it was stopped in others. Thirty-five percent of hypercholesterolemic patients were receiving targeted therapy. CONCLUSIONS. Thus, only a small proportion of patients with documented coronary artery disease and hypercholesterolemia were being actively treated for their lipid disorder, suggesting that the published treatment guidelines have not yet been fully accepted. However, an encouraging improvement in frequency of treatment of hypercholesterolemia was documented during the 1-2-year observation period. 
Primary prevention of coronary artery disease through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic. Primary prevention of coronary artery disease in children and young adults is important and can be instituted through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic. Such a clinic was initiated at the Medical College of Georgia in March 1988. Children whose total cholesterol level (TC) exceeded 200 mg/dL when screened by their primary care physician were referred with their siblings and parents for fasting lipid profile and further evaluation. Data are available for the initial 21 families, including 30 children and 36 adults. The mean TC level was 258 mg/dL for index cases, 195 mg/dL for siblings, and 233 mg/dL for parents. Follow-up data obtained after therapy at a mean of 6 months are available for 12 families, including 14 children and 14 adults. The mean change in TC was from 265 to 246 mg/dL; 82% of the patients had a decrease in TC. Only one index case was documented as having neither a sibling nor a parent with an elevated cholesterol level. Family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinics are important for the identification and treatment of hypercholesterolemia in asymptomatic young people when primary prevention is possible. 
Electroencephalography laboratory diagnosis of prolonged QT interval. Patients with prolongation of the QT interval are at risk for significant neurological morbidity and mortality secondary to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. These patients frequently undergo electroencephalographic (EEG) examination to evaluate episodes of loss of consciousness, which may be associated with convulsions. Electrocardiogram recording as a part of the EEG is a simple and common practice, but analysis for possible QT prolongation is not routinely performed by electroencephalographers. This is, in part, due to the fact that while calculation of the corrected QT interval is straight forward, a calculator is generally required. A nomogram that is presented simplifies determination of the corrected QT interval, facilitating diagnosis of prolongation of the QT interval in the EEG laboratory. 
Early detection of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with chest pain and nondiagnostic ECGs: serial CK-MB sampling in the emergency department [published erratum appears in Ann Emerg Med 1991 Apr;20(4):420] STUDY OBJECTIVES: Patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort are a difficult problem for emergency physicians. Nearly 50% of patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) will initially have nondiagnostic ECGs on ED presentation. The purpose of this study was to determine if patients with AMI having nondiagnostic ECGs could be identified using new immunochemical assays for serial CK-MB sampling in the ED. DESIGN: Chest pain patients, more than 30 years old, with pain not caused by trauma or explained by radiographic findings, were eligible for the study. Serial serum samples were drawn on ED presentation (zero hours) and three hours after presentation, then analyzed for CK-MB using four immunochemical methods and electrophoresis. Standard World Health Organization criteria were used to establish the diagnosis of AMI, including new Q-wave formation or elevation of standard in-hospital serum cardiac enzyme markers. SETTING: A tertiary cardiac care community hospital. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The serum from 183 patients hospitalized for possible ischemic chest pain was collected and analyzed. Thirty-one of 183 patients (17%) were found to have AMI by standard in-hospital criteria. Sixteen of the 31 patients (52%) with AMI had nondiagnostic ECGs on presentation. Immunochemical determination of serial CK-MB levels provided a sensitive and specific method for detecting AMI in patients within three hours after ED presentation compared with standard electrophoresis. The four immunochemical methods demonstrated a range in sensitivity from 50% to 62.1% on ED presentation versus 92% to 96.7% three hours later. The immunochemical tests demonstrated specificities ranging from 83.0% to 96.4% at three hours, with three of the four tests having specificities of 92% or greater. Electrophoresis had a sensitivity of 34.5% on ED presentation, increasing to 76.9% at three hours, with a specificity of 98.6%. CONCLUSIONS: Immunochemical CK-MB methods allowed rapid, sensitive detection of AMI in the ED. Early detection of AMI offers many potential advantages to the emergency physician. Early detection of AMI, while the patient is in the ED, could direct disposition of this potentially unstable patient to an intensive care setting. Such information may prevent the ED discharge of patients with AMI having nondiagnostic ECGs. The diagnosis of AMI within a six-hour period after symptom onset may allow thrombolytic therapy to be given to patients with AMI not having diagnostic ECGs. This study served as a pilot trial for a multicenter study of the Emergency Medicine Cardiac Research Group, which is currently ongoing. 
Body fluid spaces and blood pressure in hemodialysis patients during amelioration of anemia with erythropoietin. Blood pressure (BP) may increase in hemodialysis patients during treatment of anemia with recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO). Since fluid volume is a determinant of BP in dialysis patients, changes in body fluid spaces during r-HuEPO therapy could affect BP. Thus, 51Cr-labeled red blood cell (RBC) volume, inulin extracellular fluid (ECF) volume, and urea total body water (TBW), as well as cardiac output, plasma renin activity (PRA), and plasma aldosterone concentration were determined postdialysis before and after r-HuEPO therapy in patients in whom changes in BP could be managed by ultrafiltration alone. Eleven patients entered the study: one had a renal transplant and two required addition of antihypertensive drug therapy and were excluded; eight, of whom two required antihypertensive drug therapy following the study, were included in the analyses. Results revealed an increase in predialysis hemoglobin from 67 to 113 g/L (6.7 to 11.3 g/dL) (P = 0.001) during 18 +/- 6 weeks of therapy. Predialysis diastolic BP increased from 80 to 85 mm Hg (P = 0.07), while postdialysis diastolic BP was unchanged at 73 mm Hg. 51Cr-RBC volume increased, from 0.7 to 1.3 L (P = 0.004). ECF tended to decrease, from 13.7 to 10.8 L (P = 0.064), while TBW decreased to a similar extent, but not significantly, 34.3 to 31.2 L (P = 0.16). Postdialysis ECF volume was positively correlated with mean arterial BP at baseline (r = 0.89, P = 0.007) and after therapy (r = 0.74, P = 0.035). However, the regression lines for this relationship were different (P = 0.022) before and after therapy. 
The natural history of left ventricular spontaneous contrast. Spontaneous contrast in the left ventricle is an unusual entity. We retrospectively studied 16 patients who were found to have spontaneous contrast present on two-dimensional echocardiograms, specifically noting their clinical characteristics, the reproducibility of this phenomenon, the presence of thrombi and embolic events, and prognostic implications. Diagnoses included ischemic heart disease in nine patients, dilated cardiomyopathy in six patients, and hypertensive cardiomyopathy in one patient. The mean ejection fraction was 17.6%. There were six thromboembolic events in four patients. The spontaneous contrast was reproducible for periods of time up to 39 months. Patients who had improvement in their left ventricular dysfunction or who underwent aneurysmectomy had disappearance of the spontaneous contrast. Those patients who had spontaneous contrast reproduced on subsequent echocardiograms did not seem to have a worse prognosis than patients with similarly depressed ventricular function, but a larger study is necessary to verify this. 
Role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in congestive heart failure. Conventional therapy for congestive heart failure (CHF) includes sodium-restricted diet, diuretics, digitalis, vasodilators, and short-term intravenous administration of beta-adrenergic agonists during episodes of decompensation. A specific class of vasodilators, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, has recently gained predominance in the treatment of congestive heart failure. The primary mechanism of action is to reduce production of angiotensin II by competitive inhibition of the enzyme that converts angiotensin I into angiotensin II. Reduced levels of angiotensin II, in turn, promote vasodilation and lower aldosterone production. The benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in chronic congestive heart failure have been demonstrated by improvement in left ventricular performance, exercise capacity, functional status (using New York Heart Association classification), and survival. 
Comparison of coronary angiography and early oral dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. We evaluated 50 consecutive patients who received thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography in combination with oral dipyridamole (300 mg) to assess the frequency of residual myocardial ischemia. Thallium studies were performed early after myocardial infarction at a mean of 4.6 days (range 3 to 11) in 50 patients. The time from the onset of chest pain to the administration of thrombolytic therapy was 2.6 hours (range 0.5 to 5.5). Q wave myocardial infarction was evident in 46 patients; four patients had a non-Q wave infarction (anterior infarction in 31 patients and inferior infarction in 19 patients). The serum mean peak creatinine kinase was 1503 IU/L (range 127 to 6500). Coronary angiography was performed in all patients at a mean of 3.1 days (range 2 to 10) and revealed the infarct-related vessel to be patent in 36 patients (72%). The ejection fraction was 48% (range 26% to 67%). After dipyridamole administration, 13 patients (26%) developed angina that was easily reversed with the administration of intravenous aminophylline. Systolic blood pressure decreased from 122 to 115 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and the heart rate increased from 76 to 85 beats/min (p less than 0.05). None of the patients had significant hypotension, arrhythmias, or evidence of infarct extension. Perfusion abnormalities were present on the initial thallium images in 48 patients. Redistribution suggestive of ischemia was present in 36 patients (72%). Ischemia confined to the vascular distribution of the infarct vessel was evident in 22 patients. Seven patients had ischemia in the infarct zone as well as in a remote myocardial segment. Thus 29 patients (58%) had ischemia in the distribution of the infarct vessel. Ischemia in the infarct zone was evident in 19 of 36 patients (53%) with open infarct vessels and in 10 of 14 patients (71%) with occluded infarct vessels. In conclusion, thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography using oral dipyridamole was safely performed in patients with recent myocardial infarctions who receive thrombolytic therapy. 
Transtelephonic defibrillation. STUDY OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to assess the safety and reliability of a device for transtelephonic defibrillation. DESIGN: The transtelephonic system consists of a patient unit and a base station. The patient unit contains a monitor-defibrillator, electrode pads, microphone, microprocessor, and DC defibrillator. The base station comprises a control panel, computer, and ECG display. SETTING: Fifteen patients who were treated in our emergency department for cardiac arrest were placed on patient units that activated our base station in a remote location within the ED. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Thirteen patients were treated for ventricular fibrillation, and two patients were treated for ventricular tachycardia. INTERVENTIONS: Thirty-one shocks were delivered transtelephonically. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In all cases, voice and ECG transmission were established without difficulty. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that this system represents a safe and reliable method for the treatment of ventricular fibrillation, and we advocate additional use to study the prehospital applications of transtelephonic defibrillation. 
A kallikrein-like enzyme in blood vessels of one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats. Active and inactive kallikrein or a kallikrein-like enzyme are found in the aorta, vena cava, and tail artery and veins of the rat. We studied the concentration of vascular kininogenase in rats with one-kidney, one clip renovascular hypertension and in unilaterally nephrectomized normotensive rats. Six weeks after surgery, active and total vascular kininogenase activity (active plus trypsin-activated) was measured. Blood pressure was 212 +/- 4 mm Hg in the hypertensive rats (n = 33) and 120 +/- 1 mm Hg in the normotensive rats (n = 32) (p less than 0.001). Active kininogenase was lower in the hypertensive rats; although the difference was not significant in the thoracic aorta (56 +/- 8 versus 77 +/- 15), it was highly significant in the abdominal aorta (63 +/- 13 versus 167 +/- 17, p less than 0.001) and tail artery (48 +/- 8 versus 197 +/- 31, p less than 0.003). Total vascular kininogenase activity (active plus trypsin-activated) was lower in the hypertensive rats in all arteries examined: thoracic aorta (183 +/- 16 versus 380 +/- 38, p less than 0.003), abdominal aorta (565 +/- 61 versus 1,093 +/- 74, p less than 0.001), and tail artery (532 +/- 112 versus 1,243 +/- 135, p less than 0.003). Active kininogenase in the vena cava was higher in the hypertensive rats (213 +/- 56 versus 131 +/- 31); however, this difference was not statistically significant, whereas in the tail veins it was highly significant (1,803 +/- 221 versus 771 +/- 79, p less than 0.003). 
Intraoperative assessment of regional myocardial perfusion using quantitative myocardial contrast echocardiography: an experimental evaluation. To test the hypothesis that myocardial contrast echocardiography can be used to quantitate regional myocardial flow in the arrested heart at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution, data were acquired in 13 dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass. Different degrees of stenosis were placed in random order on the left anterior descending coronary artery. For each stenosis, myocardial contrast echocardiography was performed by injecting sonicated albumin microbubbles into the cross-clamped aortic root at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution. The resultant echocardiographic images were analyzed on an off-line computer. Background-subtracted time-intensity plots were generated, and an exponential function, f(t) = Ce-alpha t + De- beta t, was applied to each plot. Variables that reflected the total number of microbubbles entering the coronary artery bed, such as the area under the curve and the peak height of the curve, correlated best with radiolabeled microsphere-measured myocardial flow (r = 0.92 and r = 0.91, respectively). Variables that reflected the appearance of contrast microbubbles in the myocardium, such as the initial slope and the slope at 1 s, also had a good correlation with myocardial flow (r = 0.84 and r = 0.89, respectively). Variables that reflected the washout of contrast medium from the myocardium, such as the slope of the descending portion of the curve, had only a fair correlation with myocardial flow (r = 0.65). In six dogs, the technique of injecting contrast medium into the cross-clamped aortic root was also examined. Although continuous infusion of contrast medium produced smaller perturbations in mean aortic and distal left anterior descending artery pressures compared with a bolus injection (p less than 0.01), the correlation between the variables of the time-intensity curves and flow was equally close with both techniques. It is concluded that it is possible to quantitate myocardial flow by using myocardial contrast echocardiography at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution in dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass. The implementation of this technique in humans might be useful in guiding the sequence of graft placement and thereby improving myocardial preservation during coronary artery bypass operations. 
Close correlation of intra-abdominal fat accumulation to hypertension in obese women. The relation between intra-abdominal visceral fat accumulation and blood pressure was investigated in 67 obese women (mean body mass index, 33.6 +/- 3.1; average age, 50 +/- 11 years). As an index of intra-abdominal fat accumulation, the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area was determined using a computed tomographic section at the level of the umbilicus. When the obese subjects were divided into a hypertensive group and a normotensive group, the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area in the hypertensive group was significantly higher (0.53 +/- 0.33 versus 0.29 +/- 0.12, p less than 0.01). Significant correlations between the ratio of intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area and systolic blood pressure (r = 0.62, p less than 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (r = 0.53, p less than 0.001) also were found. However, no significant difference existed in either the body mass index or the waist-to-hip circumference ratio between the hypertensive and normotensive groups. Plasma renin activity, aldosterone, epinephrine, and norepinephrine levels were not significantly different between the two groups. Moreover, the correlation between the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area ratio and blood pressure was found independent of age and body mass index by multiple regression analyses. We conclude that intra-abdominal fat accumulation itself may play an important role in the pathogenesis of hypertension in obesity. 
Successful liver transplantation in a patient with a thrombosed portomesenteric system after multiple failed shunts. Combined portal and mesenteric vein thrombosis preventing restoration of adequate portal venous flow has been considered a contraindication to liver transplantation. We report a patient with failed splenorenal (SR), portocaval (PC), and mesocaval (MC) shunts, who despite the absence of any obvious means for supplying portal venous inflow to a hepatic graft, successfully underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. A method of reconstruction of the portal vein with the use of vein grafts anastomosed to a large splanchnic venous collateral is described. This technique can be used in selected patients in whom orthotopic liver transplantation might otherwise be considered technically impossible. 
Effects of long-term verapamil therapy on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters. Calcium antagonists have been used successfully in the management of hypertension for more than a decade, but less is known about their long-term metabolic effects. To define the impact of one calcium antagonist, verapamil, on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters, we placed 45 hypertensive patients on verapamil monotherapy and followed them for 4 to 8 years. After a mean treatment period of 5.3 years, total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were not significantly different from baseline, whereas the mean high-density lipoprotein cholesterol value increased significantly from 1.17 +/- 0.41 mmol/L at the initiation of treatment to 1.39 +/- 0.36 mmol/L at 5.3 years (p less than 0.05). Other important biochemical parameters, including serum glucose, potassium and uric acid levels were unaffected by verapamil therapy. No serious side effects or adverse cardiovascular events occurred during verapamil therapy, and there were no study dropouts. It therefore seems likely that this agent will become increasingly useful in the long-term management of essential hypertension. 
A double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin when administered with beta-blockers or diuretics. The antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin (once daily) and prazosin (twice daily) were compared in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 95 to 114 mm Hg) not adequately controlled by diuretics and beta-blockers. Doxazosin produced significantly greater mean reductions in standing (p = 0.01) and supine (p = 0.04) DBP than did prazosin; there were no significant between-group differences in either mean systolic blood pressure or heart rate. The overall mean daily doses for efficacy-evaluable patients were 4.7 mg of doxazosin and 6.7 mg of prazosin. Sixteen patients (84.2%) treated with doxazosin and 13 patients (56.5%) treated with prazosin were considered therapeutic successes (decrease in standing DBP greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg or to less than or equal to 90 mm Hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction from baseline). Of the 19 efficacy-evaluable patients treated with doxazosin, 15 (78.9%) showed improvement in the severity category of hypertension; an improvement in severity was reported in 14 patients (60.9%) treated with prazosin. Doxazosin produced a more favorable effect on serum lipid levels than did prazosin, although no statistically significant within- or between-group differences were observed. Most side effects experienced with either doxazosin or prazosin were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. The overall evaluation of toleration was excellent or good for 18 (90%) doxazosin- and 21 (91%) prazosin-treated patients. Clinical efficacy was rated as excellent or good for 16 patients (80%) treated with doxazosin and 15 patients (68%) treated with prazosin. 
Unilateral diffuse pulmonary artery involvement in Takayasu's arteritis associated with coronary-pulmonary artery fistula and bronchial-pulmonary artery fistula: a case report. Diffuse involvement of the right pulmonary artery associated with fistulas between the pulmonary artery and systemic artery is reported in a woman with Takayasu's arteritis. The most proximal portion of the abdominal aorta was pronouncedly narrowed and the aortic wall was markedly calcified. Both the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery were totally occluded and drained by the meandering artery arising from the inferior mesenteric artery. The proximal right pulmonary artery was focally narrowed and the middle lobe artery was occluded. All other branches of the right pulmonary artery were diffusely narrowed with sparse distributions of their distal branches. Fistulas were identified between the right coronary artery and the right pulmonary artery and between the right bronchial artery and the right pulmonary artery. This is the first English report of Takayasu's arteritis presenting with a coronary-pulmonary artery fistula that is secondary to a diffuse unilateral involvement of the pulmonary artery. 
Calciotropic hormones in human and experimental hypertension. Although altered cellular calcium handling plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of hypertension, little attention has been focused on the impact of calcium regulating hormones on this process. Recent research provides evidence that parathyroid hormone, calcitonin, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, as well as newly described factors such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), exert target-organ-specific actions in cardiac and peripheral vascular tissues, are linked to the renin-aldosterone system, and thus to the control of sodium metabolism, and may directly participate in the hypertensive process, especially in low renin and salt sensitive forms of hypertensive disease. The metabolic set-point of these linked renin and calcium hormone systems, which serve to transduce environmental dietary mineral signals at the cellular level, determines the blood pressure consequences of sodium and calcium loading and/or restriction, and helps to explain the heterogeneous and seemingly inconsistent effects of these dietary maneuvers on blood pressure. Measurement of renin and calcium factors in hypertension thus provides a physiological basis for individualized therapeutic recommendations in human hypertension. 
Transesophageal echocardiography to detect atrial clots in candidates for percutaneous transseptal mitral balloon valvuloplasty. Left atrial thrombi are common in patients with mitral stenosis. When percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty is performed on such patients, there is a potential risk of thrombus dislodgment and embolization. In this study conventional transthoracic echocardiography and transesophageal echocardiography were performed for percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty on 19 consecutive candidates (6 men, 13 women, 23 to 81 years old). In five patients (26%), transesophageal echocardiography revealed a left atrial thrombus; in only one of these was there a suspicion of left atrial thrombus on transthoracic echocardiography. Balloon mitral valvuloplasty was canceled in four of the five patients. Three underwent mitral valve surgery that confirmed the echocardiographic findings. Transesophageal echocardiography is better than conventional transthoracic echocardiography in detecting left atrial clots in candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty. Because of the potential risk of embolization, transesophageal echocardiography is recommended in all candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty. 
Femoral saphenous vein bypass in a newborn. This is believed to be the youngest patient to undergo a saphenous vein bypass for iatrogenic trauma of the right superficial femoral artery. The infant had emergency right heart catheterisation and Rashkind septostomy for severe desaturation due to transposition of the great arteries. During the exposure of the saphenous vein, the superficial femoral artery was accidentally severed at it's origin. An attempt to restore the circulation by end-to-end anastomosis failed and resulted in persistent limb ischemia for over 4 hours. The baby was reoperated upon, the damaged part of the superficial femoral artery was resected and a saphenous vein graft interposed between the common and the distal superficial femoral artery. 
Hypertension in African-Americans. A considerable disparity exists between African-Americans and US Caucasians in the incidence, severity, and management of hypertension. As a consequence, overall hypertension-related morbidity and mortality rates are at least threefold to fivefold higher in African-Americans than in Caucasians. Alarmingly high frequencies of stroke, end-stage renal disease, congestive heart failure, and left ventricular hypertrophy occur in African-Americans. To bring this crisis under control will require a renewed commitment to expanded research, improved public health measures, and more effective clinical intervention. Current hypertension control programs must be expanded and adequately funded. In addition, primary prevention of hypertension should be strongly recommended for the US population, especially African-Americans. 
Hydatid cyst of the interatrial and interventricular septum of the heart. To our knowledge this report describes the first case of a large hydatid cyst involving the full thickness of both the interatrial and interventricular septum of the heart, which was detected at autopsy. The cyst was intact. Clinically, there was complete heart block. 
The role of beta-blockade therapy for ventricular tachycardia induced with isoproterenol: a prospective analysis. Isoproterenol is sometimes required for ventricular tachycardia (VT) induction. However, the role of beta-blockade for treatment of such VT has not been critically assessed. The use of beta-blockade was evaluated prospectively in 14 consecutive patients who required isoproterenol 2.4 +/- 1.3 (+/- S.D.) micrograms/min to induce sustained monomorphic VT (greater than 30 seconds, or requiring termination due to hemodynamic collapse) after a negative baseline study. The VT mechanisms were enhanced automaticity (group A, six patients), triggered automaticity (group B, three patients), and reentry (group C, five patients). Groups A and B had serial intravenous electropharmacologic tests with propranolol alone (0.2 mg/kg), verapamil alone (0.15 mg/kg), and propranolol plus verapamil, and group C had serial tests with propranolol alone, procainamide or quinidine (class Ia drug) alone, and propranolol plus a class Ia drug until VT could no longer be induced. All six patients in group A responded to propranolol alone. In group B, one patient responded to verapamil alone, and two patients responded to propranolol plus verapamil. In group C, three patients responded to propranolol alone, one patient responded to a class Ia drug alone, and one patient responded to propranolol plus a class Ia drug. During a follow-up of 7 to 37 (17.9 +/- 10.7) (+/- S.D.) months, VT has not recurred in any patient. Three patients treated initially with propranolol alone have required substitution of amiodarone due to refractory congestive heart failure. In patients requiring isoproterenol for VT induction, beta-blockade alone appears to be effective in preventing reinduction of VT caused by enhanced automaticity. A heterogeneous response occurs when the VT mechanisms are triggered automaticity or reentry. 
Endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure and prevents severe hypotension during epidural anesthesia in conscious dogs. To evaluate whether, and to what extent, release of endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure when efferent sympathetic drive is blocked by epidural anesthesia, the authors studied the effects of high epidural anesthesia alone and when vasopressin was prevented from acting at its vascular (V1)-receptor in six awake, trained, unsedated dogs. On different days, the same dose of 0.5% bupivacaine (8-13 ml) was injected epidurally in a randomized fashion either in the presence or absence of (V1)-vasopressin receptor blockade, and the effects were evaluated on cardiovascular (arterial blood pressure, heart rate) and respiratory (blood gases, oxygen consumption) variables, and on plasma concentrations of vasopressin and renin. Results were also contrasted to those obtained after epidural injection of saline alone (placebo) in the same dogs. When endogenous vasopressin was prevented from acting by intravenous pretreatment with a specific V1-receptor antagonist (beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopenta-methylene-propionyl-O-Me-Tyr-Arg-Vasopressin), epidural anesthesia resulted in a rapid and sustained 35% decrease in mean arterial blood pressure from 92 mmHg +/- 5 SE to 60 mmHg +/- 4. In contrast, only a 14% decrease in mean blood pressure from 92 mmHg +/- 5 to 79 mm Hg +/- 6 was noted after epidural anesthesia alone. This difference between groups was statistically significant (P = 0.0001). The V1-receptor blockade alone had no detectable effect. Vasopressin plasma concentrations significantly increased from 3.4 +/- 0.3 pg.ml-1 to 16.2 +/- 3.2 pg.ml-1 after epidural anesthesia but did not change after epidural saline. 
Use of technetium-99m sestamibi to determine the size of the myocardial area perfused by a coronary artery. The value of the new radionuclide tracer, technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi, to demonstrate myocardial perfusion in areas supplied by specific coronary arteries was evaluated in patients injected with the agent during cardiac catheterization. Tc-99m sestamibi differs from thallium-201 in its physical characteristics (photon energy 140 keV), half-life (6 hours) and lack of significant redistribution, allowing its administration during an episode of chest pain or ischemia occurring outside the nuclear medicine laboratory with later imaging to visualize the distribution. In 13 patients Tc-99m sestamibi was administered intravenously during balloon-occlusion angioplasty. In 11 of 13 patients, defects of the single photon emission computed tomography images corresponded to the area made ischemic during angioplasty. In the remaining 2 patients, abundant collateral flow was present and no defects were seen. In a second study, 15 patients had Tc-99m sestamibi selectively injected into a coronary artery during angiography. Later imaging identified the area supplied by the artery injected. Tc-99m sestamibi imaging can detect perfusion defects associated with short episodes of ischemia, and the area supplied by the different coronary arteries. 
Value and limitations of proximal jet dimensions for the quantitation of valvular regurgitation: an in vitro study using Doppler flow imaging. To evaluate usefulness and limitations of proximal jet dimensions for the quantitation of valvular regurgitation, fluid jets were created in a pulsatile flow model, and proximal jet width and cross-sectional area were measured by means of color Doppler flow imaging. When circular orifices with diameters from 1 to 6 mm were studied, jet width and cross-sectional jet area measured as close as possible to the orifice were directly related to the orifice diameter (r = 0.97; standard error of the estimate, 0.4 mm; y = 0.5 + 0.97x) and the orifice area (r = 0.97; standard error of the estimate, 5.7 mm2; y = 0.22 + 2.47x), respectively. No significant dependence on flow rate or pressure gradient was found for these measurements. Jet width was measured with color M-mode Doppler by use of the smallest sample volume size (1 mm) and was slightly greater than the orifice diameter (4.2 +/- 1.7 mm versus 3.8 +/- 1.7 mm). However, cross-sectional areas were approximately fourfold the orifice areas, on average (52.5 +/- 24.6 mm2 versus 12.3 +/- 9.7 mm2), with a range of twelvefold (smallest orifice) to threefold (largest orifice). When the sample volume size was reduced from 2.4 to 1.0 mm, color areas decreased by 25.6 +/- 6.0%. Slit-shaped orifices were studied with two different orientations of the slit-parallel and perpendicular to the ultrasound beam: Color M-mode measurements were again slightly greater than length and width of the slit, but cross-sectional areas were substantially larger than the orifice areas and increased between 44% and 115% when changing the orientation of the slit from perpendicular to parallel. This, again, reflected problems with lateral resolution. When cross-sectional areas were measured at increasing distances from the orifice, the cross-sectional jet area increased significantly within a few millimeters. This increase was greater with higher gradients and smaller orifice sizes. In case of a small orifice (2 mm) and a high gradient (130 to 160 mm Hg), increase in area was as great as 122% within a distance of only 5 mm. Thus, proximal jet width and cross-sectional area were directly related to the orifice size, which could be a valuable parameter for the evaluation of valvular regurgitation. Measurements of jet width by color M-mode seemed to be most accurate but are limited by the fact that in vivo valvular defects may be irregular rather than of circular shape.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The determination of aortic valve area by the Gorlin formula: what the cardiac sonographer should know. The application of the Gorlin formula in the cardiac catheterization laboratory is the standard of reference for the determination of aortic valve area. The continuity equation now enables the cardiac sonographer to determine aortic valve area noninvasively in the echocardiography laboratory. The comparison of the results obtained by the two methods is inevitable. The cardiac sonographer should have a basic understanding of the theory and pitfalls of the Gorlin formula so that when conflicting results are obtained, the possible reasons why will be clear. 
Skewflap versus long posterior flap in below-knee amputations: multicenter trial. A multicenter trial of alternative techniques for below-knee amputation is described in which surgeons in 11 centers randomized 191 patients with end-stage occlusive vascular disease to two different methods of stump construction. The skewflap technique was performed in 98 and the long posterior flap was performed in 93. The two groups were well matched in respect to age, sex, smoking, diabetes, and indications for amputation. Early outcome was compared in terms of 30-day mortality rate: skew 11 (11%) deaths versus long posterior flap 16 (17%); the state of the wound at 1 week (primary healing 60% in both groups); the need for surgical revision at the same level 7 (7%) versus 7 (8%), and revision to a higher level 10 (10%) versus 7 (8%). Follow-up information at 6 months was available from records or by mailed questionnaire in 188 (98%) at 6 months, 20 died during that interval. It showed that a prosthetic limb was fitted to 64 (84%) of skew flaps and 50 (77%) of long posterior flaps. Walking, alone or with support, was achieved in 59 (78%) and 46 (71%), respectively. None of these differences reached statistical significance. It is concluded that the skew flap is just as effective as the long posterior flap and is an excellent option for below-knee amputation. 
Clinical and hemodynamic assessment of the hepatojugular reflux. The hepatojugular reflux (HJR) test was studied to assess the ability to clinically predict response during cardiac catheterization and to determine its significance in patients without heart failure and correlate it to their baseline hemodynamic parameters. Sixty-five patients considered to be free of heart failure undergoing routine cardiac catheterization were enrolled. The HJR test, defined as the venous pressure response to sustained abdominal compression, was performed in a standardized manner at the bedside assessing change in internal jugular venous pressure and during right-sided cardiac catheterization measuring change in right atrial pressure. For comparison a sustained increase greater than or equal to 1 cm was considered positive. In 62 of 65 patients the HJR test stabilized by 15 seconds. The results during examination at the bedside agreed with those at catheterization (K = 0.74, p less than 0.001). The HJR test result correlated best with baseline mean right atrial pressure (r = 0.59) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (r = 0.51), and in bivariate regression analysis predicted right atrial (F(1,63) = 32.8, R2 = 0.34, p less than 0.0001) and right ventricular end-diastolic (F(1,63) = 22, R2 = 0.26, p less than 0.0001) pressures. A positive test had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting right atrial pressure greater than 9 mm Hg (1.0, 0.85) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 12 mm Hg (0.90, 0.89). It is concluded that 15 seconds is adequate for interpretation, and bedside observation predicts the response during right-sided cardiac catheterization. 
Mortality after 10 1/2 years for hypertensive participants in the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial The Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT) is a randomized primary prevention trial that tested the effect of a multifactor intervention program on coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality in 12,866 high-risk men aged 35-57 years. Men were randomly assigned to either a special intervention (SI) program, which consisted of dietary advice for lowering blood cholesterol levels, counseling aimed at cessation for cigarette smokers, and stepped-care treatment for hypertension for those with elevated blood pressure, or to their usual sources of health care within the community (UC). Among the 12,866 randomized men, 8,012 (62%) were hypertensive at baseline. For this subgroup, mortality rates with 10.5 years of follow-up were lower for the SI than for the UC group by 15% (p = 0.19) for CHD and 11% (p = 0.13) for all causes. These results reflected more favorable outcomes for SI compared with UC hypertensive men during the 3.8 posttrial years (March 1982 through December 1985) than during the preceding 6-8 years (through February 1982). During the posttrial years, death rates were lower for SI than for UC men by 26% (p = 0.09) for CHD and 23% (p = 0.02) for all causes. For those with diastolic blood pressure equal to or more than 100 mm Hg, this posttrial trend was a continuation of a trend during the trial; therefore, with 10.5 years of follow-up, death rates were markedly lower for SI than for UC by 36% (p = 0.07) for CHD and 50% (p = 0.0001) for all causes. Similarly, for those without baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities, the favorable posttrial outcome for the SI group was a continuation of a trend during the trial. In contrast, for those with baseline diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mm Hg and for those with baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities, the favorable posttrial mortality findings for the SI group were a reversal of unfavorable trends recorded during the trial. Two factors appear to have contributed to this more favorable mortality trend for the SI group: 1) a change in the diuretic treatment protocol for SI men about 5 years after randomization, which involved replacement of hydrochlorothiazide with chlorthalidone at a daily maximum dose of 50 mg; and 2) a favorable effect of intervention on nonfatal cardiovascular events during the trial years. In addition, delay until the full impact of beneficial effects on mortality end points from smoking cessation and cholesterol lowering could have contributed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Immunohistochemical study of fibronectin in experimental myocardial infarction. Light microscopic immunohistochemical studies were performed to evaluate the distribution of fibronectin in paraffin sections of p-formaldehyde-fixed normal rat hearts and the hearts of rats that had undergone ligation of the left coronary artery. A peroxidase-labeled antibody technique was used, together with appropriate immunohistochemical control procedures, for the localization of fibronectin in normal hearts and in the hearts of sham-operated animals. Fibronectin was localized in the interstitial space between myocytes, and beneath arterial, venous, and capillary endothelium. At 4 hours after coronary ligation, fibronectin was localized in a patchy fashion in the cytoplasm and interstitial space of some of the myocytes in the area supplied by the ligated vessel. At 24 hours, there was more intense, homogeneous staining in necrotic myocytes in the infarcted area and in the capillary endothelium in the border zone. At 48 hours, the intensity of staining for fibronectin was maximal in and between the necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct and in proliferating and migrating capillaries and fibroblasts in the border zone. Similar patterns of localization were observed at 3 and 7 days after coronary ligation, but with progressive decreases in the intensity of staining. Two sources of fibronectin appeared to have contributed to these changes: plasma fibronectin diffusing through damaged blood vessels would account for the early staining observed in necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct, whereas de novo synthesis of fibronectin by connective tissue cells and endothelial cells in sprouting capillaries would be responsible for the subsequent staining observed in viable capillaries in the border zone of the infarct. Known properties of fibronectin in vitro, combined with these in vivo observations, indicate that fibronectin may influence the thrombotic, inflammatory, angiogenic, and fibrotic processes involved in infarct healing. 
Fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty--unforeseen late sequelae. During a difficult coronary angioplasty, the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel, fractured, and retained in situ. Because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient's great risk for cardiac surgery, it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place. Recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization, which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment. This occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with Coumadin in the interval between procedures. Thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation. 
Deleterious effects of testicular venous occlusion in young rats. To determine the differences between testicular arterial and venous obstruction, the spermatic artery or vein, or both, were occluded for varying periods of time in young rats. Two months later, at the conclusion of the study, the testes were examined. Histologic degeneration after vascular obstruction was graded by a modified Johnsen's tubular biopsy score (TBS). The testicular concentrations of enzymes (lactic dehydrogenase and sorbitol dehydrogenase), known to decrease with testicular injury, were measured. TBS and seminiferous tubule diameter (STD) were found to decrease significantly after two hours of vascular occlusion and were similar regardless of whether the obstruction was produced by occlusion of arterial inflow or venous drainage, or both. Testicular concentration of enzymes decreased significantly after permanent ligation of the spermatic artery and vein, but decreased minimally when the vascular obstruction lasted less than 120 minutes. Testicular injury produced by venous occlusion was equally severe and occurred as rapidly as injury produced by arterial or combined arteriovenous occlusion. No significant injury was noted in the contralateral testes in any group. 
The antihypertensive mechanism of delapril, a newly developed converting enzyme inhibitor, is related to the suppression of vascular angiotensin II release in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Accumulating evidence suggests an important role of vascular renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in the local control of arterial tone. To further gain insight into the significance of vascular RAS in hypertension, we investigated the relationship between the antihypertensive action of delapril, a newly developed converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI), and its effects on vascular angiotensin II (Ang II) release in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Male SHRs were given delapril or its active metabolite (5-hydroxydelapril diacid; 5-hydroxy-DPD) orally (10 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks. Isolated hind legs of these rats were perfused with angiotensinogen-free Krebs-Ringer solution, and Ang II released into the perfusate was directly determined by extraction with Sep-Pak C18 cartridges connected to the perfusion system. Both delapril and 5-hydroxy-DPD produced a sustained antihypertensive action. The spontaneous release of Ang II from isolated perfused hind legs of control SHRs was about 50 to 110 pg during the first 30 min of perfusion, and it remained stable up to 3 h. Another active metabolite, delapril diacid (DPD), when added to the perfusion medium (10(-9) to 5 x 10(-5) mol/L), suppressed the Ang II release in a dose-dependent manner. The maximal percent inhibition of Ang II released evoked by DPD (5 x 10(-6) mol/L) was approximately 51%. Oral pretreatment of either delapril or 5-hydroxy-DPD for 2 weeks suppressed the Ang II release by 61% and 73% for delapril and 5-hydroxy-DPD, respectively. These results suggest the presence of a functional RAS in vascular tissues, and that delapril exerts its antihypertensive effect through inhibition of vascular Ang II release in SHRs. 
Dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery with pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary artery dissection was observed in a 64-yr-old female patient with severe pulmonary hypertension, which was probably primary (pulmonary vascular resistance, 817 dyn.s.cm-5; normal range less than or equal to 200 dyn.s.cm-5). The patient was admitted to the hospital because of severe dyspnea on exertion. Echocardiography demonstrated a dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery. Right heart catheterization revealed severe pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure, 64 mm Hg; normal range, 10 to 22 mm Hg); dissection of the pulmonary artery was confirmed by pulmonary arteriography. One-year follow-up was uneventful. In the literature, 28 patients with dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery are reviewed. The dissection has only been diagnosed in life in one patient (by echocardiography). 
Pineal hyperactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats: muscarinic regulation of indole metabolism. 1. Choline acetyltransferase activity and [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites were detected in the pineal gland of normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats and of spontaneously hypertensive rats. 2. In vitro, muscarinic activation by pilocarpine increased the pineal metabolic production of hydroxyindole derivatives up to 5-hydroxytryptamine and produced a less marked stimulation of melatonin biosynthesis. 3. Electrical field stimulation of pineal gland slices caused similar metabolic effects. 4. Muscarinic blockade with atropine inhibited the effects on hydroxyindole metabolism. 5. [3H]Quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites, indicative of muscarinic receptors, were more numerous, and basal 5-hydroxytryptamine and melatonin levels were higher, in the pineal gland of spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with Wistar-Kyoto rats. 6. The atropine-sensitive metabolic effects of pilocarpine and electrical field stimulation on the pineal gland were increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with Wistar-Kyoto rats. 
Sudden death due to right ventricular cardiomyopathy. A 21-year-old man died suddenly at a small party. He had had no clinical signs of cardiac disease except for a slightly abnormal electrocardiogram (occasional premature ventricular contractions) since he was 15 years of age. Autopsy examination revealed cardiomegaly (469 g), with right atrial and ventricular dilatation. The right ventricular myocardium was massively replaced with adipose tissue, and there was one isolated fatty lesion in the right side of the ventricular septum. There were no congenital malformations such as a septal defect or valvular deformity. Histologically, muscular fibers remaining in the right ventricular wall showed neither degenerative nor inflammatory changes. An isolated lesion of the ventricular septum consisted of almost complete replacement of the muscle bundles with adipose tissue. Such a pathologic condition has recently been termed right ventricular cardiomyopathy. Postmortem examination is necessary to make a definite diagnosis of the disease, because in most adult cases of the disease, sudden death occurs before there have been any critical signs. 
Nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in the treatment of hypertension. Results of a multicenter trial. The Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension (MATH) Study Group. Nifedipine, in the gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) formulation, a controlled-release formulation for once-a-day administration, was evaluated in the Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension (MATH) trial. In this study conducted at 127 centers, 1155 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension representative of the spectrum seen in practice were included in the analyses of effectiveness. After a 2 week placebo period, nifedipine GITS therapy was started at 30 mg/day and was titrated to a maximum dose of 180 mg/day over 6 weeks. Response criteria were a sitting diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg and a decrease of greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg. After titration, patients were observed for 12 weeks during treatment. At the final visit, nifedipine GITS significantly (P less than .0001) reduced sitting systolic blood pressure 17 +/- 14 mm Hg (mean +/- SD), and sitting diastolic blood pressure 14 +/- 8 mm Hg. Similar highly significant reductions in standing blood pressure were observed. For all subjects, 76% achieved goal blood pressure response during titration. More than 50% were controlled on doses of 30 to 60 mg/day. At the final visit blood pressure reductions in men and women were similar, except for a significantly greater decrease in sitting systolic pressure for women. A similar proportion of blacks responded compared with whites, and reductions in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure were also similar in the 2 groups. Nifedipine GITS had no effect on renal function, serum potassium, or total, HDL, or LDL cholesterol. Uric acid was reduced by 0.5 mg/dL (P less than .001). 
Low-dose heparin. A cause of hematoma of rectus abdominis. Although hematomas of the rectus abdominis muscle are commonly reported complications of systemic anticoagulation treatment, they are a rare complication of prophylactic administration of low-dose heparin. The occurrence of a massive hematoma of the rectus sheath is reported in a woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute respiratory failure who was receiving low doses of heparin for the prevention of deep venous thrombosis. Three other cases of hematoma of the rectus sheath resulting from prophylactic use of heparin are reviewed. The development of hematoma in these patients may have resulted from intramuscular abdominal injection of heparin and from strain of the rectus abdominis muscle caused by coughing. When prophylactic administration of heparin is necessary in patients with a tendency to paroxysmal cough, subcutaneous injections of heparin in the thigh may be preferable to subcutaneous injections in the abdomen. 
Multiple arterial fenestrations, multiple aneurysms, and an arteriovenous malformation in a patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage. We report the case of a 49-year-old, right-handed man with multiple vascular pathologies, including a fenestrated anterior communicating artery and middle cerebral artery, an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery, multiple aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery, and an arteriovenous malformation. Diagnoses were made through computed tomography, cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and intraoperative dissection. The lesions were managed surgically in stages with satisfactory results. Congenital and hemodynamic factors may have combined to manifest in the anomalies present in this unique case. We believe that no similar combination of vascular pathology has been reported previously. 
Proximal tubular alpha 2-adrenoceptor density in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. In the kidney of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), alpha 2-adrenoceptors are increased and may be related to hypertension. We measured alpha 2-adrenoceptor density and characteristics in a proximal tubule suspension with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, 3H-rauwolscine. SHR had a significantly greater density of alpha 2-adrenoceptors when compared to their normotensive controls, the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats (146 +/- 13 v 58 +/- 7 fmol/mg protein; P less than .001). Competition experiments determined the alpha 2-adrenoceptor to be an alpha 2B-subtype. Agonist competition curves were shallow and exhibited pseudo-Hill slopes of less than 1, indicating that they bind to both high and low affinity receptor sites. In summary, alpha 2-adrenoceptors are increased in the proximal tubule of SHR and appear to be of the alpha 2B-subtype. An increase in alpha 2-adrenoceptors may be related to abnormalities in hypertension. 
Loss of endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein function in atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries. Pertussis toxin, an irreversible inhibitor of some G proteins, inhibits endothelium-dependent relaxations to certain agonists in porcine coronary arteries. In the present study, the effects of the toxin were examined on endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations of hypercholesterolemic and atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries to assess the functional state of the endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein. Male Yorkshire pigs were maintained on either a regular diet (control group, n = 7) or a 2% high-cholesterol diet (cholesterol-fed group, n = 7) for 10 weeks. After the initial 2 weeks of maintenance, animals in both groups underwent balloon catheter removal of the endothelium of the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary arteries. Endothelium-dependent responses were examined in vitro after 10 weeks of maintenance; at this time, a full lining of endothelial cells in both left coronary arteries was confirmed histologically. In arteries with endothelium of the control group (normal responses), pertussis toxin significantly inhibited the endothelium-dependent relaxations to serotonin, UK14304 (a selective alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist), and thrombin but not those to ADP, bradykinin, or the calcium ionophore A23187. In previously denuded arteries of the control group (effects of endothelial regeneration alone) or intact arteries of the cholesterol-fed group (effects of hypercholesterolemia alone), the relaxations to serotonin, UK14304, and thrombin were impaired significantly; those relaxations were impaired further in previously denuded arteries of the cholesterol-fed group (effects of atherosclerosis). The inhibitory effects of pertussis toxin were significantly reduced after endothelial regeneration and in hypercholesterolemia and were almost absent in atherosclerosis. 
Rate-related left bundle branch block as a cause of non-ischemic chest pain. A case is presented of rate-dependent left bundle branch block associated with chest pain in a patient with angiographically normal coronary arteries. Lactate extraction showed no evidence of myocardial ischemia. It appears that in this case, chest pain was associated with sudden ventricular asynergy rather than myocardial ischemia. 
Acute myocarditis simulating myocardial infarction in a child. Pediatric chest pain usually occurs in benign conditions. However, this case portrays the dramatic electrocardiographic appearance of acute myocardial ischemia in a boy with biopsy-proven myocarditis who had only mild chest pain. This underscores the need for eliciting a detailed history when evaluating a patient with chest pain. If the pain cannot be clearly attributed to chest wall phenomena, or if there are historical or physical findings suggestive of an arrhythmia or angina, then further investigation with a chest radiograph and a 12-lead electrocardiogram is recommended. Myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child whose electrocardiogram is indistinguishable from an acute myocardial infarction. Finally, endomyocardial biopsy allows early diagnosis and institution of therapy, which may have beneficial effect on decreasing morbidity and mortality. Further follow-up and research is still needed to evaluate the effect of early treatment of myocarditis on long-term myocardial function and the development of chronic cardiomyopathy. 
Efficacy of coronary sinus cardioplegia in patients with complete coronary artery occlusions. Myocardial areas distal to complete coronary artery occlusions are poorly protected by antegrade cardioplegia. We assessed the effects of coronary sinus cardioplegia in 30 patients undergoing bypass operations and at high risk of cardioplegic maldistribution because of the following anatomical patterns of coronary artery disease: critical (greater than or equal to 50%) stenosis of the left main trunk with total occlusion of the right coronary artery (16 patients) or critical (greater than or equal to 70%) stenosis of the right coronary artery with total occlusion of the left anterior descending (11 patients) or circumflex artery (3 patients). After induction of arrest through the aorta, coronary sinus cardioplegia was given intermittently during the cross-clamp period at a flow rate of 100 mL/min. Intraoperatively, occluded arteries were consistently found to be filled with the retrogradely infused solution. One patient died early postoperatively of low cardiac output and a second patient died later during his hospital stay, presumably of an arrhythmia. At autopsy, none of them had pathological evidence of inadequate myocardial protection. One patient sustained a myocardial infarction and 3 others required inotropes for more than 24 hours postoperatively. Postoperative values for right and left stroke volume indices were not significantly different from prebypass levels. Overall, these results are consistent with the occurrence of limited intraoperative ischemic damage and, by inference, suggest the efficacy of the coronary sinus route in preserving myocardial areas supplied by completely occluded coronary arteries and, hence, in jeopardy of inadequate cardioplegia delivery. 
Ability of calcium-entry blockade by felodipine to disclose different pathogenetic mechanisms behind hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia in men. To verify that myocardial ischemia occurring during either the overbreathing or recovery phase of the hyperventilation test is based on different pathogenetic mechanisms, 2 consecutive series of patients, selected on the basis of their response to a run-in hyperventilation test, were studied. Group I comprised 15 patients who developed ST-segment depression early during overbreathing, whereas group II consisted of 12 patients showing ST-segment depression late during the recovery phase. A single oral dose of felodipine 10 mg or of placebo was administered on 2 consecutive days according to a randomized, double-blind, crossover design, and the hyperventilation test was repeated, on both days of the study, 3 to 5 hours after drug intake. In group I, ST-segment depression occurred after placebo in all patients during overbreathing, with an increase in rate pressure product (from 112 +/- 31 at baseline to 168 +/- 55 mm Hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of ST-segment depression; p less than 0.01). After felodipine, 13 patients continued to show ST-segment depression during overbreathing, together with an increase in rate pressure product (from 107 +/- 24 at baseline to 158 +/- 46 mm Hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of electrocardiographic changes; p less than 0.01). In group II, all 12 patients showed ST-segment depression during recovery after placebo, with a rate pressure product comparable to baseline conditions (112 +/- 35 at baseline vs 102 +/- 27 mm Hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of ST-segment depression; difference not significant). After felodipine, no patient developed ST-segment depression or chest pain. 
New angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Their role in the management of hypertension. The introduction of orally active angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors has revolutionized the treatment of hypertensive disorders and provided an effective alternative for the management of congestive heart failure (CHF). By interfering with the formation of angiotensin II, the active agent of the renin system, ACE inhibitors block the system's vasoconstrictive and sodium-retaining effects, with a consequent reduction in systemic blood pressure. The net effect is improved blood flow and reduced cardiac work. Thus, ACE inhibitors are likely to improve cardiac work capacity and quality of life. Their mechanism of action differs markedly from that of traditional antihypertensive agents which lower blood pressure while reducing cardiac output and blood flow. Since the primary action of ACE inhibitors is to block the renin system, a dramatic response to monotherapy suggests a large renin factor while the lack of a response suggests a low-renin state more amenable to treatment with a diuretic or calcium antagonist. Because of their many attributes, ACE inhibitors are increasingly used as first-line therapy for the treatment of hypertension or CHF. The prototype orally active ACE inhibitor, captopril, is a sulfhydryl compound with a good safety profile at the recommended dosages but reported toxicity at higher dosages. Second-generation ACE inhibitors (eg, enalapril and quinapril) are more potent sulfhydryl-free esters with a greater affinity for the converting enzyme. These newer agents are pro-drugs requiring ester hydrolysis to form the active free acid compound. 
Electrocardiographic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous amiodarone: results of a prospective, placebo-controlled study. The antiarrhythmic efficacy of intravenously administered amiodarone was examined in a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study that involved 77 patients after coronary artery bypass surgery. Amiodarone was given after surgery in a loading bolus of 300 mg for 2 hours followed by 1200 mg every 24 hours for 2 days and 900 mg every 24 hours for the next 2 days. Amiodarone suppressed both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias within 12 hours after the start of therapy. Particularly, the incidence of atrial fibrillation (5% vs 21% in the control group; p less than 0.05) and of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (3% vs 16%; p less than 0.05) was reduced by amiodarone. Heart rate was slowed (p less than 0.001) and repolarization--as judged by JTc interval--was prolonged compared with the control group (p less than 0.01). In two patients, amiodarone infusion was stopped because of excessive QTc prolongation. No detrimental hemodynamic effects of the drug were observed. Thus the intravenous administration of amiodarone appears to be suitable for patients in whom rapid suppression of symptomatic supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is warranted in the presence of left ventricular dysfunction. 
The effect of Ca and Mg supplementation and the role of the opioidergic system on the development of DOCA-salt hypertension. The effect of calcium and magnesium supplementation and the role of opioidergic system was examined in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats. The rats were divided into four groups receiving standard laboratory rat diet (control group; n = 9); a calcium-rich diet with 2% CaCl2 added (Ca-group; n = 12); a magnesium-rich diet with 0.5% MgO added (Mg-group; n = 11); and a calcium and magnesium-rich diet with 2% CaCl2 and 0.5% MgO added (Ca/Mg-group; n = 11); each diet contained 7% NaCl. After four weeks on these diets, the rats were decapitated and blood was obtained for the measurement of plasma electrolytes, intraerythrocyte sodium, potassium and magnesium content (RBC-Na, -K, in mEq/L cells and RBC-Mg, in mg/dL cells) and plasma beta-endorphin concentration (beta-END, in pg/mL). In the control group, systolic blood pressure and RBC-Na were obviously higher than in the other groups. Plasma beta-endorphin concentration was 45.1 +/- 13.4 in the control group, 70.7 +/- 17.4 in the Ca-group (P less than .05 v control group), 58.0 +/- 20.1 in the Mg-group and 83.8 +/- 24.8 in the Ca/Mg-group (P less than .01 v control group). The blood pressure correlated significantly with both RBC-Na (r = 0.416, P less than .01) and beta-END (r = 0.436, P less than .005). A negative correlation was also observed between RBC-Na and beta-END (r = 0.437, P less than .005). 
Stress and sodium intake in neural control of renal function in hypertension. The interaction between genetic and environmental factors is important in the pathophysiology of hypertension. By examining the effects of two environmental factors--acute psychoemotional stress and dietary sodium intake--in rats with genetic hypertension, an important influence on central neural mechanisms governing the renal sympathetic neural control of renal function has been demonstrated. Additional studies of the central opioid systems have demonstrated an important role of opioid peptides in modulating the renal functional responses to acute psychoemotional stress. The observed renal functional alterations--antidiuresis, antinatriuresis, and renal vasoconstriction--are known to be capable of contributing to the initiation, development, and maintenance of the hypertensive process. 
Significance of fill-in after thallium-201 reinjection following delayed imaging: comparison with regional wall motion and angiographic findings To identify reversible defects, reinjection of a small amount of thallium-201 (201Tl) following 3-hr delayed imaging was performed in 60 patients with coronary artery disease who had perfusion abnormalities on their post-exercise 201Tl images. Thallium-201 uptake was visually scored and judged as normal (Group 1), reversible defect (Group II), new fill-in after reinjection (Group IIIa) and no fill-in even after reinjection (Group IIIb). New fill-in after reinjection was observed in 27 segments of the 85 segments (32%), showing persistent defect on the stress and delayed images. The wall motion in Group IIIa was worse than Group II but better than Group IIIb. Group IIIa showed Q-wave on ECG more often (69%) than Group II (27%) (p less than 0.01), but less often than Group IIIb (85%) (p less than 0.05). These data indicate that the reinjection 201Tl imaging often identifies new fill-in in the areas of no redistribution on the delayed images and it may hold promise for assessing tissue viability which the conventional imaging may underestimate. 
Are people more health conscious? A longitudinal study of one community. Secular changes in cardiovascular health awareness, knowledge and behavior were observed in four biennial cross-sectional surveys and a cohort survey in a New England community. These changes are not related to more health promotion activities in the social milieu of respondents, but are more likely due to national mass media health campaigns, the effects of which may influence outcomes of community-based cardiovascular disease prevention studies. 
Relationship between blood groups and behavior patterns in men who have had myocardial infarction. Consistent correlations have been found between physical dysfunctional states and blood factors. Some of these disorders have possible psychosomatic components (eg, duodenal ulcer, myocardial infarction). This study focused on the relationship between blood types and various indices of behavior patterns (eg, type A behavior scores, anger ratings) in young patients who had had an initial myocardial infarction. Patients with blood type O scored significantly higher on type A behavior scales and related indices than those having blood type A. Those with blood group B responded on several scales between those with types A and O. We discuss the utility of blood groupings in future research in the prediction of myocardial infarction, methodologic limitations, the relationship of these results to temperament studies, Jenkins Activity Survey subtest patterns, anti-H reactivity pattern, and hypotheses relating blood factors and behavioral traits in patients with psychosomatic disorders. 
Prolonged and fractionated right atrial electrograms during sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome. Intraatrial catheter mapping of the right atrium was performed during sinus rhythm in 92 patients: Group I = 43 control patients without paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or sick sinus node syndrome; Group II = 31 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation but without sick sinus node syndrome; and Group III = 18 patients with both paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome. Atrial electrograms were recorded at 12 sites in the right atrium. The duration and number of fragmented deflections of the atrial electrograms were quantitatively measured. The mean duration and number of fragmented deflections of the 516 atrial electrograms in Group I were 74 +/- 11 ms and 3.9 +/- 1.3, respectively. The criteria for an abnormal atrial electrogram were defined as a duration of greater than or equal to 100 ms or eight or more fragmented deflections, or both. Abnormal atrial electrograms were observed in 10 patients (23.3%) in Group I, 21 patients (67.7%) in Group II and 15 patients (83.3%) in Group III (Group II versus Group I, p less than 0.001; Group III versus Group I, p less than 0.001). The mean number of abnormal electrograms per patient with an abnormal electrogram was 1.3 +/- 0.7 in Group I, 2.5 +/- 1.9 in Group II and 3.5 +/- 2.5 in Group III (Group I versus Group II, p less than 0.01; Group II versus Group III, p less than 0.05). A prolonged and fractionated atrial electrogram characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can be closely related to the vulnerability of the atrial muscle. 
Coarctation of the aorta. Coarctation of the aorta is a common cardiovascular disorder with an unknown etiology. In the preductal type, blood flows from a patent ductus into the distal aorta. When the coarctation is juxtaductal or postductal, blood flows to the lower extremities by way of the subclavian arteries and collaterals. Plain films may show the reverse sign in postductal coarctation. Arteriography is the gold standard for making the diagnosis. However, magnetic resonance imaging will probably become an increasingly important diagnostic tool. The treatment of choice is surgery, with complete resection of the stenosed segment. 
Effects of diltiazem on complications and restenosis after coronary angioplasty. A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the usefulness of empiric therapy with a calcium antagonist in patients who undergo coronary angioplasty. A total of 201 patients were randomized to placebo or to high-dose diltiazem (mean dose, 329 mg/day). Treatment began 24 hours before angioplasty. Restenosis was assessed by percent area stenosis as determined by quantitative angiographic techniques before, immediately and 1 year after angioplasty. All patients also received aspirin and dipyridamole before angioplasty. Heparin and verapamil were administered intravenously during the procedure. The 2 groups were similar with respect to age, extent of coronary artery disease, smoking history, and baseline lipid levels. Procedural complications, including death (1 vs 1), Q-wave infarction (0 vs 3), acute occlusion (5 vs 5) and focal spasm (0 vs 0), were not significantly different in the diltiazem and placebo patients, respectively. Freedom from all acute complications was noted in 85% of patients in both groups. One-year angiographic follow-up was obtained in 60% of patients. Restenosis rates were similar: 36% in the diltiazem group and 32% in the placebo group (p = 0.30). The incidence of late cardiac events (death, Q-wave myocardial infarction, recurrent angina or coronary bypass graft surgery) was similar in the 2 groups. Thus, diltiazem did not influence the overall restenosis rate or prevent late events after coronary angioplasty. 
Renal vein thrombosis. Initial manifestation of Goodpasture's syndrome. We report a patient who presented with renal vein thrombosis and nephrosis that progressed to alveolar hemorrhage and renal failure. Renal biopsy immunofluorescence and serum antiglomerular basement membrane antibody titer studies confirmed the diagnosis of Goodpasture's syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the first report of renal vein thrombosis as the initial presentation of Goodpasture's syndrome. 
Perioperative myocardial injury in patients undergoing aortic valve replacement. In cases of myocardial hypertrophy myocardial protection may be insufficient. In order to determine the factors responsible for myocardial injury we assessed myocardial injury in 54 patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement. In all cases hypothermic cardioplegic arrest was induced. At 13 different times we measured the serum level of creatine-kinase (CK), myocardial bound creatine-kinase (CKmb), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (alpha-HBDH), glutamic oxaloacetic transferase (GOT) and myoglobin. The mean duration of ischemia was 52.6 +/- 16.2 minutes and the mean time of extracorporeal circulation was 85.85 +/- 20.25 minutes. By performance of a multiple regression analysis a significant correlation between ischemia and LDH and alpha-HBDH was found; CK, GOT, LDH and alpha-HBDH correlated with duration of extracorporeal circulation. In none of the patients was a low cardiac output syndrome observed. From our results we conclude that in our study myocardial protection was sufficient and therefore the detrimental effects of extracorporeal circulation were the determining factors of enzyme release. 
Delayed death from aortic root trauma. A 40-year-old man suffered blunt chest trauma, had a myocardial infarct 58 days later, and died unexpectedly 19 days after that. Autopsy showed partial avulsion of a small branch of the right coronary artery with thrombus extending into the right coronary sinus of Valsalva occluding the right coronary artery and causing a myocardial infarct. Death was caused by a thromboembolus arising from the aortic root thrombus and occluding the left main coronary artery. The case is unusual in that the major consequences of the aortic root trauma were delayed, and death resulted from occlusion of both coronary arteries. 
Resympathectomy of the upper extremity. Resympathectomy was performed in 27 patients (eight bilaterally) with ischaemic hand phenomena. An extended operative technique, resecting parts of the second and third intercostal nerves and their surrounding tissue, was used. In all 35 procedures the posterior extrapleural approach was used. Follow-up was from 3 to 12 years. Only the sympathetic ganglia had been removed during the previous surgery by the axillary approach (67 per cent of these patients had had a transient response for between 6 months and 2 years; 33 per cent had had no response at all). A direct subjective improvement was seen after 27 of the 35 reoperations (77 per cent). In 14 patients continuous wave Doppler ultrasound studies were available and showed a significant increase in peak forward frequency after operation (P less than 0.001). From these data it may be concluded that it is possible to obtain a resympathectomy effect, but reoperation should be reserved for special cases for whom survival of digits is essential. 
Is phase 2 cardiac rehabilitation necessary for early recovery of patients with cardiac disease? A randomized, controlled study. In this study the effects of rehabilitation teaching plus exercise testing on perceived self-efficacy for and performance of daily activities were compared with and without exercise training. Subjects were patients who had had myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery (mean age 57.7 +/- 11.3 years) and who had already received inpatient rehabilitation services. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Treatment group 1 (n = 11) received teaching, treadmill exercise testing, and exercise training (three times weekly for 5 weeks). Treatment group 2 (n = 15) received only teaching and exercise testing. The control group (n = 14) received only routine care without supervised exercise or teaching. Measurements of self-efficacy and activity performance were made at hospital discharge and at 4 and 9 weeks after the cardiac event. Repeated-measures analysis of variance showed an increase in self-efficacy scores (p less than 0.001) and performance of physical activity (p less than 0.001) for all groups. Both treatment groups, especially the training group, obtained the highest scores, but differences between groups were nonsignificant (p greater than 0.05). These results indicate that in a sample of uncomplicated, motivated patients who had participated in a phase 1 inpatient rehabilitation program, substantial improvements in self-efficacy and performance of daily activities were made early in recovery, before the onset of phase 2, formalized outpatient therapy. 
Cardiovascular risk factors and the effects of intervention. Cardiovascular risk factors can be substantially modified by changes in life-style such as diet, exercise, smoking cessation, and moderation of alcohol consumption. In turn, these can reduce blood pressure, heart rate at rest, and blood lipid concentrations. Epidemiologic evidence shows that for every 1% change in serum cholesterol levels, there is a 3% change in the likelihood of developing coronary heart disease. In addition, a long-term (5-year) change of 5 to 6 mm Hg in diastolic blood pressure can reduce the chances of stroke by 35 to 40% and of coronary heart disease by 20 to 25%. The full impact of this broad range of interventions on population health has still to be fully realized in many countries, including the United Kingdom, however it is likely to be considerable. Some of the recent evidence in support of such cardiovascular risk factor modification is selectively reviewed. 
Sudden death in young competitive athletes: clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases. PURPOSE: To investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the Veneto region (northern Italy) in the period January 1979 to December 1989 were studied by postmortem examination. The athletes included 19 males and three females, ranging in age from 11 to 35 years (mean, 23 years). RESULTS: In 18 cases, sudden death occurred during (16 cases) or immediately after (two cases) a competitive sport activity. In 10 subjects, sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease. Postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases; among these, right ventricular cardiomyopathy, also known as "right ventricular dysplasia," was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease (six cases), followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (four cases), conduction system pathology (three cases), anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus (two cases), and mitral valve prolapse (two cases). In two athletes, the abrupt lethal complication was "mechanical" and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta; in three athletes, death was due to a cerebral cause. All athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort, and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope. Whenever available, electrocardiographic (ECG) tracings showed inverted T waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias. CONCLUSIONS: Clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the Veneto region of Italy, right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest, and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ECG signs. 
Planar imaging techniques used with technetium-99m sestamibi to evaluate chronic myocardial ischemia. The results of published and some unpublished studies comparing planar imaging performed with 2 radionuclides, thallium-201 (T1-201) and technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi, are reviewed. The average sensitivity for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in studies involving 594 patients was 85% (range 73 to 96%). The average sensitivity for individual vessels was 65% (range 60 to 70%). The average segmental concordance between T1-201 and Tc-99m sestamibi was 89%. End-diastolic gated perfusion images improved the concordance between Tc-99m sestamibi and angiography in 22 patients from 83.4 to 87%. Semiquantitative analysis increased the concordance between T1-201 and Tc-99m sestamibi from 89 to 91%. Ventricular function derived from gated Tc-99m sestamibi perfusion images showed a significant correlation with echocardiography (n = 62, r = 0.85); with angiography (n = 70, r = 0.91); and with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography (n = 18, r = 0.86). The ratio of lung to left ventricle uptake and the ratio of right ventricle to left ventricle uptake was assessed. Eight of 52 patients had an abnormally elevated lung index (greater than 42%) and these patients had the most severe CAD. Six of the 52 patients had an abnormally elevated right ventricular index (greater than 56%) and these patients had more severe CAD. 
Patients with two types of atrioventricular junctional (AV nodal) reentrant tachycardia. Evidence that a common pathway of nodal tissue is not present above the reentrant circuit. BACKGROUND. The site of the reentrant circuit in atrioventricular (AV) junctional reentrant tachycardia has not been defined; in particular, the existence of a common pathway of AV nodal tissue above the reentrant circuit is controversial. METHODS AND RESULTS. Two types of AV junctional reentrant tachycardia were induced in each of three patients at electrophysiological study. In one type of tachycardia (anterior), the onset of atrial activity occurred from 0 to 12 msec before the onset of ventricular activation, and earliest atrial activity was recorded near the His bundle. In the second type of tachycardia (posterior), the ventriculoatrial intervals were longer (76-168 msec), and earliest atrial activity was recorded near the mouth of the coronary sinus. In individual patients, the two types of tachycardia had different cycle lengths. Posterior AV junctional reentrant tachycardia was not a fast-slow form of AV junctional reentry in at least two of the three patients. Surgical cure was attempted in two patients. In one patient, anterior AV junctional reentrant tachycardia was abolished by dissection of the anterior perinodal atrium, but posterior AV junctional reentrant tachycardia could still be induced. At reoperation 4 months later, dissection of the posterior perinodal atrium abolished posterior AV junctional reentrant tachycardia while preserving AV conduction. CONCLUSION. Differences in ventriculoatrial intervals and cycle lengths and the results of selective surgery suggest that the two types of AV junctional reentrant tachycardia used different reentrant circuits. These observations imply that a common pathway of AV nodal tissue is not present above the reentrant circuit and suggest that perinodal atrium is part of these circuits. 
Bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium. We employed cervically transplanted nonworking myocardium to simulate the condition of a heart supported by a ventricular assist device, and to investigate the bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium with 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. A heterotopic graft was placed in the cervical portion of a recipient rat. One week later, a control 31P NMR spectrum was obtained from the graft. On the same day, the aorta of the graft was clamped for 30 minutes at room temperature. After this procedure, 31P NMR measurements of the graft were performed for 1 week. The phosphocreatine (PCr)/Inorganic phosphate (Pi) ratio, and beta-phosphate from adenosine triphosphate (beta-ATP)/Pi ratio on the first and second day after injury were significantly lower than control (p less than 0.05). However, these ratios recovered to a significant extent on the third and fourth day. These results suggest that 3 or 4 days are required for bioenergetic recovery of reversibly injured myocardium, even under nonworking conditions. 
The surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. III. Development of a definitive surgical procedure. On the basis of the known electrophysiologic mechanisms of atrial fibrillation, multiple surgical procedures were designed and tested in dogs to determine the feasibility of developing a surgical cure for human atrial fibrillation. These experimental studies culminated in a surgical approach that effectively creates an electrical maze in the atrium. The atrial incisions prevent atrial reentry and allow sinus impulses to activate the entire atrial myocardium, thereby preserving atrial transport function postoperatively. Since September 1987, this surgical procedure has been applied in seven patients, five with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation of 2 to 9 years' duration and two with chronic atrial fibrillation of 3 and 10 years' duration. All seven patients have been cured of atrial fibrillation and none is receiving any postoperative antiarrhythmic medications. 
Effects of chronic administration of a vasopressin antagonist with combined antivasopressor and antiantidiuretic activities in rats with left ventricular dysfunction. The present experiments were designed to study the long-term aquaretic effect of [d(CH2)5-D-Tyr(Et)VAVP], an antagonist to arginine vasopressin (AVP) with combined vascular (V1) and renal (V2) receptor inhibiting properties, in rats with left ventricular dysfunction resulting from myocardial infarction (MI). The continuous intravenous infusion of the AVP antagonist (36 micrograms/12 microliters/day) via osmotic minipumps over 11 days resulted in an increase in urine volume and a decrease in urinary osmolality by approximately 10-fold on the first day, but in subsequent days this response decreased in both the post-MI (n = 7) and normal (n = 6) rats. Nevertheless, the daily urine volume remained significantly higher and the urinary osmolality lower in the post-MI rats than in the normal ones throughout the study (p less than 0.05). In two other groups of post-MI (n = 5) and normal (n = 6) rats, intermittent intraperitoneal injections of the AVP antagonist (100 micrograms/kg) every third day resulted in a profound diuresis that was reproducible by each injection and was again significantly greater in the post-MI rats than in the normal rats (p less than 0.05). The cumulative urinary output over the first 10-day period of each treatment was greater with intermittent injections than with continuous infusion in both the post-MI and normal rats, but the difference was significant only in the post-MI rats (398.82 +/- 12.87 ml vs 309.07 +/- 32.44 ml, intermittent vs continuous, respectively, p less than 0.05), even though the cumulative dose of AVP antagonist given intermittently was only about one third of that given continuously. 
Modulation of coronary vasomotor tone in humans. Progressive endothelial dysfunction with different early stages of coronary atherosclerosis. The endothelium plays a critical role in the control of vasomotor tone by the release of vasoactive substances. Because endothelial injury or dysfunction is considered important very early in atherogenesis, we hypothesized that abnormal endothelial function precedes the angiographic detection of coronary atherosclerosis in the human coronary circulation. The coronary vasomotor responses to three different endothelium-mediated stimuli (intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine 10(-8) to 10(-6) M, increase in blood flow to induce flow-dependent dilation, and sympathetic stimulation by cold pressor testing) were assessed by quantitative angiography and subselective intracoronary Doppler flow velocity measurements within the left anterior descending coronary artery in 38 patients. All three stimuli elicited epicardial artery dilation in all 11 patients with smooth coronary arteries and absence of risk factors for coronary artery disease (group 1). All nine patients with smooth coronary arteries but with hypercholesterolemia (group 2) demonstrated a selective impairment in endothelial function with vasoconstriction (35 +/- 12.7% decrease in mean luminal area) in response to acetylcholine but showed a preserved flow-dependent dilation (15.5 +/- 4.4% increase in mean luminal area) and vasodilation in response to cold pressor testing (14.2 +/- 4.6% increase in mean luminal area). In all nine patients with an angiographically defined smooth coronary artery segment but with evidence of atherosclerosis elsewhere in the coronary system (group 3), both acetylcholine and cold pressor testing induced vasoconstriction (26.2 +/- 8.7% and 18.7 +/- 7.9% decrease in mean luminal area, respectively), whereas flow-dependent dilation was preserved (20.4 +/- 8.7% increase in mean luminal area). In the nine patients with angiographic evidence of wall irregularities (group 4), flow-dependent dilation was also abolished and vasoconstriction occurred in response to acetylcholine and cold pressor testing (34.5 +/- 10.7% and 19.9 +/- 6.3% decrease in mean luminal area, respectively). All coronary artery segments dilated in response to nitroglycerin, suggesting preserved function of vascular smooth muscle. Despite similar reductions in coronary vascular resistance in response to the smooth muscle relaxant papaverin, patients with hypercholesterolemia demonstrated a selective impairment of vasodilation of the resistance vasculature in response to acetylcholine (p less than 0.05 versus groups 1, 3, and 4). Thus, there is a progressive impairment of endothelial vasoactive functioning in coronary arteries of patients with different early stages of atherosclerosis, beginning with a selective endothelial dysfunction in angiographically defined normal arteries in patients with hypercholesterolemia and progressively worsening to a complete loss of endothelium-mediated vasodilation in angiographically defined atherosclerotic coronary arteries.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Hindbrain ischemia produced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Hindbrain ischemia was induced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Mean arterial blood pressure was lowered to 80 mmHg in SHRs and to 50 mmHg in Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKYs) by a controlled hemorrhage, and then the vertebral artery was bilaterally occluded through alar foramina of the first cervical vertebra. Following vertebral occlusion, blood flow of the cerebellum was significantly decreased to 9.4 +/- 2.0 mL/100g/min (+/- SEM) while flow of the cerebrum remained at 32.1 +/- 5.4 in SHRs. In contrast, cerebellar blood flow in WKYs was preserved at 24.2 +/- 2.9 mL/100g/min. Brain lactate, pyruvate, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were determined in SHRs after sixty minutes of hypotension with or without vertebral occlusion. Although infratentorial metabolites were actually unaltered in rats with hypotension alone, infratentorial lactate and lactate/pyruvate ratio significantly increased to 14.38 +/- 3.61 mmol/kg and 67.7 +/- 12.1, respectively, with a concomitant decrease in ATP in SHRs with hypotension and vertebral occlusion. Bilateral vertebral artery occlusion, together with moderate hypotension, was shown to produce a marked reduction of cerebellar blood flow and to induce ischemic metabolic changes in the infratentorial brain in SHRs. 
Safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava syndrome The experience at the Cleveland Clinic from 1982 to 1990 using thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome was retrospectively reviewed. Sixteen patients, 11 of whom had indwelling central venous catheters, were treated with either urokinase (n = 11) or streptokinase (n = 5). Either urokinase (4,400 U/kg bolus followed by 4,400 U/kg/h) or streptokinase (250,000 U bolus followed by 100,000 U/h) was used, and venograms were performed before and after. Overall, 56 percent of patients had complete clot lysis and relief of symptoms. Thrombolytic therapy was effective in eight (73 percent) of 11 patients receiving urokinase and one (20 percent) of five patients receiving streptokinase. Of those with a central venous catheter, eight (73 percent) of 11 patients were successfully lysed, whereas only one (20 percent) of five patients was successfully lysed if no catheter was present. If thrombolytic therapy was performed less than or equal to five days of symptom onset, seven (88 percent) of eight patients were successful, if thrombolytic therapy was performed greater than five days after symptom onset, two (25 percent) of eight patients were successful. Symptoms were relieved and the catheter was preserved in patients in whom thrombolytic therapy was effective. Factors predicting success were as follows: (1) the use of urokinase compared with streptokinase; (2) the presence of a central venous catheter; and (3) a duration of symptoms less than or equal to five days. 
Transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation. Sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation. The selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small (4 mm; 30 cm) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery. If the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater, a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used, whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7, a rigid bronchoscope was used. For the diagnosis of lung rejection, the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 69% (similar to the result in adults). The histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection. Complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage, one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest, which may have been caused by hypoxia. As a result, arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter. 
Prolonged cardiac preservation. Evaluation of the University of Wisconsin preservation solution by comparison with the St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solutions in the rat. The University of Wisconsin solution differs from other types of solutions used for organ preservation because it contains high-energy phosphate precursors (adenosine and phosphate), impermeants (lactobionate and raffinose), an oncotic agent (pentafraction), and antioxidants (allopurinol and glutathione). These components have the potential to enhance the preservation of ATP, reduce intracellular and extracellular edema, and attenuate free-radical-mediated injury. The University of Wisconsin solution has been demonstrated to enhance and extend the preservation of the liver, pancreas, and kidney, but its potential role in the heart remains unproven. We have evaluated the University of Wisconsin solution (Du Pont) by comparing it with the St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solutions No. 1 and No. 2 (Plegisol), which are used in Europe and the United States for routine cardiac surgery and transplantation. For each solution, 10 isolated working rat hearts were arrested by 10 ml of the solution (at 4 degrees C) and then maintained immersed in the same solution for 4 hours at 4 degrees C. Mean recovery of functional indexes (expressed as a percentage of their preischemic control values) after use of the University of Wisconsin solution were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 90.6 +/- 1.0; dP/dt, 71.5 +/- 5.5; aortic flow, 81.6 +/- 4.7; coronary flow, 87.5 +/- 3.5; and cardiac output, 82.6 +/- 3.5. In contrast, the mean recoveries after St. Thomas' Hospital solution No. 1 were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 82.8 +/- 1.3; dP/dt, 49.7 +/- 3.0; aortic flow, 58.4 +/- 5.3; coronary flow, 79.6 +/- 5.9; and cardiac output, 63.0 +/- 4.9. In contrast still, mean recoveries after St. Thomas' Hospital solution No. 2 were as follows: peak aortic pressure, 83.1 +/- 1.2; dP/dt, 40.7 +/- 6.1; aortic flow, 37.0 +/- 5.1; coronary flow, 65.8 +/- 3.6; and cardiac output, 43.1 +/- 5.6. The recovery of all indexes were significantly superior (p less than 0.005) after preservation with University of Wisconsin solution compared with either of the St. Thomas' Hospital solutions. 
Self-report of physical activity and patterns of mortality in Seventh-Day Adventist men. The Adventist Mortality Study provides 26-year follow-up through 1985 for 9484 males who completed a lifestyle questionnaire in 1960. The relationship of self-reported physical activity and all cause and disease-specific mortality was examined by survival analysis and with the Cox proportional hazards model, controlling for demographic and lifestyle characteristics. Moderate activity was associated with a protective effect on cardiovascular and all cause mortality in both analyses. In the Cox model, age-specific estimates of relative risk (RR) were obtained for several endpoints due to a significant interaction between level of physical activity and attained age (age at death or end of follow-up). This model permits calculation of the age at which the RR = 1.0, or the age at crossover of risk. For moderate activity, this age was 95.6 years (95% confidence intervals, 81.7-109.4 years) for all cause mortality and 91.5 years (95% confidence intervals, 79.0-104.0 years) for cardiovascular mortality. While the protective effect on mortality associated with moderate activity decreased with increasing age, it remained significant to the verge of the present life span. 
Very high blood pressure in acute stroke. In a study sample consisting of 388 unselected, consecutive acute stroke patients, 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmHg were compared with the other 361 patients. The patients with high blood pressure were younger (65 vs. 73 years) and much more often had a history of hypertension (78 vs. 42%). Cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent, particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups. Alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records. No definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions. Clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups, neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately. Mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group (30 vs. 14%, P less than 0.05). Thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were: younger age, much more frequent and severe previous hypertension. Alcohol abuse might be an important factor. The type, size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure, but very large lesions, particularly haemorrhages, might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response. 
Therapeutic considerations in the elderly hypertensive. The role of calcium channel blockers. Hypertension is an extremely common problem in the elderly. The optimum antihypertensive agent to use in this population is not certain. In this paper, the factors influencing the choice of antihypertensive therapy are reviewed. They include efficacy, safety, comorbidity, utility in special populations, drug interaction, dosage schedule, cost, the mechanisms of action of the drug, and the pathophysiology of the patient's hypertension. Calcium channel blockers are effective and safe in the elderly. They improve other conditions frequently seen in that population and, with the exception of cardiac conduction abnormalities associated with some calcium channel blockers, do not adversely affect other comorbid diseases. They work well together with other antihypertensives and as vasodilators, they may be specifically appropriate in elderly hypertensives, whose hypertension is associated with reduced cardiac output and increased peripheral vascular resistance. Once- and twice-a-day preparations are available to foster compliance, but calcium channel blockers are expensive. 
Hydroxyethyl starch pretreatment in bacteremic sheep. Live bacteria were infused in a chronic ovine lung lymph model to determine if a preceding infusion of the colloid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), exaggerated the cardiopulmonary dysfunction or impaired removal of bacteria by macrophages in the pulmonary circulation. HES was infused (3 mL/kg/hr; n = 6) from 24 to 12 hr before the bacteria and decreased plasma protein content and increased pulmonary lymph to plasma protein concentration because of its oncotic properties. Ringer's lactate (2 mL/kg/hr) was given after stopping HES and also to the control group (n = 6). Infusion of live Ps. aeruginosa (2.5 x 10(8) Ps./min for approximately 30 min) induced equivalent pulmonary hypertension, increased pulmonary microvascular permeability, and cardiovascular depression in the two groups. The removal of bacteria in the lungs was not affected, indicating that this measurement of the function of the mononuclear phagocytic system was not impaired by the preceding HES. 
Femoropopliteal angioplasty. Factors influencing long-term success. Prospective data was recorded on 217 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) procedures performed in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries over an 8-year period. After the initial procedure, patients were followed with serial noninvasive studies and, in 71 patients, repeat angiography. The mean follow-up period was 7 years (range, 2-11 years). Standard life-table survival analysis was used to assess the factors potentially affecting long-term outcome. Excluding an initial technical failure rate of 10%, overall patencies at 1, 3, and 5 years were 81%, 61%, and 58%, respectively. After the first year, the prognosis (i.e., failure rate) appears to be linear over the long term (i.e., up to 10 years). Factors negatively influencing long-term patency include the presence of diabetes mellitus, diffuse atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, or threatened limb loss. Technical factors correlated with failure include lesion length, moderate eccentricity, and a poor post-PTA appearance. 
Both d-cis- and l-cis-diltiazem have anti-ischemic action in the isolated, perfused working rat heart. The effect of diltiazem (d-cis-diltiazem) on the ischemic myocardium was compared with that of l-cis-diltiazem, an optical isomer having less potent calcium channel-blocking action, in the isolated, perfused working rat heart. Ischemia decreased mechanical function and tissue levels of ATP and creatine phosphate, and increased tissue levels of nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA), AMP and lactate. Reperfusion did not restore mechanical function, but restored incompletely the levels of metabolites (except NEFA) that had been altered by ischemia. The ischemia-induced changes in NEFA were prevented by d-cis-diltiazem completely and by l-cis-diltiazem incompletely. Other metabolic changes induced by ischemia were attenuated by d-cis-diltiazem but not by l-cis-diltiazem. In heart pretreated with d-cis- or l-cis-diltiazem, both the mechanical function and the levels of metabolites recovered during reperfusion, the degree of recovery with both drugs being similar. These results indicate that not only d-cis-diltiazem but also l-cis-diltiazem has an anti-ischemic action probably due to inhibition of the tissue NEFA accumulation. These results also suggest that the mechanism of the protective effect of d-cis-diltiazem on the ischemic myocardium is not entirely due to the calcium channel-blocking action. Treatment with low Ca2+ (1.0 mM CaCl2) also attenuated the ischemia-induced changes. The interval between reoxygenation and start of function in the reperfused heart that had been treated with low Ca2+ was significantly longer than that with d-cis- or l-cis-diltiazem. The effect of these isomers to shorten this interval may contribute to their common anti-ischemic action. 
Bolus, front-loaded, and accelerated thrombolytic infusions for myocardial infarction and pulmonary embolism. Thrombolytic therapy decreases mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction and is now widely used in such patients. The choice of which thrombolytic agent to use in such patients, either streptokinase or recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA), is based on regional preferences. The standard dose of streptokinase is 1.5 million units over 60 min, and the dose of rt-PA that is commonly used is 100 mg over 3 h. Experiments in animals have demonstrated that rt-PA produces continuing thrombolysis after it is cleared from the circulation and that thrombolysis is both increased and accelerated and bleeding is reduced when rt-PA is administered over a short time period. Based on these studies, there have been a number of recent trials examining alternative dosage regimens for rt-PA (bolus, front-loaded, and accelerated) in patients with myocardial infarction. To date, there is no convincing evidence that such regimens are superior to the more traditional rt-PA regimen. Future randomized trials will determine whether attempts to optimize rt-PA regimens will result in more efficacious treatment regimens. Interest in the use of thrombolytic therapy for patients with acute pulmonary embolism has been rekindled. The traditional 12- to 24-h regimens of streptokinase and urokinase are not optimal because of their logistic complexity and associated hemorrhagic complications. Clinical studies have demonstrated that rt-PA, 100 mg over 2 h, is an effective thrombolytic agent in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. In a recent double-blind trial in patients with acute pulmonary embolism, rt-PA, 0.6 mg/kg infused over 2 min, improved pulmonary perfusion. This bolus regimen is attractive because it is simple to administer. Future studies will compare the relative efficacy and safety of these two rt-PA regimens in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. 
Dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation. A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. A total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone (n = 12) or saline placebo (n = 11). Dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg per day) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone (8 mg/kg per day) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy. Infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 (P less than .05) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group (respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants, P less than .05; P = .12 after Yates correction). The use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation (4 vs 22 days, P less than .05) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy, hospitalization, home oxygen therapy, occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity, rate of growth, and mortality. No significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy. Measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract (23.7 ng/mL in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/mL in the control group, P less than .05). Dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. 
Recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses. The incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years. The first 32 months served as a control period. During the second period of 31 months, recombinant human erythropoietin (epoetin) was used for an average duration of 13 months (range, 2-32 months) in 79 patients. The overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period. Distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods, with 55% to 60% of patients having no clotting episode. Patients with recurrent clotting (two or more events) accounted for 68% of episodes. During the second period, there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients (0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year, both slightly lower than in period 1 [0.52 events per patient-year]). It is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting. 
Role of endothelium in the response to endothelin in hypertension. The relation between endothelin and acetylcholine (ACh) was examined and compared in aortas from Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and from stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). The relaxation produced by ACh in an endothelin-induced contraction was less in aortas from WKY rats than in those from SHRSP. In aortas from WKY rats but not in those from SHRSP, the contraction produced by endothelin was augmented when the intact aortic rings were treated with methylene blue (10(-5) M). This augmentation was also found in preparations of the WKY rat aortic rings in which the endothelium had been removed. The augmentation was not present in SHRSP aortic rings that had been similarly denuded. Treatment with indomethacin (5 x 10(-6) M) had no effect on endothelin-induced contraction in either WKY rat or SHRSP aortic rings. Our findings indicate that endothelin and ACh have in common the ability to release endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) in WKY rat aortic rings. The reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation in response to ACh in the WKY rat probably reflects the fact that endothelin had already released the EDRF in rings from this strain of rats. The release of EDRF by endothelin is less in SHRSP than it is in WKY rats. Because of this failure of endothelin to release EDRF in SHRSP, endothelin may contribute to the increase in total peripheral resistance in this form of hypertension. 
Right ventricular infarction: a clinical case study. In this article we review the specific case of Mrs. F., a 63-year-old white woman who recently had classical right ventricular infarction associated with left ventricular inferior wall myocardial infarction. The presentation covers her medical history, clinical course pathophysiology of the right ventricular infarction, and goals of the medical modalities used in treatment. Nursing problems are identified specifically related to right ventricular infarcts, and treatment considerations are discussed. A brief conclusion recaps Mrs. F.'s discharge course and reviews some specific problems associated with right ventricular infarcts, of which critical care nurses need to be aware. 
Effect of weight reduction in moderately overweight patients on recorded ambulatory blood pressure and free cytosolic platelet calcium. Although platelet cytosolic calcium has been shown to decrease during pharmacological treatment of hypertension, there is no evidence that cytosolic calcium also falls during a nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure. To provide such evidence, we examined prospectively the relation between platelet cytosolic calcium and ambulatory blood pressure during weight reduction in moderately overweight (body mass index [BMI] greater than 25), mildly hypertensive individuals. The experimental group (responders: BMI reduction greater than 5%) consisted of 19 patients who lost 8.5 +/- 2.9 kg (mean +/- SD, p less than 0.05) during a 10-week hypocaloric diet, whereas the control group (nonresponders: BMI reduction less than 5%) consisted of 12 patients who showed no relevant change in body weight (-2.0 +/- 1.3 kg) during the same period of time. The moderate weight loss of the responders decreased blood pressure by 14/5 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), as measured by ambulatory monitoring, which renders a placebo effect unlikely. This nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure was accompanied by a proportional 11% decrease (p less than 0.05) in platelet cytosolic calcium and also by significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in plasma catecholamines and serum cholesterol. These findings establish the concept of a nonpharmacological reduction in free cytosolic platelet calcium in humans and add further evidence suggesting a link between intracellular calcium homeostasis and blood pressure regulation. 
Long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis. We reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution. These 27 patients represent 4% of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry. Reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 (65.5%) cases. Comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did (84% at 5 years, 78.6% at 10 years) and did not (90.3% at 5 years, 83.6% at 10 years) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.48) when measured from the time of primary operation. The perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation (3.4% and 0%) were acceptable. We conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity (3.4%), surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy. 
Laser angioplasty in peripheral vascular disease: symptomatic versus hemodynamic results. Most early reports on the efficacy of laser angioplasty have used subjective symptoms rather than objective hemodynamic parameters to evaluate clinical results. We reviewed our experience with hot tip laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in 99 occluded or stenotic arterial segments during 80 procedures in 71 patients, ranging from the aortic bifurcation to the tibial-peroneal trunk. Initial failure to successfully recanalize occluded or stenotic segments occurred in 13 instances (16%). Forty-one procedure-related complications occurred in 31 patients (39%). Functional results were evaluated by use of life-table methods on the basis of symptomatic versus hemodynamic improvement. Cumulative patency rates for symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement were 91% and 64% at 1 month, 71% and 48% at 6 months, and 57% and 34% at 1 year, respectively. These data suggest that symptomatic improvement alone gives a misleadingly high estimate of the efficacy of laser angioplasty when compared with more objective hemodynamic criteria (p less than 0.005). Hemodynamic success was more likely in aortoiliac lesions than femoropopliteal lesions (58% vs 18% at 1 year, p less than 0.01). Hemodynamic parameters should be used to evaluate the success of laser angioplasty, which in its present form, is associated with frequent complications and poor long-term success. 
Captopril renography in the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis: accuracy and limitations. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and clinical usefulness of renography performed in combination with captopril administration ("captopril renography") in diagnosing renal artery stenosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-five patients with suspected renal artery stenosis underwent renography prior to performance of renal angiography. Renography was performed on two consecutive days using technetium-99m-diethylenetiamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) as an index of glomerular filtration rate and iodine-131-orthoiodohippurate (OIH) as an index of renal blood flow. Captopril (25 mg orally, crushed) was administered 1 hour before the second study. Renal artery stenosis was defined as a stenosis exceeding 70%. Renographic criteria were then established, retrospectively, to differentiate renal artery stenosis from essential hypertension based on (1) asymmetry of function and (2) the presence of captopril-induced changes. RESULTS: Renal artery stenosis was detected in 35 of 55 patients (21 with unilateral and 14 with bilateral stenosis). Three criteria were established for diagnosing renal artery stenosis: (1) a percent uptake of DTPA by the affected kidney of less than 40% of the combined bilateral uptake, (2) a delayed time to peak uptake of DTPA, which was more than 5 minutes longer in the affected kidney than in the contralateral kidney, (3) a delayed excretion of DTPA, with retention at 15 minutes, as a fraction of peak activity, more than 20% greater than in the contralateral kidney. The presence of one or more of these criteria was diagnostic of renal artery stenosis, with a sensitivity and specificity of 71% and 75%, respectively before captopril administration, and 94% and 95% after captopril administration. Lesser degrees of asymmetry (i.e., uptake of 40% to 50%) had very poor diagnostic specificity. Among patients with bilateral stenoses, asymmetry identified the more severely affected kidney, but the presence or absence of stenosis in the contralateral kidney could not be reliably determined. When pre- and post-captopril studies were compared, the presence of captopril-induced scintigraphic changes was a highly specific finding for renal artery stenosis, but occurred in only 51% of the cases. OIH scintigraphy provided similar results, with slightly lower sensitivity and specificity. CONCLUSION: Asymmetry of DTPA uptake, time to peak uptake, or retention seen on a single post-captopril renogram is a highly sensitive and specific finding in detecting renal artery stenosis but does not distinguish unilateral from bilateral disease. If renograms are obtained both before and after captopril administration, the presence of captopril-induced change is a highly specific finding for the detection of renal artery stenosis, but the sensitivity of this finding is low. 
Reflections on the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendations for screening for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendations for screening for hypertension and high blood cholesterol are generally consistent with preexisting national guidelines promulgated by the Joint National Committee for Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure and the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Cholesterol in Adults. While a welcome addition to the armamentarium of the clinician, the Task Force recommendations represent only a partial solution to our current epidemic of blood-pressure- and cholesterol-related cardiovascular disease. A meaningful reduction in society's burden of cardiovascular disease can be achieved only by complementing the Task Force recommendations with community-based mass treatment strategies aimed at shifting the distribution of blood pressure and cholesterol toward a biologically more normal pattern. 
A rapid, effective technique for retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis using standard coronary catheters Retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis can be challenging even to experienced angiographers. In 446 of 447 consecutive patients with aortic stenosis catheterized during the past 3 years, a technique using a standard Judkins right coronary catheter and a floppy straight tipped guide wire was successful in rapidly and efficiently crossing these pathologically distorted valves in retrograde fashion. Once the valve was crossed, the coronary catheter was replaced with a pigtail catheter for pressure and ventriculography. The majority of these valves required less than 2 min to cross using this technique. This method is valuable in limiting the time required for catheterization, thus helping to reduce procedure related morbidity in these oftimes critically ill patients. 
Deficiency of calcitonin gene-related peptide in Raynaud's phenomenon. Skin biopsy samples from the fingers of nine patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon, nine with the disorder associated with systemic sclerosis, and eleven healthy controls were examined by immunocytochemistry. There were no differences between the groups in the distribution of PGP 9.5 (a pan-neuronal marker) immunoreactivity, but there was a significant reduction in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactive neurons in the skin of patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon and those with systemic sclerosis. These findings implicate dysfunction of the CGRP neurovascular axis in the pathophysiology of Raynaud's phenomenon. 
Effect of age on coronary circulation after imposition of pressure-overload in rats. We examined the effects of pressure overload on coronary circulation in young adult (7 months old) and old rats (18 months old). Four weeks after the ascending aorta was banded, in vivo left ventricular pressure was measured to estimate the degree of pressure load. In the two age groups, similar increases in peak left ventricular pressure were observed (113 +/- 7 mm Hg in sham-operated rats versus 160 +/- 11 mm Hg in banded rats of the young adult group; 103 +/- 7 mm Hg in sham-operated rats versus 156 +/- 11 mm Hg in banded rats of the old group). After isolating the hearts, they were perfused with Tyrode's solution containing bovine red blood cells and albumin. Resting coronary perfusion pressure-flow relations and reactive hyperemic response after a 40-second ischemia were obtained under beating but nonworking conditions. In young adult banded rats, significant myocardial hypertrophy was observed at the organ level (124% of controls in left ventricular dry weight/body weight ratio; 119% in left ventricular dry weight/tibial length ratio) and at the cell level. Minimal coronary vascular resistance obtained by the perfusion pressure-peak flow relation during reactive hyperemia increased to 150% of controls, and coronary flow reserve decreased significantly. In contrast, myocardial hypertrophy was not observed at the organ or cell level in old banded rats. However, minimal coronary vascular resistance increased, and flow reserve decreased significantly. Thus, pressure overload with coronary arterial hypertension caused abnormalities of the coronary circulation in old subjects even in the absence of myocardial hypertrophy. 
Female gout. Clinical spectrum and uric acid metabolism. We reviewed the clinical features and uric acid metabolism in 37 female patients with gout. In 32 female patients (86%), gout was diagnosed after menopause. Among the five premenopausal patients, four had renal insufficiency and one had superactivity of phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase. More than 50% of the female patients had osteoarthritis, hypertension, or renal insufficiency or were treated with diuretics. Comparison with 220 male patients with gout showed that female patients developed gout significantly later, more frequently had associated diseases, and more often were receiving diuretics, whereas significantly more male than female patients had alcoholism. The articular features of gout were similar in both groups. However, the prevalence of tophi was higher and its localization different in female than in male patients. Female patients with gout had a higher mean serum urate concentration and a lower mean urinary uric acid excretion than did male patients with gout. These differences were significant and independent of the effects of age, renal insufficiency, alcoholism, or previous diuretic intake. Renal underexcretion of uric acid appears to be more severe in female than in male patients with gout. 
Microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in the differentiation of polymyalgia rheumatica from polymyositis. We studied an alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) and an alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACHT) microheterogeneity in sera of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR), giant cell arteritis (GCA/PMR), polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM) and healthy individuals by affinity electrophoresis with concanavalin A (Con-A) as the ligand. Our results are expressed as reactivity coefficients. The mean of AGP reactivity coefficients (AG-RC +/- SD) in PMR (0.92 +/- 0.17) and GCA/PMR (0.91 +/- 0.12) were significantly lower compared with the mean AG-RC in patients with PM/DM (1.48 +/- 0.52) as well as in healthy individuals (1.34 +/- 0.9). Moreover, an additional microheterogeneous form of AGP was noted in patients with PM/DM. In parallel, we also found that the mean of ACHT reactivity coefficients (AC-RC +/- SD) were lower in patients with PMR (2.94 +/- 1.24) and GCA/PMR (1.66 +/- 0.16) compared with healthy individuals (3.92 +/- 1.17). The mean of AC-RC in patients with PM/DM (6.74 +/- 4.35) was significantly higher than in patients with PMR and GCA/PMR as well as in healthy individuals. Our results show that the changes in reactivity of AGP and ACHT with Con-A are useful diagnostic markers for the differentiation of PMR and GCA/PMR from PM/DM. 
Correlation of common carotid flow volume measured by ultrasonic quantitative flowmeter with pathological findings. To evaluate the possibility of quantitatively diagnosing carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis noninvasively, we measured common carotid flow volume in 60 sides (30 patients), using an ultrasonic quantitative flowmeter, and then compared these findings to the severity score of carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis as determined at autopsy. Stenosis decreased common carotid flow volume in the carotid and cerebral arteries. Increases in the severity score varied inversely with reduced flow volume, which was high in inverse correlation (r = -0.696). Patients with flow volumes of 8.5 ml/sec or greater did not have stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, whereas all patients with flow volumes of 6.4 ml/sec or less had stenosis greater than or equal to 50%, with 45% of these having stenosis greater than or equal to 75%. These pathological findings confirm that the common carotid flow volume reflects the degree of carotid and cerebral atherosclerosis present and that the lower limit of common carotid flow volume in healthy subjects is 6.5 ml/sec. 
Regional diastolic mechanics of ischemic and nonischemic myocardium in the pig heart. To assess the role of segmental dyssynchrony as a determinant of ischemic diastolic dysfunction, systolic and diastolic mechanics of ischemic and nonischemic myocardium were compared in the open chest pig heart (n = 7). Pacing tachycardia (1.8 x heart rate at rest) was imposed for 3 to 5 min in the presence of a single critical stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (demand ischemia, n = 7). After 30 min of recovery, the left anterior descending artery was totally occluded for 1.5 min in the same pigs (primary ischemia, n = 6). Both demand and primary ischemia increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and prolonged the time constant of left ventricular pressure decline. Percent systolic shortening of ischemic segments (perfused by the left anterior descending artery) decreased by 32% during demand ischemia and by 120% during primary ischemia, but that of nonischemic segments (perfused by the left circumflex artery) did not change significantly during either type of ischemia. During demand ischemia (but not during primary ischemia), left ventricular diastolic pressure increased relative to segment length so that a higher diastolic pressure was needed to stretch the ischemic segment to the same length (decreased distensibility). In nonischemic areas, diastolic pressure and segment length increased commensurately during both types of ischemia, indicating no change in diastolic distensibility. During demand ischemia, peak early diastolic lengthening rates increased in nonischemic segments but remained unchanged in ischemic segments. Diastolic segmental dyssynchrony developed during both types of ischemia, but was more pronounced during primary ischemia. Therefore, segmental dyssynchrony is unlikely to account for the rise in diastolic pressure relative to segment length seen during demand ischemia. 
Catheter-based intravascular ultrasound imaging of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary disease. Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy is now the treatment of choice for pulmonary hypertension due to chronic pulmonary thromboemboli. A precise assessment of location and extension of these thrombi is important because only proximal chronic pulmonary thromboemboli are accessible to surgery. Because intravascular ultrasound imaging can assess not only arterial luminal size, but also wall thickness, its value as a complement to angiography was assessed in 11 patients aged 35 to 64 years with severe pulmonary hypertension (systolic pulmonary artery pressure, mean +/- standard deviation 70 +/- 19 mm Hg; pulmonary artery resistance, 609 +/- 297 dynes.s.cm-5). Intravascular ultrasound was obtained in 10 of 11 patients and no complication occurred. Intravascular ultrasound identified 10 segments with suspected chronic pulmonary thromboemboli in 7 patients, all confirmed at operation. Nine segments were considered normal, all of which (except 1) were free of chronic pulmonary thromboemboli at operation. Image quality was highly dependent on pulmonary artery size and position of the catheter. Therefore, intravascular ultrasound of pulmonary arteries is feasible and safe in patients with pulmonary hypertension. It may help to assess the location and extension of the pathologic process involving pulmonary arteries. 
Carotid endarterectomy for chronic retinal ischemia. Carotid arterial disease may result in a variety of ischemic ocular problems that can eventually lead to permanent blindness. From 1984 to 1988, 18 patients underwent reconstruction of the carotid artery in an attempt to restore normal retinal arterial flow and, thereby, reverse or prevent progression of ischemic oculopathy. During a mean period of 21 months after carotid arterial reconstruction, subjective improvement in vision as well as a resolution in eye and periorbital pain was reported in 87.5 per cent of the patients. Measured visual acuity improved or stabilized in 94.4 per cent; macular photostress recovery times improved in 87.5 per cent, funduscopic examinations noted improvement or resolution in ischemic signs in 93.3 per cent and intraocular pressures improved in two of three patients. One patient experienced recurrent episodes of amaurosis fugax, which resolved after two weeks and did not recur. A second patient experienced an increase in intraocular pressures with visual deterioration, required laser photocoagulation after which the condition of the patient stabilized but only after significant visual impairment. Carotid arterial reconstruction is effective for the treatment of ischemic oculopathy and is most beneficial if performed early, before the onset of irreversible neovascular glaucoma. 
Events following implantation of an intraluminal ringed prosthesis in the ascending, transverse, and descending thoracic aorta. From March 1978 through July 1985, 23 patients underwent implantation of 24 intraluminal ringed prostheses (IRP). There were 18 men and 5 women, with a mean age of 54.7 years, range 15-74 years. Eleven IRP were placed in the ascending aorta, two in the transverse arch, and 11 in the descending aorta. Pathology included acute aortic dissection in four patients, chronic dissection in four, and aortic aneurysm in 16. There were eight hospital deaths (35%). Causes of death included acute cardiac failure in seven patients, and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in one. IRP complications requiring revision included right coronary artery occlusion in three of 11 patients (27%) with an IRP in the ascending aorta. Graft revision was also required in three of 11 IRP implanted in the descending aorta (27%), due to graft occlusion in one and graft stenosis in two. Of the six patients with IRP complications, there were three hospital deaths (50%). All 15 hospital survivors were followed for a mean of 68.5 months, range 5-112 months. There were four late deaths (26.7%). Causes of late death included hemoptysis in one, cardiomyopathy in one, and aortic redissection and rupture in two. We conclude that patients undergoing repair of aortic pathology with IRP have an important risk of early phase events, as technical problems can occur due to malposition and slippage of the securing rings. 
Fetal and maternal response to intravenous infusion of a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor. Pharmacologic inhibition of thromboxane synthetase activity has reversed the clinical manifestations of toxemia in the ovine model. To investigate placental transfer and fetal effects of a selective thromboxane synthetase inhibitor, CGS13080 (Ciba-Geigy, Summit, N.J.) was intravenously infused into eight singleton- or twin-bearing ewes near term. During CGS 13080 infusion (0.1 mg/kg/hr), maternal steady-state CGS 13080 levels of 102 +/- 18 ng/ml were achieved within 30 minutes and maternal serum thromboxane generation decreased significantly (13 +/- 3 to 4 +/- 1 ng/ml). However, fetal serum levels of CGS 13080 were only 4% of peak maternal concentrations and fetal serum thromboxane generation did not change. There was no evidence of change in uterine blood flow, maternal or fetal blood pressure, heart rate, blood gas values, or fetal or maternal metabolites of prostacyclin or prostaglandin E2 during the study. We speculate that CGS 13080 may be efficacious in the treatment of human pregnancy-induced hypertension. 
Emergency cardiopulmonary bypass support in patients with cardiac arrest. Emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was instituted in 11 patients in cardiac arrest refractory to conventional resuscitation measures. Emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was used in five patients in whom cardiac arrest occurred as a result of a complication in the cardiac catheterization laboratory (group 1) and in six other patients in cardiac arrest (group II). A 21F cannula and a 17F cannula were percutaneously inserted into the femoral vein and artery. Flow rates of 3 to 5 L/min were achieved with restoration of mean arterial pressure to 70 mm Hg (range 50 to 75). The status of all 11 patients was improved initially both clinically and hemodynamically with percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass. Of the group II patients, three had anatomy unsuitable for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting, could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary support, and died; three of these patients had coronary artery bypass grafting and two survived. All five group I patients underwent successful coronary bypass grafting and survived. Of the seven patients with anatomically correctable disease, all seven were discharged from the hospital. With conventional management nearly all seven of these patients would have died. Nine of 11 patients underwent a cardiac operation and seven of the nine survived. The operative mortality rate was 22% and the overall survival rate was 64%. At follow-up (mean 7 months), all seven patients are alive and six have resumed a normal and active life-style. In conclusion, emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support is a powerful resuscitative tool that may stabilize the condition of patients in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest to allow for definitive intervention. 
Oral contraceptives, lipoproteins, and atherosclerosis. A nonhuman primate model was developed to study the effects of oral contraceptives on lipoproteins and atherosclerosis. Cynomolgus macaques were selected because of their susceptibility to diet-induced atherosclerosis and because their reproductive physiology, menstrual cycle, and circulating sex hormone patterns are similar to those of human females. The first study compared a vaginal ring containing levonorgestrel and estradiol with an oral contraceptive containing norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol. A second study compared two oral combinations: norgestrel-ethinyl estradiol and ethynodiol diacetate-ethinyl estradiol. As predicted, use of all the contraceptives led to lowering of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. However, contrary to what might be expected, use of the ethinyl estradiol-containing oral contraceptives did not lead to an increase in the prevalence or extent of atherosclerosis. We concluded that ethinyl estradiol neutralized the atherogenic influence of the progestin component of oral contraceptives. 
Major depression, panic disorder, and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain. PURPOSE: Patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders, including mitral valve prolapse, panic disorder (PD), and major depressive disorder (MDD). The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between MDD/PD and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-CAD chest pain. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected CAD who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study. The first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited. RESULTS: Forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant CAD. Forty-two percent of these patients, compared to 19% of the patients with significant CAD, were found to have either MDD, PD, or both. Eighty percent of the patients without CAD who had mitral valve prolapse also had either MDD or PD (p less than 0.006). CONCLUSIONS: The finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with MDD/PD has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-CAD chest pain, and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms. 
Naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms. Forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2-year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk. Patients were divided into two groups for analysis. Twenty-four patients, who were treated from January 1984 to December 1986, did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration (group A). Twenty-three patients, who were treated from January 1987 to August 1989, had spinal fluid drainage (group B); 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery. Permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven (29%) group A patients but in only one (4%) group B patient, who did not receive naloxone (p less than 0.03). The first two group B patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia. This significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate (72% in group A, 91% in group B). We conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms. This reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term. The observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia. 
Stridor: intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis. During an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit, nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy. When tracheally extubated, each child was found to have stridor. The children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years. Two patients had unilateral paralysis, but neither required tracheostomy. Seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis. Of these, six patients required tracheostomy. Surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients. The other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure. Four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months. Both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later. Cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull. Early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated, especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension. 
Ten-year follow-up of quality of life in patients randomized to receive medical therapy or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) Quality of life indexes were assessed in 780 patients 10 years after randomization to medical therapy (n = 390) or coronary artery bypass graft surgery (n = 390) in the Coronary Artery Surgery Study. At 10 years, mortality was 21.8% in the medical group and 19.2% in the surgical group (p = NS), and 144 (37%) of the medical group had undergone surgery because of increasing chest pain. At study entry, 22% of medical and surgical patients were angina free; at 1 and 5 years after entry, the frequency of asymptomatic patients was 66% and 63% in the surgical group and 30% and 38% in the medical group. However, by 10 years after entry, the proportion of patients free of angina had fallen to 47% in the surgical group and to 42% in the medical group. Activity limitation and use of beta-blockers and long-acting nitrates were less in the surgical than the medical group at 1 and 5 years after entry but little different from the medical group at 10 years after entry. Throughout follow-up, recreational status, employment status, frequency of heart failure, use of other medications, and hospitalization frequency were similar between the two groups. Thus, indexes of quality of life such as angina relief, increased activity, and reduction in use of antianginal medications initially appear superior in patients with stable manifestations of ischemic heart disease assigned to surgery, but by 10 years after entry, these advantages are much less apparent. Although the observed similarities of the medically and surgically assigned groups at 10 years reflect return of symptoms in the surgical group to some extent, a more important explanation is the performance of late surgery in a large proportion of the medically assigned patients, rendering them asymptomatic. 
Long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis The definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial. Therefore, we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986. Thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis. The group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age--eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis (less than or equal to 3ETE) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty (greater than or equal to 3SFA). The remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis (greater than 3ETE) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (greater than 3SFA). The overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques. Postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique (p less than 0.01). Seven patients had recurrent coarctation. The 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93% +/- 6% in the less than or equal to 3SFA group compared with 53% +/- 20% in the less than or equal to 3ETE group (p less than 0.02), but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair. Therefore, we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age. In those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar. 
Left ventricular dilatation and pulmonary thallium uptake after single-photon emission computer tomography using thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia. This study examined the implications of left ventricular (LV) dilatation and increased pulmonary thallium uptake during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia. The lung-to-heart thallium ratio in the initial images was significantly higher in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) than normal subjects; 0.48 +/- 0.16 in 3-vessel disease (n = 16), 0.43 +/- 0.10 in 2-vessel disease (n = 20), 0.43 +/- 0.08 in 1-vessel disease (n = 16) and 0.36 +/- 0.05 in normal subjects (n = 7) (p less than 0.001, 0.09 and 0.06, respectively). There was a significant correlation between the severity and the extent of the perfusion abnormality (determined from the polar maps) and the lung-to-heart thallium ratio (r = 0.51 and 0.52, respectively, p less than 0.0002). There was also a significant correlation between lung thallium washout and lung-to-heart thallium ratio (r = 0.42, p = 0.0009) and peak heart rate (r = -0.49, p less than 0.0001). The LV dilatation was mostly due to an increase in cavity dimension (30% increase) and to a lesser extent (6% increase) due to increase in LV size. (The cavity dimensions were measured from the short-axis slices at the midventricular level in the initial and delayed images). The dilation was seen in patients with CAD but not in the normal subjects. These changes correlated with the extent and severity of the thallium perfusion abnormality. Thus, adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia may cause LV dilation and increased lung thallium uptake on the basis of subendocardial ischemia. 
Experimental contrast-associated nephropathy and its clinical implications. Acute renal failure after contrast media injection has been recognized for at least 35 years but the exact mechanism responsible for the renal injury remains an enigma. The clinical characteristics of contrast-induced nephropathy (CAN) are well-known although more recently the nonoliguric presentation has occurred at an increased frequency--in 70 to 90% of cases. For nonoliguric presentation of CAN, one can expect an asymptomatic increase in serum creatinine, the mean peak occurring at 4.2 days. If oliguric, the fractional excretion of sodium will be less than 1% and resistant to either fluid challenge or loop diuretics. Preexisting renal insufficiency, with or without diabetes mellitus, increases the risk of CAN 6- to 10-fold but recovery is expected, with less than 10% of all patients requiring dialytic support. Despite the growing body of published reports, the lack of a suitable animal model to evaluate various proposed mechanisms of renal injury has compromised our ability to devise a technique for preventing CAN. A popular scheme has been proposed to describe the possible sequence by which ischemia or nephrotoxins, or both, induce acute renal failure. In particular, a vascular mechanism (i.e., ischemia), is an appealing explanation for CAN since acute changes in renal hemodynamics after contrast media injection have been confirmed by several animal experiments. Unlike other vascular beds in which contrast media induce acute vasoconstriction followed by vasodilatation, the initial effect on the renal circulation is acute vasodilatation, followed by progressive vasoconstriction, increasing renal vascular resistance and a concomitant decrease in both renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. 
Detecting hypertension: screening versus case finding in Norway. OBJECTIVE--Evaluation of detection of hypertension in adults in the county of Nord-Trondelag, Norway. DESIGN--Cross sectional survey with clinical follow up examinations. SETTING--Health survey by screening teams from the national health screening service, and examinations by all 106 general practitioners in the county. SUBJECTS--During 1984-6, 74,977 persons (88.1% of those aged 20 years and over) participated in the health survey. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Hypertension (when assessed by standardised recording and by questionnaires on drug treatment for hypertension) according to the blood pressure thresholds used in the Norwegian treatment programme. Subjects positive on screening were grouped after clinical examination into treatment groups. RESULTS--In all, 2399 subjects were positive for hypertension. Before screening 6210 (8.3%) patients reported taking antihypertensive drugs and another 3849 (5.1%) had their blood pressure monitored regularly. All who screened positive were referred to their general practitioner and evaluated according to a standard programme. As a result, drug treatment was started in 406 (0.5%) participants screened and blood pressure monitoring in another 1007 (1.3%). Of all patients taking antihypertensive drugs after the screening, 6399 (94.0%) had been diagnosed before screening, and of those whose blood pressure was monitored after the screening, 79.3% had been diagnosed before screening. CONCLUSIONS--At the blood pressure screening thresholds used, and when hypertension is defined by an overall clinical diagnosis, the results indicate that general practitioners can find and diagnose hypertensive patients with the case finding strategy. 
Usefulness of verapamil for congestive heart failure associated with abnormal left ventricular diastolic filling and normal left ventricular systolic performance. Normal left ventricular systolic performance with impaired left ventricular diastolic filling may be present in a substantial number of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). To evaluate the effect of oral verapamil in this subset, 20 men (mean age 68 +/- 5 years) with CHF, intact left ventricular function (ejection fraction greater than 45%) and abnormal diastolic filling (peak filling rate less than 2.5 end-diastolic volumes per second [edv/s]) were studied in a placebo-controlled, double-blind 5-week crossover trial. All patients underwent echocardiography to rule out significant valvular disease, and thallium-201 stress scintigraphy to exclude major active ischemia. Compared to baseline values, verapamil significantly improved exercise capacity by 33% (13.9 +/- 4.3 vs 10.7 +/- 3.4 minutes at baseline) and peak filling rate by 30% (2.29 +/- 0.54 vs 1.85 +/- 0.45 edv/s at baseline) (all p less than 0.05). Placebo values were 12.3 +/- 4.0 minutes and 2.16 +/- 0.48 edv/s, respectively (difference not significant for both). Improvement from baseline in an objective clinico-radiographic heart failure score (scale 0 to 13) was significantly greater with verapamil compared to placebo (median improvement in score: 3 vs 1, p less than 0.01). Mean ejection fraction and systolic blood pressure were unchanged from baseline; diastolic blood pressure and heart rate decreased to a small degree. Verapamil may have therapeutic efficacy in patients with CHF, preserved systolic function and impaired diastolic filling. 
Plasma histamine in patients with chronic renal failure and nephrotic syndrome. Plasma histamine concentrations were measured using a commercially available monoclonal antibody radioimmunoassay in 38 patients with nephrotic syndrome, end stage renal failure, those receiving haemodialysis, and those receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis to determine whether histamine may mediate damage to glomerular capillaries and arterial endothelium. Plasma histamine concentrations were significantly increased in all four patient groups when compared with those of controls and were the highest in two patients with pruritus. Raised plasma histamine concentrations in such patients are consistent with the hypothesis that histamine may contribute to the damage to glomerular capillaries and to arterial endothelium. These effects may be relevant to the pathogenesis of glomerular disease and atherosclerosis. Histamine may also contribute to the pathogenesis of pruritus in patients with chronic renal failure. 
Two-year outcome after angiographically documented myocardial reperfusion for acute coronary occlusion. Thrombolysis and Angioplasty Study Group. Reperfusion therapy has been clearly shown to decrease the early mortality after acute myocardial infarction, but the impact of this therapy on long-term survival has been less extensively evaluated. This study reports the extended follow-up of a large cohort of 810 patients treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy combined, when considered necessary to maintain or augment infarct vessel patency, with mechanical reperfusion therapies. Each patient underwent coronary angiography within 2 hours of the initiation of the thrombolytic infusion. Coronary angioplasty was performed in 62% of the patients before hospital discharge and 21% underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Follow-up was obtained in 96% to a mean of 18.8 months (range, 1.5 to 48 months). All-cause mortality over this period was 3.3%; 2.1% died from cardiac causes. Nonfatal reinfarction occurred in 5.1%. Although the low event rate limits the validity of statistical comparisons, the patients who survived the follow-up period tended to be younger (56 +/- 10 vs 65 +/- 7 years), to have better predischarge left ventricular function (left ventricular ejection fraction, 52 +/- 11 vs 46 +/- 13%) and to have a lower prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease (45 vs 67%). This excellent long-term survival may, in part, reflect the exclusion of high-risk patients from enrollment in the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI) studies. It may also be attributable, however, to the frequent use of combined thrombolysis and mechanical revascularization in this population. 
Reoperation for myocardial revascularization using the internal mammary artery. From October 1984 up to February 1989, 40 patients had "redo" myocardial revascularizations using one or both internal mammary arteries (IMA) in over 1000 cases operated upon in our Department for coronary bypass grafts. Thirty-one patients had a further operation for unstable angina difficult to control with drugs. Mean interval of recurrence of angina after previous surgery was 48.5 months for all the cases, but the mean interval before the second bypass operation was 68 months. Severe disease of previous vein grafts was the reason for surgery in 25 patients and progressive atherosclerosis in native coronary arteries in 15 patients. Twenty-one patients had a single mammary artery; both mammary arteries were used in 19. Two cases had endarterectomy on left anterior descending (LAD). Four patients had peroperative acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 3 a low cardiac output syndrome, postoperative bleeding occurred in 3 cases and wound infection in one case. An intraaortic balloon pump was used preoperatively in one case and coming off bypass in two others. One patient died on the second day postoperatively from cardiac arrest following bilateral pneumothorax. There were no late deaths. At a mean follow-up of 20.5 months, 28 patients are free of symptoms but 11 are complaining of angina, 5 during exercise and 6 at rest. An exercise test was positive in 8 patients. 
Hemodynamic effects of synchronous high-frequency jet ventilation in mitral regurgitation. We tested the hypothesis that increases in intrathoracic pressure (ITP), by decreasing the pressure gradient for anterograde left ventricular (LV) ejection, should augment cardiac output in acute mitral regurgitation (MR). In a pentobarbital-anesthetized closed-chest canine model, LV stroke volume (SLLV) was measured by integration from an aortic flow probe signal. MR was induced by a regurgitant ring. ITP was elevated over apnea by means of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation (IPPV), asynchronous (asynch) high-frequency jet ventilation (HFJV), and cardiac cycle-specific (synch) HFJV. IPPV resulted in the greatest increase in ITP. MR caused a fall in SVLV and a rise in LV filling pressure that were not altered by IPPV. Compared with IPPV or apnea, both asynch and synch HFJV increased SVLV and reduced LV filling pressures (P less than 0.05). Systolic synch HFJV induced a greater increase in SVLV (32%) than diastolic synch HFJV (26%) despite similar ventilatory settings. Our data suggest that when LV contractility is normal but MR impairs forward flow, cardiac cycle-specific increases in ITP will augment forward flow. 
Atrial fibrillation in the elderly: management update. Non-valvular atrial fibrillation is associated with a markedly increased risk of embolic stroke in elderly persons. Evidence is accumulating that anticoagulation with warfarin or aspirin may be effective in reducing this risk. 
Deterioration following delay in performing femoral angioplasty. It is not uncommon for a delay to occur between assessment arteriography and angioplasty attempt. We reviewed retrospectively the arteriograms of 61 patients where such a delay occurred to assess progression of superficial femoral artery (SFA) disease in this interval. A mean delay of 14.6 days (range 2-60 days) occurred between arteriogram and angioplasty attempt. Arteriographic deterioration was found in six of 61 patients (9.8%) and in three this precluded angioplasty. Of the six patients four had initial arteriography via the same side as the SFA disease whilst two had arteriography via the contralateral femoral approach. We discuss the aetiology of this phenomenon and suggestions are made to reduce its incidence. 
Application of coronary angioplasty to the septal perforator arteries. Significant coronary artery disease affecting the septal perforator arteries can cause anginal pain, rhythm disturbances, or septal infarction. However, since these vessels are usually inaccessible to coronary bypass surgery, there is a tendency among angiographers and angioplasters to overlook lesions of the septal perforator arteries. Our experience suggests that if medical treatment is not sufficient to treat clinical manifestations resulting from septal perforator disease, then coronary angioplasty can be considered a therapeutic alternative for revascularization. We herein present 11 patients who underwent coronary angioplasty of a major septal artery and discuss angiographic and technical aspects of the procedure. 
Treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin. Two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects. One patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids. The fourth patient had a flare-up of his Crohn's disease after starting isotretinoin. 
Optimizing the exercise test for pharmacological investigations Exercise trials in cardiology are often hindered by inconsistent approaches to exercise testing. These inconsistencies include the choice of exercise protocol, exercise end points, points of analysis, and absence or misuse of gas exchange data. Gas exchange techniques greatly enhance the accuracy with which cardiopulmonary function is assessed by exercise. Commonly used protocols are not always appropriate for all patients or all studies. Both cardiovascular disease and the exercise protocol can have an important impact on the relation between changes in work rate and oxygen uptake. Ramp protocols appear to offer the greatest promise for assessing cardiopulmonary function. Analyzing hemodynamic and gas exchange responses at several points submaximally, in addition to those at peak exercise, can add important information concerning the efficacy of a drug. A great deal of confusion continues to hinder the application of the gas exchange anaerobic threshold, and many of the commonly used testing end points are not reliable. 
Cardioprotective effects of authentic nitric oxide in myocardial ischemia with reperfusion. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nitric oxide (NO), believed to be endothelium-derived relaxing factor on reperfusion injury after myocardial ischemia (MI). The effects of NO were investigated in a 6-hr model of MI with reperfusion in open-chest, anesthetized cats. A solution containing NO was infused iv starting 30 min after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, continuing through reperfusion 1 hr later, and lasting for 5.5 hr. Estimated NO concentration in the circulation was 1 to 2 x 10(-9) M. RESULTS: The areas-at-risk expressed as a percentage of the total left ventricular weights were not significantly different among either of the MI groups. However, the necrotic area (expressed as a percentage of the myocardial area-at-risk) was significantly (p less than .01) lower in the NO-treated MI cats compared with the MI + vehicle group. Cardiac myeloperoxidase activities indicated that significantly (p less than .05) fewer neutrophils were attracted to the necrotic zone of the NO-treated MI cats when compared with MI cats receiving only the vehicle. Sodium nitrate (NaNO2) (pH 7.4), a major breakdown product of NO, failed to exert any protective effect in this same model of MI and reperfusion. CONCLUSIONS: NO appears to provide significant myocardial protection after ischemia and reperfusion. NO may afford cardioprotection by incorporation into circulating blood cells (i.e., neutrophils, platelets), thereby inhibiting their accumulation and adherence in the ischemic region, or by a direct cardiac cytoprotective effect. Further studies using NO donors rather than NO would be an appropriate clinically relevant mode of treatment in MI. 
Combined orthopedic and vascular injury in the lower extremities: indications for amputation. A retrospective review was undertaken to determine risk factors associated with amputation after open fractures of the lower extremity that were complicated by vascular injury. During an 11-year period ending in December 1987, we observed open fractures in 31 patients and injuries to the popliteal artery in 16 patients, to the tibial arteries in eight patients, to the femoral artery in five patients, and to the dorsal artery of the foot in two patients. Vascular repair was accomplished in 25 patients; 12 patients had primary end-to-end anastomosis, 12 patients had reverse saphenous vein grafts, and one patient had a bovine graft. Of these 25 patients, five patients required amputation because of infection and three patients required amputation because of continued ischemia. Three patients with irreparable damage had immediate amputation, and three patients without distal ischemia had vessel ligation only. The risk factors associated with amputation were shock on admission (10 of 19 patients [p less than 0.02]) and a crushed extremity (10 of 18 patients [p less than 0.01]). The overall amputation rate, which included three immediate amputations and eight late amputations, was 35.2%. The data suggest that limb salvage is possible in two thirds of patients with combined orthopedic and vascular injuries of the lower extremity, but a history of shock or crush injury with vascular compromise is an unfavorable prognostic sign. 
Normal angiograms and carotid pathology. Nonstenotic ulcerated atherosclerotic plaques of the carotid arteries may be associated with symptoms of transient ischemic attacks, amaurosis fugax, and stroke. Preoperative evaluation of patients with these symptoms has traditionally included ultrasound and arch aortography angiograms of the area of the carotid bifurcation. Recent evidence has shown that ultrasound is more accurate in detection and morphologic delineation of these nonstenotic lesions. We analyzed the hospital records of 21 patients with ultrasonographic evidence of disease in whom arteriograms were negative. The patient group comprised 15 men and six women, with an average of 66 years. All patients had symptoms of hemispheric transient ischemic attacks and were evaluated with B-mode ultrasound and arteriography. Ultrasound was positive and arteriogram "negative" in all of the patients (i.e., described by the radiologist as without hemodynamic significant disease or ulceration, or as normal). The ultrasound diagnosis was confirmed at operation with findings of 20 to 50 per cent stenosis and ulcerative plaques. At retrospective review of the arteriograms, three ulcerations were found in the 21 patients. We conclude that B-mode ultrasound better defines nonstenotic ulcerative lesions and decisions to perform carotid endarterectomy may be based on either positive test. An ulcerative plaque by B-mode ultrasound and appropriate symptoms, therefore, may not require angiography before operation. 
Abnormal hemodynamic response to Valsalva maneuver in patients with atrial septal defect evaluated by Doppler echocardiography. Hemodynamic responses to the Valsalva maneuver were studied in eight healthy subjects (group 1) and eight patients with ASD (group 2) using Doppler echocardiography. The acute changes of aortic blood flow profiles during the Valsalva maneuver were investigated on a basis of beat-to-beat estimation. During the active strain phase (phase 2), group 1 showed a significant decrease in systolic blood pressure, SV and CO with reflex tachycardia; in group 2, there was a significant decrease in SV and CO with reflex tachycardia, but not systolic blood pressure. The percentage decreases in SV and CO in group 2 were significantly less than those in group 1 (23 +/- 16 percent vs 48 +/- 10 percent for SV, p less than 0.01; 17 +/- 12 percent vs 40 +/- 13 percent for CO, p less than 0.05). After release of strain phase (phase 4), group 1 showed significant reversed changes in systolic blood pressure, SV and heart rate, indicating an overshoot effect which was, however, not observed in group 2. Thus, patients with ASD presented abnormal Valsalva response which was characterized by the absence of phase 4 overshoot and a less marked phase 2 change. The findings suggest that the decremental effect of impaired venous return on stroke output during active strain may be attenuated by the increased pulmonary blood volume due to left-to-right shunt. In patients with ASD, the lesser decrement of CO during phase 2 may not provoke sufficient sympathetic activity to induce overshoot response in phase 4. 
Degenerative aortic stenosis. One effect of the graying of America. Degenerative calcific aortic stenosis is evolving as a common geriatric problem. Once symptoms develop, it is a highly lethal disease that does not respond well to medical therapy. Aortic balloon valvuloplasty may offer palliation but is unlikely to alter the overall course of the disease. Aortic valve replacement is the therapy of choice, but high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates can be expected in the very elderly. The presence of other appreciable cardiac disorders may contribute to the occurrence of postoperative complications. Patients with asymptomatic aortic stenosis and normal left ventricular function can be treated medically and followed with serial aortic valve area determinations using Doppler echocardiography. 
Effects of epidural anesthesia on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis after total knee arthroplasty [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Jul;73(6):952] Epidural anesthesia has been reported to reduce the prevalence of deep-vein thrombosis after total hip arthroplasty compared with the prevalence after general anesthesia. However, the effect of epidural anesthesia on the rate of thrombosis after total knee arthroplasty has not been reported previously, to our knowledge. A review was conducted of 705 total knee arthroplasties (541 patients) that had been performed by a single surgeon between September 1984 and December 1988. During this period, the operative technique, the protocol for rehabilitation, and the regimen for prophylaxis against thromboembolism did not change meaningfully. The patients received either epidural or general anesthesia. Preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of the lungs and a venogram of the lower limb or limbs that had been operated on were done for all patients. For the 227 patients who had received epidural anesthesia, the over-all rate of deep-vein thrombosis was 48 per cent, which was significantly lower than the 64 per cent incidence in the 264 patients who had received general anesthesia (p less than 0.0001). The greatest reduction was in the occurrence of proximal thrombosis, which was identified in 9 per cent of the patients who had had general anesthesia but in only 4 per cent of those who had had epidural anesthesia (p less than 0.05). The use of epidural anesthesia reduced the incidence of proximal thrombosis after both unilateral and one-stage bilateral arthroplasty. 
Intraoperative detection of patent foramen ovale by transesophageal echocardiography. This study reports the intraoperative use of contrast and Doppler echocardiography techniques to diagnose patent foramen ovale (PFO). Fifty patients without known atrial septal defects undergoing elective cardiovascular surgery were studied. A 5-MHz esophageal echocardiographic probe was used to image the fossa ovalis (FO) and 10 ml agitated saline was injected into the right atrium during apnea. Echocardiographic contrast was then injected during end-inspiration at 20-cmH2O airway pressure. When opacification of the right atrium was complete, the airway pressure was released. During these maneuvers, color and pulsed-wave Doppler interrogation of the atrial septum were also performed. Right-to-left passage of saline contrast across the interatrial septum was seen in 11 of 50 patients (22%). Doppler echocardiography demonstrated a PFO in 2 patients without contrast evidence of shunting. Thus, the combination of contrast and Doppler echocardiography identified a 26% (13 of 50) prevalence of PFO, approximating the previously reported autopsy rate of 25%. These contrast and Doppler techniques may be useful in detecting patients at risk for paradoxical emboli and in identifying candidates for closure of the PFO. 
Left ventricular mechanics of ejecting, postischemic hearts during left ventricular circulatory assistance. We measured the effects of left ventricular circulatory assistance on ventricular mechanics of ejecting sheep hearts before and after global ischemia. Flows from left atrium to femoral artery ranged between 20 and 100 ml/kg/min during circulatory assistance. In preischemic, ejecting hearts increasing flow through the left ventricular assist device progressively decreased stroke volume, end-diastolic volume, and circumferential systolic wall stress, but only slightly decreased end-systolic volume. In postischemic, ejecting hearts left ventricular assistance progressively and substantially decreased both end-diastolic volume and end-systolic volume; at high flows, end-systolic volume returned to the normal range of preischemic hearts. High flows through the assist device also shifted end-systolic points of pressure-volume loops leftward and increased the stroke work/end-diastolic volume ratio in ejecting postischemic hearts; these observations raise the possibility that left ventricular circulatory assistance acutely improves myocardial contractility of postischemic hearts. 
Effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty: a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit. Restenosis, the major limitation of balloon angioplasty, is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure. Lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) inhibitor, may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis. To determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia, a prospective, randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic New Zealand White male rabbits. Atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2% cholesterol and 6% peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed. Angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion, and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure. Forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals. Seven rabbits died during the procedure. Thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group (6 mg/kg body weight per day) or a control group. Angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels (n = 54); the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22. Fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed. Angiograms, obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty, were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data. After the rabbits were killed, vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis. 
Rebleeding from intracranial dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery. We describe two patients with rebleeding from intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms during the acute stage. One patient had excellent results after emergency surgery. A review of recent reports including 60 patients with this disorder revealed a rebleeding rate of 30%, mostly during the acute stage. This suggests that a ruptured dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery is at risk for rebleeding during the acute stage, similar to a saccular aneurysm in the same location. 
Ventilatory and diffusion abnormalities in potential heart transplant recipients. Few data are available concerning pulmonary function in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure. Of 315 patients evaluated for potential cardiac transplantation at UCLA, 132 underwent pulmonary function tests. The latter patients had severe heart failure with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 19 percent and mean cardiac index of 2.1 L/min/m2. Diffusion impairment either alone or combined with restrictive and/or obstructive ventilatory defects occurred in 67 percent of the patients evaluated. Diffusion impairment occurred as the sole abnormality in 31 percent of the patients and in combination with a restrictive ventilatory defect in 21 percent. A reduction in diffusing capacity has not been previously described as a frequent finding in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. In contrast to other studies involving patients with acute heart failure, obstructive ventilatory defects were uncommon. None of the lung function abnormalities was associated with smoking status, prior drug use, chest roentgenographic changes, hemodynamic findings, or clinical features, including duration of congestive heart failure. The mechanism for the diffusion impairment is unclear but could be due to chronic passive congestion with pulmonary fibrosis and/or recurrent pulmonary emboli. Recognition of diffusion impairment as a common finding in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure who are candidates for heart transplantation is important for proper interpretation of possible post-transplant changes in diffusing capacity due to other causes. 
Hemodynamic effects of a new right ventricular assist device. A right ventricular assist device (VAD) based on the principle of counterpulsation has been developed at our institution. The device is a valveless, pneumatically actuated, 40 cc, sac-type pump, with a single inlet-outlet port. For right ventricular support, the "Uniport" pump is anastamosed end-to-side to the pulmonary artery. In previous experimental trials, the device has been shown to impart minimal trauma to blood components. In this study, biventricular failure was induced in eight Holstein calves by normothermic ischemia during cardiopulmonary bypass. A Pierce-Donachy left VAD (LVAD) was used for left ventricular support following the ischemic insult. Hemodynamic measurements were obtained throughout the study, and each animal served as its own control. A significant increase in post injury cardiac output (33.5 +/- 11.4%) was obtained with use of the Uniport and LVAD, as compared to use of the LVAD alone (p less than or equal to 0.005). Other hemodynamic parameters of right heart failure, including right atrial pressure (RAP), pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), and left atrial pressure (LAP) were not significantly affected. These data suggest that the Uniport right ventricular assist device significantly improves cardiac output in this model of moderate right ventricular failure. Additional studies are required, however, to optimize pump stroke volume, and to further define the performance envelope of the device. 
Differential therapy with calcium antagonists in pulmonary hypertension secondary to COPD. Hemodynamic effects of nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil. In 53 patients with COPD and precapillary pulmonary hypertension, we investigated the effect of three typical calcium antagonists on hemodynamics at rest and during bicycle ergometer exercise. In the responders, the decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance following nifedipine was 23 percent at rest (p less than 0.0005) and 35 percent during exercise (p less than 0.0005); following diltiazem, it was 10 percent at rest (p less than 0.05) and 23 percent during exercise (p less than 0.025); following verapamil, it was 22 percent at rest (p less than 0.005) and 11 percent during exercise (p less than 0.025). The cardiac index rose significantly at rest and under exercise only after the administration of nifedipine (+16 percent and +8 percent, resp). Nifedipine caused the most distinctive peripheral vasodilation. The heart rate increased slightly following nifedipine and decreased slightly following diltiazem and verapamil. After long-term therapy with nifedipine (13 +/- 5 months), the decrease in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance was no longer significant. In our opinion, the different hemodynamic action profiles will have consequences for the differential therapy in patients with COPD and pulmonary hypertension. 
Advances in noninvasive detection of CAD. Advances in the noninvasive detection of myocardial ischemia are increasing our ability to diagnose coronary artery disease (CAD). Tomographic (SPECT) thallium imaging provides better identification of coronary arteries with atherosclerotic narrowing. Increased lung thallium uptake and transient ischemic dilatation of the heart are additional markers of severe CAD. Late thallium imaging, as well as reinjection imaging, provides more accurate identification of myocardial ischemia. Finally, new myocardial ischemia. Finally, new myocardial imaging agents, such as technetium Tc 99m sestamibi (Cardiolite), should improve detection of CAD by noninvasive methods. 
Low-dose heparinization can be used with DEAE-cellulose hemodialysis membranes. The ability of DEAE-cellulose (Hemophan) membranes to bind heparin may reduce bioavailable heparin and predispose to dialyzer clotting, thus preventing use of Hemophan with low-dose heparin. To examine this possibility, residual blood volumes were determined following 95 treatments with dialyzers containing Hemophan membranes in 11 patients. No heparin was added to the saline used to prime the dialyzers. The anticoagulant effect of heparin was measured using recalcified activated clotting times (RACT). Two heparin doses, calculated by a pharmacokinetic model to increase baseline RACT by 12.5% and 25%, were used for each patient. The mean heparin loading doses were 10.2 +/- 2.8 and 15.3 +/- 2.2 IU/kg, respectively, and the mean infusion rates were 11.1 +/- 3.2 and 14.7 +/- 3.2 IU/kg/h, respectively. Residual blood volumes were determined by red cell lysis and hemoglobinometry. In 88 treatments, residual blood volume averaged 1.6 +/- 1.5 ml. In the other seven treatments, residual blood volume greater than 10 ml was seen. In five of these cases, clotting appeared to propagate from the arterial drip chamber. Residual blood volume did not correlate with the level of heparin. The data show that low-dose heparin can be used with Hemophan membranes, and suggest that blood tubing design may be an important factor in blood circuit clotting during hemodialysis. 
Does blood rheology revert to normal after myocardial infarction? After myocardial infarction there is an acute deterioration of the flow properties of blood. The present study was designed to test whether the abnormality persists. Blood and plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation and deformability, haematocrit, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, white cell count, cholesterol, and triglycerides were measured in 51 patients who had had a myocardial infarction 5.4 (mean) years before. Results in patients and controls were compared and matched pairs with identical cardiovascular risk factors were also selected. Blood viscosity and red cell aggregation were increased and red cell deformability was decreased in the 51 patients. The abnormalities were independent of the interval since infarction and persisted for years. The rheological abnormalities present after myocardial infarction are at least partly independent of the acute event and acute phase reactions. They contribute to the reduced perfusion of the microcirculation of the heart. 
Reduced frequency of hypertensive disorders in placenta previa The isthmic segment of the uterine artery's ascending branch has a freer course and wider diameter than distal parts of the vessel. Therefore, we assumed that this arterial segment would provide better blood flow and prevent hypoxia of the trophoblast. As a result, placenta previa pregnancies would be complicated by hypertensive disorders less often than are pregnancies with normally implanted placentas. To test this hypothesis, 491 placenta previa pregnancies, among a population of 106,866 pregnant women, were compared with pregnancies with normally implanted placentas. Clinically meaningful and statistically significant reductions in the rates and risks of hypertensive disorders were found in placenta previa pregnancies (P = .002, relative risk = 0.44, 95% confidence interval 0.25-0.78). The differences persisted when primiparous and multiparous women were examined separately and when preterm and term deliveries were separated. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, patients with placenta previa had a third of the risk for hypertensive disorders compared with pregnant women with normally implanted placentas (relative risk = 0.36, 95% confidence interval 0.20-0.64), even after controlling for parity and preterm or term delivery. In the same model, primiparity and preterm delivery were each associated with a doubling of risk for hypertensive disorders, regardless of the placental implantation site. Thus, regardless of parity and preterm or term delivery, placenta previa and hypertensive disorders are inversely related. 
Effects of adenosine on human coronary arterial circulation Adenosine is a potent vasodilator used extensively to study the coronary circulation of animals. Its use in humans, however, has been hampered by lack of knowledge about its effects on the human coronary circulation and by concern about its safety. We investigated in humans the effects of adenosine, administered by intracoronary bolus (2-16 micrograms), intracoronary infusion (10-240 micrograms/min), or intravenous infusion (35-140 micrograms/kg/min) on coronary and systemic hemodynamics and the electrocardiogram. Coronary blood flow velocity (CBFV) was measured with a 3F coronary Doppler catheter. The maximal CBFV was determined with intracoronary papaverine (4.5 +/- 0.2.resting CBFV). In normal left coronary arteries (n = 20), 16-micrograms boluses of adenosine caused coronary hyperemia similar to that caused by papaverine (4.6 +/- 0.7.resting CBFV). In the right coronary artery (n = 5), 12-micrograms boluses caused maximal hyperemia (4.4 +/- 1.0.resting CBFV). Intracoronary boluses caused a small, brief decrease in arterial pressure (similar to that caused by papaverine) and no changes in heart rate or in the electrocardiogram. The duration of hyperemia was much shorter after adenosine than after papaverine administration. Intracoronary infusions of 80 micrograms/min or more into the left coronary artery (n = 6) also caused maximal hyperemia (4.4 +/- 0.1.resting CBFV), and doses up to 240 micrograms/min caused a minimal decrease in arterial pressure (-6 +/- 2 mm Hg) and no significant change in heart rate or in electrocardiographic variables. Intravenous infusions in normal patients (n = 25) at 140 micrograms/kg/min caused coronary vasodilation similar to that caused by papaverine in 84% of patients (4.4 +/- 0.9.resting CBFV). At submaximal infusion rates, however, CBFV often fluctuated widely. During the 140-micrograms/kg/min infusion, arterial pressure decreased 6 +/- 7 mm Hg, and heart rate increased 24 +/- 14 beats/min. One patient developed 1 cycle of 2:1 atrioventricular block, but otherwise, the electrocardiogram did not change. In eight patients with microvascular vasodilator dysfunction (delta CBFV, less than 3.5 peak/resting velocity after a maximally vasodilating dose of intracoronary papaverine), the dose-response characteristics to intracoronary boluses and intravenous infusions of adenosine were similar to those found in normal patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Anterior segment ischemia: a complication of retinal detachment repair in a patient with sickle cell trait. Anterior segment ischemia (ASI) is a dreaded complication of retinal detachment surgery particularly in patients with predisposing factors such as sickle cell disease. We report a case of ASI after scleral buckling in an otherwise healthy black patient with sickle cell trait. Conditions of relative hypoxia intraoperatively from either anesthesia or surgical manipulation may precipitate vasoocclusive phenomena in these normally asymptomatic patients. Since the incidence of sickle cell trait in the black population in the United States is 8.5%, we recommend these patients have a preoperative sickle test followed by hemoglobin electrophoresis with quantification if positive. The presence of sickle cell trait should alert the surgeon to the risk of ASI, and factors predisposing to hypoxia should be minimized when possible. 
Prognostic value of thallium-201 perfusion defects in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. To assess the prognostic significance of thallium-201 perfusion defects in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC), 43 patients underwent thallium scintigraphy in addition to clinical, echocardiographic, angiographic and hemodynamic evaluation. Eleven patients had no significant thallium perfusion abnormality, 19 had multiple small defects and 13 had a large defect. During 3.2 +/- 2.2 years, 14 patients had disease-related mortality. The patients who died had a higher incidence of ventricular tachycardia (71 vs 31%; p less than 0.02), increased cardiothoracic ratio (60 +/- 6 vs 54 +/- 6; p = 0.005), decreased fractional shortening (11 +/- 6 vs 15 +/- 5; p less than 0.05), increased pulmonary wedge pressure (15 +/- 7 vs 10 +/- 6 mm Hg; p = 0.05), increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (21 +/- 8 vs 14 +/- 6 mm Hg; p = 0.02) and abnormal thallium perfusion defects (13 of 14 vs 16 of 26; p less than 0.05) compared with survivors. Age, gender, left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimensions, cardiac index and ejection fraction were not statistically different in the survivors versus the patients who died. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates at 1, 3 and 5 years were 100% in patients without significant perfusion abnormality; 89, 77 and 64%, respectively, in patients with multiple small defects; and 84, 76 and 30%, respectively, in patients with a large defect (p less than 0.025 by log rank test). 
Hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis. Eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO). Hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment. Posttreatment cardiac index was decreased (3.3 v 2.8 L/min/m2), whereas diastolic blood pressure (72 v 79 mm Hg) and calculated peripheral resistance (2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period. We conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis, who are effectively treated with r-HuEPO, is due to an increase in peripheral resistance. This increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability. 
Ischemic heart disease and platelet aggregation. The Caerphilly Collaborative Heart Disease Study. The Caerphilly Collaborative Heart Disease Study is based on a large cohort of men (2,398) aged 49-66 years at the time of study. Platelet aggregation induced by collagen, thrombin, and ADP was measured in fasting blood samples and was related to prevalent angina, past myocardial infarction, and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemic heart disease. A number of subjects had taken aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or other drugs affecting platelet aggregation 7 days before blood sample collection; after the exclusion of these subjects, data were available for 1,811 men. No relations were demonstrated with angina, but significant relations were shown between past myocardial infarctions and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and ADP-induced aggregation (both primary and secondary) and between electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and thrombin-induced aggregation. The strongest relation indicated more than a twofold increase in the odds of a past myocardial infarction in subjects of the highest fifth of ADP-induced primary platelet aggregation compared with the lowest fifth. No significant relations were detected with collagen-induced aggregation. Accounting for a number of possible confounding factors had a relatively small impact on the relations between platelet aggregation and ischemic heart disease. Other evidence, including the well-established effect of aspirin on reducing the incidence of ischemic heart disease, indicates that the relations we describe are unlikely to be simply an effect of IHD on platelets. 
Clinical use of the Berlin Biventricular Assist Device as a bridge to transplantation. The Berlin Artificial Heart System/Biventricular Assist Device (BVAD) was used in 38 patients. 1) Twenty-eight patients were awaiting cardiac transplantation (Tx) (age 23-56 yrs). All patients had contraindications not allowing immediate Tx. 2) Five patients were emergency cases not on our Tx list (postcardiotomy cardiac failure, acute myocarditis) (age 28-59). 3) Five patients were post Tx patients with graft failure (age 22-52). Extracorporal circulation was used for implantation of the BVAD. In group 1, 21 of 28 patients (pts) recovered, and all were subsequently transplanted after 6 hours to 39 days, when all organ function was restored. In 7 pts, mechanical circulation was terminated after 1-40 days because of further deterioration. Five of the transplanted pts died, 14 pts survived (greater than 30 days), and 2 pts were just transplanted with satisfactory postoperative courses. Of group 2 and 3 pts, two were successfully weaned. In one patient the allograft recovered after 11 days of support. 
Comparison of silent and symptomatic ischemia during exercise testing in men OBJECTIVE: To compare angina and ST-segment depression during exercise testing, as markers for coronary artery disease. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of exercise test responses and cardiac catheterization results. SETTING: A U.S. Veterans Affairs medical center. PATIENTS: Four hundred and sixteen men who were referred for the evaluation of symptoms, postmyocardial infarction testing, or both. Two hundred patients had no clinical or electrocardiographic evidence of previous myocardial infarction, whereas 216 were survivors of a previous myocardial infarction. INTERVENTIONS: All patients did a standard exercise test and had diagnostic coronary angiography with ventriculography within an average of 32 days (range, 0 to 90 days) of their exercise test. RESULTS: Two hundred patients without a previous myocardial infarction were divided into four groups: the no ischemia group had 80 patients; the angina pectoris only group had 23 patients; the silent ischemia group had 40 patients; and the ST-segment depression and angina pectoris group had 57 patients. In patients without a previous myocardial infarction, exercise-induced ST-segment depression was a better marker than exercise-induced angina for the presence of any coronary artery disease (P less than 0.005). Patients with symptomatic exercise-induced ischemia had a higher prevalence of severe coronary artery disease than did those with only silent ischemia (30% compared with 20%; 95% CI, - 7.3% to 27.0%; P = 0.005). For the 216 survivors of a myocardial infarction, divided into the same four groups, ST-segment depression again was a better marker for the presence of severe coronary artery disease compared with angina alone (P = 0.08). The prevalence rates of severe coronary artery disease in the no ischemia plus myocardial infarction group, the angina pectoris only plus myocardial infarction group, the silent ischemia plus myocardial infarction group, and the ST-segment depression and angina pectoris plus myocardial infarction group were 10%, 9%, 23%, and 32%, respectively (P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Exercise-induced ST-segment depression is a better marker for coronary artery disease than is exercise-induced angina. Symptomatic ischemia during the exercise test is a better marker for severe coronary artery disease than is silent ischemia. 
Regional myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates during isometric exercise in patients with coronary artery disease BACKGROUND. The maintenance of cellular levels of high-energy phosphates is required for myocardial function and preservation. In animals, severe myocardial ischemia is characterized by the rapid loss of phosphocreatine and a decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to ATP. METHODS. To determine whether ischemic metabolic changes are detectable in humans, we recorded spatially localized phosphorus-31 nuclear-magnetic-resonance (31P NMR) spectra from the anterior myocardium before, during, and after isometric hand-grip exercise. RESULTS. The mean (+/- SD) ratio of phosphocreatine to ATP in the left ventricular wall when subjects were at rest was 1.72 +/- 0.15 in normal subjects (n = 11) and 1.59 +/- 0.31 in patients with nonischemic heart disease (n = 9), and the ratio did not change during hand-grip exercise in either group. However, in patients with coronary heart disease and ischemia due to severe stenosis (greater than or equal to 70 percent) of the left anterior descending or left main coronary arteries (n = 16), the ratio decreased from 1.45 +/- 0.31 at rest to 0.91 +/- 0.24 during exercise (P less than 0.001) and recovered to 1.27 +/- 0.38 two minutes after exercise. Only three patients with coronary heart disease had clinical symptoms of ischemia during exercise. Repeat exercise testing in five patients after revascularization yielded values of 1.60 +/- 0.20 at rest and 1.62 +/- 0.18 during exercise (P not significant), as compared with 1.51 +/- 0.19 at rest and 1.02 +/- 0.26 during exercise before revascularization (P less than 0.02). CONCLUSIONS. The decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to ATP during hand-grip exercise in patients with myocardial ischemia reflects a transient imbalance between oxygen supply and demand in myocardium with compromised blood flow. Exercise testing with 31P NMR is a useful method of assessing the effect of ischemia on myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates and of monitoring the response to treatment. 
Immediate and short-term results of a 1988-1989 coronary angioplasty registry. To determine the relevance of recent refinements in angioplasty technology to our particular practice, the records of 507 consecutive patients undergoing a first percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) at our center between October 1988 and May 1989 were reviewed. At the time of PTCA, 41% of these patients had class IV angina and 44% were identified as having multivessel disease. Dilatation was attempted in 734 lesions (mean 1.5 per patient), of which 95 (13%) were chronic total occlusions. Overall, 69% of the 734 lesions were judged anatomically complex, and, in dilating these lesions, a rail-type device was used almost exclusively. Successful dilatation was achieved in 659 of the 734 (90%) attempted lesions. There were low incidences of the major complications of death (0.4%), myocardial infarction (1.8%) and emergency bypass surgery (1.8%). Acute rethrombosis occurred in 54 patients (11%). In these patients, initial strategy of repeat dilatation was successful in 38 of 47 patients (81%). Overall, primary clinical success at PTCA was achieved in 480 patients (95%). At a mean follow-up of 7.5 +/- 1.5 months in 497 of the study patients, the event-free rate (freedom from cardiac death, myocardial infarction, repeat PTCA or coronary bypass surgery or recurrence of severe [class III to IV] angina) was 71%. In conclusion, despite the often complex coronary disease in patients currently presenting to our center, a high initial success rate and acceptable short-term outcome of PTCA was achieved. 
Association of the renin-sodium profile with the risk of myocardial infarction in patients with hypertension BACKGROUND. To test the prognostic value of plasma renin activity prospectively, we determined the pretreatment renin-sodium profile of 1717 subjects with mild-to-moderate hypertension (mean age, 53 years; 36 percent white; 67 percent men) in a systematic work-site treatment program. METHODS. Renin profiles, obtained by plotting plasma renin activity against the urinary excretion of sodium, were classified as high (12 percent of the subjects), normal (56 percent), and low (32 percent), and there were expected variations according to age, sex, and race. Modified stepped-care treatment for hypertension, prescribed without reference to the renin profile, was similar in the three renin groups. RESULTS. Mean (+/- SD) blood pressure at entry was 151 +/- 19/100 +/- 10 mm Hg in the subjects with a high renin profile, 151 +/- 19/97 +/- 10 mm Hg in those with a normal profile, and 151 +/- 20/96 +/- 11 mm Hg in those with a low profile. During 8.3 years of follow-up, there were 27 myocardial infarctions. As adjusted for age, sex, and race, the incidence of myocardial infarction per 1000 person-years was 14.7 among the subjects with a high renin profile, 5.6 among those with a normal profile, and 2.8 among those with a low profile (rate ratio for high vs. low, 5.3; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.4 to 8.3). The rate of mortality from all causes was 9.3 in the high-profile group, 5.3 in the normal-profile group, and 3.9 in the low-profile group. The independent association of a high renin profile with myocardial infarction (but not with stroke or noncardiovascular events) was affirmed by Cox analyses (rate ratio for high vs. normal plus low, 3.2; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 8.4) after adjustment for race, sex, age at entry, serum cholesterol level, smoking status, electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, blood glucose level, body-mass index, history of cardiovascular disease or treatment, blood pressure, and use of beta-blockers. CONCLUSIONS. In the study population, whose blood pressure before and during treatment was in a narrow range, and after other cardiovascular risk factors had been considered, the renin profile before treatment remained independently associated with the subsequent risk of myocardial infarction. 
Traumatic and spontaneous extracranial internal carotid artery dissections. Seventy patients with spontaneous and 21 with traumatic extracranial internal carotid artery dissections were studied clinically and angiographically with mean follow-ups of 64 (spontaneous group) and 40 months (traumatic group). Sixty percent of the patients in the spontaneous group and 71% in the traumatic group also had follow-up angiograms. In traumatic dissections aneurysms were common, significantly fewer aneurysms resolved or became smaller and fewer stenoses resolved or improved, whereas more stenoses progressed to occlusion. Traumatic dissections were more likely to leave the patients with neurological deficits. A significantly higher percentage of the patients with spontaneous dissections were asymptomatic at follow-up compared with the traumatic group. Although both spontaneous and traumatic dissections of extracranial internal carotid arteries mostly carry a good prognosis, the outcome may be somewhat less favorable for the traumatic group. 
Clinical interaction of salt and weight change on blood pressure level. Studies that examine the effect of altered body weight or dietary sodium on blood pressure level are reviewed. Emphasis is placed on studies that compare the effects of weight reduction or sodium restriction in separate comparison groups or analyze the independent effect of the two intervention modalities in multiple regression analysis. Additional analyses of the Hypertension Prevention Trial data are presented. Most studies, where comparison can be made, suggest a greater effect for weight reduction than for the achieved, moderate, or short-term reduction in sodium intake on subsequent lowering of blood pressure; the lowering effect on blood pressure of weight reduction is independent of the effect of dietary sodium restriction. However, long-term (over a year) substantial reductions (up to 70 meq/day) of dietary sodium have not been achieved in comparative trials, nor are the effects of combined weight and sodium reduction in the prevention and treatment of hypertension quantified. Future studies and potential problems are discussed. 
Extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction for renovascular hypertension. Extracorporeal reconstruction can be applied to the successful repair of stenoses in the distal renal artery and its hilar branches. This study evaluates the short- and long-term results of extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction in 65 patients, including 5 children, with renovascular hypertension who were treated from 1974 through 1989. The mean age of the patients was 37 years (range, 7 to 67 years). The cause of the stenoses was arteriosclerosis in 8 patients, fibrodysplasia in 54 patients, and miscellaneous in 3. Hypertension was severe before treatment with a mean blood pressure of 187/147 mm Hg that was reduced to a mean of 159/102 mm Hg after medical therapy. Ten patients had renal dysfunction. Results were evaluated both at short-term intervals (mean, 7.9 months; 64 patients) and long-term intervals (mean, 5.9 years; 60 patients), after surgery. Blood pressure responses were classified as beneficial (cured/improved) or failures. Anatomic results were evaluated by angiography in 98% of the patients at the short-term interval and in 77% of the patients at the long-term interval. Extracorporeal renal artery surgery was performed on 78 kidneys among 65 patients (unilateral, 45 patients; bilateral, 13 patients; unilateral extracorporeal and contralateral in situ, 7 patients). In most of the cases autologous arterial graft was used for reconstruction. Early in the series one patient died as a result of the operative procedure (1/65, 1.5%). A beneficial blood pressure response occurred in 53 patients (53/65; 82%) at the short-term interval and in 49 patients (49/61; 80%) at the long-term interval, with the average blood pressure at the short-term interval being 138/85 mm Hg and at the long-term interval being 139/85 mm Hg. Renal function improved in all patients with preoperative renal dysfunction. Graft stenosis or occlusion of the main renal artery was neither observed at the short-term interval nor at the long-term interval. However, residual stenoses were observed in 9 of the 163 reconstructed distal branches (5.5%). Extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction with autologous arterial grafts can be effectively applied to lesions of the distal main renal artery and its hilar branches with durable functional results. 
Physicians' perspectives on cholesterol and heart disease. In early spring of 1988, questionnaires were mailed to 4,000 Midwestern physicians to survey their attitudes and practices regarding elevated serum cholesterol and their use of referrals for nutrition counseling; 633 physicians responded. Sixty-eight percent of the physicians thought that reducing high serum cholesterol levels would substantially affect heart disease; however, physicians attributed considerably less preventive value to reducing the cholesterol level than to reducing blood pressure (80.3%) or ceasing smoking (90.0%). The range of serum cholesterol for which diet therapy was most frequently initiated was 5.70 to 6.20 mmol/L. The most frequent range for initiation of drug therapy was 7.80 to 8.25 mmol/L. The physicians reported that although their medical school training did not prepare them adequately for providing diet counseling, they did feel prepared to provide, and were successful in, counseling on diet modifications for reducing serum cholesterol. Few (10%) of the total sample reported having registered dietitians available for dietary counseling, and most (88.8%) believed that it is the physician's responsibility to provide such counseling. Although the low response rate limits the conclusions of the survey, it is likely that those physicians most interested in the topic responded. We conclude that registered dietitians should explore the need for their special services further. More aggressive marketing of dietetic services could benefit both physicians and patients in the campaign to reduce serum cholesterol. 
Contracturing granulomatous myositis: a separate entity. Granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis, but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation. Patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles. There are, however, a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs. Two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs, but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease, is presented. It is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness. The association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related. 
Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS): comparability of 10 year survival in randomized and randomizable patients. The Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) includes 780 patients with mild or moderate stable angina pectoris or asymptomatic survivors of a myocardial infarction who were randomized to either medical or surgical therapy and 1,319 patients who were eligible for randomization but were not randomized (randomizable patients). There were no substantial aggregate differences observed in any of the survival comparisons after 10 years of follow-up study between the randomized and randomizable patients assigned to the medical (79% versus 80%) or surgical (82% versus 81%) groups or in patient subgroups stratified according to coronary artery disease extent and left ventricular ejection fraction. Cox regression analyses were done with independent variables known to be predictors of survival, including surgical versus medical therapy and randomized versus randomizable group, to test the null hypothesis of a mortality difference between medical versus surgical assignment according to group assignment (randomized versus randomizable). In no case did the initial group category enter as a significant predictor of survival. The results in the randomizable group reinforce those in the randomized group with respect to the medical versus surgical comparison. Two subgroups are identified with a significant surgical advantage: 1) patients with proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis greater than or equal to 70% and an ejection fraction less than 0.50, and 2) patients with three vessel coronary artery disease and an ejection fraction less than 0.50. In both groups, coronary bypass surgery had a statistically significant beneficial effect on survival (p less than 0.05). After a decade of follow-up, the CASS randomizable patients confirm conclusions reached on the basis of the CASS randomized trial. 
The leukocyte count: a predictor of hypertension. In an exploratory study of 1031 persons observed to progress from normotension to essential hypertension and 1031 matched subjects who remained normotensive, the initial leukocyte count (WBC) was found to be related to the development of hypertension, with risk increased 40% (95% confidence interval 12-82%) in persons in the highest as compared to the lowest quartile of WBC. This relationship proved to be largely independent of body mass index, body fat distribution, alcohol and tobacco consumption, and parental history of hypertension. An increased WBC may reflect greater sympathetic tone or may directly increase peripheral vascular resistance by impeding circulation through small blood vessels. If confirmed, this study adds another condition to the growing list for which the WBC is predictive. This simple, cheap test should be considered for inclusion in prospective epidemiological studies of many different diseases. 
Genetic traits related to hypertension and electrolyte metabolism. The genetic and cultural heritability and intercorrelation of traits related to hypertension have been carried out in 98 Utah pedigrees (2,500 person) and 58 sibships with two or more hypertensive persons (131 hypertensive persons). Although none of these traits has been established as a marker for "sodium-sensitive hypertension," many of them are related at least indirectly to both electrolyte metabolism and risk of hypertension. Significant recessive monogenic effects and high total heritability (52-84%) were found for urinary kallikrein, high fat pattern index, intraerythrocytic sodium, Na-Li countertransport, and ouabain binding sites. Familial correlations more strongly attributable to shared environment than to genetic effects were found for Na,K-ATPase pump activity, intraerythrocytic magnesium, plasma digoxin-like factor, plasma renin activity, and plasma sodium concentration. All anthropometric variables tested showed highly significant genetic heritability with low and insignificant shared family environmental effects. Several of the genetically determined cellular cation tests also correlated with other genetic traits including plasma lipids, anthropometric measurements, and other cellular cation tests. Among hypertensive individuals with familial dyslipidemic hypertension, plasma insulin levels correlated with obesity and lipid abnormalities and with several cellular cation flux tests associated with hypertension. 
Complete left main coronary artery occlusion: angiographic evaluation of collateral vessel patterns and assessment of hemodynamic correlates. An angiographic study of eight patients with total occlusion of the left main coronary artery identified six patients with chronic occlusion and two with acute complete occlusion. In each of six patients, there were two to six different intercoronary collateral pathways. Altogether, a total of 13 specific collateral channels were recognized. One patient had evidence of unique homocollaterals represented by enlarged vasa vasorum, which created a vascular cuff that surrounded a totally obstructed left main artery. The ventricular function and hemodynamic parameters in these patients not only depend on the collateral vessels but may also be affected by the severity of coronary artery disease in the artery that supplies collaterals. 
Long-term outcome after surgical repair of isolated atrial septal defect. Follow-up at 27 to 32 years BACKGROUND. Atrial septal defects have been surgically correctable for more than 30 years. The long-term survival rates among patients treated in the early era of cardiac surgery are poorly documented, but such data are of critical importance to the future medical care, employability, and insurability of these patients. METHODS. To determine the natural history of surgically corrected atrial septal defects, we studied all 123 patients who underwent repair of an isolated defect (ostium secundum or sinus venosus) at the Mayo Clinic between 1956 and 1960, 27 to 32 years after the procedure. The follow-up status of all patients was determined by written questionnaires and telephone interviews. Hospital records and death certificates were obtained if interim hospitalization or death had occurred. RESULTS. The overall 30-year actuarial survival rate among survivors of the perioperative period was 74 percent, as compared with 85 percent among controls matched for age and sex. The perioperative mortality was 3.3 percent (four deaths). Actuarial 27-year survival rates among patients in the younger two quartiles according to age at operation (less than or equal to 11 years and 12 to 24 years) were no different from rates among controls--97 percent and 93 percent, respectively. In the two older quartiles (25 to 41 years and greater than 41 years), 27-year survival rates were significantly less (P less than 0.001)--84 percent and 40 percent, respectively--than in controls (91 and 59 percent). Independent predictors of long-term survival according to multivariate analysis were age at operation (P less than 0.0001) and systolic pressure in the main pulmonary artery before operation (P less than 0.0027). When repair was performed in older patients, late cardiac failure, stroke, and atrial fibrillation were significantly more frequent. CONCLUSIONS. Among patients with surgically repaired atrial septal defects, those operated on before the age of 25 have an excellent prognosis, but older patients require careful, regular supervision. 
Dialysis-induced alterations in left ventricular filling: mechanisms and clinical significance. Quantitative two-dimensional (2-D) and Doppler echocardiography were used to determine whether hemodialysis results in alterations in left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling that might contribute to dialysis-induced hypotension, as well as to assess whether any hemodynamic variables or indices of diastolic filling might be used to identify which patients were at the greatest risk of becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis. Sixteen male patients undergoing routine maintenance hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease were prospectively studied before and after hemodialysis. Following hemodialysis there was a significant prolongation (P less than 0.05) in LV isovolumetric relaxation time (IVRT), as well as a significant reduction in the rate and extent of early rapid ventricular filling (P less than 0.005); in contrast, late atrial-assisted filling did not change significantly. A multiple stepwise linear regression analysis of predialysis hemodynamic parameters and noninvasive indices of LV filling showed that there was a significant independent inverse relationship between the frequency of dialysis-related hypotensive episodes and the duration of early LV filling (r = -0.81; P less than 0.001). These results suggest that hemodialysis results in discrete alterations in early LV filling, with no significant compensatory increase in late atrial-assisted ventricular filling. Further, patients with the shortest early LV filling times appeared to have the greatest predilection for becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis. 
Limitations of magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound-directed (duplex) scanning in the diagnosis of subclavian vein thrombosis. To investigate the potential role of magnetic resonance imaging and duplex scanning in the diagnosis of catheter-induced subclavian vein thrombosis, we correlated the results of 43 arm phlebograms with duplex scans; 28 of these phlebograms were also correlated with magnetic resonance imaging scans of the thoracic veins. Eighteen of the 43 phlebograms were normal, and all had normal magnetic resonance imaging and duplex studies. Eleven subclavian veins were totally occluded on phlebography; all had duplex scans, and five were also scanned with magnetic resonance imaging. Duplex scans detected 6 of 11 occlusions, whereas magnetic resonance imaging detected 4 of the 5 occlusions scanned. The five occlusions that were not detected by either magnetic resonance imaging or duplex scans were short segmental occlusions of the medial one third of the left subclavian vein. Of 14 nonocclusive thrombi seen on phlebography, duplex scans correctly identified 8. Magnetic resonance imaging was done on eight nonocclusive thrombi but identified only two. All abnormal findings on duplex scanning and magnetic resonance imaging were confirmed by phlebography. Short occlusions of the proximal portion of the left subclavian vein were often undetected by duplex scanning but occasionally seen with magnetic resonance imaging. Neither modality was sensitive to the presence of nonocclusive mural thrombi. Magnetic resonance imaging is highly reliable in ruling out the presence of a thrombotic process in the subclavian vein, but it may on occasion fail to detect the presence of subclavian thrombi. For this reason, in cases with suspected subclavian vein thrombosis magnetic resonance imaging cannot be used as the only diagnostic modality. 
Muscle oxidative capacity and work performance after training under local leg ischemia. Healthy young men executed supine one-legged cycle training four times per week for 4 wk with legs and the cycle ergometer inside a pressure chamber, the opening of which was sealed by a rubber membrane at the level of the crotch. Each training session started by training one leg under ischemic conditions induced by increased chamber pressure (50 mmHg) at the highest intensity tolerable for 45 min. Then the other leg was trained with the same power profile but normal atmospheric chamber pressure. Before and after the training period, both legs executed one-legged exercise tests under both normal and increased chamber pressure and muscle biopsies were taken from the vastus lateralis. Ischemic training increased performance more than normal training, the difference being greater for exercise executed under ischemic conditions. The difference in performance increase between the legs was paralleled by a greater muscle citrate synthase activity in the ischemically than in the normally trained leg. 
Association between post-dexamethasone cortisol level and blood pressure in depressed inpatients. We examined the clinical data for 230 depressed inpatients who had completed a dexamethasone suppression test (DST) to determine whether those with an elevated post-DST serum cortisol level exhibited any of the classic physiological stigmata of Cushing's syndrome. Hypertension was significantly more frequent among DST nonsuppressors (21.2%) than among normal suppressors (11.3%). Percent blood lymphocyte count was significantly lower among nonsuppressors. Confounders such as gender, age, body weight, and use of antihypertensives did not account for the findings. Implications for morbidity and mortality rates among patients with affective disorder are discussed. 
Analysis and predictors of pulmonary vascular resistance after cardiac transplantation. Elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is a known risk factor for early death from acute right ventricular failure after orthotopic cardiac transplantation. Patients in whom the elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is due primarily to increased left atrial pressure ("reactive") frequently have normalization of resistance after transplantation, but few studies have detailed the time course and magnitude of these changes. To analyze the response of pulmonary vascular resistance to cardiac transplantation, we analyzed data from 4353 right heart catheterizations on all 182 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation between 1981 and Jan. 1, 1990. Before transplantation 18% of patients had a pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 4 WU, 16% had a pulmonary artery systolic pressure greater than 60 mm Hg, and 16% had a transpulmonary gradient greater than 14 mm Hg. In the overall group of patients, pulmonary vascular resistance (mean value 2.63 WU), transpulmonary gradient (mean value 9.9 mm Hg), and pulmonary artery systolic pressure (mean value 48.0 mm Hg) were normalized within 1 week of cardiac transplantation. In patients with a high preoperative pulmonary vascular resistance (greater than or equal to 4 WU), the resistance fell promptly within 1 week of transplantation but continued to be slightly elevated throughout the period of follow-up. By multiple regression analysis, pulmonary vascular resistance at 1 week and 1 year after transplantation was significantly correlated with the pretransplantation resistance. Pulmonary vascular resistance anytime after transplantation was related to preoperative resistance, body surface area, and pulmonary artery diastolic pressure. Inferences: (1) As a group, cardiac transplant recipients have a normal pulmonary vascular resistance, transpulmonary gradient, and pulmonary artery systolic pressure within 1 week after transplantation with little change thereafter for at least several years. (2) Patients with reversible elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance before cardiac transplantation typically have a reactive and a fixed component. Cardiac transplantation relieves the reactive but not the fixed component. As a result, pulmonary vascular resistance early (within 1 week) and late after transplantation will have fallen but not completely normalized. 
Excimer laser angioplasty during aortocoronary bypass grafting. Laser coronary angioplasty using the 308-nm Excimer laser was successfully performed intraoperatively during coronary artery bypass grafting. It achieved a reduction of the left anterior descending artery stenosis from 99% to 25% as seen on angioscopy, without evidence of vascular perforation or intimal disruption. The Excimer laser offers the opportunity for intraoperative endovascular remodeling and recanalization and has a potential role as an adjunct to existing standard coronary artery bypass grafting protocol. 
Diltiazem increases late-onset congestive heart failure in postinfarction patients with early reduction in ejection fraction. The Adverse Experience Committee; and the Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Research Group The Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial (MDPIT) reported no consistent diltiazem effect on new or worsened congestive heart failure (CHF) during 12-52 months' follow-up after acute myocardial infarction. This was puzzling in light of the observation that patients with findings suggesting left ventricular dysfunction (LVD) at baseline on diltiazem had more cardiac events (cardiac mortality or recurrent nonfatal infarction) than such patients on placebo. We hypothesized that diltiazem increased the frequency of late CHF as well as of cardiac events, but only in patients predisposed by LVD. Using the same characterizing variables as the primary MDPIT analysis, we found that patients with pulmonary congestion, anterolateral Q wave infarction, or reduced ejection fraction (EF) at baseline were more likely to have CHF during follow-up than those without these markers of LVD. CHF was particularly frequent in the patients with LVD who were randomized to diltiazem. Among those with a baseline EF of less than 0.40, late CHF appeared in 12% (39/326) receiving placebo and 21% (61/297) receiving diltiazem (p = 0.004). Life table analysis in patients with an EF of less than 0.40 confirmed more frequent late CHF in those taking diltiazem (p = 0.0017). In addition, the diltiazem-associated rise in the frequency of late CHF was progressively greater with increasingly severe decrements in baseline EF. This diltiazem effect was absent in patients with pulmonary congestion at baseline but an EF of 0.40 or more, suggesting a unique association between diltiazem-related late CHF and systolic LVD. 
Outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus. OBJECTIVE--To compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure. DESIGN--Retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls. SETTING--Renal unit, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, providing both dialysis and renal transplantation. PATIENTS--82 Diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988, compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Patient characteristics, history of smoking, prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation. RESULTS--The overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83%, 59%, and 50% at one, three, and five years. Survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls (p less than 0.001). Particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age (p less than 0.01) and current cigarette smoking (relative risk (95% confidence interval) 2.28 (0.93 to 4.84), p less than 0.05). Deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes. The incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls (49% in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year), and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients (p less than 0.5). CONCLUSIONS--Renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients, although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent, progressive vascular disease, which is more severe in older patients. 
Does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms, stroke, or death? The identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms, stroke, and death. To investigate these concerns, we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies, each documented as technically satisfactory. Post-operative duplex Doppler examination data at 3 days, 1, 3, 6, 12 months, and annually thereafter in 484 arteries (85.5%) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis: normal (n = 306); 1% to 19% (n = 89); 20% to 50% (n = 40); more than 50% (n = 49, including 8 occluded). The incidence of more than 50% restenosis was 14.5% in female and 7.7% in male patients (p = 0.003). Life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis (p = 0.05). Stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. When survival and stroke were both endpoints, the likelihood of patients with more than 50% restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20% stenotic group (p = 0.03). Thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms, stroke, or early death. 
Mitral valve repair by replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures. Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene sutures have been used for replacement of diseased chordae tendineae during reconstructive procedures on the mitral valve in 43 patients. There were 28 men and 15 women whose mean age was 55 years, range 21 to 76. Three fourths of the patients were in New York Heart Association class III or IV. Replacement of primary chordae tendineae of the anterior leaflet was performed with 4-0 or 5-0 polytetrafluoroethylene sutures. A double-armed suture was passed twice through the fibrous portion of the papillary muscle head and tied down. Each arm of the suture was brought up to the free margin of the leaflet and passed through the area where the native chorda was attached. After the lengths of the two arms were adjusted, the ends were tied together on the ventricular side of the leaflet. Thirty patients had degenerative disease of the mitral valve; the incompetence was due to prolapse of the anterior leaflet in 14 patients and prolapse of the anterior and posterior leaflets in 16. Eleven patients had rheumatic mitral valve disease: four had stenosis, three had regurgitation, and four had mixed lesions. Two patients had ischemic mitral regurgitation caused by rupture of a papillary muscle head. There were no operative deaths. Patients have been followed up from 5 to 61 months, mean 13. Doppler echocardiographic studies were performed at regular intervals after the operation and revealed normal mitral valve function in most patients There were two failures that necessitated mitral valve replacement: one because of acute mitral regurgitation and the other because of hemolysis. There have been two late deaths, neither one valve related. Replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures is simple and allows for reconstruction of the mitral valve in many patients who would otherwise require mitral valve replacement. Because our patients have been followed up for a limited time, the long-term results of this procedure remain unknown. 
Endocarditis in the emergency department. Clinical presentations and pathogeneses of endocarditis and aspects of its diagnosis and management relevant to emergency department practice are reviewed. Guidelines for admission, laboratory evaluation, and decisions regarding the initiation of therapy in the ED are offered. Also discussed are the role of the emergency physician in the prevention of iatrogenic infection and current recommendations regarding administration of prophylactic antibiotics for ED procedures. 
Standards for analysis of ventricular late potentials using high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography. A statement by a Task Force Committee of the European Society of Cardiology, the American Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology. Sufficient data are available to recommend the use of the high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiogram in patients recovering from myocardial infarction without bundle branch block to help determine their risk for developing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. However, no data are available about the extent to which pharmacological or nonpharmacological interventions in patients with late potentials have an impact on the incidence of sudden cardiac death. Therefore, controlled, prospective studies are required before this issue can be resolved. As refinements in techniques evolve, it is anticipated that the clinical value of high-resolution or signal-averaged electrocardiography will continue to increase. 
Potential usefulness of combined thromboxane A2 and serotonin receptor blockade for preventing the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease syndromes. Evidence suggests that unstable angina, non-Q-wave myocardial infarction and Q-wave myocardial infarcts represent a continuum, such that transient reduction in coronary blood flow associated with platelet aggregation and dynamic vasoconstriction at sites of coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury lead to abrupt development of unstable angina. Factors potentially responsible for the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease include endothelial injury at sites of stenosis. The endothelial injury may be the result of plaque fissuring or ulceration, hemodynamic factors (including systemic arterial hypertension or flow shear stress), infection, smoking, coronary arteriography or balloon angioplasty. Clinical and experimental animal studies suggest that interference with thromboxane and serotonin contributions to platelet aggregation and dynamic coronary artery constriction may prevent chronic coronary artery disease syndromes from converting to acute disease. To protect against this process may require both thromboxane and serotonin receptor antagonists or a combination of thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist. Further studies are needed to test this hypothesis. 
Renal protective effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Renal dysfunction and hypertension are closely associated. Hypertension causes approximately 25% of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and develops in virtually every patient with advanced renal insufficiency from any cause. Although normalization of blood pressure can reduce mortality from uremia and ameliorate the progression of renal impairment in patients with established renal insufficiency from hypertension and diabetes, antihypertensive therapy alone is not totally effective in preventing progressive compromise of renal function--especially in blacks and diabetics, who are at high risk for developing ESRD. Of particular promise is the rapidly increasing understanding of the intrarenal autocrine and paracrine functions of angiotensin II produced locally by a tissue renin-angiotensin system. Consistent and convincing experimental data have demonstrated that angiotensin II plays many roles in the control of renal function and the kidney's response to injury. The intrarenal effects of angiotensin II include: 1) increase in the efferent arteriolar tone, resulting in increased glomerular capillary pressure, 2) promotion of mesangial cell contraction, 3) stimulation of proximal tubular Na+ reabsorption, and 4) possible growth hormone effects leading to hypertrophy or hyperplasia of vascular smooth muscle. Because of their favorable intrarenal hemodynamic effects (particularly reduction of glomerular capillary pressure), ACE inhibitors may provide a renal protective effect in addition to their systemic antihypertensive effects. Clinical trials evaluating the effect of ACE inhibition on the progression of renal insufficiency in hypertensives and diabetics are currently under way. Favorable results could lead to a significant decrease in the morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension. 
Similar frequencies of renin gene restriction fragment length polymorphisms in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. A prospective study was conducted to compare the frequency of renin gene polymorphisms in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. Hypertensive (n = 102, blood pressure 168 +/- 17/103 +/- 9 mm Hg) and normotensive (n = 120, blood pressure 122 +/- 10/75 +/- 9 mm Hg) subjects were white, had similar age and sex distributions (hypertensive group, 45 +/- 10 years old and 52% female; normotensive group, 44 +/- 9 years old and 55% female) and similar body mass index (hypertensive group, 23.2 +/- 2.6; normotensive group, 22.5 +/- 2.4 kg/m2, p = 0.048). The familial susceptibility to hypertension was defined as at least one parent and one sibling who were hypertensive before age 65; subjects in the normotensive group had no familial history of hypertension. Renin gene polymorphisms located throughout the renin gene were identified by using three restriction enzymes (Taq I, HinfI, HindIII). For each polymorphic restriction site, allele frequencies were similar in the hypertensive and the normotensive groups. In the absence of parental genotypes, the haplotype frequencies combining the three restriction fragment length polymorphisms were estimated by using maximum likelihood techniques and were similar in both groups (hypertensive group, 0.429, 0.277, and 0.177; normotensive group, 0.453, 0.245, and 0.195 for the three most common haplotypes). A rare haplotype detected by Taq I/Hind III was apparently more frequent in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group (hypertensive group, tH 0.086, th 0.022; normotensive group, tH 0.038, th 0.050), but the difference was not statistically significant. In conclusion, no association between renin gene polymorphisms and essential hypertension was demonstrated in the present study. 
Warning: fatal reaction to the use of fibrin glue in deep hepatic wounds. Case reports. Two cases of severe hypotension following the use of fibrin glue for hemostasis in hepatic injuries are reported. A systemic reaction to bovine thrombin via large venous lacerations is suspected. A preliminary animal study supports this hypothesis. Caution is advised in the use of fibrin glue for hemostasis in deep hepatic wounds. 
Easy dissection of hard and thickened pericardium on constrictive pericarditis. The keys to successful pericardiectomy for constrictive pericarditis are early operation and as complete a pericardiectomy as possible. With the high-speed burr it is easy and safe to dissect the calcified pericardium and define the epicardium even in a small operative field such as the inferior or posterior portion of the heart. This method has the important ability to perform very complete pericardiectomy. 
Maximal oxygen uptake in severe aortic regurgitation: a different view of left ventricular function. Respiratory gas exchange was used to assess left ventricular (LV) function in 22 patients with severe aortic regurgitation (19 men and three women, aged 18 and 70 years, mean 49 years). Anaerobic threshold and symptom-limited maximal oxygen consumption (VO2 max) were measured during treadmill exercise, and the results were compared with conventional echocardiographic and radionuclide indices of LV systolic function. The results were considered with respect to the patients' New York Heart Association functional class. Both rest and exercise LV ejection fractions were variable, but the mean results were similar in all classes. The echocardiographic indices of LV cavity dimensions, fractional shortening, radius/thickness ratio, and systolic wall stress also showed a wide range but with similar mean results in each class. In contrast, VO2 max and anaerobic threshold showed a relationship to functional class. VO2 max was 32.4 +/- 3.4 ml/kg/min in age-matched control subjects; in the patients it was 27.9 +/- 4.7 in class I, 24.7 +/- 5.7 in class II, and 14.2 +/- 2 in the combined class III/IV. Results in patients in classes I and II were similar, but both groups were significantly different from control subjects (p less than 0.05) and from patients in class III/IV (p less than 0.01). About half of the patients with moderate LV dysfunction (judged by reduced VO2 max) were asymptomatic, and LV function was impaired in 4 of 10 patients in class I. Thus, unlike conventional indices of LV function, VO2 max appeared capable of distinguishing patients with moderate-to-severe LV dysfunction from those with little or no LV dysfunction. Measurement of respiratory gas exchange appears to be a valid and useful supplementary means of assessing LV function in severe aortic regurgitation. Further long-term evaluation is required. 
Analysis of baroreflex control of heart rate in conscious dogs with pacing-induced heart failure. The autonomic components of the baroreflex control of heart rate were evaluated in conscious mongrel dogs before and after 4-6 weeks of ventricular pacing (250 beats/min). Arterial baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) was determined by the slopes of linear regression of pulse interval versus the preceding systolic arterial pressure in response to bolus injections of either phenylephrine or nitroglycerin. BRS was significantly depressed in the heart failure state [nitroglycerin slope, 5.0 +/- 2.7 (mean +/- SD) versus 16.6 +/- 5.1 msec/mm Hg, p less than 0.005; phenylephrine slope, 15.0 +/- 14.8 versus 32.0 +/- 26.7 msec/mm Hg, p less than 0.005]. There was no depression in BRS in dogs that were used as time controls or were acutely paced for 30 minutes. After beta 1-adrenergic blockade with metoprolol, the resting heart rate in the heart failure state was depressed more than in the normal state (-17.0 +/- 5.0% versus -3.2 +/- 3.4%, p less than 0.001). Atropine significantly increased resting heart rate more in the normal state than in the heart failure state (115.8 +/- 36.7% versus 25.4 +/- 14.5%, p less than 0.005). Thus, dogs in the heart failure state appear to have high resting cardiac sympathetic tone and low resting vagal tone. For nitroglycerin administration, metoprolol depressed BRS by 47.6 +/- 26.3% in the normal state and by 63.6 +/- 58.5% in the heart failure state. Atropine decreased the BRS by 86.7 +/- 7.8% in the normal state and by 39.5 +/- 30.2% in the heart failure state. 
Use of autologous blood in total hip replacement. A comprehensive program. We evaluated the effectiveness of a comprehensive program for the use of autologous blood in reduction of the need for transfusion of homologous blood in total hip replacement in a prospective study of a consecutive series of patients. Transfusion of homologous blood was minimized through transfusion of preoperatively deposited autologous blood, intraoperative and postoperative salvage of washed red blood cells, and use of the clinical condition of the patient as the sole criterion for transfusion of non-autologous blood, regardless of the hematocrit. The cases of 143 patients who had had 154 primary total hip replacements were studied. One hundred and forty-three procedures were done on patients who had not been prevented from donating blood for medical reasons, and 93 per cent of these 143 procedures were performed with the availability of one to five units of preoperatively deposited autologous blood. The patients predeposited an average of 2.6 units of blood for each procedure. Ninety-two per cent of the procedures for which autologous blood had been predeposited were performed without transfusion of homologous blood. In the entire group of patients, almost 90 per cent of the transfused blood was autologous blood. Intraoperative salvage of red blood cells was successful in 148 procedures, and salvage was continued in the recovery room for all of these patients. An average of 408 milliliters of red blood cells was saved and reinfused, and this was 28 per cent of the average total loss of blood (1435 milliliters) for this series of procedures. 
Emergent signs of cancer. Recognizing them early in the office or ER. Primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer. This task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific. In most cases, therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point. Thus, physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients, such as superior vena cava syndrome, malignant pericardial effusion, spinal-epidural metastasis, and altered mentation from brain metastases, metabolic encephalopathy, or hypoglycemia. 
Sensitivity of exercise electrocardiography for acute cardiac events during moderate and strenuous physical activity. The Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial. We determined whether the exercise electrocardiogram predicted acute cardiac events during moderate or strenuous physical activity among 3617 asymptomatic, hypercholesterolemic men (age range, 35 to 59 years) who were followed up in the Coronary Primary Prevention Trial. Submaximal exercise test results were obtained at entry and at annual follow-up visits in years 2 through 7. ST-segment depression or elevation (greater than or equal to 1 mm or 10 microV-sec) was considered to be a positive test result. The circumstances that surrounded each nonfatal myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease death were determined through a record review. The cumulative incidence of activity-related acute cardiac events was 2% during a mean follow-up period of 7.4 years. The risk was increased 2.6-fold in the presence of clinically silent, exercise-induced, ST-segment changes at entry (95% confidence interval [Cl], 1.3 to 5.2) after adjustment for 11 other potential risk factors. Of 62 men who experienced an activity-related event, 11 had a positive test result at entry (sensitivity, 18%; 95% Cl, 8 to 27). The specificity of the entry exercise test was 92% (95% Cl, 91 to 93). The sensitivity and specificity were similar when the length of follow-up was restricted to 1 year after testing. For a newly positive test result on a follow-up visit, the sensitivity was 24% (95% Cl, 12 to 36), and the specificity was 85% (95% Cl, 84 to 86); for any positive test result during the study (mean number of tests per subject, 6.2), the sensitivity was 37% (95% Cl, 25 to 49), and the specificity was 79% (95% Cl, 77 to 80). Our findings suggested that the presence of clinically silent, exercise-induced, ischemic ST-segment changes on a submaximal test was associated with an increased risk of activity-related acute cardiac events. However, this test was not sensitive when used to predict the occurrence of activity-related events among asymptomatic, hypercholesterolemic men. For this reason, the utility of the submaximal exercise test to assess the safety of physical activity among asymptomatic men at risk of coronary heart disease is likely to be limited. 
Risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins A, C, and E and carotene The relation between risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins A, C, and E and carotene was examined in a population case-control study of 110 cases of angina, identified by the Chest Pain Questionnaire, and 394 controls selected from a sample of 6000 men aged 35-54. Plasma concentrations of vitamins C and E and carotene were significantly inversely related to the risk of angina. There was no significant relation with vitamin A. Smoking was a confounding factor. The inverse relation between angina and low plasma carotene disappeared and that with plasma vitamin C was substantially reduced after adjustment for smoking. Vitamin E remained independently and inversely related to the risk of angina after adjustment for age, smoking habit, blood pressure, lipids, and relative weight. The adjusted odds ratio for angina between the lowest and highest quintiles of vitamin E concentrations was 2.68 (95% confidence interval 1.07-6.70; p = 0.02). These findings suggest that some populations with a high incidence of coronary heart disease may benefit from eating diets rich in natural antioxidants, particularly vitamin E. 
Noninvasive detection of patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular fibrillation. Abnormalities in the fast Fourier transforms of signal-averaged electrocardiograms (ECGs) obtained during sinus rhythm appear to distinguish patients with ischemic heart disease and sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from those without ventricular tachycardia. This study was performed to determine the power of frequency analysis to detect patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation, to determine the extent to which spectra of signal-averaged ECGs from patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease are comparable and to compare results of signal-averaged ECG analysis in patients with ventricular fibrillation with results of programmed ventricular stimulation. Signal-averaged ECGs were obtained during sinus rhythm from 60 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia (Group I) and 34 patients with ventricular fibrillation (Group II). Results of signal-averaged ECG analysis were abnormal in 92% of patients with ventricular tachycardia and 85% of patients with ventricular fibrillation (p = NS). Abnormal spectra were detected in the signal-averaged ECGs from 90% of patients with ischemic and from 86% of patients with nonischemic heart disease (p = NS). In contrast, the results of programmed stimulation differed markedly between the two patient groups. Sustained ventricular arrhythmias were induced in 91% of the patients with ventricular tachycardia compared with only 46% of those with ventricular fibrillation (p less than 0.0001). Moreover, ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 81% of patients with ischemic heart disease compared with only 50% of those with nonischemic heart disease (p less than 0.02). Thus, abnormalities in the spectra of signal-averaged ECGs were found in the majority of patients with ventricular fibrillation and were detectable even in those whose arrhythmia was not inducible by programmed stimulation. These results broaden the potential clinical application of noninvasive interrogation of signal-averaged ECGs to include the prospective identification of patients with ischemic or nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. 
Use of quinapril in the elderly patient. Quinapril hydrochloride is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor that has been extensively tested and found effective when administered once-a-day to hypertensive patients of both sexes and all degrees of hypertension and cardiac compromise, including those with left ventricular hypertrophy, with and without congestive heart failure. Observations with earlier ACE inhibitors led to reports that this class of drugs was relatively ineffective in older hypertensive patients. To ascertain the role of quinapril (greater than or equal to 10 mg/day) in older patients, its blood pressure-lowering effects in 1,175 hypertensive patients less than or equal to 65 years of age were compared with those in 304 patients greater than 65 years of age. An excellent response was observed in patients greater than 65 years of age with mild to moderate hypertension (diastolic BP, 95 to 105 mm Hg) and moderate to severe hypertension (diastolic BP, 106 to 115 mm Hg). The reductions in blood pressure achieved with quinapril were at least comparable to those obtained in the younger hypertensives, and were numerically (but not statistically) greater in the mild to moderate group (-14 mm Hg v-12 mm Hg). In addition, the percentage of patients who experienced adverse experiences was lower in the greater than 65 group than in the less than or equal to 65 group (15% v 19%). The main adverse experiences reported included dizziness, headache, cough, fatigue, and hypotension. These findings indicate that quinapril is at least as safe and effective in older hypertensives as in younger patients. 
Normalization of Doppler indices of diastolic dysfunction during pacing is a sign of ischemic mitral regurgitation. Twenty-three patients with angina who were undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization underwent cardiac pacing with simultaneous hemodynamic and Doppler echocardiographic evaluation to assess the effects of pacing-induced ischemic on mitral valve velocity. Seventeen patients had significant coronary artery disease, and six patients had normal coronary arteries. Doppler and hemodynamic measurements were performed at rest and immediately after pacing was discontinued to 91% +/- 7% of maximal predicted heart rate. Seven patients experienced new or significant increases in severity of mitral regurgitation after pacing as revealed by Doppler examination. This group had a significant increase (p = 0.007) in early but not in late peak filling velocities immediately after pacing was discontinued, with a resultant decrease in late to early ratios, which decreased from 1.01% +/- 0.12 to 0.70% +/- 0.19 (p = 0.006). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly from 16.7% +/- 6.8 mm Hg to 29.4% +/- 5.3 mm Hg after cardiac pacing (p less than 0.001). Patients with coronary disease who did not develop mitral regurgitation also had significant increases in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 18.7% +/- 5.8 mm Hg to 24.3% +/- 8.6 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). There were no changes in late or early wave amplitude, late to early ratio, or other Doppler measurements in any of the other groups. We conclude that mitral regurgitation caused by pacing-induced myocardial ischemia normalizes Doppler indices of mitral inflow, which in turn, may mask persistent or worsened left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. 
Increased arterial adrenaline is related to pain in uncomplicated myocardial infarction. Plasma levels of catecholamines, beta-thromboglobulin (BTG) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), and degree of pain were examined in 22 patients with suspected uncomplicated myocardial infarction within 24 h following onset of chest pain. Sixteen patients developed infarction with peak creatine phosphokinase at 1280 Ul-1 (range 293-3770 Ul-1). Fifteen healthy men served as controls (C). Arterial adrenaline levels were significantly higher in patients with pain (1.15 +/- 0.23 nmol l-1, n = 8, mean value +/- SEM) than in those without pain (0.60 +/- 0.10 nmol l-1, n = 14, P less than 0.05). Plasma catecholamines were moderately but significantly elevated in myocardial infarction; the concentration of arterial adrenaline was 0.83 +/- 0.14 nmol l-1 and that of arterial noradrenaline was 2.70 +/- 0.28 nmol l-1 compared with 0.44 +/- 0.04 nmol l-1 (P less than 0.025) and 1.47 +/- 0.05 nmol l-1 (P less than 0.0005), respectively, in C. One week later, plasma catecholamines had returned to baseline levels. Plasma BTG showed borderline elevation (1.0 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1) compared with C (0.6 +/- 0.1 pmol l-1, P = 0.04), and remained unchanged 1 week later. Plasma AVP was at baseline level. Uncomplicated myocardial infarction, regardless of size, was associated with only moderately increased sympathetic tone. Plasma adrenaline was related more to the degree of pain than to the presence of acute myocardial infarction. Arterial adrenaline may be a sensitive marker of sympatho-adrenal activity related to pain. 
Coronary artery disease in African-Americans. Contrary to opinions generally accepted in the past, CHD is very common in both African-American men and women, with incidence rates approaching those of US Caucasians. Higher prevalence of hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, and obesity all contribute to the high level of CHD in African-Americans. Additional research is needed about the interrelations and management of various risk factors for CHD in African-Americans outside of the sudden death of African-Americans outside of the hospital is urgent, and special attention should be given to accessibility and use of health services by minority populations. 
Antecedent medical diseases in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A population-based case-controlled study in Rochester, Minn, 1925 through 1987. Odds ratios (ORs) were estimated for the prevalence of antecedent endocrine, metabolic, or vascular diseases among 45 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from the Rochester, Minn, population compared with 90 control subjects matched for sex, year of birth, period of observation, and residence. Hypertension occurred less frequently in male patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (4%) than in control subjects (30%; OR = .10). Because of small population size, no conclusions can be drawn with respect to the following antecedent conditions: thyroid disease (OR = 1.61), coronary artery disease (OR = .58), obesity (OR = .52), diabetes (OR = 1.00), cerebrovascular disease (OR = .21), and peripheral vascular disease (OR = 1.23). The heterogeneity of antecedent thyroid disease makes it highly unlikely that any specific thyroid lesion is causally associated with most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Hypertension may be a marker for protective factors against the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in men. 
Relationship of left ventricular mass to impairment of coronary vasodilator reserve in hypertensive heart disease. An impaired coronary vasodilator reserve has been demonstrated in all stages of hypertensive heart disease but is most likely in the setting of hypertrophy. The decrease in coronary flow reserve has, however, not been predictable previously. We postulated that flow reserve depression might be related to a left ventricular mass threshold. Seventy-two patients (82% with hypertension) with suspected ischemic heart disease who were found to be free of significant coronary artery disease at cardiac catheterization were evaluated utilizing the intracoronary Doppler catheter and two-dimensional directed M-mode echocardiography for determination of coronary flow reserve and left ventricular mass. For left ventricular mass indexed (LVMI) by body surface area (BSA) greater than or equal to 50% above normal using established gender-specific norms, American Society of Echocardiography (ASE) and PENN methods (correction of LV mass by regression equation agreeing with necropsy estimates of mass) predicted impairment of flow reserve (p = 0.005 and 0.009, respectively). Unindexed left ventricular mass and LVMI by height were not helpful in this regard. Using the ASE method for LV mass determination, coronary flow reserve was moderately depressed (2.4 +/- 1.0) for those with LVMI greater than or equal to 50% above normal; in comparison, flow reserve was normal (3.5 +/- 1.3) for those with LVMI less than 50% above normal. A rare patient was able to maintain a normal flow reserve when ASE- and Penn-indexed mass estimates were greater than or equal to 50% above normal, but only in the setting of a markedly elevated mean arterial pressure. 
Prognostic significance of valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis. PURPOSE: Doppler ultrasound is a sensitive modality for detecting and quantitating valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis. Because valvular regurgitation leads to heart failure, we evaluated the prognostic significance of Doppler-detected valvular regurgitation in patients with endocarditis who had not yet developed clinical heart failure. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of 65 patients with a clinical diagnosis of infective endocarditis from May 1985 to March 1990. A total of 49 patients were included in the study: 33 patients with native valve endocarditis and 16 patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis. The initial Doppler echocardiogram was examined in these patients to determine the presence and degree of valvular regurgitation. RESULTS: Significant (moderate to severe) valvular regurgitation was detected in 23 (47%) patients. The presence or absence of significant valvular regurgitation did not predict the development of congestive heart failure, the need for surgery, or death (p = NS). The development of congestive heart failure was significantly associated with the need for surgery (p less than 0.0001) and death (p less than 0.05). CONCLUSION: We conclude that the detection of significant valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis who have not yet developed heart failure is not predictive of future complications nor does the absence of significant valvular regurgitation identify a group of patients with a more favorable prognosis. In our series, patients who developed congestive heart failure had a significantly higher incidence of surgery and death. Therefore, decisions regarding clinical management in patients with infective endocarditis should not be made solely on the presence or absence of echocardiographically detected valvular regurgitation. 
Autonomic nervous system and coronary blood flow changes related to emotional activation and sleep. Experimental models have been developed to investigate the influences of anger, fear, and sleep on coronary blood flow. Studies of anger in dogs with coronary stenosis indicate that the postarousal phase is particularly conducive to myocardial ischemia. Specifically, a delayed coronary vasoconstrictor response has been observed within 1-3 minutes after cessation of behavioral arousal. The response is prevented by bilateral stellectomy and can be elicited in anesthetized animals by electrical stimulation of the right or left stellate ganglion. The latter effect is averted by alpha-adrenergic blockade with prazosin. Although the basis for the protracted nature of the delayed vasoconstriction remains to be clarified, the current hypothesis is that the phenomenon results from a time-dependent imbalance between the vasoconstrictor effects of adrenergic input and the vasodilator influences of coronary pressure and/or cardiac metabolic activity. A behavioral model emulating the fear state has also been developed. When dogs that fail to exhibit anger are placed in a food-access confrontation protocol, the animals demonstrate a fearlike state evidenced by a cowering posture and somatic tremor. There is a distinct plasma catecholamine profile that is characterized by a predominant increase in epinephrine compared with norepinephrine. This is in contrast to the pattern observed during anger, in which a prevalent increase in norepinephrine is observed. Fear results in significant increases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, and coronary arterial flow. Sleep is also associated with substantial alterations in coronary hemodynamic function. 
Sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with normal left ventricular mass An active, healthy, and symptom free 16 year old boy with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy died suddenly while walking home from school. Necropsy showed absence of left ventricular hypertrophy (that is, normal heart weight), though the characteristic histological abnormalities of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, such as cardiac muscle cell disorganisation and abnormal intramural coronary arteries, were present. It is likely that this patient had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died before left ventricular hypertrophy developed. 
Jets over Labrador and Quebec: noise effects on human health. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the noise from low-level flights over Labrador and Quebec is harmful to human health. DATA SOURCE AND SELECTION: Search of MEDLINE for articles on the effect of noise, particularly impulse noise associated with low-level flights, and a search of the references from identified articles. DATA SYNTHESIS: The noise levels from low-level flights could affect hearing acuity. However, the more important consequences appear to be stress-mediated physiologic effects, especially cardiovascular ones, and psychologic distress, particularly in children. Subjective perception of control over the noise has been found to mitigate some physiologic effects. CONCLUSION: There is sufficient evidence to show that the noise from low-level flights is harmful to human health. 
The evaluation of the abdominal aorta: a "how-to" for cardiac sonographers. A thorough evaluation of the abdominal aorta can be readily achieved by use of the standard views of the echocardiographic examination. The ultrasound evaluation of the abdominal aorta represents a logical extension of the standard echocardiographic examination of the adult patient. This article provides the information needed to carry out a complete ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta including the anatomy, the vascular disease, and the steps involved in accomplishing the ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta. 
Coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement. We present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode. This complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram. Awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip. 
Percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty. To determine the efficacy of percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty as an adjunct or alternative to conventional balloon angioplasty, 55 patients were studied in a multicenter trial. These patients underwent the procedure using a modification of conventional balloon angioplasty technique. A first-generation, 1.6-mm diameter catheter constructed of 12 individual silica fibers concentrically arranged around a guidewire lumen was used. Catheter tip energy density varied from 35 to 50 mJ/mm2. The mean number of pulses delivered at 20 Hz was 1,272 +/- 1,345. Acute success was defined as a greater than or equal to 20% increase in stenotic diameter and a lumen of greater than or equal to 1 mm in diameter after laser treatment. Acute success was achieved in 46 of 55 (84%) patients. Adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed on 41 patients (75%). The percent diameter stenosis as determined by quantitative angiography decreased from a baseline of 83 +/- 14 to 49 +/- 11% after laser treatment and to 38 +/- 12% in patients undergoing adjunctive balloon angioplasty. The mean minimal stenotic diameter increased from a baseline of 0.5 +/- 0.4 to 1.6 +/- 0.5 mm after laser treatment and to 2.1 +/- 0.5 mm after balloon angioplasty. There were no deaths and no vascular perforations. One patient (1.8%) required emergency coronary bypass surgery. These data suggest that excimer laser energy delivered percutaneously by specially constructed catheters can safely ablate atheroma and reduce coronary stenoses. 
Coronary stent implantation in acute vessel closure 48 hours after an unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty. We report the implantation of a balloon-expandable stent in a patient with acute vessel closure in the state of evolving myocardial infarction following 48 hr after unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty. The stent was implanted after successful recanalization of an occluded left anterior descending artery, with repeated unsatisfactory results of balloon angioplasty. Adjunct thrombolytic therapy was contraindicated. No residual stenosis was documented in immediate control angiograms, or after 24 hr, 3 weeks, and 4 months. 
The use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have additive effects with most other antihypertensive agents, but the mechanisms of these interactions vary. With diuretics the interaction with ACE inhibitors can be explained by their contrasting effects on the renin-angiotensin system, while with calcium antagonists it may be attributed to independent mechanisms of action. With beta-blockers there is a variable additive effect, which has been proposed to be due to more complete blockade of the renin-angiotensin system than can be obtained with either type of agent alone. 
Prediction of the frequency and duration of ambulatory myocardial ischemia in patients with stable coronary artery disease by determination of the ischemic threshold from exercise testing: importance of the exercise protocol The relation between ambulatory myocardial ischemia and the results of exercise testing in patients with ischemic heart disease remains undefined, because of the dissimilar results of previous reports. To further investigate this issue and, in particular, to ascertain the importance of the exercise protocol in determining that relation, 70 patients with stable coronary artery disease underwent 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring and treadmill exercise tests after withdrawal of medications. Patients exercised using two different protocols with slow (National Institutes of Health [NIH] combined protocol) and brisk (Bruce protocol) work load increments. Exercise duration was longer with the NIH combined protocol (14.1 +/- 5 versus 6.8 +/- 2 min; p less than 0.0001), but the maximal work load and peak heart rate achieved were greater with the Bruce protocol (9.8 +/- 2 versus 6.5 +/- 2 METs, and 142 +/- 19 versus 133 +/- 22 beats/min, respectively; p less than 0.0001). A close inverse correlation between exercise testing and the results of ambulatory ECG monitoring was observed using the NIH combined protocol; the strongest correlation was observed between time of exercise at 1 mm of ST segment depression and number of ischemic episodes (r = -0.86; p less than 0.0001). With the Bruce protocol a significantly weaker inverse correlation was found (r = -0.35). The mean heart rate at the onset of ST segment depression was similar during monitoring and during exercise testing with the NIH combined protocol (97.2 +/- 13 versus 101.0 +/- 17 beats/min, respectively) but it was significantly higher (110.4 +/- 13) when using the Bruce protocol (p less than 0.001). 
Treatment of Kawasaki syndrome: a comparison of two dosage regimens of intravenously administered immune globulin. Because intravenously administered immune globulin (IVIG) is effective in reducing the incidence of coronary artery aneurysms in Kawasaki syndrome when given at a dose of 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days, we undertook a multicenter clinical trial comparing two dosage regimens of IVIG. Patients were randomly assigned to receive IVIG at either 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days (22 patients) or 1 gm/kg as a single dose (22 patients). All patients received aspirin therapy, and all were enrolled within 7 days of onset of fever. The presence of coronary artery aneurysms was evaluated by means of two-dimensional echocardiography before infusion; at days 4 to 6, 14 to 21, and 42 to 49 after infusion; and at 1 year. Coronary artery aneurysms were detected in 3 of the 44 patients, including one patient receiving 400 mg/kg and two patients receiving 1 gm/kg (p value not significant). No giant aneurysms were detected. No major side effects occurred with either dosage regimen. Patients receiving the 1 gm/kg dose had a faster resolution of fever and were discharged from the hospital approximately 1 day sooner than the 400 mg/kg group (p = 0.01). Although the relatively small sample size in this trial does not allow for a more definitive statement regarding the occurrence of coronary artery aneurysms, it appears that the 1 gm/kg dose is associated with a more rapid clinical improvement and a shorter hospital stay. 
How to select a drug for the long-term treatment of chronic heart failure. First-line drugs for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure should produce immediate symptomatic benefit, improve exercise tolerance, and thereby improve the quality of life. They should preferentially be active as monotherapy or at least reduce the need for comedication. The drugs must be safe and well tolerated by patients and change, in the end, the natural history of the disease, so that sudden death will be prevented and life expectancy improves. None of the currently available drugs satisfies all these criteria. Diuretics, digitalis, converting-enzyme inhibitors, and ibopamine come close to the described ideal. 
A multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease. Perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality, and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse. We reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates, or both. Multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions, a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death, while age, use of a bronchodilator, a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications. A duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications. The type of operation performed either simple closure, vagotomy and drainage or resection, did not influence morbidity or mortality. The most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term. Long term results were improved with definitive operation, as measured by the Visick classification and the need for reoperations. Definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer. 
Sympathetic neural contribution to salt-induced hypertension in Dahl rats. The Dahl strain provides a model for examining mechanisms involved in the genetic sensitivity or resistance to salt-induced hypertension. Dahl salt-sensitive rats develop hypertension when fed a high salt diet; Dahl salt-resistant rats remain normotensive. Based on early experiments, it was thought that hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive rats epitomized the overriding importance of renal and humoral mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension, but studies in the past 15 years have demonstrated that alterations in sympathetic neural mechanisms also participate critically in the genetic predisposition to salt-induced hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. This article briefly reviews sympathetic neural mechanisms in Dahl rats, including evidence for a role of afferent baroreceptor as well as central neural and peripheral adrenergic mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive rats. 
Incidental blood pressure elevations: a MIRNET project. BACKGROUND. A prospective study was undertaken to determine the prevalence of hypertension in office patients with an incidental diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg. METHODS. During routine screening of 14,890 patients, 174 patients with elevated diastolic blood pressures but no previous diagnosis of hypertension were identified over a 3-month period. Only 115 (64%) returned as requested for two subsequent blood pressure readings. RESULTS. Sixty percent of those returning fit the definition for hypertension using the criteria of the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of Hypertension. Sixty-nine percent (43/62) of the men and 49% (26/53) of the women were hypertensive. Women under 40 years old were less likely to be hypertensive, but age did not predict hypertension in men. Among those patients with a diastolic pressure reading below 105 mm Hg, progressively higher diastolic readings on the first visit did not predict a higher probability of hypertension. Among those patients with a diastolic pressure reading above 105 mm Hg, however, 90% (9/10) were hypertensive. CONCLUSIONS. Physicians should take incidental elevation of diastolic pressure seriously because of the high prevalence of confirmed hypertension in this group of patients. 
Changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review, 1981 to 1986 We measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system. We developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 Medicare patients with congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, pneumonia, cerebrovascular accident, or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986. Very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission (17% with very good care died vs 30% with very poor care). The quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 (from 25% receiving poor or very poor care to 12%), although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition (7% vs 4%). Except for discharge planning processes, the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for Medicare patients despite, or because of, the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review. 
An in vitro evaluation of an artificial heart. Interactions between human blood and the Penn State Artificial Heart were examined in vitro to study the effects of various operating conditions on the hematologic response. A dual-loop recirculating flow system that accommodated human blood was developed and blood was subjected for 3 hr to various operating conditions known to alter fluid mechanics in the artificial ventricle. The operating conditions investigated were: 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, 60 beats/min at 30% systolic duration, and 90 beats/min at 50% systolic duration. Quantification of plasma free hemoglobin provided a direct indicator of hemolysis in the flow system. Platelet number and beta-thromboglobulin levels were monitored to investigate thrombotic activity, and levels of complement 3a were measured to examine complement system activation. The system was effective in demonstrating the relative hemolytic properties of the operating conditions. Ninety beats/min induced 37% more hemolysis than 60 beats/min at 50% systolic duration, and 50% systolic duration induced 32% more hemolysis than 30% systolic duration at 60 beats/min. There were no statistically significant changes in either platelet number or beta-thromboglobulin levels during the 3 hr recirculation period. Increases were seen in complement 3a levels, but these appeared to be surface-induced and not sensitive to the different operating conditions. These studies demonstrate the usefulness of the flow system in examining the relative hemolytic properties of the artificial ventricle, and suggest that bulk turbulent stresses may play a more important role than laminar wall shear stresses in mediating blood damage in this artificial ventricle. 
Calcium regulating hormones in essential hypertension. Importance of gender. Alterations of calcium metabolism have been described in human essential hypertension and experimental hypertension. We investigated the interrelationship of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) in patients with untreated essential hypertension as compared to normotensive controls. The hypertensive subjects (n = 75; 43 men, 32 women) had a mean blood pressure of 138 +/- 8/95 +/- 5 mm Hg as compared with 120 +/- 11/80 +/- 8 in the normotensive group (n = 40; 22 men, 18 women). Serum PTH was measured with an intact molecule immunochemiluminometric assay and 1,25(OH)2D was measured with radioimmunoassay after HPLC separation. Hypertensive men had PTH levels that were 36% higher than normotensive men (5.3 +/- 2.9 v 3.9 +/- 0.8 pmol/L, P = .005). When blood pressure was analyzed as a continuous variable, there was a direct correlation between it and serum PTH in men (r = .31, P = .004). In women, by contrast, there was no difference in serum PTH between hypertensive and normotensive subjects and no relationship between blood pressure and the serum PTH concentration. Blood pressure was inversely correlated with serum phosphorus levels in both sexes (r = -0.20, P = .04). In men, the elevated serum PTH levels and depressed serum phosphorus levels would have predicted that serum 1,25(OH)2D would be higher in the hypertensive subjects. However, that was not observed, as serum 1,25(OH)2D was slightly lower in hypertensive (38.3 +/- 15.2 pg/mL) than normotensive men (42.7 +/- 11.3, P = .21). 
Extracorporeal LDL cholesterol removal: role of LDL-pheresis in combination with other hypolipidemic therapy to regress vascular disease. The direct relationship between hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis has resulted in formal cholesterol-lowering recommendations for patients at increased risk. The incomplete response to therapy of some forms of hypercholesterolemia as well as not uncommon drug intolerance prompted the development of extracorporeal techniques to reduce serum cholesterol levels. Nonhuman primate data and an analysis of human cholesterol epidemiology and reduction trials were used to establish guidelines that would maximize the likelihood of stabilizing or regressing established coronary artery atherosclerosis. These goals are a total cholesterol (TC) level of less than or equal to 150 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) and a ratio of TC to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) of less than 2.8. Selective, extracorporeal removal of LDL cholesterol (LDL-pheresis) was combined with diet and hypolipidemic drugs in a pilot study at The Rogosin Institute to achieve these lipid end-points. Technical aspects of LDL-pheresis, the background rationale for its use as part of a combined hypolipidemic therapy, the initial experience at The Rogosin Institute, and plans for future studies and applications are presented. 
Acute rheumatic fever in West Virginia. Not just a disease of children. Rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community. We describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) in West Virginia. This is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of ARF in the Ohio Valley area in the last 4 years. In contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of ARF were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of ARF. In these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation. Carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis. Arthritis was present in all adult patients. These data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of ARF and document that ARF is not simply a disease of childhood. Furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of ARF, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection. 
Outcome and predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims receiving prehospital care in King County, Washington Predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims treated by Seattle and King County's prehospital emergency services were studied. Victims less than 20 years old were identified from hospital admissions and paramedic and medical examiners' reports. The proportion of fatal or severe outcomes in patients were compared with various risk factors. Of 135 patients, 45 died and 5 had severe neurologic impairment. A subset of 38 victims found in cardiopulmonary arrest had a 32% survival rate, with 67% of survivors unimpaired or only mildly impaired. The two risk factors that occurred most commonly in victims who died or were severely impaired were submersion duration greater than 9 minutes (28 patients) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation duration longer than 25 minutes (20 patients). Both factors were ascertained in the prehospital phase of care. Submersion duration was associated with a steadily increasing risk of severe or fatal outcomes: 10% risk (7/67) for 0 to 5 minutes, 56% risk (5/9) for 6 to 9 minutes, 88% risk (21/25) for 10 to 25 minutes, 100% risk (4/4) for greater than 25 minutes. None of 20 children receiving greater than 25 minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation escaped death or severe neurologic impairment. Our rates for saving all victims, particularly victims in cardiopulmonary arrest, are considerably higher than has been reported before the children. Prompt prehospital advanced cardiac life support is the most effective means of medical intervention for the pediatric submersion victim. Prehospital information provided the most valuable predictors of outcome. 
High-normal blood pressure progression to hypertension in the Framingham Heart Study. This study sought to determine if individuals with high-normal blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure of 85-89 mm Hg) progress to hypertension more frequently than those with normal blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg), thus advancing to a higher cardiovascular risk category. Individuals from the Framingham Heart Study were placed in normal and high-normal blood pressure categories and followed for 26 years for the development of hypertension. With hypertension defined as a diastolic blood pressure of 95 mm Hg or greater or the initiation of antihypertensive therapy, 23.6% of men and 36.2% of women with normal blood pressure developed hypertension compared with 54.2% of men and 60.6% of women with high-normal blood pressure. The relative risk for the development of hypertension associated with high-normal blood pressure was 2.25 for men (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.8-2.8; p less than 0.0001) and 1.89 for women (95% CI, 1.5-2.3; p less than 0.0001). The age-adjusted relative risks estimated by the proportional hazards model were 3.36 for men and 3.37 for women (p less than 0.001). Among those risk factors examined, baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressure, Metropolitan relative weight, and change in weight over time were significant predictors of future hypertension in men and women whose initial blood pressure was normal. For men with high-normal blood pressure, systolic blood pressure and change in weight were identified as risk factors for future hypertension. These results indicate that the probability of individuals with blood pressure in the high-normal range developing hypertension is twofold to threefold higher than in those with normal blood pressure. 
Anginal symptoms without ischemic electrocardiographic changes during ambulatory monitoring in men with coronary artery disease. Episodes of angina pectoris without electrocardiographic (ECG) signs of myocardial ischemia during 24-hour ambulatory monitoring were studied in 128 patients with a history of stable angina, angiographically proven coronary artery disease and positive exercise test results. In all, 341 episodes of ischemic ECG changes (ST-segment depression greater than 1 mm for greater than 1 minute) and 190 episodes of angina pectoris were observed: 86 episodes consisted of both ECG changes and angina pectoris, 255 episodes consisted only of ECG changes, and 104 episodes only of angina pectoris. Duration and magnitude of ST-segment deviation and heart rate at the onset of ischemia were similar in the 86 symptomatic and the 255 asymptomatic episodes with ECG changes. The 104 episodes of angina pectoris without ECG changes were detected in 44 patients (34%) (group A); 29 of them had only episodes with angina pectoris and 15 patients had both--episodes of angina pectoris with and without ECG changes. In 84 patients (66%) (group B) angina pectoris without ECG changes was not observed; all episodes were accompanied by ischemic ECG changes in these patients. No differences in the angiographic extent of coronary artery disease and in exercise test data were seen in both groups A and B; however, maximal ST-segment depression during exercise testing was significantly greater in group B than in group A patients (2.4 +/- 0.8 mm vs 1.9 +/- 0.9 mm; p less than 0.05). 
Ventricular free-wall rupture after myocardial infarction. Treatment and outcome. Ventricular free-wall rupture remains one of the leading causes of death after myocardial infarction (MI). With increased abilities for diagnosis and resuscitation techniques, surgical correction of free-wall myocardial defects resulting from ischemia and necrosis may become a simple modality of treatment, resulting in improvement of the survival rate. We are reporting our experience with four patients with ventricular free-wall rupture after MI, with emphasis on clinical presentation, diagnosis, and surgical management. 
The long-term prognosis of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest but no inducible ventricular tachycardia. The long-term prognosis of patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest who do not have acute precipitating factors and in whom ventricular arrhythmias cannot be induced during baseline electrophysiologic testing is controversial. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the long-term risk of recurrent sudden death and determine the clinical, angiographic, hemodynamic, and electrophysiologic predictors of recurrent cardiac arrest in such patients. Twenty-six (37%) of 71 consecutive patients with a single episode of aborted sudden death did not have inducible ventricular arrhythmias (less than 7 intraventricular responses) during baseline drug-free electrophysiologic study and they form the basis of this report. Their mean age was 54 +/- 13 (mean +/- SD) years and the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 0.47 +/- 0.17. After a mean follow-up period of 16 months, 11 patients (42%) had a recurrent cardiac arrest (fatal in 10 patients). The actuarial incidence of recurrent cardiac arrest was 30 +/- 10% at 1 year and 55 +/- 13% at 3 years. Patients with LVEF less than or equal to 0.40 had a significantly higher occurrence of recurrent cardiac arrest than those with LVEF greater than 0.40 (p = 0.02; 1-year actuarial incidence of 57 +/- 17% versus 13 +/- 19%). Patients with recurrent sudden death had a significantly greater incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy (55% versus 7%; p = 0.02) and baseline frequent premature ventricular contractions (PVCs greater than 10/hr; 64% versus 17%, p = 0.036) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (36% versus 0%; p = 0.37) than patients without these characteristics. 
Neuropsychological outcome of survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Thirty patients resuscitated from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (15 with and 15 without postanoxic coma on admission) underwent a clinical examination and neuropsychological testing. In order to assess quality of life, they were compared to two matched control groups; 15 patients with previous myocardial infarction and 15 healthy subjects. None of the survivors showed severe neurologic impairment, and all had returned to self-sufficient physical activity. However, the behavior rating scale scores were significantly worse in patients with postanoxic coma. The processing ability linked to memory was significantly worse in the postanoxic coma group. Mood disorders were also observed in this group, but they did not have pathological significance. The remarkably low incidence of neurologic and psychological sequelae in these resuscitated patients, particularly in those with early clinical evidence of severe cerebral damage, is an encouraging result that supports the therapeutic systems development and efforts in the management of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. 
Hexamethonium and midazolam terminate dysrhythmias and hypertension caused by intracerebroventricular bupivacaine in rabbits. Previous studies have demonstrated that bupivacaine administered directly into the central nervous system (CNS) is capable of producing signs of bupivacaine cardiovascular toxicity. To investigate the mechanisms by which bupivacaine may act within the CNS to produce cardiovascular toxicity, we studied four groups of halothane-anesthetized rabbits in which infusion of intracerebroventricular (icv) bupivacaine or intravenous (iv) phenylephrine resulted in dysrhythmias and hypertension. In group 1 (n = 5), icv bupivacaine (500 +/- 79 micrograms [mean +/- SEM]) produced dysrhythmias lasting 73 +/- 13 min, whereas icv saline caused no dysrhythmias or hypertension. In group 2 (n = 9), icv bupivacaine-induced hypertension and dysrhythmias were abolished by icv midazolam in 4.4 +/- 0.6 min, and when dysrhythmias and hypertension recurred (22 +/- 0.9 min), hexamethonium (10 mg/kg iv) promptly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension (14 +/- 1 s). In group 3 (n = 10), icv bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by increasing the inspired halothane concentration from 0.8 to 1.6%. In group 4 (n = 6), iv phenylephrine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by icv midazolam. These results suggest that icv bupivacaine produces dysrhythmias and hypertension by increasing autonomic nervous system (ANS) outflow from the brain stem. The finding that peripheral autonomic blockade by hexamethonium rapidly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension supports this mechanism. We speculate that icv bupivacaine produces an increase in autonomic outflow by blockade of the inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons that are known to be the principal tonic inhibitors of the ANS. 
Loss of nocturnal decline of blood pressure in hypertension due to chronic renal failure. The aim of this study was to assess the blood pressure profile of chronic renal failure in comparison with essential hypertension. Thirty hypertensive patients with chronic renal failure due to non-vascular nephropathies were matched by age, sex, and mean 24 h blood pressure, with 30 patients affected by uncomplicated mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. They were studied in an open hospital ward. Diet, meal times, sleep times, and activity schedules were standardized. Noninvasive, automatic, blood pressure recordings were performed for 48 h at sampling intervals of 15 min. The mean 24 h blood pressure almost coincided in the two groups. However, in essential hypertension a mean (+/- SD) nocturnal fall of systolic and diastolic blood pressure was found (12.7 +/- 3.8 and 12.9 +/- 4.8 mm Hg, respectively), while renal patients displayed an average nocturnal increase of 2.7 +/- 8.9 mm Hg and 3.7 +/- 7.8 (P less than .001). The renal patients had also higher heart rates, with a significantly blunted nocturnal fall (4.4 +/- 4.5 beats/min as compared to 9.3 +/- 3.1 beats/min of essential hypertension; P less than .001). Among the renal patients, the day-night blood pressure changes showed no significant correlation with age, creatinine clearance, hematocrit, nocturnal change in heart rate, or day or night mean blood pressure levels. These data suggest that an abnormal day-night pattern of blood pressure is present in chronic renal failure patients independently from external interfering factors. Hence, casual measurements of blood pressure confined to daytime may underestimate a hypertensive condition associated with chronic renal failure. 
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia: impact of prostanoids in the perioperative period. A prospective study of 10 neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and five controls to determine the importance of prostanoid concentrations perioperatively and the relation with persistent pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is reported. In neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia postoperative concentrations of the vasoconstrictor thromboxane B2 rose significantly and were higher during episodes of PPH; this rise may provoke PPH and subsequent right to left shunting. 
Abnormal baroreflex control of heart rate in decompensated congestive heart failure and reversal after compensation. Congestive heart failure (CHF) causes impairment of baroreflex control of heart rate (HR). To determine if this derangement is reversible, the cardiac chronotropic control was assessed in 10 patients with class IV chronic CHF of various etiologies before and after compensation achieved by bed rest, salt restriction, diuretics and vasodilators. Mean time between the 2 studies was 15 +/- 3 days. The management was modified 3 days before the second autonomic evaluation, so as to reestablish the same diet and pharmacologic conditions of the previous study. Compensation led to significant reduction in symptom-based class, body weight, and pulmonary and systemic congestion. Mean +/- standard error of the mean HR responses (beats/min) before and after compensation were, respectively: (1) to atropine (0.04 mg/kg): 10 +/- 2 and 27 +/- 2 (p less than 0.01); (2) to handgrip (30% maximum capacity, 1 minute): 9 +/- 2 and 19 +/- 3 (p less than 0.005); (3) to headup tilt (5 minutes): 4 +/- 3 and 20 +/- 4 (p less than 0.005). Mean +/- standard error of the mean baroreflex sensitivity (ms/mm Hg) of RR responses to phenylephrine and amyl nitrate-induced changes in systolic pressure was, respectively, in each condition: phenylephrine, 0.9 +/- 0.2 and 8 +/- 2.3 (p less than 0.05); amyl nitrate, 0.3 +/- 0.2 and 4.1 +/- 1.1 (p less than 0.05). A significant correlation between improvement in HR responses to atropine and tilt and changes in body weight was obtained. These findings show a reversible component of impaired baroreflex control of HR in severe CHF, possibly due to its congestive effects. 
A case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection. We present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection. Etiologic factors are discussed. 
Catheter modification of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy for control of atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia. BACKGROUND. The utility of transcatheter application of radiofrequency energy to eliminate atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) was investigated. METHODS AND RESULTS. Thirty-nine patients (mean age, 53 +/- 20 years; range 14-86 years) with medically refractory AVNRT underwent perinodal ablation with radiofrequency energy. A custom-designed 6F catheter with a large (3-mm-long) distal electrode and interelectrode pacing of 2 mm was used in the majority of cases. The catheter used for ablation was initially positioned across the tricuspid anulus to obtain the largest His bundle electrogram, then withdrawn to obtain the largest atrial:ventricular electrogram ratio, with a small His bundle electrogram (less than or equal to 100 microV). Each application of radiofrequency energy (350-550 kHz, 16.2 +/- 5.2 W) was stopped after 60 seconds or if PR prolongation or an impedance rise was noted. The endpoints of the procedure were persistent modification of atrioventricular nodal conduction (either first-degree atrioventricular block or impairment of ventriculoatrial conduction) and noninducibility of AVNRT before and during isoproterenol administration. Radiofrequency energy was applied a mean of 6.8 +/- 3.5 times per session. After a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 3.0 months, 32 of the 39 patients (82%) have been free of AVNRT, and did not have high grade AV block. Three patients (8%) developed complete atrioventricular block and had pacemakers implanted. Two patients had unsuccessful initial procedures, and two patients had initially successful ablations but had recurrences of tachycardia 4-6 weeks later. Elimination of AVNRT appeared to be due to effects on the retrograde fast pathway in most patients. CONCLUSIONS. Radiofrequency ablation of the perinodal right atrium appears to be safe and effective for treatment of typical AVNRT. 
Magnetic resonance imaging--the evaluation of choice in residual shunt after congenital heart disease surgery? Accurate anatomic diagnosis presents a dilemma in patients with residual shunt after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease. We describe a patient who, after atrial septal defect repair, developed dyspnea and central cyanosis despite normal pulmonary arterial pressures and right heart chamber size. A role for early MRI is suggested. 
Thromboxane mediates diapedesis after ischemia by activation of neutrophil adhesion receptors interacting with basally expressed intercellular adhesion molecule-1. Ischemic injury is characterized by neutrophil (PMN)--endothelial cell adhesion and diapedesis associated with thromboxane (TX) generation. Neutrophil-endothelial cell interaction is regulated in part by the leukocyte adhesion receptor CD 18 glycoprotein complex and the endothelial intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). This study tests the role of TX in ischemia-induced diapedesis and evaluates whether the diapedesis is regulated by neutrophil or endothelial adhesion receptors. Plasma derived from rabbit hind limbs made ischemic for 3 hours (n = 6) and reperfused for 10 minutes had increased levels of TXB2 3,450 pg/ml, which was higher than sham rabbit (n = 6) values of 653 pg/ml (p less than 0.05). When introduced into abraded skin chambers placed on the dorsum of other normal rabbits (n = 6), this ischemic plasma induced 1,000 pg/ml of new TX synthesis and diapedesis of 1,235 PMN/mm3. The total TX concentration and PMN accumulations in blister fluid were correlated (r = 0.88, p less than 0.05). In contrast, sham rabbit plasma induced no TX synthesis and diapedesis of only 77 PMN/mm3 (p less than 0.05). Administration of 50 ng/ml of authentic TXB2 into blisters induced an accumulation of 453 PMN/mm3, which was higher than that in saline controls (18 PMN/mm3) (p less than 0.05). Pretreatment of normal rabbits used for the diapedesis assay (n = 4) with the TX synthetase inhibitor OKY 046 (2 mg/kg/hr) limited ischemic plasma and authentic TXB2 induced diapedesis to 142 and 76 PMN/mm3, respectively (both p less than 0.05). 
Clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Antidromic circus movement tachycardia was documented in 36 of 345 consecutive patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome undergoing detailed electrophysiologic evaluation. Twenty-six patients were men and 10 were women (mean age +/- standard deviation 26 +/- 12 years [range 12 to 45]). Multiple accessory pathways were identified in 12 of these 36 patients (33%). Ten of the patients (67%) with clinically documented antidromic tachycardia had multiple accessory pathways. Dizziness and syncope occurred in 61 and 50% of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia. Six patients had clinical documentation of atrial fibrillation, and 4 patients (11%) were resuscitated from ventricular fibrillation. In the 36 patients, 56 distinct antidromic tachycardias were recorded and several different pathways were observed. Orthodromic tachycardia was the most frequently associated arrhythmia (72%). Dual atrioventricular nodal pathways were present in 12 patients (33%); however, atrioventricular nodal tachycardia could be initiated in only 2 of them. Interruption of the accessory pathway was successfully performed in all 20 patients undergoing surgery. 
Admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years. 2. The second 5 years Compared with the first 5 years there was a 19% increase in general anaesthetics, a 171% increase in local and (or) sedation techniques and a 9% increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing. In this second 5-year period, 46 patients were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique. These patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the District compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543. Seven patients died (15.2%). The complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances (30.4%). Four of these subjects died. 
Clinical spectrum of symptomatic external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia. External iliac fibromuscular dysplasia is a rare and usually asymptomatic disorder. We report eight symptomatic patients seen over a 15-year period and review pathophysiologic mechanisms accounting for the three following distinct lower extremity ischemic sequelae: (1) Emboli--episodic focal digital ischemia (blue toe) was seen in three patients. Resection and primary anastomosis of focal iliac ulcerative fibromuscular dysplasia (one patient) or resection and replacement (two patients) removed the embolic source and relieved the symptoms. (2) Chronic ischemia--gradual onset of full leg claudication in four patients was treated by operative graduated intraluminal dilation in three patients and prosthetic bypass in one. Arteriography subsequently showed a remodeled lumen in the three patients who underwent dilation. (3) Dissection--acute onset leg ischemia resulted from presumed dissection of the external iliac segment. After 4 months of conservative management of antiplatelet agents and exercise, symptoms resolved completely, and arteriogram showed spontaneous restoration of a normal lumen in the dissected segment. The clinical presentation of fibromuscular dysplasia may mimic other arterial processes such as atherosclerosis. Diagnosis is made only by arteriography with specific magnification views of the external iliac arteries and careful surveillance of the renal arteries. Appropriate treatment should be tailored to the clinical presenting symptom. For microembolic disease, resection and replacement are required. For chronic ischemia, intraluminal dilation is generally sufficient and durable and has proved to be a simpler and acceptable alternative to replacement or bypass. In acute dissection, surgical intervention may be deferred if the limb is viable to allow spontaneous healing and remodeling. Persistent symptoms may be the only indication for intervention in this ischemic manifestation of external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia. 
Influence of catheter technology and adjuvant medication on acute complications in percutaneous coronary angioplasty. We report on the complication rates in 660 consecutive coronary angioplasties (725 lesions) performed using four procedures that differed with respect to catheter technology and adjuvant medication. After the PTCA regimen in our laboratory had been changed from conventional steerable systems to the monorail technique, we observed a significant increase in the incidence of transient vessel occlusions from 2.6% to 7.7%, of permanent occlusions from 3.6% to 8.8%, and of intracoronary thrombus-formation from 2.6% to 5.5%. This was associated with the frequent observation of thrombotic material on the partially Teflon-coated guidewires. Coronary perfusion with urokinase (1,670-6,670 U/min) lead to a further increase in the complication rates (10.4%/10.3%/6.5%). Our present percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)-regimen (monorail technique with P.E.T. balloons, fully silicon-coated guidewires, no urokinase) shows an incidence of 3.8% for intermittent and recurrent coronary occlusions and 1.9% for permanent occlusions. Urokinase did not prevent intracoronary thrombus formation with the monorail technique. Furthermore, we suspect that in the case of PTCA-induced regional intimal dissection, fibrinolysis can prevent reestablishment of intima adherence to the vessel wall. Because five procedural deaths were observed in the 212 patients treated with i.c. urokinase as opposed to three deaths in the 448 procedures without urokinase, we feel that i.c. urokinase in PTCA is a potentially harmful regimen. We suggest that the monorail technique should be performed with fully silicon-coated guidewires and without urokinase. 
The management of atypical non-cardiac chest pain. Atypical, non-cardiac chest pain is common and disabling, and often persists despite negative medical investigations. Aetiology is disputed and management is difficult. A multi-causal model in which both psychological and physical factors play a part is helpful; a fundamental factor is continued misinterpretation of minor physical symptoms as evidence of heart disease. We report supportive evidence and describe a psychological treatment derived from the model. In a randomized trial, cognitive behavioural methods were effective in reducing chest pain, disability and use of medication, in patients both with and without psychiatric disorder. The clinical implications are discussed. 
Incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia detected by different electrocardiographic systems To determine the extent to which different electrocardiographic systems account for differences in reported incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia, the authors simultaneously recorded in 109 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) the V5 or modified CM5 lead on five ECG systems by means of a specially constructed common V5 lead. The systems included a Spacelabs Alpha 14 Model Series 3200 ECG Cardule at bandwidths of 0.05-125 Hz and 0.5-30 Hz (a typical operating room monitor), a Marquette Electronics MAC II ECG at 0.05-40 Hz and 0.05-100 Hz (a standard ECG), and a Del Mar Holter recorder at 0.1-100 Hz. Relative ST-segment position and incidence of new ischemia compared to the preoperative ECG were determined in 109 sets of preinduction traces and 877 sets of intraoperative traces. ST-segment position on the three recording systems conforming with the American Heart Association (AHA) low-frequency response recommendations (0.05 Hz) were similar. Compared to the standard ECG, ST-segment position on the Spacelabs at 0.5-30 Hz was consistently more negative. Displacement on the Holter was consistently less negative and less positive. By the 0.1-mV displacement criterion for diagnosis of myocardial ischemia on any one ECG system, 16.5% of patients on arrival and 32.1% of patients intraoperatively suffered new myocardial ischemia. Based on the operating room monitor, arrival and intraoperative ischemia were present in 15.6 and 27.5% of patients, respectively. Ischemia at the same periods was less frequent by the standard ECG system (5.5 and 12.8%, respectively) and least frequent by the Holter recorder (4.6 and 8.3%, respectively). 
Lacunar transient ischaemic attacks: a clinically useful concept? Lacunar ischaemic stroke syndromes are clinically, pathophysiologically, and prognostically distinguishable from cortical ischaemic stroke syndromes. Could cerebrovascular transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) share similar heterogeneity? 130 patients with TIAs were prospectively studied, 71 of whom underwent carotid angiography. Symptoms were associated with a 50% or greater stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery in 36 (67%) of 54 patients with presumed cortical TIAs, but in only 1 (6%) of 17 patients with presumed lacunar TIAs (p less than 0.0001). These findings support the view that cortical TIAs are associated with ipsilateral extracranial internal carotid artery atheromatous disease, whereas patients with lacunar TIAs may have absent or insignificant large-vessel disease, and probable intracranial small-vessel disease. Accurate distinction between lacunar and cortical events may have implications for investigation and treatment of patients with TIAs. 
Regional wall thickening of left ventricle evaluated by gated positron emission tomography in relation to myocardial perfusion and glucose metabolism. Regional wall thickening was assessed by electrocardiographically gated positron emission tomography (ECG-gated PET) in 26 patients with coronary artery disease. The standardized percent count increase from end-diastole to end-systole (S-percent Cl) was calculated as an index of wall thickening. The S-percent Cl was 77.8% +/- 28.9% in the segments with normal perfusion at rest, 51.9% +/- 29.5% in those with mild hypoperfusion, and 32.8% +/- 30.9% in those with severe hypoperfusion (p less than 0.001, each). Among the segments with resting hypoperfusion, the S-percent Cl was 38.9% +/- 31.5% in those without stress-induced ischemia and 48.7% +/- 30.9% in those with ischemia (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, among resting severe hypoperfusion, the S-percent Cl was 23.0% +/- 23.9% in the segments without fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake and 37.8 +/- 32.9% in those with FDG uptake (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that stress-induced ischemia and FDG accumulation correlated with wall thickening. Thus, quantitative analysis of regional wall thickening seems to be useful for combined analysis of regional function, perfusion and metabolism in coronary patients. 
Susceptibility to Coxsackievirus B3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine Tcr alpha and Myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14. This study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model. An autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease (amd) gene (possibly more than one gene), which determined susceptibility to CVB3-induced chronic myocarditis in the A/J and DBA/2J inbred mouse strains, was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14. Data from both the AXB/BXA recombinant inbred (RI) strains and the B10.D2(57N) H-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship. Analysis of the AXB/BXA RI strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the Np-2, Tcr alpha, and Myhc alpha loci. 
Angioedema from angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: a cause of upper airway obstruction. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist. Angioedema is a rare, but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction. Four cases of ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema, three with significant upper airway obstruction, are reported. Angioedema secondary to ACE inhibition appears to be mechanism based. The probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin, which results in vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, and angioedema. Since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction, otolaryngologists must be aware of this association. The differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed, as well as a review of ACE inhibitors and other causes of angioedema. 
New calcium antagonists: relevance of vasoselectivity. The calcium antagonists are a heterogeneous class of drugs used to treat a number of cardiovascular disorders. A new generation of calcium antagonists under development have a higher degree of selectivity for vascular smooth muscle and coronary vasculature compared with verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem. The clinical relevance of vasoselectivity and its impact on drug selection are discussed. The newer calcium antagonists are important alternatives to older agents and may be associated with improved tolerance and a reduced incidence of adverse effects. Their place in therapy has yet to be defined by comparative studies of efficacy and safety. 
Intravital detection of skin capillary aneurysms by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and related disorders. Conventional capillaroscopy and infrared fluorescence videomicroscopy with indocyanine green were performed at the nailfold in 12 healthy controls and 38 patients with microangiopathy due to systemic sclerosis or related disorders. Saccular aneurysms featuring head and neck (type 1) and aneurysmatic enlargements (type 2) were defined. Microaneurysms were located at the apex or near the apex of capillary loops and were significantly more common in patients than in controls (p less than 0.02 for type 1 and p less than 0.001 for type 2). Combination of the two lesions was found only in patients and appears to be a valuable new diagnostic sign for the presence of microangiopathy. In comparison with conventional capillaroscopy, about twice as many microaneurysms were detected by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green coupling almost completely to plasma proteins. The new technique allows visualization of capillary aneurysms even when filled only by plasma. 
Skeletal muscle depressed calcium and phosphofructokinase in chronic heart failure are upregulated by captopril--a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, after treatment for 5-6 weeks with 25 mg t.i.d., were studied in 12 patients with stable moderate heart failure. Five patients received placebo treatment, and the two groups were comparable at baseline. Angiotensin II levels decreased in response to captopril therapy. Skeletal muscle potassium, magnesium and chloride levels did not differ from reference values. Calcium was subnormal (P less than 0.0001), but increased to the reference range during captopril treatment. Phosphofructokinase, a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme, was in the lower reference range and increased (P less than 0.04) in response to captopril therapy. In conclusion, stable moderate heart failure is associated with low levels of skeletal muscle calcium and phosphofructokinase activity, these metabolic changes tending to return to normal levels with captopril treatment. 
Cardiovascular risk reduction: the role of antihypertensive treatment. The effects of antihypertensive drugs on mortality from stroke, coronary artery disease (CAD), and nonvascular causes have been studied in 14 trials involving more than 37,000 patients. In the treated patients, blood pressure was 5 to 6 mm Hg lower than that in placebo-treated patients, and whereas mortality from stroke was reduced by 42%, CAD mortality was reduced by only 14%. A major reason for this lack of effect on CAD mortality is apparently the adverse effects of the primary drugs used in these trials (diuretics and beta blockers) on glucose tolerance, lipid levels, and insulin resistance. The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors favorably influence many CAD risk factors, and their use can be expected to reduce CAD mortality in patients treated for hypertension. 
Septal ventricular pacing in the immature canine heart: a new perspective. Cardiac pacing initiated from epicardial or transvenous apical right ventricular electrodes causes asynchronous ventricular contraction. This alters myocardial stress vectors and results in adverse cellular and subcellular changes in the experimental animal. Clinically, such changes may contribute to the adverse hemodynamics reported with long-term ventricular pacing. To determine the feasibility of direct stimulation of the ventricular specialized conduction systems and therefore the potential for maintenance of normalized depolarization patterns, 13 beagle puppies were studied. Baseline ventricular activation and contraction patterns were obtained using intracardiac electrograms and multigated nuclear acquisition (MUGA) imaging. Septal electrode insertion from the aortoatrial groove was accomplished by use of two-dimensional echocardiography and continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring of the surface ECG during pacemaker implantation in five puppies. Standard right ventricular epicardial electrodes were implanted in five additional animals, with three remaining as age-matched non-paced controls. After 4 months of observation, repeat MUGA imaging and intracardiac electrograms demonstrated nearly normal biventricular activation and contraction patterns among the septal-paced group. Histopathologic examination illustrated normal cellular morphology in the septal-paced animals. This study demonstrates that pacing electrode insertion into the proximal interventricular septum is feasible and results in utilization of the normal ventricular conduction pathway. Such an approach to initiation of ventricular stimulation may attenuate the adverse effects of long-term ventricular pacing. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping. Case report. Intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection. A case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative Aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids. 
Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm masquerading as occlusion of the inferior vena cava. Inflammatory aneurysms are an uncommon disorder that represent between 5% and 10% of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Their presentation is often variable and may include pain and obstruction of adjacent anatomic structures. This report describes a 68-year-old man who sought treatment after insidious onset of progressive bilateral lower extremity edema over a 6-month period. Noninvasive studies were suggestive of bilateral iliac vein occlusion, and a venogram showed a nearly obstructed vena cava from external compression. A CT scan showed a thick-walled infrarenal abdominal aneurysm. At exploration an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm was found. Because of the presence of dense inflammatory changes surrounding the aneurysm and extending into the pelvis, the surgical procedure of choice was an aortobifemoral bypass graft done with Dacron. The aneurysmal wall was debrided from the vena cava. His postoperative course was uneventful, his edema resolved, and follow-up noninvasive studies were normal. Postoperative venography showed resolution of the extrinsic compression of the vena cava. 
Deposits of crystalline material containing silicon in surgically excised human valves. Ninety-seven surgically excised natural cardiac valves were examined by scanning electron microscopy and x-ray energy spectroscopy to assess the occurrence of crystalline deposits that contain the element silicon. Valves examined included 33 mitral valves, 63 aortic valves, and 1 tricuspid valve. To reduce the possibility of surface contamination, the deep layers of some valves were examined after exposure by fracture of the valve. Crystalline material containing silicon was observed in the deep tissue. Such crystalline material was sometimes entwined within subendothelial fibers. Crystalline deposits that contained silicon were associated with 34 of 97 of these valves (35%). Among the 34 valves that showed silicon, 24 (71%) also showed microdeposits of calcific material. In view of evidence that silicon may participate in the calcification of bone, and is found in the intima of arteries, a role for this element in ectopic calcification of valves may exist. 
Long-term outcome and prognostic indicators in the hemolytic-uremic syndrome. We examined 61 patients an average of 9.6 years (range 5 to 18 years) after an episode of childhood hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Twenty-four (39%) had one or more abnormalities. Seven (11%) had proteinuria and six (10%) had low creatinine clearance as solitary abnormalities. Eight (13%) had both proteinuria and reduced creatinine clearance; three (5%) had a combination of hypertension, proteinuria, and low creatinine clearance. Abnormalities sometimes appeared after an interval of apparent recovery. Logistic regression analysis showed that duration of anuria was the best predictor of disease at follow-up. No patients who had anuria lasting longer than 8 days or oliguria exceeding 15 days escaped chronic disease. However, 45% of those with disease had no anuria, and a third had no oliguria. Physicians should therefore be cautious in assuming recovery from HUS on the basis of a single evaluation and should periodically evaluate patients for an extended period. 
Incidence and clinical significance of transient creatine kinase elevations and the diagnosis of non-Q wave myocardial infarction associated with coronary angioplasty. To assess the incidence and clinical significance of elevated total plasma creatine kinase (CK) and MB isoenzyme fraction after apparently successful coronary angioplasty, a prospective study of 272 consecutive elective procedures was undertaken. Total CK (normal less than 100 IU/liter) and CK MB isoenzyme (normal less than 4%) were measured immediately after successful completion of the procedure and every 6 h for 24 h. All nonelective procedures and results not fulfilling all American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Task Force guideline criteria for a successful result were excluded from analysis. Of the 272 elective procedures, 249 (92%) were successfully; abnormally elevated CK or CK MB serum levels, or both, were found in 38 (15%) of the successful outcomes. Three patterns of abnormal enzymes were identified: 15 patients with CK greater than or equal to 200 IU/liter and CK MB greater than or equal to 5% (group 1), 4 patients with CK greater than or equal to 200 IU/litter and CK MB less than or equal to 4% (group 2) and 19 patients with CK less than 200 IU/liter and CK MB greater than or equal to 5% (group 3). The three groups were distinguishable by the nature of the complications causing the enzyme release (in particular, the etiology and clinical manifestations). There were significantly more clinically apparent events in group 1 than in the other groups (13 of 15 versus 11 of 23, p less than 0.01) and more events associated with persistent electrocardiographic changes (p = 0.05) and chest pain (p less than 0.05). However, no clinically important sequelae were recognizable in any group at hospital discharge. Thus, abnormal cardiac serum enzyme release after apparently successful coronary angioplasty is 1) relatively common; 2) has many possible causes, including both minor complications and early reversibility of impending major complications; and 3) results in no permanent clinical sequelae. 
Bretylium tosylate versus lidocaine in experimental cardiac arrest Bretylium tosylate has been shown effective in the treatment of ventricular fibrillation and in the prevention of its recurrence. However, lidocaine is generally preferred because bretylium could have adverse hemodynamic effects related to its antiadrenergic action. To explore further the differences between these two antiarrhythmic agents, the authors compared the effects of bretylium, lidocaine, and saline on a standardized dog model of ventricular fibrillation followed by electromechanical dissociation (EMD). The protocol included three successive episodes of cardiac arrest in each animal. Three minutes before each episode of ventricular fibrillation, 5 mg/kg of bretylium tosylate (n = 11), 1 mg/kg of lidocaine (n = 9) or saline (n = 12) were administered blindly. There was no difference in the duration of cardiac arrest (bretylium, 8 min 18 sec; lidocaine, 7 min 54 sec; saline, 8 min 20 sec) or the total doses of epinephrine required to resuscitate the animals. Both bretylium and lidocaine appeared to preserve cardiac function 5 minutes after recovery, as stroke volume increased from 17.8 +/- 6.7 to 18.7 +/- 6.7 mL (NS) after bretylium and from 17.7 +/- 7.7 to 19.0 +/- 7.0 mL (NS) after lidocaine, but decreased from 19.0 +/- 5.3 to 14.6 +/- 6.0 mL (P less than .05) after saline. During the first 10 minutes of EMD, ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia recurred in 4 dogs treated with lidocaine, 3 dogs treated with saline, but no dog treated with bretylium (P less than .05 between bretylium and saline). 
Frequency of myocardial indium-111 antimyosin uptake after uncomplicated coronary artery bypass grafting. The reported incidence of myocardial damage after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is highly related to the methods used. Since indium-111 monoclonal antimyosin antibody scintigraphy has been shown to be highly specific and sensitive for myocardial necrosis, even in small lesions, uptake of this radiotracer was evaluated after CABG. In 23 consecutive patients without previous myocardial infarction who underwent CABG for stable angina, 80 MBq indium-111 antimyosin was injected on the third postoperative day. Planar images were obtained 48 hours later and analyzed for myocardial uptake of indium-111 antimyosin. Scintigraphic results were related to creatine kinase MB levels, duration of both aortic cross-clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass, and electrocardiographic changes. In all patients surgical procedure and postoperative course was uncomplicated. Indium-111 antimyosin uptake was present in 19 of 23 patients (82%). It was diffused in 7 patients and localized in 12. No pathologic Q waves occurred postoperatively. Fourteen patients exhibited ST-segment changes. No good relation was found among indium-111 antimyosin uptake and creatine kinase MB levels, duration of cross-clamping or bypass, and ST-T changes. It is concluded that some degree of myocardial damage, though silent, is common after CABG. 
Vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension: a case report. A case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported. Preoperatively, the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope. After total removal of the vagal tumor, her systemic blood pressure returned to normal. 
Effect of beta-adrenergic blocking agents on the circadian occurrence of ischemic cardiovascular events. Clinical observations suggest that beta-adrenergic blocking agents can modify the circadian occurrence of a variety of ischemic events. Morning awakening is associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure and pulse, serum catecholamine content and platelet activation, at a time of decreased blood thrombolytic activity. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents have the potential to modify many of these events. Current data indicate that these agents modify blood pressure and pulse, but do not prevent their early morning increase. In addition, beta-adrenergic blocking agents decrease ventricular ectopy and its circadian variation. Recent studies in humans indicate, however, that metoprolol does not affect the circadian increase in platelet activity or serum catecholamines. The specific mechanism by which beta blockers affect the circadian occurrence of ischemic events remains uncertain. 
Comparison of labetalol versus enalapril as monotherapy in elderly patients with hypertension: results of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. PURPOSE: This study compared the safety and efficacy of labetalol and enalapril as antihypertensive therapy for elderly patients. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A randomized, open-label, parallel controlled trial was conducted. After completing a 4-week placebo phase, 79 elderly (65 years or older) patients with an average standing diastolic blood pressure (BP) 95 mm Hg or above and 114 mm Hg or less were randomized to receive a 12-week course of either labetalol or enalapril in an open-label design. The patients' BP and heart rate were evaluated biweekly by trained observers unaware of the treatment status, and drug dosage was titrated (up to 400 mg twice a day of labetalol or 40 mg daily of enalapril) to achieve a standing diastolic BP of less than 90 mm Hg and a decrease of 10 mm Hg from baseline. Patients underwent 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) at the end of the placebo phase and again after 8 weeks of active treatment. RESULTS: The treatment groups were comparable in their reduction of supine diastolic BP, with no significant differences between the two treatments. Labetalol demonstrated a significantly greater reduction (p less than 0.05) in standing diastolic BP at the end of the titration period compared to enalapril, but this difference was not significant by the end of the study period. Based on 24-hour ABPM readings, labetalol reduced mean 24-hour diastolic BP (p less than 0.05) and mean heart rate (p less than 0.05) more than enalapril. The labetalol-treated patients were significantly less often above their diastolic BP goal throughout the 24-hour ABPM period (p less than 0.01). The two treatments were equally well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that labetalol and enalapril are equally effective in lowering supine diastolic BP in the elderly, but labetalol is more effective in lowering ambulatory BP and heart rate throughout the day. 
Therapeutic cardiac catheterization in children Cardiac catheterization, once the mainstay of diagnosis in children with congenital heart disease, has become a therapeutic modality for many conditions. Balloon dilatation can now open stenotic valves and vessels, coils and umbrellas can now close unwanted communications, and emboli can be withdrawn without surgical intervention. 
Flosequinan: a vasodilator with positive inotropic activity. Flosequinan is an oral arterial and venous vasodilator that is currently under investigation for the treatment of congestive heart failure. The effects of flosequinan on ventricular performance and myocardial contractility were studied in 10 patients with severe congestive heart failure during right and left cardiac catheterization. Sixty minutes after a 100 mg oral dose of flosequinan, the peak rate of rise in left ventricular pressure (dP/dt) increased from 940 +/- 180 to 1050 +/- 240 mm Hg/sec (p less than 0.05), while left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 32 +/- 5 to 26 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), and cardiac index increased (2.1 +/- 0.4 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2, (p less than 0.05). The mean pulmonary artery pressure and vascular resistance decreased from 40 +/- 8 to 33 +/- 12 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and from 330 +/- 240 to 290 +/- 170 dyne-sec/cm5 (p less than 0.05), respectively. Heart rate, mean aortic pressure, right atrial pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and serum norepinephrine levels did not change significantly. The increase in left ventricular peak dP/dt that was concomitant with a decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and no change in systemic arterial pressure or sympathetic tone, argue for a direct positive inotropic effect of flosequinan. 
Endocarditis due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid Salmonella: cure with a third-generation cephalosporin. A case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented. Previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis. There was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram. This case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant Salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins. 
Time course of hemodynamic responses to sodium in elderly hypertensive patients. Thirty-one patients with essential hypertension (81.6 +/- 6.9 years old) were studied during two different regimens of sodium intake: 120 meq/day for 8 weeks and 344 meq/day for 2 weeks. Systemic hemodynamic data were measured with Doppler echocardiography from which the mitral flow velocity integral, cardiac index, and total peripheral resistance were calculated. The salt-sensitive patients in whom the increase in total peripheral resistance was greater than the increase in cardiac index with salt loading were termed SST. In the salt-sensitive patients termed SSC, the increase in cardiac index was greater than the increase in total peripheral resistance with increased sodium intake. All SST patients on day 7 of the high sodium diet remained in the SST group on day 14. Nine of 13 patients in the SSC group on day 7 remained in the SSC group on day 14, and the remaining four patients in the SSC group on day 7 fell into the SST group on day 14. Four of eight non-salt-sensitive (NSS) patients on day 7 of the high salt regimen remained in the NSS group on day 14, whereas the remaining four patients in the NSS group on day 7 fell into the SSC group on day 14. Our data suggest a changing pattern with sodium loading of initially high cardiac index followed by a persistently raised total peripheral resistance. The celiac, superior mesenteric, and renal arteries vasoconstricted with sodium repletion in both SST and SSC patients. With salt loading, the terminal aortic vascular bed vasodilated in the SSC patients and vasoconstricted in the SST patients. 
Splenorenal arterial shunt in the treatment of renovascular hypertension. Approach by a lumbar-retroperitoneal incision. In a period of 16 years, 29 consecutive patients were operated on for a splenorenal arterial shunt through a lumbotomy incision and a retroperitoneal approach. There were 18 males and 11 females with a medium age of 42 years. All cases had uncontrollable and severe hypertension for an average medium time of 48 months, 11 patients had variable degrees of renal insufficiency. The diagnosis was made utilizing standard methods including in all cases angiography of the abdominal aorta, celiac axis and renal arteries. One patient died after the operation due to intestinal infarction, the remaining have been followed for a medium time of 50 months. All patients improved or cured their renal insufficiency. The hypertension was cured in 23, improved in 4 and failed in 1, this latter patient was successfully autotransplanted. A precise exposition of the surgical technique is presented with comments about their advantages and indications. A review of the literature in surgical experience with the technique of splenorenal arterial anastomosis has been done. 
Impact of orifice geometry on the shape of jets: an in vitro Doppler color flow study. To investigate the influence of orifice geometry on the three-dimensional shape of jets, an in vitro Doppler color flow study was performed. Jets were formed by discharging blood through round orifices and through orifices with major/minor axis ratios of 2:1, 3:1 and 5:1. These were repeated with orifice areas of 0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 cm2. For turbulent and laminar jets formed by these orifices, Doppler color flow images were obtained from two orthogonal scanning planes aligned with the major and minor orifice axes. Jet width was measured at 1 cm intervals from 0 to 5 cm from the orifice and used to calculate jet eccentricity (ratio of major to minor axis widths) and the rate of divergence of the jet walls. Jets were observed to diverge more rapidly along walls aligned with the orifice minor axis rather than along the major axis. This differential spreading led to the development of circular symmetry at a short distance from the orifice. Jet divergence (theta) occurred more rapidly for turbulent jets and for jets formed by larger orifices: theta (zero) = 0.80 + 6.3.A + 7.0.T + 0.47.E-OR (r = 95, p less than 0.0001, n = 48), where A is orifice area (cm2); T is 0 for laminar jets, 1 for turbulent jets and E-OR combines orifice eccentricity and scanning orientation, ranging from -5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the major axis, 0 for circular orifices to 5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the minor axis. Within the jet, eccentricity decayed approximately exponentially with distance from the orifice, more rapidly for turbulent jets, more slowly for the larger and more eccentric orifices. 
Effect of coronary hyperemia on Emax and oxygen consumption in blood-perfused rabbit hearts. Energetic consequences of Gregg's phenomenon. To assess the relation between increases in contractile function and oxygen consumption (VO2) during increased coronary flow (Gregg's phenomenon), we measured the end-systolic pressure-volume relation and the relation between VO2 and left ventricular systolic pressure-volume area (PVA, a measure of total mechanical energy output) in blood-perfused, isovolumically contracting rabbit hearts during control and intracoronary adenosine infusion. During adenosine infusion at a constant perfusion pressure (93 +/- 11 mm Hg), coronary flow increased by 99 +/- 76% (p less than 0.01), and the slope of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation, Emax (ventricular contractility index), increased by 18 +/- 15% (p less than 0.01). When compared at the same left ventricular volume, PVA increased by 20 +/- 14% (p less than 0.01) and VO2 by 19 +/- 15% (p less than 0.01) with adenosine. The VO2-PVA relation was linear under each condition (both median r = 0.98). With increased coronary flow, the VO2-intercept of the VO2-PVA relation (unloaded VO2) increased by 22 +/- 18% (p less than 0.01) without a change in the slope; that is, a parallel upward shift was observed, indicating that the contractile efficiency (energy conversion efficiency of the contractile machinery) remained constant. These increases in Emax and unloaded VO2 were not eliminated by beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol. We conclude that increased coronary flow with adenosine at a constant perfusion pressure augments both Emax and the nonmechanical energetic cost for excitation-contraction coupling and basal metabolism via nonadrenergic mechanisms, without changing contractile efficiency. 
Severe hypotension due to intramyometrial injection of prostaglandin E2 Treatment of postpartum haemorrhage because of uterine atony with intramyometrial prostaglandin E2 1 mg, in an anaesthetised patient resulted in life-threatening hypotension. Anaesthetists should be aware of the potential cardiovascular side effects of prostaglandins. 
Synchronous reconstruction for combined aortoiliac and femoropopliteal occlusive lesions. The role of proximal bypass. Between January 1984 and December 1986, 31 patients underwent synchronous revascularization (SR) because of the serious clinical condition of a lower limb and presence of arteriographically visible lesions. Average follow-up was 30 months. Operative mortality was 10%. Two patient populations were identified: Group I (N = 13): patients who underwent ilio-femoral or aorto-femoral proximal revascularization (PR); Group II (N = 18): patients who had axillo-femoral PR. Group I patients were younger than those in Group II (64 yr versus 72 yr; p less than 0.01). An association of pre-operative risk factors (arterial hypertension; coronary, renal or respiratory insufficiency) was twice as frequent in Group II as in Group I (p less than 0.02). The rate of SR compared to PR alone was 15%. However, there was no statistically significant difference between Groups I and II. Comparison of the actuarial survival curves for patients ahd the patency rates of SR in Groups I and II failed to reveal any statistically significant differences. Axillo-femoral bypass can be used for PR when SR is necessary in high risk patients. 
Angiography, angioscopy, and ultrasound imaging before and after percutaneous balloon angioplasty. We report two patients undergoing peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in whom angiography, angioscopy, and ultrasound imaging were performed before and after balloon angioplasty. The first case with smooth atheroma diagnosed by angiography was found to have unrecognized partially occlusive thrombus by angioscopy. After angioplasty, an intimal tear was identified by angioscopy and ultrasound but it was not seen by angiography. The intravascular ultrasound image showed the tear to extend to the adventitia. In the second case, an apparently smooth intimal surface as imaged by angiography was found by angioscopy and ultrasound to have extensive damage, including subintimal hemorrhage, intimal flaps, and arterial dissection at the angioplasty site. These data suggest that the type of information derived from the three imaging techniques is quite different, and that each may have a specific role in intravascular diagnosis. 
Percutaneous right brachial artery approach with 5F catheters for studying coronary artery disease. We prospectively studied 60 ischemic patients with 5F catheters (Pigtail and Amplatz) using the percutaneous right brachial artery approach (group I), in order to compare this technique with two groups of 100 patients each randomly studied by the femoral route with either 5F (group II) or 8F (group III) catheters (Pigtail and Judkins). The following parameters were analyzed: need to change the initially elected catheter diameter or/and artery approach; technical difficulty for obtaining LV, LCA, and RCA angiograms; total time of X-ray exposure; quality image of LV, LCA, and RCA angiograms; incidence of arterial puncture related hematomas or total arterial occlusion; and duration of local compression after sheath removal. There were no differences between 5F brachial and femoral approaches except for the arterial compression time (p less than 0.01) and the X-ray exposure time (p = 0.03) which were longer with the brachial approach. Whatever the route used, 5F showed a mild increase difficulty (brachial p = 0.001; femoral p = 0.01) and a mild decreased quality image for LCA (branchial p = 0.006; femoral p less than 0.05). Mild hematomas were more frequent with 8F catheters (p less than 0.05). The procedure could be completed by the elected first artery and type of catheter (5F or 8F) in 57/60 patients in group I, in 95/100 in group II, and in 96/100 in group III (nonsignificant differences). Thus, the percutaneous right brachial artery approach using 5F catheters is similar to the femoral artery approach with the same catheters. Although both of them showed a mild increased technical difficulty and a mild decreased quality image compared to 8F, mainly for LCA angiograms, they allowed complete and reliable angiograms reading and analysis. 
Tongue ischemia from a soft-drink can: report of case. A young girl was brought to the emergency department because her tongue became entrapped while she was drinking from an aluminum soft-drink can. A dental drill was used to remove the can. The tongue was observed for 48 hours, during which an ischemic area recovered spontaneously. 
Progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head. A patient with localized scleroderma of the head, uveitis, and Raynaud's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures, spastic hemiparesis, and local IgG production in the cerebrospinal fluid. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin. 
Transoesophageal echocardiography in the longitudinal axis: correlation between anatomy and images and its clinical implications. Transoesophageal echocardiographic imaging in the longitudinal axis is a recent addition to the non-invasive evaluation of congenital and acquired heart disease. The technique provides unique images of intracardiac anatomy but their interpretation remains difficult. A heart specimen was therefore cut according to the echocardiographic imaging planes to elucidate the morphological details. The results suggested that longitudinal transoesophageal imaging complements the transverse axis approach. It gave new imaging information on the right ventricular outflow tract and the pulmonary trunk, the atrioventricular valves, the interventricular septum, the cardiac apex, and the thoracic aorta. In particular, it showed the entire length of the right ventricular outflow tract. When longitudinal imaging was used in combination with transverse imaging almost all the thoracic aorta could be examined. Imaging in the longitudinal axis may also allow better assessment of the mechanisms of atrioventricular valve regurgitation. 
Enhanced chemiluminescence as a measure of oxygen-derived free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion. It has been suggested that oxygen-derived free radicals may contribute to the myocardial injury associated with ischemia and reperfusion. As the presence of enhanced free radical generation is a prerequisite for such damage, several techniques have been used to provide evidence of increased oxygen free radical production during reperfusion; however, all such techniques have substantial limitations. In this study, we used enhanced chemiluminescence to evaluate oxygen free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion in the isolated Langendorff-perfused rat heart. The chemiluminescent technique, which has high sensitivity and can monitor radical generation continuously, avoids some of the limitations of earlier methods. Chemiluminescence (expressed as counts per second) decreased from 219 +/- 11 at baseline to 142 +/- 9 during ischemia and markedly increased to a peak of 476 +/- 36 during the first 3-5 minutes of reperfusion. This was followed by a slow decline over 11-16 minutes to a steady-state level of 253 +/- 14 (each sequential change in chemiluminescence was highly significant; p less than 0.001). Superoxide dismutase (2,000 units/min) significantly decreased peak reperfusion chemiluminescence to 316 +/- 17 (p less than 0.01). Hearts subjected to a second period of ischemia and reperfusion had a higher peak chemiluminescence (626 +/- 62), which also was significantly attenuated by 1,000 units/min superoxide dismutase (398 +/- 16; p less than 0.01). 
Wegener's granulomatosis presenting as temporal arteritis. A granulomatous giant cell vasculitis of the temporal artery was observed in a biopsy specimen from a patient with corresponding clinical symptoms. Within weeks, the new onset of pulmonary infiltrates and renal failure prompted biopsy of the patient's kidney. A necrotizing glomerulonephritis, compatible with a diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis, was present. Vasculitis of the temporal artery may be a feature of Wegener's granulomatosis. 
Beneficial effects of colestipol-niacin on coronary atherosclerosis. A 4-year follow-up. The Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS) was a randomized, placebo-controlled, angiographic trial testing combined colestipol-niacin therapy in 162 subjects. Two-year results (CLAS-I) showed decreased atherosclerosis progression and increased regression. We now describe a subgroup of 103 subjects treated for 4 years (CLAS-II). Changes in blood lipid, lipoprotein-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein levels were maintained, and at 4 years significantly more drug-treated subjects demonstrated nonprogression (52% drug- vs 15% placebo-treated) and regression (18% drug- vs 6% placebo-treated) in native coronary artery lesions. Significantly fewer drug-treated subjects developed new lesions in native coronary arteries (14% drug- vs 40% placebo-treated) and bypass grafts (16% drug- vs 38% placebo-treated). These results confirm CLAS-I findings and indicate that regression can continue for 4 years. They reaffirm the need for early initiation of vigorous long-term lipid lowering therapy in coronary bypass subjects. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of ostial left coronary artery stenosis. The diagnosis of ostial stenosis of the left main coronary artery is usually made by use of coronary angiography. However, positioning of the catheter across the obstruction may obscure this diagnosis during contrast injection. Although a damping of arterial pressure when the catheter enters the left coronary artery may suggest ostial stenosis, it may not be possible to make this diagnosis with certainty during cardiac catheterization. We report a series of four patients in whom the left coronary ostium and proximal left coronary arteries were visualized by means of transesophageal echocardiography. Both ostial narrowing by plaque and abnormally fast flow velocities were seen. In each case the echocardiographic findings contributed to the subsequent management of the patients. 
Occult cancer in patients with deep venous thrombosis. A systematic approach. The authors prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities to determine the most appropriate workup study for searching for a hidden cancer. After a careful physical examination, the following routine tests were performed: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), whole blood counts, biochemistry, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels, chest radiograph, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography (CT) scan. If a malignant lesion was suspected, further appropriate studies were performed. After discharge, periodic follow-up was performed on all patients in the outpatient clinic. A malignant neoplasm was detected in 12 patients. Of these 12 patients, six were asymptomatic with the exception of experiencing thrombophlebitis. Cancer was found more commonly in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis (DVT) (7 of 31 versus 5 of 82 patients with secondary DVT; P = 0.012), and in those patients with abnormal lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) levels (6 of 23 versus 6 of 90; P = 0.007). Abnormal CEA levels allowed diagnosis of two cases of colonic cancer (on colonoscopy). Both ultrasound and CT scan of the abdomen showed two cases of urinary bladder carcinoma at a very early stage. Furthermore, two cases of adenomatous polyps in colon were found, a condition considered by most authors to be a colorectal cancer precursor. In addition, there were five patients with large benign pelvic tumors, and two patients with absent inferior vena cava. The most striking finding was that some cases of cancer were at a very early stage. It was concluded that blood cell counts, LDH, CEA, chest radiograph, and abdominal ultrasonography (or CT scan) should be routinely performed on all patients with deep venous thrombosis (particularly those with idiopathic DVT). Malignancy would not have been recognized in some patients if these tests had not been performed. 
Coronary trapping of a complement activation product (C3a des-Arg) during myocardial reperfusion in open-heart surgery. Accumulation of complement factors has been found to occur in the myocardium after infarction. We studied the possibility that the complement activation product C3a des-Arg is trapped within the coronary circulation during reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium. In 11 patients undergoing routine coronary artery bypass grafting, arterial blood was sampled before, during and after cardiopulmonary bypass. Blood was drawn from the coronary sinus concomitantly with arterial blood sampling 5 and 30 min after release of the aortic cross-clamp (n = 10). From a preoperative value of 92 +/- 13 ng/ml, C3a des-Arg rose during CPB to a maximum of 1816 +/- 393 at the end of CPB. Following reperfusion for 5 min, C3a des-Arg was 1284 +/- 232 ng/ml in arterial and 1106 +/- 100 in coronary sinus blood, a significant difference (p less than 0.05). The amount of C3a des-Arg trapped in the heart at 5-min reperfusion showed positive correlation with its arterial concentration (p less than 0.05). No significant difference was found after 30 min of reperfusion. Complement activation products trapped in the heart in the early reperfusion period may play a pathogenetic role in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. 
Mild ischemia predisposes the S3 segment to gentamicin toxicity. The purpose of these studies was to determine if a functionally insignificant ischemic insult, occurring prior to gentamicin administration, enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity. Bilateral renal pedicle clamp studies demonstrated that 15 minutes of ischemia did not increase the plasma creatinine yet markedly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity. Further studies, in uninephrectomized rats, demonstrated that following fifteen minutes of renal ischemia and four hours of reperfusion inulin clearance, FENa+ and cellular morphology were normal. This model, therefore, was used in all subsequent studies. While the plasma creatinine concentrations were normal 24 hours following 15 minutes of ischemia and only slightly increased following gentamicin administration (100 mg/kg, i.p.) gentamicin administered four hours following 15 minutes of renal ischemia resulted in significantly increased 24-hour plasma creatinine values. Light microscopic quantitation of tissue injury, performed 24 hours following experimental manipulation, was notable for S3 segment damage in the ischemia plus gentamicin group. This was not observed in either the ischemia group or the sham operated gentamicin group. Cortical gentamicin levels were elevated in the ischemia plus gentamicin group, despite similar plasma gentamicin half-lives. However, the elevation in cortical gentamicin levels was dissociated from the enhanced nephrotoxicity seen following mild ischemic injury. Taken together these data indicate that mild renal ischemia, occurring prior to gentamicin administration, greatly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity with the greatest damage occurring to S3 cells. 
Stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [published erratum appears in Stroke 1991 Mar;22(3):417] We investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Thirteen patients (5.6%) developed cerebrovascular disease. Cerebral infarction was noted in eight, cerebral hemorrhage in two, and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three. In seven (54%) of these 13 patients, stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed. Among the predisposing risk factors for stroke, hypertension was the most important. Lupus anticoagulant was detected in three (38%) and anticardiolipin antibody in three (43% of seven investigated) of the patients with infarction. Evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group. Autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all, but in no case was true angiitis observed. Libman-Sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction. In conclusion, the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities. Antiphospholipid antibodies and Libman-Sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease. 
Cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in acromegaly. OBJECTIVE: To determine the cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in patients with acromegaly. DESIGN: Prospective nonrandomized study. SETTING: Referral-based endocrinology clinic. PATIENTS: Seven patients with active acromegaly, three of whom had refractory congestive heart failure. The other four patients were free of symptoms associated with heart failure. INTERVENTIONS: All patients were treated with octreotide, 100 to 500 micrograms subcutaneously three times daily. The three patients with heart failure continued to receive cardiovascular therapy (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, digitalis, diuretics). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: During octreotide therapy, patients showed a rapid decrease in growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1): Mean levels (+/- SD) fell from 28.1 +/- 32.7 micrograms/L to 5.2 +/- 8.3 micrograms/L and 740 +/- 126 micrograms/L to 372 +/- 64 micrograms/L, respectively (P less than 0.025). Plasma volume returned to normal and heart rate decreased significantly. In the four patients without heart failure, right-heart catheterization done before and after 3 months of octreotide therapy showed an 18.3% +/- 11% reduction in stroke volume and a return to normal of the cardiac index. The three patients with congestive heart failure, evaluated before and after 40 days and up to 2 years of therapy, showed a dramatic clinical improvement that was associated with an increase in stroke volume (by 24% to 51%). In these patients, the cardiac index remained in the normal range, filling pressures were markedly decreased, and pulmonary wedge pressure returned to normal. This improvement was sustained for up to 3 years in the two patients with heart failure who were receiving long-term treatment. CONCLUSION: The rapid and sustained cardiac improvement seen in our patients shows that octreotide therapy for patients with acromegaly may be highly beneficial, even in those patients with advanced cardiac failure. 
Surgical treatment of renovascular hypertension and respective late results. A twenty years experience. This paper presents the long term results following operative reconstruction for renovascular hypertension in 115 patients operated upon over a period of 20 years. There were 71 (61.7%) males and 44 (38.3%) females with a median age of 46 years (range 16-67). Renal revascularization was unilateral in 96 (83.4%) cases and bilateral in 19 (16.6%). Dacron knitted bypass grafts, were used in 51 and PTFE in 33 instances. Saphenous vein grafts were used in 11 patients. In 15 cases treatment was by local endarterectomy with concomitant angioplasty (12 unilateral and 3 bilateral). Simultaneous aortorenal reconstruction was undertaken in 38 (33%) patients. There were no deaths in the group with isolated renal artery reconstruction. In the group of aortorenal reconstructions, two deaths were encountered (5.7%). Postoperatively, blood pressure was either normal or improved in 83 (72%) patients at a mean follow-up period of 48.3 months (range 1-195 months). The best results were obtained in younger individuals with segmental renal artery lesions. Linear progression analysis, showed age to be a major determinant in the postoperative response to hypertension. There was a greater degree of long term success in patients with fibromuscular dysplasia, as compared to individuals with atherosclerosis. Crude survival probabilities, were 78% and 61% at 5 and 10 years respectively. Late deaths encountered in the present series, were mostly attributable to myocardial infarction (7.8%). In this series, the best results were obtained in individuals younger than 50 years of age, with segmental renal artery lesions. 
The incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement. The incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied. In 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless. In all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used. Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography, and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning. The incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees (23.8%) and in the cemented (25%) was approximately the same. The only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity, prolonged postoperative immobilisation, previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia. 
Time course of cellular enzyme release in dog heart injury. The transport time of enzyme from heart to plasma was studied in two experimental models. First, the enzyme alanine aminotransferase was slowly infused into the left ventricular wall in open-chest dogs. The half-life for the washout of alanine aminotransferase activity into plasma was 20 +/- 4 minutes (mean +/- SEM, n = 8) and was not different in ischemic and normally perfused tissue. From measurements of arteriovenous differences in alanine aminotransferase activity and left ventricular blood flow, it was concluded that 77 +/- 14% of total enzyme washout from ischemic tissue occurred by direct entry into the bloodstream. The corresponding value for the vascular permeability-surface area product was 264 +/- 55 ml.kg-1.hr-1. For a second model, we studied myocardial enzyme release into plasma after abrupt heart injury induced by 10 minutes of calcium-free coronary perfusion followed by reintroduction of calcium (calcium-paradox mechanism). The half-life for the release into plasma was 1.9 +/- 0.2 hours (mean +/- SEM, n = 6) and was again not influenced by sustained ischemia. Slower washout, as observed for this second model, is consistent with increased interstitial protein space and corresponds to a permeability--surface area product between 135 and 285 ml.kg-1.hr-1. These results were used to calculate the time course of cellular enzyme leakage from the rate of enzyme release into plasma in various forms of heart injury. Significant shifts between the time curves of evolving cellular injury and enzyme release into plasma are observed after 2 hours of ischemia followed by coronary reperfusion, but not after permanent ischemia. 
Anorectal varices--their frequency in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. Anorectal varices in portal hypertension have been little studied: Seventy eight per cent of 72 patients with portal hypertension had anorectal varices shown at flexible sigmoidoscopy. Significantly more patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertension had these varices than patients with cirrhosis (89% v 56%, p less than 0.01). 
Elevated plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with low-output cardiac failure: dependence on increased noradrenaline secretion rates. 1. Plasma noradrenaline concentrations are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure; however, the pathogenesis of these elevated noradrenaline levels is controversial. 2. Possible mechanisms for elevated noradrenaline concentrations in patients with congestive heart failure include increased noradrenaline secretion, decreased clearance of noradrenaline, and a combination of increased secretion and decreased clearance. 3. In the present study, plasma noradrenaline clearance and apparent secretion rates were determined using a whole-body steady-state radionuclide tracer method in six otherwise healthy patients with moderate degrees of low-output cardiac failure and in six normal control subjects. 4. The venous plasma noradrenaline level was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure as compared with the control subjects (4.18 +/- 1.34 versus 1.54 +/- 0.16 nmol/l, P less than 0.05). There was no stimulation of the adrenal medulla as evident by normal plasma adrenaline levels in both groups (0.19 +/- 0.04 versus 0.18 +/- 0.02 nmol/l, not significant). The apparent secretion rate of noradrenaline was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure (4.75 +/- 1.95 versus 1.78 +/- 0.18 nmol min-1 m-2, P less than 0.05), whereas the clearance rate of noradrenaline was similar in the two groups (1.26 +/- 0.27 versus 1.16 +/- 0.02 l min-1 m-2, not significant). 5. We conclude that the high peripheral venous plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with mildly decompensated low-output cardiac failure are initially due to increased secretion, rather than to decreased metabolic clearance, perhaps in response to diminished effective arterial blood volume. 
Complications of general anesthesia for Nd:YAG laser resection of endobronchial tumors. We studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with GA and Nd:YAG laser endobronchial tumor resection. The records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed. Preoperative status, anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome. Twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction. Longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal. Cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention. Variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of GA and increasing age. Perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after GA for Nd: YAG laser resection. Short-acting neuromuscular relaxants, careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation, limiting duration of GA and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing GA for Nd: YAG laser resection of endobronchial tumors. 
The cutaneous manifestations in children with familial Mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis). A six-year study. In a six-year study of 46 children with familial Mediterranean fever (recurrent hereditary polyserositis), 20 children (43 per cent) developed cutaneous manifestations. Ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease. Twelve children (26 per cent) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children (13 per cent) had nine episodes of Henoch-Schonlein purpura. Other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face, and/or trunk, angioneurotic oedema, diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin, Raynaud's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule. The mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6/patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4/patient/year after colchicine therapy (p = 0.0005). The high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial Mediterranean fever. 
Stress management in the treatment of mild primary hypertension. The use of simple relaxation-based stress management procedures in the treatment of mild primary hypertension has been the subject of extensive study. Stress management appears to lead to reliably greater reductions in pressure than a variety of control procedures. The mechanisms underlying these effects are obscure, and research has not identified which patients will benefit most from treatment. Preliminary data suggest that stress management may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease, but much research must be done if this is to be confirmed. It is suggested that such research should take into account the possibility that stress management may have beneficial effects on more than just hypertension-related aspects of the cardiovascular disease process. 
A study of the effects of delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on the diurnal variation of arterial pressure in patients with essential hypertension using indirect and direct arterial pressure monitoring methods. In order to investigate the effect of delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on the diurnal variation of arterial pressure in patients with essential hypertension, this study examined 24 h arterial pressure using an indirect or a direct monitoring system. When the effect of twice-a-day administration of delapril at daily doses of 30 to 90 mg was examined using the indirect monitoring system in 12 outpatients, delapril decreased systolic and diastolic arterial pressures significantly only at limited points during the day. However, each of the averaged 24 h daytime and nighttime arterial pressures showed significant reductions. The 24 h intraarterial pressure monitoring demonstrated that delapril decreased systolic and diastolic arterial pressure at most of the measurement points. The arterial pressure reductions during daytime and nighttime were not significantly different, that is, there was no excessive reduction in nighttime arterial pressure. Heart rate and its variability were virtually unaffected by the delapril treatment in either monitoring study. No adverse reactions were observed in the indirect or direct monitoring studies. Thus, it is concluded that twice-a-day administration of delapril at daily doses of 30 to 90 mg brings about a safe and stable antihypertensive effect, without affecting the diurnal variation of arterial pressure. 
The value of pulmonary artery and central venous monitoring in patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery: a comparative study of two selected, randomized groups. One hundred two patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery were prospectively, randomly allocated to two groups, one of which was monitored with a central venous catheter and the other with a pulmonary artery catheter. Patients with uncompensated cardiopulmonary or renal disease were excluded from the study. General anesthesia was administered for the surgical procedure, and the patients were followed through hospital discharge. No statistically significant differences occurred between the two groups with regard to morbidity (perioperative cardiac, pulmonary or renal sequelae), mortality rate, duration of intensive care, postoperative hospital stay, or cost of hospitalization. The one statistically significant difference between groups was the professional fee charged for anesthetic care, which was higher for patients with pulmonary artery catheters than for those with central venous catheters. In conclusion, we prospectively gathered data from most patients presented for abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery. Our data seem to indicate that the choice of central venous catheter or pulmonary artery catheter monitoring makes little difference in outcome after abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery, and that for many patients pulmonary artery catheters are not necessary to give appropriate, adequate care. Because of the size of the sample, however, declarations of epidemiologic significance would be unfounded. Therefore large-scale, multicenter studies addressing such outcomes remain necessary. 
Cardiac disease in the alcoholic patient. Ethanol in acute low doses is believed to be relatively nontoxic to the normal myocardium, despite data indicating low-level contractility impairment. In patients with myocardial disease, or as the serum ethanol concentration is increased to high levels, angina, myocardial infarction, and arrhythmia may be potentiated. Chronic ethanol use, at moderate doses, may be protective against coronary artery disease, despite increased rates of hypertension. Alcohol consumption at high doses may result in dilated cardiomyopathy and a dismal prognosis. Alcohol abuse is associated with increased mortality. 
Collateral circulation in Kawasaki disease with coronary occlusion or severe stenosis. Forty patients with Kawasaki disease with severe coronary sequelae were investigated. All had at least a 90% reduction in the diameter of the major coronary artery. Collateral vessels were seen in 32 of 33 (97%) patients with total occlusion. All patients with severe stenosis but not total occlusion had no or poorly developed collateral vessels. Analysis according to the presence or absence of collateral vessels showed no significant differences in the results of treadmill stress testing and myocardial imaging between these two groups. In patients treated surgically, the abnormalities recognized by these tests were normalized or improved when the bypass was patent. These data indicate that collateral circulation in patients with Kawasaki disease cannot be seen angiographically unless there is total occlusion and the presence of collateral circulation cannot provide protection against stress-induced myocardial ischemia. 
Anticardiolipin antibodies in polymyalgia rheumatica-giant cell arteritis: association with severe vascular complications. PURPOSE: We studied a group of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) with or without biopsy-proven giant cell arteritis (GCA) in order to determine the prevalence of anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) in these disorders and their association with vascular complications. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 50 patients, 30 with PMR alone and 20 with associated GCA. Determinations of IgG and IgM aCL by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were done in the patients and in 50 age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects. We also measured von Willebrand factor (vWF) antigen, C-reactive protein, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. RESULTS: Twenty-four (48%) of the 50 patients had aCL. Eleven were positive for IgG and five for IgM, whereas eight were positive for both. In the group of patients with PMR alone, only eight (26.6%) had aCL, while 16 of 20 patients (80%) with GCA had these antibodies (p less than 0.01). In the control group, 10 of 50 patients (20%) had positive aCL, a finding that was statistically significantly different only when compared with the finding in patients with GCA (p less than 0.01). Both isotypes of aCL were seen mainly in patients with GCA, and five of these patients had severe vascular complications. Levels of vWF antigen were significantly higher in patients with GCA as compared with patients with PMR alone; however, the highest titers did not correlate with vascular complications. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein were increased but comparable in both groups. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that aCL are prevalent in patients with GCA. These antibodies might imply severe vascular damage and could play an important role in the pathogenesis of the vasculopathy observed in this disease. 
Quality of life among hypertensive patients with a diuretic background who are taking atenolol and enalapril. The cardioselective beta-blocker atenolol and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared for efficacy, safety, and quality-of-life factors in 30 patients with hypertension whose hypertension was inadequately controlled with diuretic alone. Atenolol (50 to 100 mg once a day) and enalapril (2.5 to 40 mg once a day), combined with hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg once a day), had similar levels of efficacy and safety. A comprehensive battery of psychologic assessments for quality of life was administered, including measures of anxiety, depression, psychiatric symptoms, memory, and psychomotor function. These five conceptually based clusters were first analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance procedures, followed by univariate analyses of the individual variables composing each domain. In general, neither atenolol nor enalapril was associated with major changes in psychologic functioning. The only data cluster with a statistically significant change was memory function, primarily as a result of lower scores of the digit span (backward) test, for atenolol relative to enalapril. These preliminary findings suggest that atenolol and enalapril have comparable degrees of efficacy and safety, with no major disparities in quality-of-life effects, for hypertensive patients with a history of taking diuretics and this sort of quality-of-life assessment can be performed during trials of antihypertensive drugs. 
Triiodothyronine treatment for Raynaud's phenomenon: a controlled trial. The effects of 80 micrograms triiodothyronine (T3) daily were compared with placebo in a double blind controlled crossover trial in 18 patients with Raynaud's phenomenon. Reductions in the frequency, duration and severity of attacks while taking T3 were gradual but highly significant. Four of 6 subjects had skin ulcer healing. Skin temperatures in the hands increased significantly. The skin temperature recovery times after cold exposure were significantly shorter during T3 therapy compared with placebo. Although large dosages of T3 were well tolerated, 6 patients experienced episodic palpitations, and slight but significant increases in heart rate and pulse pressure were observed. Evaluation of the use of physiological doses of T3 (60 micrograms daily or less) in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon is suggested. 
Complete heart block and severe aortic incompetence in relapsing polychondritis: clinicopathologic findings. We describe a patient with relapsing polychondritis who developed fatal cardiac involvement comprising complete heart block, acute aortic incompetence, and cardiovascular collapse. Pathologic studies showed fibrosis of the cardiac conducting system and necrotizing inflammation of the aortic valve, features not previously described in relapsing polychondritis, as well as evidence of coronary artery vasculitis. 
Primary angioplasty in myocardial infarction: assessment of improved myocardial perfusion with technetium-99m isonitrile. Technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxy-2-isobutyl-isonitrile (technetium-99m isonitrile) is a new radiopharmaceutical compound that reflects myocardial perfusion. Its kinetics, especially its lack of redistribution after intravenous administration, permits the assessment of changes in myocardial perfusion without delay of therapy. Tomographic images at rest were obtained immediately and 6 to 10 days later in 17 consecutive patients undergoing successful primary angioplasty during their first transmural myocardial infarction. Thirteen patients had anterior infarction. The initial (acute) defect size before angioplasty of 48 +/- 17% of the left ventricle decreased significantly (p less than 0.0001) to 29 +/- 19% on the late scans. There was no correlation between the time to therapy and the reduction in defect size. Twelve of the 17 patients, including 7 of the 11 patients treated after 4 h, demonstrated a definite reduction in the initial defect size. Eight patients with angiographically proved persistent coronary occlusion underwent a similar imaging sequence. The initial defect size in this group remained unchanged on the late scans (24 +/- 16% versus 26 +/- 18%, p = NS). Primary angioplasty is an effective approach toward salvaging myocardium; comparison with thrombolytic drug therapy must await the results of controlled clinical trials. 
Roles of renal and vascular renin in spontaneous hypertension and switching of the mechanism upon nephrectomy. Lack of hypotensive effects of inhibition of renin, converting enzyme, and angiotensin II receptor blocker after bilateral nephrectomy. Inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme, renin, and the angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor lower the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) used as a model of essential hypertension. Since their plasma renin levels were normal or subnormal, renin in the vascular tissue was considered to play a key role in the maintenance of the hypertension. To clarify the source and localization of renin in SHR, antirenin antibodies, the converting enzyme inhibitors delapril, enalapril, and the Ang II receptor antagonist DuP 753 were administered to intact and bilaterally nephrectomized SHR and their normotensive controls. The efficient hypotensive action of the renin antibody indicated that renin of renal origin is a dominant factor. Gradual but complete disappearance of antihypertensive action of these inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system upon bilateral nephrectomy indicated the importance of membrane-associated renin of the renal origin and angiotensin converting enzyme in the maintenance of the spontaneous hypertension. 
Studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. IV. Improved tolerance of immature myocardium to hypoxia and ischemia by intravenous metabolic support. Thirteen immature puppies (2 to 4 kg) underwent 1 hour of acute hypoxia (oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm Hg), followed by 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia on total vented bypass with normal blood reperfusion. Ventricular function was assessed by inscribing Starling function curves and measuring stroke work indices before hypoxia and after reperfusion. Seven puppies (control) received normal saline infusion at 4 ml/kg/hr. Six other puppies received a 4 ml/kg/hr intravenous infusion of glutamate/aspartate, glucose-insulin-potassium, mercaptopropionyl glycine, carnitine, and catalase during hypoxia and reperfusion. In control hearts, acute hypoxia depleted myocardial glutamate and aspartate by 52% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia) and 48% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia) and caused severe hemodynamic deterioration (55% decrease of stroke work index) (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia); three of seven (43%) required premature institution of bypass. Postischemic left ventricular function recovered to only 40% of control levels (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia). In contrast, intravenous metabolic infusions maintained tissue glutamate (p less than 0.05 versus control group) and aspartate (p less than 0.05 versus control group) in treated hearts during hypoxia and allowed cardiac index to rise 20% (p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia); all treated hearts tolerated 1 hour of hypoxia, and stroke work recovered 70% (p less than 0.05 versus control group) of stroke work index after subsequent ischemia. Impaired tolerance of immature hearts to acute hypoxia and subsequent ischemia is due to substrate depletion. This impairment can be reduced by intravenous metabolic support during hypoxia and reperfusion and leads to improved recovery of postischemic function. 
Opioids in cerebrospinal fluid in hypotensive newborn pigs. This study was designed to determine if opioids were detectable in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and if these concentrations were altered by hemorrhagic hypotension. This study was further designed to determine the effects of topically administered opioids on pial arteriolar diameter during normotension and hypotension. Closed cranial windows were used to determine pial arteriolar diameter. Periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna CSF was collected from piglets during normotension and hypotension (systemic arterial pressure decreased from 63 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 1 mm Hg). Opioid profiles were assessed qualitatively by radioreceptor assay, and individual opioids were measured quantitatively by radioimmunoassay. Periarachnoid cortical and cisterna magna CSF methionine enkephalin-, leucine enkephalin-, dynorphin-, and beta-endorphin-like receptor active values all were increased by hypotension. When quantified by radioimmunoassay, periarachnoid cortical CSF values for methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were 1,167 +/- 58 and 2,975 +/- 139 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. Periarachnoid cortical CSF radioimmunoassay values for dynorphin-like immunoreactivity were 15 +/- 2 and 28 +/- 2 pg/ml for normotension and hypotension, respectively. When applied topically to the cortical surface, synthetic methionine enkephalin increased pial arteriolar diameter (134 +/- 4, 158 +/- 4, and 163 +/- 4 microns for control, 574 pg/ml [10(-10) M], and 5,740 pg/ml [10(-9) M], respectively). Similarly, topical synthetic leucine enkephalin and dynorphin elicited pial arteriolar dilation. However, beta-endorphin produced arteriolar constriction. Hypotension attenuated methionine and leucine enkephalin-induced dilation and reversed dynorphin-induced dilation to concentration-dependent constriction. beta-Endorphin-induced constriction was not changed by hypotension. Therefore, opioids could contribute to the control of the cerebral circulation during hypotension. 
Responses of cytosolic free calcium to ADP in platelets of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Abnormalities of Ca2+ handling have been reported in patients with essential hypertension and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). In this study, responses of cytosolic Ca2+ to ADP in platelets of SHR were examined. Four- and seven-week-old male SHR and age- and sex-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were used. Basal levels of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration in platelets and responses to ADP were estimated using fluorescent indicator fura-2 in the medium containing 1 mmol/L CaCl2 and Ca2(+)-free buffer with 1 mmol/L EGTA. Basal levels of platelet cytosolic Ca2+ of SHR were significantly higher than those of WKY at 4 and 7 weeks of age in the presence of external Ca2+. However, no significant difference was observed in basal levels of platelet cytosolic Ca2+ in the Ca2(+)-free EGTA-containing buffer between SHR and WKY. The peak cytosolic Ca2+ concentration evoked by ADP was significantly diminished in SHR compared with WKY in the absence of external Ca2+, whereas the responses of platelet cytosolic Ca2+ to ADP were similar in SHR and WKY in the presence of external Ca2+. These results suggest that release from intracellular Ca2+ store is reduced in SHR and that the regulation of cytosolic Ca2+ in SHR is more dependent on extracellular Ca2+ compared with WKY. 
Effects of calcium on vascular smooth muscle tone. It is generally acknowledged that calcium plays a major role in the generation of vascular tone. However, in recent years it has become increasingly evident that relatively calcium-insensitive pathways of excitation-contraction coupling also exist in the vascular smooth muscle cell. Possible mechanisms of vascular smooth muscle contraction and their possible role in the pathophysiology of hypertension are reviewed. The rationale for the use of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of hypertension is discussed. 
Arteriovenous malformation of the tongue. Polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful. Additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue. We conclude that embolization therapy can be used, but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined. 
Apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a non-Oriental man. Japanese investigators first described apical HCM in 2.9% of patients who had diagnostic left ventricular catheterization for suspected ischemic heart disease or cardiomyopathy. This entity was initially thought to be limited to individuals of Asian origin and has been uncommonly described in patients of Western origin. Patients of Western origin differ in several ways from those in the original description of Yamaguchi et al, but they both share the same classic criterion of hypertrophy of the left ventricular apex. The major differences probably relate to the anatomic variation in the distribution of the left ventricular hypertrophy as described by Maron et al. It is not known whether racial, genetic, or environmental factors account for the variation of disease expression in Asian and Western patients. Our case illustrates that this diagnosis should be considered in patients who have chest pain (anginal or atypical) and markedly abnormal findings on electrocardiograms in the absence of hypertension or significant coronary artery disease. 
Left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction: clinical course and beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition. LV enlargement is an important determinant of survival after AMI. Pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to LV dilatation after an AMI include early thinning and stretching of the infarcted segment (e.g., infarct expansion) and hypertrophy of the noninfarcted myocardium. Such LV dilatation may adversely affect subsequent cardiac function, leading to heart failure and death. Experimental data in animals and preliminary studies in humans have demonstrated that early administration of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, may limit infarct expansion and will attenuate progressive LV dilatation. This article discussed the clinical importance of the dilated left ventricle and reviewed advances and ongoing research in the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the chronic phase after AMI. 
Effect of high-dose furosemide in refractory congestive heart failure. High-dose firosemide is considered effective in primary renal sodium retention but is not generally recommended in congestive heart failure. In order to evaluate efficacy and safety of high-dose furosemide (greater than 500 mg/day), the authors studied 20 patients (pts) resistant to therapy (including furosemide less than 500 mg/day) selected from 161 pts admitted for chronic heart failure. All refractory pts (15 men and 5 women, mean age sixty +/- 12 years) were in NYHA class IV and showed hyponatremia (130 +/- 5 mEq/L) and impaired renal function (BUN 31 +/- 14 mg/dL, serum creatinine 1.3 +/- 0.3 mg/dL and BUN/creatinine ratio 23 +/- 7). In addition to digitalis, dopamine, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or vasodilators, IV high-dose furosemide (775 +/- 419 mg/day, 500-2000) was given for ten +/- five days under daily clinical and laboratory monitoring. Three pts died of low-output syndrome while 16 pts were upgraded to NYHA class III and 1 pt to class II; a mean weight reduction of 7.3 +/- 2.9 kg in ten + five days (0.80 +/- 0.4 kg/day) and a mean diuresis increase of 88 +/- 57% occurred. The maximal dose of furosemide did not correlate with serum creatinine but did correlate with BUN/creatinine ratio (r = 0.78, p less than .001). Pts were discharged on with chronic heart failure, and 43% in the subgroup in NYHA class IV with hyponatremia. High dose furosemide was effective for rapid removal of excess water and salt in "furosemide-resistant" congestive heart failure. The relationship between renal impairment and maximal furosemide doses seems to confirm the role of renal pharmacokinetics in the appearance of furosemide resistance. 
Is obesity-related hypertension less of a cardiovascular risk? The Framingham Study. The hypothesis that obesity-related hypertension is relatively innocuous was explored by an examination of cardiovascular events over 34 years of follow-up when related to biennially measured weights and blood pressures using time-dependent covariate proportional hazards analysis. The 5209 participants were also classified by age, cigarette smoking, and antihypertensive treatment at each of four baseline examinations with 8-year follow-up periods. Over the period of follow-up, there were 978 cardiovascular events in men and 836 in women. Risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in general and of CHD in particular was as strongly related to hypertension at all levels of body mass index. This was also found to apply when adjustment was made for possible confounding by cigarette smoking. Age and smoking-adjusted absolute risks of cardiovascular events were found to be higher in hypertensive individuals with high than with low BMIs. Furthermore, the relative risk of cardiovascular disease did not vary significantly with BMI. Thus hypertension is at least as dangerous in obese as in lean persons at all ages in either sex, providing no support for the hypothesis that hypertension in the obese is more benign. This is important, since obesity predisposes to hypertension and most who have hypertension are obese. This report examines the hypothesis for CVD outcomes considered by previous reports and also the subcategories of CVD disease such as myocardial infarction and stroke, and includes data on both men and women and on young and old. 
Exercise intolerance in patients with heart failure and preserved left ventricular systolic function: failure of the Frank-Starling mechanism Invasive cardiopulmonary exercise testing was performed in 7 patients who presented with congestive heart failure, normal left ventricular ejection fraction and no significant coronary or valvular heart disease and in 10 age-matched normal subjects. Compared with the normal subjects, patients demonstrates severe exercise intolerance with a 48% reduction in peak oxygen consumption (11.6 +/- 4.0 versus 22.7 +/- 6.1 ml/kg per min; p less than 0.001), primarily due to a 41% reduction in peak cardiac index (4.2 +/- 1.4 versus 7.1 +/- 1.1 liters/min per m2; p less than 0.001). In patients compared with normal subjects, peak left ventricular stroke volume index (34 +/- 9 versus 46 +/- 7 ml/min per m2; p less than 0.01) and end-diastolic volume index (56 +/- 14 versus 68 +/- 12 ml/min per m2; p less than 0.08) were reduced, whereas peak ejection fraction and end-systolic volume index were not different. In patients, the change in end-diastolic volume index during exercise correlated strongly with the change in stroke volume index (r = 0.97; p less than 0.0001) and cardiac index (r = 0.80; p less than 0.03). Pulmonary wedge pressure was markedly increased at peak exercise in patients compared with normal subjects (25.7 +/- 9.1 versus 7.1 +/- 4.4 mm Hg; p less than 0.0001). Patients demonstrated a shift of the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure-volume relation upward and to the left at rest. Increases in left ventricular filling pressure during exercise were not accompanied by increases in end-diastolic volume, indicating a limitation to left ventricular filling. 
Sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension. The differences between sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension were theoretically considered using a water tank model of body fluid volume-blood pressure regulation. If an outlet valve is attached to a tank with a base area corresponding to the reciprocal of total peripheral resistance (TPR) and water is poured into this tank at a rate corresponding to the amount of Na+ intake, then equilibrium should be achieved at a certain water level, volume and output from the outlet, which represent mean arterial pressure (MAP), cardiac output (CO) and urinary Na+ excretion. The height of the outlet from the tank bottom and the size cross-sectional area, of the outlet correspond to the x-intercept and slope of the renal function (pressure-natriuresis) curve, respectively. In both nonsodium sensitive hypertension, due to the shift of the curve toward a higher blood pressure level (elevated height of the outlet) without change in the slope (size of the outlet), and sodium sensitive hypertension, due to the depressed slope of the curve (reduced outlet size), not only MAP (water level) but also CO (water volume) are increased, resulting in sodium retaining hypertension, if TPR (reciprocal of base area) remained unchanged, while CO is relatively unchanged, resulting in nonsodium retaining hypertension, if TPR is elevated. Thus, the MAP and its sensitivity to sodium intake is determined by the renal function curve. Since body fluid volume is determined by both the renal function curve and TPR, however, changes in TPR during the development of hypertension is a major factor in determining whether or not the body fluid volume has to change only a small amount or a large amount. Therefore, the sodium sensitivity of blood pressure and sodium retention must be considered separately. 
Effect of a leukocyte-platelet removal filter on ischemia induced reperfusion injury. The effect of leukocyte and platelet depletion on reperfusion injury using a leukocyte-platelet removal filter (LRF) in intracoronary thrombolysis is reported. To better define the usefulness of LRF in evaluating the effectiveness of intracoronary thrombolysis with this device, several cardiovascular variables were examined in rabbits during ischemia followed by reperfusion. The rabbits underwent cytoapheresis with LRF (n = 5) and were compared with controls without LRF (n = 5). LRF was composed of a nonwoven polyester fabric (1.8 microns, 4.6 gm). Removal of leukocytes and platelets by LRF was 98% for both. A period of 30 min equilibration was allowed before any experimental intervention, at which time the diagonal artery was occluded for 20 min and then reperfused. All arrhythmias were defined and quantified in accordance with the Lambeth Convention. Regional wall thickening was examined by a pulsed Doppler dimension system. No significant differences were observed in hemodynamic variables between the two groups; however, rabbits treated with a LRF demonstrated greater regional wall thickening (LRF group: 17 +/- 0.9%, control group: 11 +/- 0.3%, p less than 0.01), as well as significant improvement in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias (LRF group: 12.5%, control group: 47.2%, p less than 0.01). The data suggest that LRF may help prevent arrhythmias, and preserve left ventricular contraction, during and after intracoronary thrombolysis. 
Vena caval flow: assessment with cine MR velocity mapping. The authors used cine magnetic resonance (MR) velocity mapping to study flow in the superior vena cava (SVC) and inferior vena cava (IVC) of 13 healthy control subjects and 13 patients with right-sided cardiac disease. In the control subjects, peaks of flow in systole and diastole were observed, and mean SVC flow was 35% of the cardiac output. Respiratory gating was used in six control subjects to acquire images at end inspiration and end expiration, and although the systolic peak was reduced at end expiration, total flow was unchanged. A reduced systolic peak and retrograde flow in the IVC were observed in patients with tricuspid regurgitation. A reduced diastolic peak was seen in patients with pulmonary hypertension, pericardial constriction, and right ventricular dysplasia, reflecting reduced diastolic compliance of the right ventricle. In the patient with obstruction of the SVC, absence of flow was confirmed, and retrograde flow was seen in the azygos vein. The authors believe that cine MR velocity mapping is a reliable method of studying vena caval flow noninvasively and that it has important potential applications for the investigation of disorders of the right side of the heart. 
Lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Syncope in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death. Therefore, the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope. Thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes (group 1) and 65 patients had no syncope (group 2). These two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age, gender, incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia, clinical history, frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease. There were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation. There were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium, atrioventricular node, accessory pathway and right ventricle. Furthermore, no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia, mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation, and minimum RR interval during atrial fibrillation. In addition, the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2. The occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates. Furthermore, the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest RR interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence. 
Doxazosin: a study in a cohort of patients with hypertension in general practice--an interim report. The objective of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in a substantial cohort of hypertensive patients drawn from general practice. A total of 4027 patients entered the study, 1472 of whom (36.6%) were untreated hypertensive patients. Patients were not advised to change diet, smoking habit, or life-style during the study. Twenty-one percent were cigarette smokers, and concurrent diabetes was present in 2.3%. Baseline blood cholesterol exceeded 200 mg/dl (5.2 mmol/L) in 90% and 250 mg/dl (6.5 mmol/L) in 56% of patients. The mean decrease in blood pressure produced by doxazosin was 22/15 mm Hg after 10 weeks of therapy; there was a mean decrease in heart rate of 1 beat/min. The mean maintenance dose for all patients was 3.1 mg/day. Side effects considered related or possibly related to treatment were reported in 705 patients. Treatment was discontinued in 233 patients (5.8%) because of adverse events related or possibly related to treatment with doxazosin. Doxazosin produced a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels and a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and the ratio of high-density lipoprotein:total cholesterol. The potential reduction in 10-year coronary heart disease risk (according to the Framingham equation) was calculated to be 20.4%. 
Management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy. Massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman. The infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ Dacron graft covered by omentum. The patient is alive and well 15 months later. 
Failure of Hancock pericardial xenografts: is prophylactic bioprosthetic replacement justified? The incidence of major valve-related complications was evaluated in a series of patients in whom the Hancock pericardial xenograft was used for aortic (AVR; n = 84), mitral (MVR; n = 17) and mitral-aortic (MAVR; n = 13) valve replacement. At 7 years actuarial survival is 66% +/- 8% after AVR, 64% +/- 13% after MVR, and 41% +/- 15% after MAVR, whereas actuarial freedom from valve-related death is 79% +/- 7% after AVR, 78% +/- 13% after MVR, and 81% +/- 12% after MAVR. Actuarial freedom from thromboemboli and anticoagulant-related hemorrhage at 7 years is 93% +/- 4% and 98% +/- 2% after AVR and 83% +/- 10% and 88% +/- 11% after MVR; no such complications occurred after MAVR. Structural valve deterioration determined at reoperation, at autopsy, or by clinical investigation was observed in 34 patients with AVR (10.0 +/- 0.2%/patient-year), in 10 with MVR (10.6 +/- 3.3%/patient-year), and in 9 with MAVR (16.6 +/- 5.5%/patient-year). After AVR, 19 patients underwent reoperation and 2 died before reoperation; 4 patients with MVR underwent reoperation, and 7 patients with MAVR underwent reoperation and 1 died before reoperation. Seventy-eight percent of the current survivors (13 patients with AVR, 7 with MVR, and 1 with MAVR) have clinical evidence of valve failure. At 7 years actuarial freedom from structural deterioration of the Hancock pericardial xenograft is 25% +/- 7% after AVR, 29% +/- 14% after MVR, and 0% after MAVR. 
Complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury. We have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema, transient leukopenia, and intravascular leukocyte aggregation. We hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury. In the preliminary phase of the study, we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in C3 to 15 +/- 10% (mean +/- SEM) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion (p less than 0.05). We then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor (CVF) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury. Rabbits treated with CVF but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema, with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 +/- 0.11 and 5.26 +/- 0.12, respectively. For rabbits that were not treated with CVF but underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the comparable numbers were 6.15 +/- 0.36 and 5.19 +/- 0.32 (p less than 0.05 for right versus left). For CVF-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion, the right/left difference persisted (6.77 +/- 0.48 versus 5.35 +/- 0.14, p less than 0.01). Immunocytochemistry documented C3 deposition in non-CVF rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in CVF-treated rabbits. We conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation, but it is not a complement-dependent injury. 
Transient myocardial ischaemia after acute myocardial infarction. The prevalence and characteristics of transient myocardial ischaemia were studied in 203 patients with recent acute myocardial infarction by both early (6.4 days) and late (38 days) ambulatory monitoring of the ST segment. Transient ST segment depression was much commoner during late (32% patients) than early (14%) monitoring. Most transient ischaemia (greater than 85% episodes) was silent and 80% of patients had only silent episodes. During late monitoring painful ST depression was accompanied by greater ST depression and tended to occur at a higher heart rate. Late transient ischaemia showed a diurnal distribution, occurred at a higher initial heart rate, and was more often accompanied by a further increase in heart rate than early ischaemia. Thus in the first 2 months after myocardial infarction transient ischaemia became increasingly common and more closely associated with increased myocardial oxygen demand. Because transient ischaemic episodes during early and late ambulatory monitoring have dissimilar characteristics they may also have different pathophysiologies and prognostic implications. 
Changes in myocardial ischemic threshold during daily activities. This study assesses the variations in myocardial ischemic threshold (heart rate at the onset of ischemia) during daily activities in patients with ischemic episodes on Holter monitoring. Eighty patients with known coronary artery disease, positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes during a 24-hour period of Holter monitoring were studied. The lowest and the highest ischemic thresholds were determined for each patient. The mean lowest ischemic threshold was 85 beats/min, and the mean highest ischemic threshold was 109 beats/min. The highest ischemic threshold was identical to ischemic threshold values noted during exercise. Of the 895 ischemic episodes, 654 (74%) were preceded by a moderate (greater than 10%) increase in heart rate. The variability of ischemic threshold (difference in percentage between the highest and lowest ischemic thresholds) increased with the number of ischemic episodes (range 2 to 60%). However, in different patients with a similar number of ischemic episodes, different variability was observed. These differences in ischemic thresholds are probably indirect indicators of the vasomotor activity of the coronary arteries in different patients. 
Cholesterol and coronary heart disease. Future directions. The importance of high serum cholesterol levels as a risk factor for coronary heart disease and the benefit of lowering cholesterol levels for reducing risk are being increasingly accepted. A broad consensus to this effect has led to the establishment of the National Cholesterol Education Program. Although the available evidence fully justifies this program, its practical application to the American public has generated a series of new questions that must be explored. For example, it can be questioned whether reduction in coronary risk through lowering cholesterol levels extends to both sexes and all age groups. For people with high cholesterol levels, dietary modification is undoubtedly the first step of management, but the fraction of people responding adequately to dietary change remains to be determined. Finally, indications for drug therapy and choice of drugs need further exploration, particularly in the area of cost vs benefit. Thus, continuing research must be carried out in parallel with clinical and public health application of cholesterol education. 
Comparison of left ventricular ejection fraction by magnetic resonance imaging and radionuclide ventriculography in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. To assess the validity of gated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in determining left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF), MRI (Spin Echo, multislice-multiphase technique on the short-axis plane) was compared with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography in 32 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. All patients underwent MRI and radionuclide ventriculography, performed consecutively on the same day (mean time interval between the 2 examinations: 40 minutes). Comparison with LVEF showed a high correlation (y = 0.79 X +3.51, r = 0.91; p less than 0.001). Mean difference between radionuclide ventriculography and MRI data was 1.7, with the 95% confidence interval 0.71 to 2.68: MRI slightly underestimated LVEF. MRI interobserver and intrapatient variability (assessed in 15 of 32 patients) showed a high correlation (r = 0.91, r = 0.98). In conclusion, data suggest that MRI, using the short-axis approach and the multislice-multiphase technique, is an accurate, noninvasive, highly reproducible method of evaluating LVEF in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Tolerance to organic nitrates: evidence, mechanisms, clinical relevance, and strategies for prevention. OBJECTIVE: To review the available information about nitrate tolerance, its potential mechanisms, clinical implications, and strategies for prevention. DATA IDENTIFICATION: A survey of the National Library of Medicine MEDLINE database and bibliographies of the reviewed articles. STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Studies were selected from the English language literature with an emphasis on recent studies and, when available, randomized placebo-controlled studies. Old studies were selected on the basis of their historical value and originality. A total of 134 retrieved articles were considered relevant and were reviewed in depth. RESULTS: The available information about the experimental as well as the clinical evidence for tolerance to organic nitrates has been summarized. In addition, information related to potential mechanisms, clinical implications, and possible methods for prevention have been reviewed. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence indicates that prolonged in-vitro exposure to organic nitrates, continuous intravenous or topical administration of nitrates, and frequent in-vivo oral dosing result in the rapid development of tolerance to the peripheral as well as to the coronary vasodilatory effects of the drugs. This phenomenon leads to the rapid attenuation of the hemodynamic and anti-ischemic effects of nitrates in patients with ischemic heart disease or congestive heart failure, or both. Tolerance development seems to be dose- and time-dependent, and its main mechanism seems to be a depletion of sulfhydryl groups at the vascular cell. Although the repletion of sulfhydryl groups with the use of sulfhydryl-containing drugs may help to prevent tolerance, the efficacy and safety of this approach requires further evaluation. Intermittent therapy allowing a sufficiently long, daily nitrate-washout interval seems to be the most effective and the most safe strategy currently available for the prevention of nitrate tolerance. 
Transesophageal Doppler echocardiography evaluation of coronary blood flow velocity in baseline conditions and during dipyridamole-induced coronary vasodilation Transesophageal echocardiography allows the evaluation of proximal coronary artery anatomy and coronary blood flow velocity (CBFV). To assess the potential of transesophageal echocardiography in evaluating CBFV and its variations induced by coronary-active drugs, we studied 15 patients by high-quality pulsed wave Doppler recordings of CBFV. In these patients, transesophageal Doppler evaluation of CBFV was performed before, 2 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion (0.56 mg/kg in 4 minutes), and 2 minutes after aminophylline infusion (240 mg injected 4 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion). The following CBFV parameters were evaluated at each of the three steps of the study protocol: maximal and mean diastolic velocities and maximal and mean systolic velocities. Furthermore, the following indexes of coronary flow reserve were evaluated: the ratio between maximal diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration and the ratio between mean diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration. Nine of the 15 patients had a normal left anterior descending coronary artery (group A), whereas the remaining six had significant (less than or equal to 75%) stenosis (group B). In group A patients, all CBFV parameters increased significantly during dipyridamole infusion and returned to near baseline values after aminophylline infusion. In group B patients, on the other hand, none of the CBFV parameters increased after dipyridamole infusion. Dipyridamole/baseline maximal diastolic velocity and mean diastolic velocity ratios were, respectively, 3.22 +/- 0.96 and 3.04 +/- 0.88 in group A and 1.46 +/- 0.45 (p less than 0.01 versus group A) and 1.48 +/- 0.49 (p less than 0.01 versus group A) in group B patients. 
Response of angiographically normal and atherosclerotic left anterior descending coronary arteries to acetylcholine. Acetylcholine-induced constriction of human coronary arteries in vivo is commonly attributed to endothelial dysfunction. To examine the effects of 2 other important determinants of vascular responses--namely, agonist concentration and the segment of circulation under study--the diameters of proximal, middle and distal segments of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and coronary sinus oxygen saturation were measured in 10 patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries (group 1) and in 7 patients with coronary atherosclerosis (group 2) after intracoronary acetylcholine was infused at concentrations from 10(-7)M to between 10(-4)M and 10(-2)M. In group 1, acetylcholine caused minor (less than or equal to 6%) but progressive dilatation of the LAD up to 10(-4)M, but constriction, particularly of the distal segments and tertiary branches, occurred at higher concentrations. Over the same concentration range, coronary sinus oxygen saturation rose progressively from a basal level of 36 +/- 3% to a maximum of 72 +/- 3% in the absence of changes in heart rate and blood pressure, suggesting marked progressive dilatation of resistance vessels. Concentrations greater than or equal to 10(-3)M caused intense constriction of distal epicardial vessels and, in some cases, anginal pain and objective signs of ischemia. Conversely, in group 2, acetylcholine (infused only up to 10(-4)M for ethical reasons) failed to cause significant changes in LAD diameter. These data suggest that the local acetylcholine concentration and coronary vascular segment under study may determine the observed response to at least an equivalent extent as does the presence or absence of coronary atherosclerosis, raising the question of whether a constrictor response to intracoronary acetylcholine reliably indicates the presence of coronary atherosclerosis. 
Hirudin interruption of heparin-resistant arterial thrombus formation in baboons. To determine the role of thrombin in high blood flow, platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes we measured the relative antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects in baboons of hirudin, a highly potent and specific antithrombin, and compared the effects of heparin, an antithrombin III-dependent inhibitor of thrombin. Thrombus formation was determined in vivo using three relevant models (homologous endarterectomized aorta, collagen-coated tubing, and Dacron vascular graft) by measuring: (1) platelet deposition, using gamma camera imaging of 111In-platelets; (2) fibrin deposition, as assessed by the incorporation of circulating 125I-fibrinogen; and (3) occlusion. The continuous intravenous infusion of 1, 5, and 20 nmol/kg per minute of recombinant hirudin (desulfatohirudin) maintained constant plasma levels of 0.16 +/- 0.03, 0.79 +/- 0.44, and 3.3 +/- 0.77 mumol/mL, respectively. Hirudin interrupted platelet and fibrin deposition in a dose-dependent manner that was profound at the highest dose for all three thrombogenic surfaces and significant at the lowest dose for thrombus formation on endarterectomized aorta. Thrombotic occlusion was prevented by all doses studied. In contrast, heparin did not inhibit either platelet or fibrin deposition when administered at a dose that maximally prolonged clotting times (100 U/kg) (P greater than .1), and only intermediate effects were produced at 10-fold that dose (1,000 U/kg). Moreover, heparin did not prevent occlusion of the test segments. Hirudin inhibited platelet hemostatic function in concert with its antithrombotic effects (bleeding times were prolonged by the intermediate and higher doses). By comparison, intravenous heparin failed to affect the bleeding time at the 100 U/kg dose (P greater than .5), and only minimally prolonged the bleeding time at the 1,000 U/kg dose (P less than .05). We conclude that platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes are thrombin-mediated and that the biologic antithrombin hirudin produces a potent, dose-dependent inhibition of arterial thrombus formation that greatly exceeds the minimal antithrombotic effects produced by heparin. 
Plasma norepinephrine and dihydroxyphenylglycol in essential hypertension. The aim of the present study was to examine whether essential hypertension is associated with altered plasma concentrations of dihydroxyphenylglycol, the principal presynaptic metabolite of norepinephrine. Forearm venous plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol and norepinephrine were determined at rest and during graded orthostasis in 47 normotensive control subjects and 58 outpatients with essential hypertension. There was no group difference in age. At supine rest as well as during sitting and standing, hypertensive subjects had plasma norepinephrine concentrations similar to those in normotensive control subjects, but plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol concentrations were higher than those in normotensive control subjects. Both groups showed a linear relation between plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol (ordinate) and plasma norepinephrine (abscissa). The resulting regression line was steeper (p less than 0.02) and its ordinate intercept higher (p less than 0.01) in hypertensive than in control subjects. Eleven normotensive and 14 hypertensive subjects were also tested 3 hours after desipramine (1.5 mg/kg orally) was administered to inhibit neuronal norepinephrine reuptake. The drug did not alter plasma norepinephrine, but did reduce plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol and did abolish plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol responses to upright posture in both groups of subjects. The mean plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol concentration observed in the presence of desipramine again was higher in the hypertensive than in the control group (p less than 0.01) and closely agreed, in both groups, with the dihydroxyphenylglycol concentration given by the ordinate intercept of the dihydroxyphenylglycol versus norepinephrine regression line in the absence of desipramine. 
Duplex scanning of normal or minimally diseased carotid arteries: correlation with arteriography and clinical outcome. This study evaluated the role of duplex scanning in the management of patients with normal or minimally diseases carotid arteries. Carotid duplex scans were interpreted according to previously established criteria and considered normal when pulsed Doppler spectral waveforms showed laminar flow or only minor flow disturbances. Normal flow patterns were noted by duplex scanning in 100 carotid bifurcations of 72 patients who also underwent carotid arteriography. Neurologic symptoms (amaurosis fugax, transient ischemic attack, or stroke) were present in relation to 23 arteries and absent in relation to 77 arteries. On the 23 symptomatic sides arteriography was interpreted as normal in eight, 1% to 15% stenosis in 14, and 16% to 40% stenosis in one. For the 77 asymptomatic sides, arteriography showed normal vessels in 15, 1% to 15% stenosis in 43, and 16% to 40% stenosis in 19. One symptomatic patient was treated by carotid endarterectomy for an irregular 1% to 15% stenosis. None of the asymptomatic lesions were in the range of 80% to 99% stenosis, which would justify endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease. Clinical follow-up for a mean interval of 28 months on 20 of the 22 symptomatic patients not undergoing surgery revealed no strokes and transient recurrent symptoms in two patients. Assuming that the single operation in this study was indicated, duplex scanning correctly identified lesions not requiring carotid endarterectomy in 96% (22/23) of the symptomatic patients. A normal duplex scan also predicted a benign clinical outcome without operation. Duplex scanning can reliably exclude surgically treatable carotid bifurcation lesions in asymptomatic patients, and endarterectomy is rarely indicated in symptomatic patients with normal duplex scan results. This study supports a nonoperative therapeutic approach for most patients with neurologic symptoms and a normal carotid duplex scan on the appropriate side. 
The effects of etomidate on cerebral metabolism and blood flow in a canine model for hypoperfusion. The effects of etomidate, a nonbarbiturate cerebral metabolic depressant, on cerebral metabolism and blood flow were studied in 29 dogs during cerebral hypoperfusion. Three groups of animals were studied during a 45-minute normotensive and a 30-minute hypotensive period: 10 control animals without etomidate, 11 animals receiving a 0.1-mg/kg etomidate bolus followed by an infusion of 0.05 mg/kg/min etomidate (low-dose group), and eight animals receiving doses of etomidate sufficient to suppress electroencephalographic bursts (high-dose group). The mean arterial pressure fell to similar levels (p less than 0.05) during hypotension in all three groups (40 +/- 5, 38 +/- 3, and 27 +/- 6 mm Hg, respectively). The mean cerebral oxygen extraction fraction rose (p less than 0.05) from 0.23 +/- 0.02 to 0.55 +/- 0.08 in the five control animals tested and from 0.33 +/- 0.02 to 0.53 +/- 0.02 in the seven animals tested in the low-dose group, but did not increase (p greater than 0.05) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group (0.24 +/- 0.03 to 0.23 +/- 0.05). Mean cerebral blood flow levels decreased in all groups during hypotension (p less than 0.05): 42 +/- 3 to 21 +/- 4 ml/100 gm/min (52% +/- 12% decrease) in the five animals tested in the control group, 60 +/- 8 to 24 +/- 6 ml/100 gm/min (56% +/- 13% decrease) in the four animals tested in the low-dose group, and 55 +/- 8 to 22 +/- 3 ml/100 gm/min (60% +/- 4% decrease) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group. In summary, the cerebral oxygen extraction fraction increased in the control animals and low-dose recipients during hypotension, suggesting the presence of threatened cerebral tissue. In contrast, the cerebral oxygen extraction did not change during hypotension when high-dose etomidate was administered. It is concluded that high-dose etomidate may preserve the cerebral metabolic state during hypotension in the present model. 
Peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in three models of hypertension in rats: an in vitro autoradiography study. In vitro autoradiography was used to compare peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor binding in various tissues using [3H]prazosin and [3H]rauwolscine, respectively, in three models of experimental hypertension in rats. Models studied included two-kidney, one-clip hypertension, one-kidney, one-clip hypertension, desoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension, and three normotensive control groups: two-kidney control, one-kidney control and salt-loaded control. Blood pressures at death were significantly higher in all three hypertensive groups compared with normotensive controls, but there were no significant differences among the hypertensive or normotensive groups. Plasma norepinephrine levels were significantly elevated in all three hypertensive groups compared with respective controls, with no significant differences among hypertensive or control groups. In all three hypertensive groups, there were significant reductions in binding of aortic and mesenteric vascular alpha-1 receptors, renal tubular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors, and adrenal cortical alpha-2 receptors when compared with respective control groups. Reduced binding of cardiac ventricular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors was also found in all hypertensive groups, but not to statistically significant levels. No significant differences in intestinal alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptor binding were detected in either hypertensive or normotensive groups. The results suggest increased peripheral sympathetic activity in all three models of experimental hypertension, which is associated with down-regulation of alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors in a number of peripheral tissues, especially those that control cardiovascular hemodynamics and fluid and salt balance. There is no evidence of an increase in peripheral alpha receptor binding as has often been found in some models of genetic or spontaneous hypertension. 
Transient left ventricular cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging as an indicator of severe coronary artery disease. Transient left ventricular (LV) cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging was reported in 45 of 510 (9%) consecutive patients referred for dipyridamole-thallium imaging. Clinical and hemodynamic effects observed during dipyridamole infusion were not predictive of transient cavitary dilation on the thallium images. Coronary angiography was performed in 32 of the 45 patients: 75% had either left main, 3-vessel or "high-risk" 2-vessel coronary artery disease. Although 25 of 45 patients (56%) with transient cavitary dilation were either asymptomatic or had only grade 1/4 effort angina, 16 of 25 patients (64%) not referred for coronary revascularization sustained a cardiac event during a mean follow-up of 12 months. Most events were cardiac deaths (75%) and 87% of events occurred within 4 months of the test. Noncardiac surgery was performed in 187 of the 510 patients. The postoperative cardiac event rate was 2% in the 101 patients with normal scans or fixed defects, 19% in 75 patients with reversible perfusion defects and 58% in 12 patients with reversible cavitary dilation (p less than 0.0001). Thus, transient LV dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging is a marker of severe underlying coronary artery disease, denotes a poor prognosis and predicts a high risk of postoperative cardiac complications in patients who undergo noncardiac surgery. 
Effect of increased left atrial pressure on breathing frequency in anesthetized dog. Distension or loading of the isolated canine left heart caused reflex tachypnea in prior studies. The object of the present effort was to explore the possibility that this depended primarily on atrial distension. Cardiopulmonary bypass perfusion and ligation of pulmonary veins were used to isolate the left-heart chambers of anesthetized dogs. Simultaneous distension of the beating left atrium and fibrillating ventricle stimulated breathing frequency (f), whereas isolated ventricular distension did not. At other times, intervals of atrial fibrillation were imposed under two different conditions: 1) while the right heart and lungs were bypassed and systemic perfusion was provided by the left ventricle using blood returned to the left atrium by pump and 2) while the ventricles fibrillated and systemic perfusion was supplied directly by the pump. Atrial fibrillation increased left atrial pressure and stimulated f in condition 1. In condition 2, f increased only if fibrillation was associated with a rise in left atrial pressure. Vagal cooling blocked the effect of fibrillation. I conclude that left atrial distension may initiate reflex tachypnea. 
Blood-pool radionuclide angiography in patients with a Novacor left ventricular assist device. Blood-pool radionuclide angiography was used to investigate the left ventricular function in eight patients who received a Novacor assist device as a bridge-to-cardiac transplantation. Studies were performed during maximal and minimal tolerated assist device flows. The left ventricular ejection fraction, volumes, cardiac output, and the pump ejection fraction were computer-assessed. All patients had severe left ventricular dilation and hypokinesis before insertion of the assist device, with a mean ejection fraction of 18% +/- 4% which improved to 44% +/- 18% (p less than 0.01) during maximal assist device flows, but fell to 25% +/- 15% (p less than 0.01) during minimal flows. The ventricular volumes became normal at maximal assist device flow but increased significantly (p less than 0.05) during minimal flow. The pump was well visualized and had an ejection fraction of 82% +/- 7%. These data indicate that this assist device effectively unloads the left ventricle. The deterioration in ejection fraction following decrease in assist device flow is in keeping with the dependency of these patients on the device to sustain adequate hemodynamics. 
Doxazosin for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure: results of a randomized double-blind and placebo-controlled study. In this study we evaluated the effects of once-daily administration of oral doxazosin in patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF). After a stabilization period of at least 2 weeks with digitalis and diuretics, 73 patients with chronic CHF were randomized to receive additionally either doxazosin or placebo in double-blind fashion. Patients underwent weekly dose adjustments with increasing doses of doxazosin (1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 mg daily) or placebo for 5 weeks, and 67 were evaluated for 12 additional weeks on maximally tolerated doses of blinded study drugs. Treatment groups were evaluated with respect to symptoms of heart failure, indexes of quality of life and left ventricular function, frequency and type of arrhythmia, adverse events, and mortality rates. Doxazosin (11.9 +/- 0.9 mg) given once daily produced a favorable trend in the investigators' and patients' assessments of symptomatic change. Doxazosin was associated with a significantly higher level of voluntary submaximal exercise and a favorable trend on left ventricular ejection fraction (increase of 9.8% of the baseline value vs 2.7% with placebo; p = NS). During the 3-month steady-dosing period, patients treated with doxazosin had a significant (p less than 0.004) reduction in ventricular arrhythmias and significantly fewer morbid and mortal cardiac events (including episodes of worsening heart failure severe enough to prompt discontinuation of the study, myocardial infarction, and death). Doxazosin was well tolerated, producing no major side effects and only a slightly higher frequency of minor treatment-related side effects compared with placebo (p = NS). 
Doppler echocardiographic comparison of the Carpentier and Duran anuloplasty rings versus no ring after mitral valve repair for mitral regurgitation. To compare the hemodynamic results of different anuloplasty techniques of primary valve repair for mitral regurgitation, 122 patients were prospectively studied with Doppler echocardiograms 5 to 10 days after operation. Seventy-seven patients had mitral valve prolapse, 27 had coronary artery disease, 13 patients had rheumatic mitral valve lesions and 5 patients had infective endocarditis. Forty-eight patients received the flexible Duran ring, 46 received the more rigid Carpentier ring and 28 patients received no ring. Doppler echocardiography demonstrated a significant decrease in mitral valve area estimated by the pressure half-time method in patients who received either a Carpentier (2.6 +/- 0.8 cm2) or Duran ring (2.8 +/- 0.8 cm2) when compared with patients who received no ring (3.2 +/- 0.7 cm2) (p = 0.01). No significant differences were observed for peak transmitral diastolic velocity, peak transmitral diastolic gradient, or the grade of mitral regurgitation by color flow Doppler mapping between patients with and without rings. The etiology of mitral disease and concomitant surgical procedures accompanying mitral valve repair did not significantly influence mitral valve area, peak velocity or peak gradient. These data suggest that Carpentier and Duran rings decrease the hemodynamic mitral valve area; however, the decrease in valve area is small and not associated with a clinically important increase in transvalvular gradient. 
Injuries to the cervical spine causing vertebral artery trauma: case reports. In four patients with lesions of the vertebral artery resulting from cervical spine injury, two were due to unilateral facet dislocation and two to fractures of the dens. There was one arterial occlusion with minor vertebrobasilar symptoms, and an arterial lesion with thrombosis causing embolic occlusion of the basilar artery with lethal outcome. In one patient a fresh fracture of the dens caused dislocation of C1/2 with reversible occlusion of the left and stenosis of the right vertebral artery, resulting in unconsciousness. In a patient with pseudarthrosis of the dens an aneurysm of the vertebral artery could be detected. Cerebellar or cerebral symptoms associated with cervical spine injury should be investigated by vertebral angiography because vertebral arterial injury may be more common than suspected and may simulate traumatic brain damage. 
Results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. Limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is complicated by the diffuse, obstructive, calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical. Furthermore, decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus, hypoalbuminemia, uremia, and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage. This report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients. A total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients (17 diabetic) during a period of 5 years. The operative mortality rate was 6%. During the same period, 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without ESRD. Primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months (92% vs 90%). In the group with ESRD, overall limb salvage was 83% at 2 years. Life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with ESRD beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate (38%; 9/24) during this interval. It is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with ESRD in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration. Revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population. 
Inferior vena caval filter thrombi: evaluation with intravascular US. A 20-MHz intravascular ultrasound (US) transducer inside a percutaneously inserted catheter was used to evaluate inferior vena caval (IVC) filters for thrombi in vitro and in vivo. Six different IVC filters were studied with intravascular US in a saline-filled model. Each filter had a characteristic, recognizable US pattern. Experimental thrombi as small as 0.5 cm3 were easily detected. Intravascular US was used clinically 25 times to evaluate the IVC in 23 patients with 24 IVC filters. Positive-contrast cavograms were available for comparison in all 25 cases. In 13 cases, no thrombi were identified in the filter or IVC with either intravascular US or cavography; in five of 12 cases with thrombi, intravascular US and cavography demonstrated the thrombi equally well. In six cases, intravascular US was superior to cavography in detection or delineation of thrombus in the IVC or filter. Intravascular US was considered superior to external duplex US in evaluation of caval thrombi in all 21 cases available for comparison. No complications from intravascular US were noted. 
Angiographic follow-up after placement of a self-expanding coronary-artery stent BACKGROUND. The placement of stents in coronary arteries after coronary angioplasty has been investigated as a way of treating abrupt coronary-artery occlusion related to the angioplasty and of reducing the late intimal hyperplasia responsible for gradual restenosis of the dilated lesion. METHODS. From March 1986 to January 1988, we implanted 117 self-expanding, stainless-steel endovascular stents (Wallstent) in the native coronary arteries (94 stents) or saphenous-vein bypass grafts (23 stents) of 105 patients. Angiograms were obtained immediately before and after placement of the stent and at follow-up at least one month later (unless symptoms required angiography sooner). The mortality after one year was 7.6 percent (8 patients). Follow-up angiograms (after a mean [+/- SD] of 5.7 +/- 4.4 months) were obtained in 95 patients with 105 stents and were analyzed quantitatively by a computer-assisted system of cardiovascular angiographic analysis. The 10 patients without follow-up angiograms included 4 who died. RESULTS. Complete occlusion occurred in 27 stents in 25 patients (24 percent); 21 occlusions were documented within the first 14 days after implantation. Overall, immediately after placement of the stent there was a significant increase in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant decrease in the percentage of the diameter with stenosis (changing from a mean [+/- SD] of 1.88 +/- 0.43 to 2.48 +/- 0.51 mm and from 37 +/- 12 to 21 +/- 10 percent, respectively; P less than 0.0001). Later, however, there was a significant decrease in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant increase in the stenosis of the segment with the stent (1.68 +/- 1.78 mm and 48 +/- 34 percent at follow-up). Significant restenosis, as indicated by a reduction of 0.72 mm in the minimal luminal diameter or by an increase in the percentage of stenosis to greater than or equal to 50 percent, occurred in 32 percent and 14 percent of patent stents, respectively. CONCLUSIONS. Early occlusion remains an important limitation of this coronary-artery stent. Even when the early effects are beneficial, there are frequently late occlusions or restenosis. The place of this form of treatment for coronary artery disease remains to be determined. 
An echocardiographic assessment of atrial mechanical behaviour. Relations between movement of the atrioventricular ring and changes in left atrial and ventricular dimensions were studied by echocardiography and compared with apexcardiography and Doppler mitral flow velocity traces in 20 healthy controls and in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (n = 28) or dilatation (n = 16). During left ventricular systole the atrioventricular ring, a structure common to ventricle and atrium, moved towards the ventricular apex, thus increasing left atrial volume. This action matched pulmonary venous return because it was in phase with the transverse left atrial dimension measured from aortic root to posterior left atrial wall. During early diastole, the mitral ring moved rapidly towards the atrium as transmitral flow accelerated. This requires a force directed from ventricle to atrium, likely to be the result of elastic recoil arising from compression of the ventricular myocardium or stretching of the atrial myocardium during ventricular systole. Two additional mechanisms of ventricular filling with atrial systole were recognised: (a) an increase in ventricular volume as the atrioventricular ring moved upwards and (b) transverse left ventricular expansion by pressure driven transmitral flow. The former is undetectable by Doppler from the apex; it accounted for 10% of ventricular filling in the healthy controls, but for significantly less in those with ventricular dilatation. In left ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular filling was maintained by both mechanisms compensating for the reduced increase in volume early in diastole. Interactions between the atrium and ventricle are functionally important during ventricular systole, early diastole, and in atrial systole. They are not included in the traditional separation of atrial function into reservoir, conduit, and pump functions. 
Biphasic effects of doxorubicin on the calcium release channel from sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle. To define the mechanism of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, the effects of doxorubicin and caffeine were examined on calcium release channels from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum. We found that calcium release from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles was induced by both compounds. When sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles were incorporated into planar lipid bilayers, calcium-permeable channels were observed. Addition of caffeine (2.5-10 mM) increased channel open probability from less than 0.1% to 40%, and this effect persisted for a mean of 44 minutes. In contrast, doxorubicin (2.5-10 microM) had a biphasic effect; initially, doxorubicin activated the channel, whereas after a mean of 8 minutes, the channel became irreversibly inhibited. Although the degree of channel activation by doxorubicin was concentration dependent, the time needed to inactivate the channel was concentration independent. Pretreatment with dithiothreitol (0.2 mM) prevented doxorubicin-induced channel inactivation, and channel activity persisted for an average of 58 minutes. Dithiothreitol alone did not alter channel open probability. Our results support the hypotheses that 1) the integrity of sulfhydryl groups is important for some aspects of calcium release channel function and 2) activation and inactivation of the channel are separable processes. The biphasic effect of doxorubicin on channel function may also correspond to the clinically observed adverse effects of doxorubicin, a widely used chemotherapeutic agent that, after prolonged usage, causes a dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Freehand allograft aortic valve replacement and aortic root replacement. Utility of intraoperative echocardiography and Doppler color flow mapping. Seventeen consecutive patients undergoing 20 planned aortic valve replacements with allograft valves at Stanford University Medical Center were studied with intraoperative epicardial echocardiography and Doppler color flow mapping before and after cardiopulmonary bypass. Native aortic valves were replaced in 12 of the 20 patients, and eight patients underwent second aortic valve procedures. In 17 of 20 patients allograft selection was guided by prebypass echocardiographic estimates of annular diameter and/or length of allograft aortic root required. Other prebypass findings included unanticipated severe mitral regurgitation in one patient (which precluded allograft aortic valve replacement), left-to-right shunts in five patients, ascending aortic dissection in one, and aortic root disease necessitating coronary reimplantation or bypass in two. Postbypass echocardiography demonstrated acceptable competency of 18 of 19 allograft valves (mild or no aortic insufficiency). Postbypass echocardiography also documented successful repair of four of five shunts and mild mitral regurgitation in 15 of 19 patients (versus 11 of 19 before bypass). Conclusions: Intraoperative echocardiography-Doppler mapping is a useful adjunct for allograft aortic valve or aortic root replacement; it allows confident selection of appropriate tissue size before aortic cross clamping, which minimizes delay from allograft thawing procedures. It also provides helpful information about the extent of aortic root disease and coronary ostial anatomy before bypass, confirms allograft competency after bypass, and detects accompanying valvular and other hemodynamic lesions before and after allograft valve replacement. 
Normotensive young men with family histories of hypertension gain weight and decrease their intraerythrocyte sodium content during a 5-year follow-up. Young normotensive men matched for age and body mass index with (n = 16) and without (n = 13) family histories of hypertension were investigated at baseline and after 5 years of follow-up with respect to blood pressure, body weight and intracellular sodium content. Subjects with positive family histories of hypertension increased significantly in body weight (from 81.9 +/- 11.5 kg to 89.5 +/- 11.4 kg, P less than 0.001) compared to subjects with negative family histories of hypertension (from 79.9 +/- 10.8 kg to 80.7 +/- 12.2 kg, NS). Their blood pressure did not differ initially (137 +/- 12/75 +/- 11 mmHg vs. 135 +/- 8/72 +/- 9 mmHg), but was reduced in subjects without family histories of hypertension (to 125 +/- 3/68 +/- 13 mmHg) in the follow-up examination. At follow-up, body mass index showed a positive correlation with blood pressure among subjects with positive family histories of hypertension (r = 0.77, P less than 0.001). At baseline, subjects with hypertensive fathers had significantly higher intraerythrocyte sodium levels than subjects with normotensive parents. At re-examination 5 years later, this difference was no longer present. We conclude that normotensive subjects with positive family histories of hypertension are predisposed to gain weight rather than to show an increase in blood pressure at this age. Normalization of intracellular sodium content, as found in the present study, could be a consequence of this weight gain and the ensuing metabolic adaption. 
Comparison of direct and indirect measures of systemic arterial pressure during weightlifting in coronary artery disease. Based on auscultation measurements after exercise, circuit weight training in cardiac patients has been reported to provoke minimal increases in systolic pressure. Direct (brachial artery catheter) and indirect (sphygmomanometry) measures of blood pressure were compared at rest, during lifting with the legs (approximately the fourth, ninth and fourteenth repetition) and during 2 minutes of recovery after lifting with the arms and legs. Subjects performed 15 repetitions of single-arm curl, single-arm military press and single- and double-leg press exercises at 40 and 60% of the maximum load that could be lifted once on a multistation weightlifting apparatus. Indirect measures of systolic pressure at rest were 13% less than those recorded directly (130 +/- 7 vs 149 +/- 8 torr; p less than 0.01); diastolic pressures were similar using either method. This pattern was maintained during lifting with the legs at both intensities, and after exercise with both the legs and the arms. The mean systolic pressure recorded indirectly immediately after exercise was 63 torr (31%) and 76 torr (34%) less than the average peak intraarterial value recorded during leg and arm exercises, respectively. The highest intraarterial pressures were generated during the final repetitions of the set; immediately after the last repetition, both systolic and diastolic pressures rapidly decreased. It is concluded that indirect estimates of systolic pressure are significantly less than true arterial values at rest, and during and after lifting. Moreover, indirect measurements after lifting do not allow accurate conclusions to be drawn about the arterial pressures generated during lifting because of the rapid decrease in pressure that occurs after exercise. 
Factors associated with recurrent myocardial infarction within one year after acute myocardial infarction. In a large population of patients (n = 3666) who were discharged from the hospital after acute myocardial infarction and followed up for 1 year, factors associated with recurrent nonfatal (n = 171) or fatal (n = 74) infarction were identified. Also, the effects of combining various end points (recurrent nonfatal or fatal infarction and other cardiac death) in multivariate analyses, a practice common in many small studies that evaluate the predictive-value of various treatments or special tests, was examined. In univariate analyses, patients with nonfatal recurrent infarction did not differ with respect to age or gender from infarct-free survivors, but they more often had a history of previous myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, and diabetes; more severe pulmonary congestion was present on chest x-ray during the admission, and a non-Q wave index infarction was more frequent. Patients with either a fatal or nonfatal recurrent infarction had more angina pectoris during follow-up (55% to 60%) compared with 27% in event-free survivors and 31% in patients who died of other cardiac causes in whom this factor could be assessed before death. In multivariate analyses, historical and clinical prognostic factors were ranked differently for fatal or nonfatal reinfarction and other cardiac causes of death; angina pectoris at follow-up was highly related to recurrent infarction (fatal or nonfatal), along with a history of diabetes, and a non-Q wave index infarction. These factors were not independently related to other causes of cardiac death. 
Noninvasive measurement of renal blood flow with technetium-99m-DTPA in the evaluation of patients with suspected renovascular hypertension If a hypertensive patient with renal artery stenosis (RAS) is to benefit from percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) in terms of a sustained improvement in blood pressure control, one may postulate a demonstrable reduction in renal blood flow (RBF) to that kidney, reversible by PTRA. In a population of 32 hypertensive patients, RAS was present in 23 of 62 kidneys. Eleven of the 32 patients underwent renal revascularization, of whom 6 showed improvement in blood pressure control at 6 mo, i.e., had renovascular hypertension (RVH). There was no correlation between RBF and angiographic appearances of the renal artery. Furthermore, there was no significant difference between RBF in the stenosed kidneys of the patients with RVH compared with the stenosed kidneys of patients without RVH. Individual kidney RBF was 22% (s.d. 11) higher 1-3 wk after PTRA but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition increased RBF by 25% (s.d. 25) of baseline flow before PTRA but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome. Measurement of RBF is of limited value for the prediction of the long-term blood pressure response following PTRA. 
Activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke. The hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood, and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism. We analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls. The levels of antithrombin III, protein C, and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.001, 0.02, and 0.05, respectively). In contrast, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin III complex and crosslinked D-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls (p less than 0.01 and 0.001, respectively). At the time of admission, the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin III complex and crosslinked D-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization (one with prodromal embolism, three with intracardiac thrombi, and four with recurrent embolization) were 2.8 and 3.5 times, respectively, higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation. The lowest concentration of crosslinked D-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission. Our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin III complex and crosslinked D-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage. 
Comparison of converting enzyme inhibitor and calcium channel blocker in hypertensive glomerular injury. The protective effect of converting enzyme inhibitors in experimental hypertensive glomerular injury is associated with decreased systemic arterial and glomerular capillary pressure. Although calcium channel blockers effectively lower systemic blood pressure, their effect on glomerular capillary pressure and on hypertensive glomerular injury is uncertain. We compared equihypotensive treatment with the calcium antagonist TA 3090 or the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in post-salt hypertensive Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) rats for up to 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy. Before the nephrectomy, all rats demonstrated hypertension (mean 177 mm Hg), proteinuria (mean 175 mg/day), and mild glomerulosclerosis (mean injury score 35). Rats treated with captopril or TA 3090 demonstrated a significant and equivalent decrease in systolic blood pressure compared with untreated rats at 2, 3, and 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy; however, only captopril reduced proteinuria. Final proteinuria was actually increased in rats treated with TA 3090 compared with untreated rats. Glomerular injury score was significantly decreased in captopril-treated compared with untreated rats at 2 weeks (33 +/- 9 versus 117 +/- 10, p less than 0.05) and 5 weeks (46 +/- 9 versus 94 +/- 24, p less than 0.05), whereas treatment with TA 3090 delayed but did not prevent progressive glomerular injury (2-week score 35 +/- 7, p less than 0.05 versus untreated; 5-week score 109 +/- 19, p = NS versus untreated). Thus, in hypertensive DS rats after subtotal nephrectomy, treatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor reduced systemic blood pressure, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis. However, equihypotensive treatment with a calcium channel blocker did not reduce proteinuria and delayed but did not prevent glomerulosclerosis. Thus, in the rat similar reductions in systemic blood pressure with these two classes of agents have disparate effects on the progression of chronic renal failure. 
Patient profiling: individualization of hypertension therapy. Although the stepped-care approach remains the cornerstone of antihypertensive therapy, the patient's profile must also be considered. Important issues include the patient's age, race and activity level, potential for hypertensive complications, presence of other diseases, cost of medications and probability of adherence to the recommended drug regimen. Nonpharmacologic treatment based on lifestyle changes is a useful adjunct to drug therapy, but it is not sufficient to control hypertension in most patients. Selection of pharmacologic therapy must be based on a knowledge of each drug's mode of action and side effects, as well as the characteristics of special patient populations. 
Atenolol therapy for exercise-induced hypertension after aortic coarctation repair. After successful repair of coarctation of the aorta in childhood, exercise-induced upper body systolic hypertension is well documented. Beta blockade has been shown to reduce the arm/leg gradient in untreated coarctation of the aorta; treatment before coarctation repair has decreased paradoxical hypertension after repair. Ten patients with successful surgical repair of coarctation, defined as a resting arm/leg gradient of less than or equal to 18 mm Hg, were evaluated by treadmill exercise before and after beta blockade with atenolol. Mean age was 5.5 years at repair and 18 at study. At baseline evaluation, systolic blood pressures at termination of exercise ranged from 201 to 270 mm Hg (mean 229 mm Hg). Arm/leg gradients at exercise termination ranged from 30 to 143 mm Hg (mean 84). Follow-up treadmill exercise studies were performed after beta blockade. Upper extremity systolic pressures at exercise termination were normalized in 9 of 10 patients. Maximal systolic blood pressure recorded at exercise termination ranged from 163 to 223 mm Hg (mean 196 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.005). Arm/leg gradient at termination of exercise also decreased significantly to a mean of 51 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). No patient had symptoms on atenolol and exercise endurance times were unchanged. The study results in this small series suggest that cardioselective beta blockade can be used to treat exercise-induced upper body hypertension effectively after surgical repair of coarctation. Because a high incidence of premature cardiovascular disease has been well documented after satisfactory surgical repair, the findings are of importance for this group of postoperative patients. 
The automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold. An automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD) was implanted in 40 patients with sudden cardiac arrest (n = 29), sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (n = 10) or recurrent syncope (n = 1) who were unsuitable for direct ablative surgery or had had unsuccessful medical therapy. The effect of patch electrode polarity on the defibrillation threshold was prospectively evaluated. Two large epicardial patches were used. Initial polarity was selected at random. Ventricular fibrillation was induced by direct current and a preestablished defibrillation protocol employed to assess the minimal energy that would reproducibly defibrillate the heart. Nineteen patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with the inferior left ventricular patch as an anode and nine patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with this patch as a cathode. In general, the defibrillation threshold was lower when this patch was used as an anode than when it was used as a cathode (18 +/- 10 versus 22.6 +/- 12.2 J; p less than 0.01). No preoperative variable predicted optimal polarity. Therefore, the effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold should be assessed in each patient at the time of AICD implantation so that the safety margin for satisfactory device function can be maximized. 
Pathophysiology of ischemic skin flaps: differences in xanthine oxidase levels among rats, pigs, and humans. Oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in a variety of diseases and pathologic processes, including ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI). Based on experimental work with rat skin-flap models, the enzyme xanthine oxidase (XO) has been proposed as a major source of free radicals responsible for tissue injury and flap necrosis. The presence of this enzyme is variable within different tissues of a specific species and between species. Xanthine oxidase levels in pig and human skin have not previously been reported. The activity of xanthine oxidase in the skin of rats (N = 16), pigs (N = 7), and humans (N = 8) was measured after varying intervals of ischemia and in the rat also following reperfusion. Control pig and human skin were found to contain minimal enzyme activity, almost 40 times less than that of the rat. In the rat, xanthine oxidase activity was stable throughout a prolonged period of ischemia, and a significant decrease in activity was found after 12 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.05). In humans, xanthine oxidase activity was unaffected by ischemia time, and in the pig, it did not increase until 24 hours of ischemia (p less than 0.05). The potential sources of free radicals and the mechanism of action of xanthine oxidase and its inhibitor allopurinol in improving flap survival in different species are reviewed. 
Controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs in pregnancy. It is taken for granted that severe hypertension in pregnancy should be treated, although the principle has not been formally tested by properly controlled trials. There is less certainty about treating mild to moderate hypertension (140/90 to 169/109 mm Hg). The risk of chronic hypertension in pregnancy depends on that of superimposed preeclampsia, which must be prevented by control of the blood pressure if antihypertensive treatment is to be beneficial. There is not a priori reason why lowering the blood pressure should have this effect. Most of the trials of treatment have been too small to provide conclusive answers. Usually treatment has been started too late to give a realistic expectation of influencing the evolution of superimposed preeclampsia. However, the largest trial of the early use of methyldopa in women with mild chronic hypertension, showed clearly that treatment does not prevent the superimposition of preeclampsia. beta-Adrenergic blocking agents, if used from the second start of the trimester, are associated with a major risk of severe growth retardation and are therefore contraindicated. Methyldopa has the best safety record, which includes long-term follow-up to assess the development of children exposed to methyldopa in utero. The ineffectiveness of antihypertensive drugs in preventing or ameliorating preeclampsia needs to be contrasted with the consistent evidence for the effectiveness of antiplatelet therapy. This is consistent with the increasing evidence that preeclampsia is not primarily, or even necessarily, a hypertensive disease. 
Immediate and short-term cardiovascular effects of fosinopril, a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in patients with essential hypertension. Immediate and short-term cardiovascular effects of a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, fosinopril, were assessed in 10 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Administration of a 10 mg oral dose of fosinopril reduced mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.001) as a result of a 24% fall in total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.001). Short-term therapy (12 weeks) maintained the decrease in mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.05) by decreasing total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.01), without reflexive cardiac stimulation or expanding intravascular volume. Renal vascular resistance decreased (p less than 0.05) while renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction remained unchanged. The response pattern to mental, isometric and orthostatic stress was similarly unchanged. Left ventricular mass diminished by 11% (p less than 0.01); myocardial contractility was unaffected. Afterload was reduced (p less than 0.05), and velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and stroke volume increased (p less than 0.05). Thus, arterial pressure reduction produced by fosinopril was associated with improved systemic and renal hemodynamics and reduced left ventricular mass. 
Transoesophageal echocardiogram may fail to diagnose perioperative myocardial infarction. We report a case in which a 55-yr-old man undergoing aortocoronary bypass was monitored with electrocardiogram and transoesophageal echocardiogram. Intraoperative electrocardiogram and simultaneous ECG recordings using the Holter monitor showed an ST elevation of greater than 2 mm and new Q wave formation in leads AVF and V5 during skin closure. However, the transoesophageal echocardiogram showed no wall motion abnormalities. No significant haemodynamic abnormalities were observed during the period of intraoperative ECG changes. He was treated with nitroglycerin infusion. Confirmation of a perioperative myocardial infarct was documented by postoperative 12-lead ECG and CPK-MB. A post-operative transthoracic echocardiogram showed a hypokinetic left ventricle with an anteroapical infarct. Thus transoesophageal echocardiography failed to detect an apical wall motion abnormality when the probe was placed at the midpapillary level. This limitation can be overcome by periodically obtaining apical views or by using probes with more than one imaging plane. 
Mitral valve prolapse. When is it serious? Mitral valve prolapse can best be diagnosed with careful clinical evaluation, including dynamic auscultation. Treatment consists of reassurance, pharmacotherapy for troublesome symptoms, and careful monitoring for signs of complications. Most complications can be either prevented or treated. 
Natural evolution of cardiac function, cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model. Serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in C3H/He mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis. Postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 (20.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 6), 20 (18.6 +/- 15.2%, n = 5), 30 (18.5 +/- 7.7%, n = 5) and 150 (30.0 +/- 18.7, n = 6) (p less than 0.001) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice (63.3 +/- 3.1%, n = 6). In the same group of animals, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 (in six of six mice) and only slight accumulation on day 20 (in one of five mice). In the chronic stage, two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake. The antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio (expressed as mean count density [mean counts/pixel of the region] ratio) increased greatly on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice) but not subsequently. Biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice) but not on days 20, 30 and 150. Pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10. On day 20, there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin. On days 30 and 150, myocardial fibrosis increased. 
Spontaneous cerebral embolism from descending thoracic aortic aneurysm--a case report. A case in which an aneurysm of the proximal descending thoracic aorta was the likely source of retrograde cerebral embolism is described. Atherosclerotic disease of the descending thoracic aorta should be considered as an unusual source of cerebral emboli. 
Contribution of transesophageal echocardiography to patient diagnosis and treatment: a prospective analysis. The capability of transesophageal (TEE) versus transthoracic (TTE) echocardiography as a diagnostic tool in clinical practice was prospectively examined in 86 consecutive cases. A conclusive diagnosis was possible in 95% with TEE, whereas the same result was achieved in 48% by TTE. Specifically, TEE provided a conclusive diagnosis in 14 of 16 cases of infective endocarditis, while TTE gave this result in 4 of the 16 cases (p less than 0.001). Similarly, TEE allowed a conclusive diagnosis in 11 of 11 instances of aortic dissection, while TTE gave this indication in two cases (p less than 0.001). TEE was similarly effective in eight of eight cases of atrial thrombi, whereas TTE gave the diagnosis in three of eight cases (p less than 0.01). In five subjects with intracardiac masses, TEE gave a conclusive diagnosis in all five, whereas TTE was able to diagnose conclusively in one subject (p less than 0.02). In seven patients with mitral regurgitation, TEE gave the conclusive diagnosis in all seven and TTE was able to provide this information in four (p = NS). TEE was able to provide a conclusive diagnosis in four patients with aortic insufficiency, and TTE gave the same information in two of the four (p = NS). In 14 patients with prosthetic valve dysfunction, TEE gave the diagnosis in 12 and TTE gave it in eight patients (p = NS). Both methods gave a conclusive diagnosis in 13 out of 13 cases of mitral stenosis (p = NS). Also, TEE provided a conclusive diagnosis in eight of eight patients with adult congenital heart disease and TTE gave this information in four (p = NS). 
Effect of synchronous increase in intrathoracic pressure on cardiac performance during acute endotoxemia. In the anesthetized closed-chest canine model of Gram-negative endotoxemia (n = 10), we tested the hypothesis that the effect of cardiac cycle-specific intrathoracic pressure pulses delivered by a heart rate-(HR) synchronized high-frequency jet ventilator (sync HFJV) on systolic ventricular performance is dependent on the level of preload. To control for HFJV frequency, hemodynamic responses were also measured at fixed frequency within 15% of HR (async HFJV). Biventricular stroke volumes (SV) were measured by electromagnetic flow probes. Measurements were made before (baseline) and 30 min after infusion of 1 mg/kg Escherichia coli endotoxin (serotype 055:B5) and then after 2 mg/kg propranolol at both low (less than 10 mmHg) left ventricular filling pressure (LVFP) and high (greater than 10 mmHg) LVFP. Ventricular function curves, aortic pressure-flow (P-Q) relationships, and venous return (VR) curves were analyzed. We found that endotoxin did not alter VR curves but shifted the aortic P-Q curves to the left with pressure on the x-axis (P less than 0.05). Volume loading increased SV (P less than 0.01) because of a rightward shift of the VR curve. No specific differences occurred with either sync or async HFJV during endotoxin, presumably because of preserved VR and shifted aortic P-Q. The lack of cardiac cycle-specific effects of ITP appears to be due to the selective endotoxin-induced changes in peripheral vasomotor tone that counterbalance any depressed myocardial contractility. 
Severe aortic regurgitation as a late complication of temporal arteritis. Two patients with a remote history of pathologically documented giant cell arteritis developed severe regurgitation. The first patient developed severe aortic regurgitation five years after the pathologic documentation of giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries. Giant cell arteritis involvement of the aortic root was confirmed. The second patient developed aortic regurgitation seven years after pathologic documentation of giant cell arteries of the temporal arteries. Although pathologic confirmation of the aortic root process was not obtained, this case strengthens the clinical association between giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries and subsequent aortic root dilatation and severe aortic regurgitation. Observation for signs of de novo severe aortic regurgitation is indicated in follow-up of patients with temporal arteritis. 
Calcium and contractile responses to phorbol esters and the calcium channel agonist, Bay K 8644, in arteries from hypertensive rats. This study examined the calcium dependency of contractions in arteries from rats made hypertensive by aortic coarctation and in rats with genetic hypertensive (stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats). Mesenteric artery and aortic strips were suspended in tissue baths for isometric force recording and contractions to two drugs were characterized: 1) a phorbol ester, TPA (12-O-tetrade-canoylphorbol-13-acetate), and 2) the calcium channel agonist, Bay K 8644. Thoracic aortae and mesenteric arteries from hypertensive rats were more sensitive to the contractile properties of the protein kinase C activator TPA than comparable arteries from normotensive rats. In thoracic aortae from coarcted rats, the contractile activity of Bay K 8644 was potentiated compared to normotensive values. In the presence of 19.2 mmol/L KCl, responses to Bay K 8644 in thoracic aortae from normotensive rats were potentiated and did not differ from coarcted values. In contrast, contractions to Bay K 8644 and TPA in abdominal aortae obtained below the coarctation were not different from normotensive values. Upon exposure to 26.2 mmol/L KCl, contractions to Bay K 8644 in abdominal aortae were potentiated and those in aortae from coarcted rats did not differ from sham values. Contractile responses to both drugs were blocked by nifedipine and verapamil and responses were attenuated in calcium-free solution. We conclude that calcium channel function and its regulation by protein kinase C contribute to altered vascular reactivity in hypertension. Further, these abnormalities have a pressure dependency, because they did not occur in abdominal aortae from coarcted rats. 
Effect of coronary occlusion and myocardial viability on myocardial activity of technetium-99m-sestamibi The timing effect of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion was studied in swine. In different groups of animals sestamibi was administered prior to coronary artery occlusion, during occlusion, or 1/2 hour following reperfusion. Sestamibi administered prior to coronary occlusion resulted in an insignificant decrease in 99mTc activity in the ischemic zone. However, infarct zone activity was reduced to 62 +/- 14% of the nonischemic zone. In contrast, administration during coronary occlusion resulted in similar significant reductions of both ischemic and infarct zone activity. Administration of sestamibi during reperfusion resulted in normal ischemic zone activity and markedly reduced activity in the infarct zone. Significantly reduced activity in the infarct zone was found to be independent of the timing of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and/or reperfusion. Thus, cell viability appears required for uptake and retention of isotope activity. 
Results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy BACKGROUND. Few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries. Because the cost of laser angioplasty is high, the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques. METHODS AND RESULTS. Laser angioplasty was performed in 66 patients with total occlusion of the iliofemoral artery in whom mechanical techniques failed to recanalize the obstructed vessel. The system consisted of a pulsed dye laser operated at 480 nm, 2 microseconds/pulse, 5 Hz, 50 mJ/pulse coupled into a 0.021-in. laser catheter. The treatment laser was connected with a diagnostic laser to induce tissue fluorescence for spectroscopic analysis via the same fiber. The treatment laser was emitted only when atheromatous tissue was recognized. After a pilot hole was created by laser emission, dilatation was performed to enlarge the channel. The mean length of occlusion was 8.8 +/- 6.1 cm. The primary success rate was 82%. It did not depend on the length of occlusion but was greater in non-calcified than in calcified lesions (88% versus 71%, p less than 0.03). Complications included seven early reocclusions that could be recanalized and eight perforations without clinical sequelae. At a mean 18-month follow-up, 64% of the laser-treated arteries remained patent. The rate of patency was related neither to the length of the occlusion nor to calcifications but was lower in patients who had early reocclusion (p less than 0.02). CONCLUSIONS. Pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty is effective for recanalization of totally occluded arteries that cannot be treated by conventional means. The efficacy is limited by calcifications. The long-term patency rate is acceptable given the severity of the lesions. 
Effect of aortic sclerosis on bone mineral measurements by dual-photon absorptiometry. Measurements of the bone mineral content (BMC) of lumbar spine by dual-photon absorptiometry (DPA) are performed mainly in the anteroposterior (AP) projection. Due to superimposition of the abdominal aorta, the BMC measured for patients with aortic calcification usually is too high. To determine the influence of aortic calcifications, DPA scans were performed in the AP-projection on 100 dissected abdominal aortae with different degrees of atherosclerosis placed on a human lumbar spine cast in lucite. The measured values were compared with those obtained in the same projection without the aortae. The average increase of the BMC values relative to the mean for the vertebrae L2 to L4 for aortae with severe complicated lesions, i.e., those containing larger amounts of calcium, was 0.03 g/cm2, with a maximum deviation of 0.09 g/cm2. Aortae with fatty streaks or fibrous plaques did not cause significant increases of the BMC. The mean deviation for aortae with mild complicated lesions, i.e., those containing smaller amounts of calcium, was within the range of instrument precision. 
Selection of patients with acute myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy PURPOSE: To critically review the current recommendations regarding the eligibility of patients with myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy. DATA IDENTIFICATION: Relevant studies published from January 1980 to January 1990 were identified through a computerized search of the English-language literature using MEDLINE and by a manual search of the bibliographies of all identified articles. STUDY SELECTION: All randomized, controlled trials of intravenous thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina were reviewed. Smaller, observational studies and previous review articles were included when relevant to the discussion. DATA EXTRACTION: Key data were extracted from each article, including the proportions of patients eligible for thrombolysis, the reasons for exclusion from thrombolytic therapy, and the clinical outcomes of patients treated and of those excluded from treatment. The validity of certain exclusion criteria was examined using subgroup analysis from the large, randomized mortality trials of intravenous thrombolysis and observations from smaller, nonrandomized studies. RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: To date, relatively few patients with myocardial infarction have been considered eligible for fibrinolytic therapy. In this group, both early and late mortality have been significantly reduced. Patients excluded from thrombolysis, however, continue to have a high early mortality. The data suggest that the potential benefits of this treatment might be extended to selected high-risk subgroups. In particular, the risk-benefit ratio may favor the inclusion of otherwise healthy elderly patients; certain patients presenting more than 6 hours after the onset of symptoms; and patients with a history of controlled systolic hypertension or brief, nontraumatic cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The data do not support the use of fibrinolytic therapy as primary treatment in patients with unstable angina or suspected myocardial infarction in the absence of confirmatory electrocardiographic changes. CONCLUSIONS: The full potential of thrombolytic therapy to alter the natural history of acute myocardial infarction can only be realized through the continued evaluation of selection criteria and the identification and treatment of the greatest possible number of eligible patients. 
Long-term vascular access via the inferior vena cava. A prospective evaluation of long-term venous access catheters placed via the inferior vena cava was performed to determine their efficacy as well as short- and long-term morbidity. From June 1987 to May 1989, 31 catheters were placed in 26 patients, for a total of 3,503 catheter use days. All catheters were placed via an infraumbilical approach when the more conventional supraumbilical route was technically difficult, dangerous, or impossible to be used. There were a total of 14 complications in 12 episodes (one in every 701 catheter use days), six episodes of catheter occlusion or vessel thrombosis (one in every 583 catheter use days), one catheter malfunction, one episode of cuff erosion through the skin, and one catheter that migrated through the inferior vena cava into the retroperitoneum. These results compared favorably with our experience with long-term catheters of a similar type placed via a supraumbilical approach into the superior vena cava. We conclude that the infraumbilical route for long-term central venous access is safe and technically easy and should be strongly considered in patients in whom venous access via the supraumbilical approach will be technically difficult or have a high likelihood of failure. 
Balloon valvuloplasty for critical aortic stenosis in the newborn: influence of new catheter technology. Between 1986 and July 1990, balloon valvuloplasty was attempted in eight newborns (less than 28 days of age) with isolated critical aortic valve stenosis. Balloon valvuloplasty could not be successfully accomplished in any of the three infants presenting before 1989. Since March 1989, when improved catheter technology became available, all five neonates presenting with critical aortic stenosis were treated successfully by balloon valvuloplasty. A transumbilical approach was utilized in all four infants in whom umbilical artery access could be obtained. One newborn who was 25 days of age underwent transfemoral balloon valvuloplasty. Balloon valvuloplasty was immediately successful in all five newborns, as evidenced by a decrease in valve gradient and improvement in left ventricular function and cardiac output. Peak systolic gradient was reduced by 64% from 69 +/- 8 to 25 +/- 3 mm Hg (p = 0.005). Left ventricular systolic pressure decreased from 128 +/- 9 to 95 +/- 9 mm Hg (p = 0.02) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 20 +/- 2 to 11 +/- 1 mm Hg (p = 0.02). Moderate (2+) aortic regurgitation was documented in two infants after valvuloplasty. The time from first catheter insertion to valve dilation averaged 57 +/- 14 min (range 26 to 94) and the median length of the hospital stay was 4 days. With the use of recently available catheters, the transumbilical technique of balloon valvuloplasty can be performed quickly, safely and effectively in the newborn with critical aortic stenosis. It does not require general anesthesia, cardiopulmonary bypass or a left ventricular apical incision and it preserves the femoral arteries for future transcatheter intervention should significant aortic stenosis recur. 
Myocarditis simulating acute transmural myocardial infarction. A patient with cardiogenic shock had typical electrocardiographic findings of acute anterior transmural myocardial infarction. Cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary arteries and severe biventricular failure. Postmortem examination confirmed normal coronary arteries; acute myocarditis, but no evidence for infarction, was found. Electrocardiographic changes of myocarditis may be indistinguishable from acute transmural infarction. In suspected cases, cardiac catheterization should be considered prior to thrombolytic therapy. 
Supravalvar aortic stenosis: a complication of aortic valve surgery. After a patient had aortic valvotomy and aortotomy for the relief of valvar aortic stenosis supravalvar stenosis developed over the next six years. 
The health belief model: predicting compliance and dropout in cardiac rehabilitation. We investigated the health belief model and the health locus of control constructs as predictors of group membership (compliers or dropouts) with cardiac rehabilitation and whether they added predictive utility to routinely assessed patient demographics and health behaviors. Questionnaires were completed on entry into the study by 120 patients with coronary artery disease, and by the end of the 6 month program there were 58 compliers and 62 dropouts. Discriminant function analyses were carried out to determine prediction of group membership. The health belief model predicted group membership 64.6% of the time, explaining 5.2% of the variance. Demographics, health behaviors, and health belief model factors accounted for 21.1% of the variance between compliers and total dropouts with group membership correctly predicted 74.4% of the time; avoidable and unavoidable dropout was correctly predicted 84.2% of the time with 56.9% of the variance explained. Health locus of control did not distinguish between compliers and dropouts. The addition of the health belief model provided additional information about compliance with cardiac rehabilitation beyond that explained by demographic and health behavior variables alone, particularly when predicting avoidable/unavoidable dropout. 
Regional myocardial blood flow and left ventricular diastolic properties in pacing-induced ischemia. The relation between left ventricular diastolic abnormalities and myocardial blood flow during ischemia was studied in eight open chest dogs with critical stenoses of the proximal left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries. The heart was paced at 1.7 times the heart rate at rest for 3 min. In dogs with coronary stenoses, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased from 8 +/- 1 to 14 +/- 2 mm Hg during pacing tachycardia (p less than 0.01) and 16 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.01) after pacing, with increased end-diastolic and end-systolic segment lengths in the ischemic regions. Left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relations for ischemic regions shifted upward during and after pacing tachycardia in dogs with coronary stenoses, indicating decreased regional diastolic distensibility. In dogs without coronary stenoses, the left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relation was unaltered. Pacing tachycardia without coronary stenoses induced an increase in anterograde coronary blood flow (assessed by flow meter) in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries, and a decrease in regional vascular resistance. In dogs with coronary stenoses, regional vascular resistance before pacing was decreased by 18%; myocardial blood flow (assessed by microspheres) was unchanged in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary artery territories. During pacing tachycardia with coronary stenoses, regional coronary vascular resistance did not decrease further; subendocardial myocardial blood flow distal to the left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis decreased (from 1.03 +/- 0.07 to 0.67 +/- 0.12 ml/min per g, p less than 0.01), as did subendocardial to subepicardial blood flow ratio (from 1.04 +/- 0.09 to 0.42 +/- 0.08, p less than 0.01). 
The role of preoperative radionuclide ventriculography in defining outcome after revascularization of the extremity. Revascularization of the extremity was performed upon 110 patients after preoperative radionuclide ventriculography (RNVG). Mean ejection fraction (EF) was 50 +/- 13 per cent. Ventricular wall motion abnormalities were present in 46 per cent. Revascularization included inflow procedures, such as aortofemoral (n = 25) or extraanatomic bypass (axillofemoral or femorofemoral, n = 11); infrainguinal reconstruction, including femoropopliteal or distal bypass (n = 43), and other procedures to improve perfusion of the limb or correct complications after previous vascular reconstruction upon the extremity (n = 31). Perioperative (30 days) mortality rate was 0.9 per cent and 97.0 per cent of the patients were discharged alive from the hospital. Myocardial infarction (MI) occurred in 3.6 per cent, new ventricular arrhythmia in 1.8 per cent and congestive heart failure in 6.4 per cent of the patients during the perioperative period. During follow-up study (607 +/- 363 days), 7.3 per cent required major amputation, ipsilateral to reconstruction, 5.5 per cent required surgical or angiographic revision for hemodynamic failure of the reconstruction prior to thrombosis and 12.7 per cent thrombosed part or all of the reconstruction. Revascularization failure did not appear to be related to the level of cardiac function. Those with normal (greater than 50 per cent) EF had greater over-all survival by life table analysis than those with EF less than or equal to 50 per cent (p = 0.0006, Mantel-Cox test). Ventricular wall motion abnormalities were associated with reduced over-all survival (p = 0.008, Mantel-Cox test). The presence of angina or previous MI, singularly or in combination, did not have an adverse effect on over-all survival, whereas diabetes (p = 0.0058, Mantel-Cox test) and cigarette smoking (p = 0.0137, Breslow test) were associated with significantly diminished over-all survival. Preoperative RNVG can identify subgroups at a survival disadvantage after revascularization of the extremity in a population in which the presence of angina or previous MI does not predict survival. 
Effects of supplemental oxygen administration in an infant with pulmonary artery hypertension. In patients with pulmonary disease, pulmonary artery hypertension often occurs as a result of pulmonary artery vasoconstriction, primarily from hypoxia and alveolar hypotension. In this report we describe the hemodynamic effects of breathing supplemental oxygen in a child with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and pulmonary artery hypertension. These hemodynamic effects include an improvement in oxygenation, an increase in systemic vascular resistance, and a decrease in the pulmonary vascular resistance. As a direct result of these changes in vascular resistances, alterations of heart rate, cardiac index, stroke volume, aortic pressure, oxygen consumption, and pulmonary artery pressure have been shown to occur. Oxygen is widely used to treat many physiologic conditions. However, during the administration of supplemental oxygen, rarely do we recognize the hemodynamic changes associated with its use. These hemodynamic effects must be clearly understood and appreciated before oxygen administration in any clinical situation. 
Role of hemodynamics and vagus nerves in development of fibrin-induced pulmonary edema. The rapid development of pulmonary edema that may occur in the rabbit after the intracisternal injection of a mixture of fibrinogen and thrombin has classically been considered to result from a vagally mediated increase in vascular permeability (G. R. Cameron and S. N. De, J. Pathol. Bacteriol 61: 375, 1949) and to not be dependent on hemodynamic mechanisms. We tested this hypothesis by evaluating the relationship between the degree of pulmonary hypertension and postmortem extravascular lung water content (EVLW) in both nonvagotomized (n = 10) and vagotomized (n = 7) rabbits administered thrombin (0.1 ml, 500 U/ml) and fibrinogen (1 ml, 27 mg/ml) intracisternally. No increase in EVLW was observed in either group unless pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) exceeded 25 Torr, and large increases in EVLW were only observed at higher Ppa's. These results thus indicate that some degree of pulmonary hypertension is required for the development of this form of edema. Because the vascular pressure required to produce edema in this model approaches that required to increase pulmonary vascular permeability in the rabbit, a pressure-dependent increase in permeability may be a common characteristic of neurogenic pulmonary edema in this species. Vagotomy had no protective effect but instead appeared to increase the amount of edema development for a given degree of pulmonary hypertension. 
Intracoronary adenosine administration during reperfusion following 3 hours of ischemia: effects on infarct size, ventricular function, and regional myocardial blood flow. Previous studies have demonstrated that adenosine significantly enhances myocardial salvage after 90 minutes of regional ischemia. To determine its effect after prolonged ischemia, closed-chest dogs underwent 3 hours of left anterior descending artery occlusion followed by 72 hours of reperfusion. Intracoronary adenosine (3.75 mg/min; at 1.5 ml/min:total volume = 90 ml; n = 10) or an equivalent volume of saline (1.5 ml/min: total volume = 90 ml; n = 9) was infused into the left main coronary artery during the first 60 minutes of reperfusion. Regional myocardial blood flow was assessed serially with microspheres and regional ventricular function was assessed by contrast ventriculography. Infarct size was determined histologically. Light and electron microscopy were utilized to assess neutrophil infiltration and microvascular injury. Adenosine failed to reduce infarct size expressed as a percentage of the area at risk (38.0 +/- 4.9% versus 34.8 +/- 4.6%; p = NS) or to improve regional ventricular function as measured by the radial shortening method (3.2 +/- 1.8% versus 2.2 +/- 3.1%; p = NS) at 72 hours after reperfusion. Vasodilatory effects were not observed in the endo- and midmyocardial regions of the ischemic zone during adenosine administration. This was associated with a similar extent of capillary endothelial changes and neutrophil infiltration in both adenosine-treated and saline control groups. These results suggest that severe functional abnormalities are present in the vasculature after 3 hours of ischemia and that adenosine therapy is ineffective in enhancing myocardial salvage. 
Effects of nicardipine, a calcium antagonist, on myocardial salvage and high energy phosphate stores in reperfused myocardial injury. The current study determined the effectiveness of nicardipine, a 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, in preserving reperfused myocardium in a cat model of temporary coronary occlusion and ascertained if replenishment of myocardial phosphate stores during reperfusion as defined by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was indicative of salvage. Twenty open chest, anesthetized cats were studied with use of a snare ligature around the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery, with a coil sutured to the epicardial surface overlying the distribution of the artery. Peak areas of phosphocreatine, inorganic phosphate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) NMR signals were measured during 1 h of occlusion followed by 1.5 h of reperfusion. Infarct size and jeopardy area were determined in vitro by simultaneous infusion of phthalocyanine blue dye and triphenyltetrazolium chloride into the aorta and the left anterior descending coronary artery, respectively, after 5 h of myocardial reperfusion. Nicardipine-treated and control groups had similar jeopardy area values (41.2 +/- 1.6% versus 47.4 +/- 3.1% of the left ventricle), but infarct area was significantly reduced in the nicardipine-treated group (3.2 +/- 1.1% versus 24.9 +/- 7.5% of jeopardy area, p less than 0.01). High energy phosphate compounds remained markedly altered during reperfusion in both groups. No significant improvement in phosphocreatine or inorganic phosphate recovery was observed in animals pretreated with nicardipine despite an 87% reduction in infarct size. Myocardial ATP was greater during reperfusion in the nicardipine-treated compared with the control group (average over initial 90 min of reperfusion 58 +/- 6% versus 46 +/- 3% of baseline values, p less than 0.05), suggesting improved recovery of ATP. However, the measured levels of high energy phosphate compounds during reperfusion and their ratios did not correlate with infarct size and thus were not predictive of myocardial salvage. 
Forearm blood flow response to posture change in the very old: non-invasive measurement by venous occlusion plethysmography. Little is known about the peripheral vascular response to posture change in very elderly people who are vulnerable to the development of orthostatic hypotension. This is due, in part, to the risks of currently utilized invasive vascular monitoring techniques in the elderly population. We studied the forearm vascular response to active standing in 18 healthy young, 10 healthy old, and 19 impaired elderly subjects, using the non-invasive technique of venous occlusion plethysmography. In six subjects this technique was compared to duplex doppler ultrasonography for the measurement of postural changes in forearm blood flow. Forearm blood flow changes determined by venous occlusion plethysmography were 11% larger than doppler measurements, but the two methods strongly correlated (r = 0.90, P less than .001). Mean forearm vascular resistance increased to a significantly greater extent at 1 minute of standing in young subjects than in both groups of old, although the response was quite variable in all groups. Two healthy elderly (20%) and eight impaired elderly (40%) subjects had unexpected forearm vasodilatation at 1 minute of standing. By 3 minutes, forearm vascular resistance had increased by similar amounts in all three groups of subjects. Five impaired elderly and no healthy young or healthy old subjects had orthostatic hypotension, defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg decline in mean arterial blood pressure at 1 or 3 minutes of standing. Forearm vascular resistance changes did not correlate with blood pressure response to standing. Thus, forearm vascular response to 1 minute of active standing is attenuated in many elderly subjects. This abnormality may impair adaptation to orthostatic stress in advanced age. 
Early scintigraphic detection of experimental myocardial infarction in dogs with technetium-99m-glucaric acid Recent data have generated some interest in technetium-99m-(99mTc) glucaric acid as an in vivo viability marker. We studied 99mTc-glucaric acid retention in canine models of myocardial ischemia (20-min occlusion of the LAD/40-min reperfusion), acute myocardial infarction (MI) (90-min LAD occlusion/3-hr reperfusion), and chronic MI (90-min occlusion and either 48-hr or 10-day reperfusion). Regional myocardial blood flow was measured by radiolabeled microspheres. No preferential uptake of glucaric acid was observed in ischemic but viable myocardium. The compound showed high affinity for necrotic myocardial tissue for several days following injury. The preferential uptake in infarcted tissue disappeared by 10 days following injury. This study shows that 99mTc-glucaric acid acts exclusively as a marker of necrosis in canine models of MI. Technetium-99m-glucaric acid may have clinical utility in early cardiac imaging of myocardial infarction and in differentiating recent from old injuries. 
Twelve-year incidence of coronary heart disease in middle-aged adults during the era of hypertensive therapy: the Framingham offspring study [published erratum appears in Am J Med 1991 Apr;90(4):537] PURPOSE: To provide information on the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in the offspring of the original cohort from the Framingham Heart Study. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 1972 to 1974, offspring of the original participants in the Framingham Heart Study underwent a baseline examination for standard cardiovascular risk factors. At entry into the study, these offspring were 30 to 59 years old and free of CHD. They were followed for 12 years, during which time 156 of 1,663 men and 55 of 1,714 women developed CHD. RESULTS: In a multivariate proportional hazards model, CHD was significantly associated with age, lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels, and number of cigarettes smoked. Fasting glucose levels and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were highly associated with CHD in men, but borderline in women, while triglycerides and very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were not significantly associated with CHD after adjustment for HDL-C and glucose. Blood pressure medication was used in half of the hypertensive individuals, and systolic pressure was associated with CHD in women only. CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the importance of the common CHD risk factors of cigarette smoking and LDL-C, and extends the prognostic role of HDL-C in a middle-aged cohort. The impact of blood pressure, with or without use of hypertensive medications, was reduced in this study, and the data suggest that this attenuation was due to successful treatment. 
Effects of heparin versus saline solution on intermittent infusion device irrigation. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of 1 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride with 10 units of heparin in 1 ml sodium chloride solution, both containing benzyl alcohol, in maintaining patency and reducing the incidence of phlebitis in patients with intermittent infusion devices. The subjects (N = 32) were randomly assigned in a double-blind experimental design. Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed no significant difference between the groups in phlebitis or patency variables. The results from this controlled study would suggest that 0.9% sodium chloride is as effective as 10 units of heparin in sodium chloride solution in maintaining intermittent infusion device patency and preventing phlebitis. 
Anti-ischemic effects of atenolol versus nifedipine in patients with coronary artery disease and ambulatory silent ischemia. The anti-ischemic effects of atenolol and nifedipine were compared in a randomized double-blind crossover manner in 24 patients with stable exertional angina and transient silent ischemia during ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring. Both atenolol and nifedipine were effective (p less than 0.005) in reducing the average number and duration of transient ischemic events, but therapy with atenolol was associated with a significantly greater reduction in the mean number (p less than 0.05) and duration (p less than 0.01) of silent ischemic events. Analyses of the silent ischemic activity during the morning hours revealed that only therapy with atenolol produced a significant reduction in the average duration per patient (139 +/- 54 vs. 1,609 +/- 468 s, p less than 0.01) and in the average duration of silent ischemia per event between 6 AM and 12 noon (62 +/- 21 vs. 208 +/- 24 s, p less than 0.005). There were fewer adverse experiences during therapy with atenolol. These results show that although both atenolol and nifedipine are effective in reducing silent ischemic events, treatment with atenolol is associated with significantly greater efficacy, particularly on the morning surge of silent myocardial ischemia. 
Therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells: phase II experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen. Forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK)-cell therapy, using a hybrid IL-2 regimen. IL-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus (10(5) U/kg [Cetus Corp, Emeryville, CA] every 8 hours for 3 days) during the priming phase, and subsequently by continuous infusion (3 x 10(6) U/m2 for 6 days); during this second treatment period, in vitro-generated LAK cells were administered. Despite selection of patients for good performance status (PS) (29, PS 0; 18, PS 1) prior nephrectomy (43 of the 47 patients), and low tumor burden, the response rate was low (two complete [CRs] and two partial responses [PRs], for an overall objective response rate of 9%). Toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen. These results suggest that the dose and schedule of IL-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to IL-2 in renal cell carcinoma. 
Chronic arterial occlusion with PGE1-resistant skin lesions treated by glycosaminoglycan compound--case reports. The authors report on 2 patients with chronic arterial occlusion in whom the intravenous administration of the glycosaminoglycan compound FPFD 101 was markedly effective. One patient suffered from thromboembolic episodes of the left hand, and the other had peripheral circulatory impairment related to collagen disease. In these patients, the oral administration of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents in combination with intravenous infusion of prostaglandin E1 was not adequately effective. However, the addition of intravenous injection of FPFD 101 resulted in a marked improvement in their symptoms. FPFD 101, which has an anticoagulant effect and also inhibits platelet aggregation, seems to be useful for the treatment and prevention of chronic arterial occlusion when combined with drugs such as anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, and vasodilators. 
Disseminated Conidiobolus infection with endocarditis in a cocaine abuser. A crack cocaine abuser developed disseminated infection caused by a species of Conidiobolus not known to cause disease in vertebrates. The fungus gained entry via skin abrasions on the lower extremities, spread through the hematogenous route, and caused endocarditis. There was evidence of fungal infection in the lungs, heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain. An additional complication was extensive rhabdomyolysis, with a marked elevation of creatine kinase of up to 1.2 million U/L. 
Morphological changes and smooth muscle cell proliferation after experimental excimer laser treatment. BACKGROUND. Little is known about the mechanism(s) in the development of restenosis after excimer laser angioplasty. Thus, the rationale of this study was to determine the time course of intimal and medial smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation and histomorphological changes after experimental excimer laser treatment. METHODS AND RESULTS. Laser ablation was performed in the right carotid artery of 34 New Zealand White rabbits after development of a fibromuscular plaque by repeated weak electrical stimulations. The vessels were excised 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42 days after excimer laser treatment. Staining of alpha-actin was used to identify SMCs. In five rabbits (15%), a stenosis of more than 50% of luminal area was due to intimal proliferation of SMCs, and in four other rabbits, a total occlusion was due to organized thrombi. After the initial ablation of the performed plaque (13 +/- 6 intimal SMC layers) a continuous increase of intimal wall thickness was found from 7 +/- 6 SMC layers at 7 days to 28 +/- 5 intimal SMC layers at 28 days after excimer laser ablation (p less than 0.01). After 42 days, no additional increase of intimal thickening occurred. After bromodeoxyuridine labeling, the extent of cell proliferation (percent of cells undergoing DNA synthesis) in the intima and media was determined using a monoclonal antibody against bromodeoxyuridine. Immunohistological quantification of SMC proliferation in the intima revealed a significant increase of cells undergoing DNA synthesis at 3 (p less than 0.05) and 14 (p less than 0.01) days after laser treatment. Medial proliferation of SMCs was delayed and had a significant increase 7 days (p less than 0.05) after intervention. Twenty-one days after laser treatment, SMC proliferation in the intima as well as in the media was normalized. CONCLUSIONS. The proliferative response of SMCs after experimental excimer laser treatment will occur as a dynamic process with a maximum of SMCs undergoing DNA synthesis during 14 days after laser ablation, resulting in an increase of intimal thickening within 4 weeks after laser treatment. The extent of intimal hyperplasia due to SMC proliferation after excimer laser treatment is comparable with the effect of transluminal balloon angioplasty in this experimental model. 
Acute hemodynamic effects of intravenous diperdipine, a new dihydropyridine derivative, in coronary heart disease. The acute hemodynamic effects of a new dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, diperdipine, which is suitable for intravenous administration, were studied by right and left cardiac catheterization in 16 patients with coronary heart disease. Diperdipine markedly reduced systemic vascular resistance and improved stroke index and left ventricular ejection fraction. Mean pulmonary artery and wedge pressures were slightly increased as a possible consequence of enhanced venous return, whereas right atrial and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures were not significantly changed. Nevertheless, an increase in preload was clearly indicated by an augmented left ventricular end-diastolic volume index after administration of diperdipine. Left ventricular contractility, which was estimated by the end-systolic pressure-volume ratio and by dP/dt max was not significantly changed, though analysis of individual data suggests a minimally negative inotropic effect. However, such a minor effect on left ventricular contractility was largely counterbalanced by the marked reduction of afterload, which produced a sharp improvement of stroke index. Enhancement of left ventricular ejection fraction and reduction in systemic vascular resistance were inversely and directly correlated to control values. Overall, diperdipine was well tolerated, but one patient had a major untoward reaction that consisted of an ischemic episode that was possibly related to drug administration. In conclusion, intravenous diperdipine appears to be a potent arteriolar dilating agent that does not affect left ventricular contractility. 
Effects of bepridil and diltiazem on ventricular repolarization in angina pectoris. To examine the time-course and potential predictors of prolongation of ventricular repolarization with the calcium antagonist bepridil, the effects of bepridil (300 to 500 mg/day; n = 45) and diltiazem (180 to 300 mg/day; n = 42) on QT and QTc interval duration were analyzed in a randomized double-blind study in patients with angina pectoris. Electrocardiograms were recorded before and 14, 28, 70 and 112 days after treatment was begun. After 14 days, bepridil prolonged QT interval by 26 +/- 35 ms (range, -60 to 120 ms) and QTc (Bazett's formula) by 17 +/- 33 ms (range, -73 to 107 ms) compared to baseline (both p less than 0.05). QT or QTc did not significantly increase thereafter. However, among the 30 patients who had less than 40 ms QTc prolongation at day 14 compared with baseline, 13 (43%) exceeded this limit on at least 1 of the following visits. Diltiazem did not significantly alter QT or QTc intervals. The absolute change in QTc interval from baseline observed after 14 days of bepridil therapy was inversely proportional to the baseline QTc interval (r = -0.68; n = 42; p less than 0.001). The degree of bepridil-induced QTc prolongation on day 14 correlated with pretreatment RR interval (r = 0.36; n = 42; p less than 0.02). In conclusion, chronic administration of bepridil but not of diltiazem prolongs ventricular repolarization in patients with angina pectoris. The overall effects of bepridil therapy on QT and QTc intervals can be assessed by an electrocardiogram recorded after 14 days of treatment but subsequent measurements may be required in individual patients. A short baseline QTc interval and a slow initial heart rate may be potentially useful predictors of a greater QTc prolongation with bepridil. 
Effect of nifedipine on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of myocardial ischemic episodes in angina pectoris. A randomized, double-blind, crossover study was conducted in 10 patients to assess the effect of nifedipine versus placebo on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of ischemic episodes. After baseline exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic ST-segment monitoring, patients received either nifedipine (mean dose, 80 mg/day) or placebo administered 4 times per day, with the initial dose taken immediately upon arising in the morning. Patients were maintained on a stable dose of each study drug for 7 days, after which they underwent repeat exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiography. During exercise treadmill testing, greater exercise duration was achieved by patients receiving nifedipine than by those receiving placebo (421 +/- 121 vs 353 +/- 155 seconds, respectively; p less than 0.05). Time to greater than or equal to 1 mm ST depression was significantly greater with nifedipine (282 +/- 146 seconds) than at baseline (130 +/- 72 seconds, p less than 0.003) and with placebo (150 +/- 98 seconds, p less than 0.0005). During ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, nifedipine reduced both the total number of ischemic episodes (18 vs 54 at baseline and 63 with placebo; p less than 0.02 for both) and the total duration of ischemia (260 vs 874 at baseline and 927 minutes with placebo; p less than 0.02 for both). The surge of ischemia between 06:00 and 12:00 noted at baseline and during placebo therapy was nearly abolished during nifedipine treatment. Nifedipine at this dosage, administered in this manner, is effective in reducing total ischemic activity and may prevent morning surges of ischemic episodes. 
Immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of postoperative recoarctation in infants and children. The purpose of this article is to present immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of aortic recoarctations following previous surgery in infants and children. During a 45-month period that ended in June 1989, nine infants and children, ages 6 months to 7 years, underwent balloon angioplasty of recoarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 52 +/- 20 mm Hg (mean +/- SD) to 16 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) and increase in coarctation segment size from 3.4 +/- 1.4 mm to 6.1 +/- 1.6 mm (p less than 0.01). None required surgical intervention. There were no significant complications. Follow-up catheterization (16 +/- 7 months) data in six children and follow-up clinical (17 +/- 6 months) data in all children were available for review. Both the residual coarctation pressure gradient (6 +/- 6 mm Hg) and coarctation segment size (8.2 +/- 2.4 mm) remain improved (p less than 0.001) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values and the pressure gradient fell further (p less than 0.01) when compared with that measured immediately after balloon angioplasty. None developed restenosis, although one child required surgical relief of severe narrowing of isthmus of the aortic arch. None developed aneurysms. On the basis of this experience and that reported in the literature and because of high morbidity and mortality rates associated with repeat surgery for postoperative recoarctation, we recommend balloon angioplasty as the procedure of choice for relief of postoperative recoarctation with significant hypertension. 
Efficacy of celiprolol in the elderly hypertensive patient. With the rapidly increasing average age of the population of the Western world, care and treatment of the elderly are becoming increasingly important. Cardiovascular diseases are major causes of death and disability in the elderly; hence, identification of cardiovascular risk factors and effective treatment are essential. Evidence indicates that these risk factors in the elderly are similar to those in the young; namely, high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, glucose intolerance, hyperfibrinogenemia, obesity, and cigarette smoking. The latter two relate to general patient management, whereas the remainder can be significantly influenced by modern drug therapy such as celiprolol. This drug is a third-generation highly selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory activity giving a unique and advantageous pharmacologic profile for antihypertensive therapy with particular benefits for the elderly. The impact of therapy with celiprolol on the cardiovascular risk factors in the elderly hypertensive patient is reviewed. 
Postoperative hypertension: a prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind trial, with intravenous nicardipine hydrochloride. Nicardipine hydrochloride, a new calcium channel blocker for intravenous use, has been compared with placebo in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial on postoperative hypertension. Of 175 patients who signed preoperative consent, 24 (13.7%) met entry criteria. Hypertension was significantly better controlled in nicardipine-treated patients compared with those receiving placebo (93% versus 30%, p less than 0.05). All the placebo failures were subsequently successfully treated with nicardipine. There were no significant complications in either group. The authors conclude that nicardipine HC1 is an effective, safe therapy for postoperative hypertension. Further studies are now indicated comparing it with other drugs currently used to treat this condition. 
Orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach for a high basilar tip aneurysm associated with a short intracranial internal carotid artery: a new surgical approach. For two cases of a high basilar tip aneurysm accompanied by a short intracranial internal carotid artery, the orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach consisting of an en bloc fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal craniotomy and temporopolar approach was carried out. On angiograms, the height of the bifurcation of an elongated basilar artery and the length of the intracranial internal carotid artery from the interclinoid line between the anterior and posterior clinoid process were 20 mm and 6 mm in Case 1, and 18 mm and 5 mm in Case 2, respectively. The skin flap was separated subfascially to preserve the frontotemporal branch of the facial nerve. The fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal bone flap was made, and a part of the basal bony structures of the orbital roof, the sphenoid ridge, and the temporal bone were removed. The basilar tip aneurysm could be seen and clipped easily by upward and oblique viewing from below through the wide operative space consisting of the less retracted internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries, the oculomotor nerve, the tentorial hiatus, and the emptied anterior temporal fossa obtained by partial division of the temporal bridging veins. The operative procedure is presented in detail and compared with other surgical approaches that have been described previously. 
High blood cholesterol in elderly men and the excess risk for coronary heart disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether high blood cholesterol is an important risk factor for mortality from coronary heart disease in elderly men. DESIGN: Cohort study with a mean follow-up of 10.1 years. SETTING: A health maintenance organization. PATIENTS: The cohort included 2746 white men 60 to 79 years of age who had no self-reported history of coronary heart disease. MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: A total of 260 deaths occurred during 27,842 person-years of follow-up. The relative risk for mortality from coronary heart disease in men 60 to 79 years of age in the highest serum cholesterol quartile was 1.5 (95% CI, 1.2 to 2.0) compared with those in the three lower quartiles combined. The relative risk did not change greatly with age, ranging from 1.4 in men 60 to 64 years of age to 1.7 in men 75 to 79 years of age. However, because mortality from coronary heart disease increased with age, the excess risk for such mortality attributable to elevated serum cholesterol levels increased fivefold over these 20 years, from 2.2 deaths per 1000 person-years to 11.3 deaths per 1000 person-years. CONCLUSIONS: Our results support those of other observational studies in elderly men. If treatment of high blood cholesterol is as effective in reducing cholesterol-related risk for coronary heart disease after 65 years of age as it is in middle-aged men, it might actually produce greater reductions in mortality due to coronary heart disease. A clinical trial is needed to confirm this extrapolation. 
Correlation dimension of heartbeat intervals is reduced in conscious pigs by myocardial ischemia. A reduced standard deviation of RR intervals (SDRR) predicts increased mortality in groups of survivors of myocardial infarction. Like SDRR, the correlation dimension (D2) describes variation within a sampled time series, but uniquely it reveals 1) the epoch's geometric structure and 2) the degrees of freedom of the generator. These unique features may be more sensitive predictors of mortality than SDRR. We developed a new algorithm for estimating D2 (i.e., the "point-D2"), tested it with known data, and found that it had greater accuracy for finite data than other published algorithms. Analysis of RR intervals from eight conscious pigs undergoing acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery revealed a drop in the point-D2 from a control mean and standard deviation of 2.50 +/- 0.81 to 1.58 +/- 0.64 during the first minute of ischemia (p less than 0.01) and to 1.07 +/- 0.18 during the last minute preceding ventricular fibrillation (p less than 0.01). Partial occlusions (50-90% reduction of coronary blood flow) evoked point-D2 reductions only 25-30% of control (p less than 0.01). The point-D2 means were correlated between pigs with the magnitude of the respiratory sinus arrhythmia (p less than 0.01), but during ischemia this correlation was replaced by one between the standard deviation of the point-D2s and SDRRs. Because the simultaneous reduction in the mean point-D2 and its standard deviation to 1.07 +/- 0.18 occurred in every case, was unique to the few minutes preceding ventricular fibrillation, and never reached these low values during other conditions in which it was reduced, we conclude that the point-D2 may be an accurate prospective predictor of mortality within the individual subject. 
Effect of intracoronary serotonin on coronary vessels in patients with stable angina and patients with variant angina BACKGROUND. Serotonin, a major product of platelet activation, has potent vasoactive effects in animal models, but its role in human coronary artery disease remains largely speculative. METHODS. Using quantitative coronary angiography, we compared the effects of the intracoronary infusion of graded concentrations of serotonin (10(-7) to 10(-4) mol per liter) on coronary vessels in two groups of patients with different clinical presentations of coronary disease (nine with stable angina and five with variant angina), with the effects in a control group of eight subjects with normal vessels on angiography. RESULTS. Normal coronary vessels had a biphasic response to intracoronary serotonin: dilation at concentrations up to 10(-5) mol per liter, but constriction at 10(-4) mol per liter. Vessels in patients with stable angina constricted at all concentrations, with mean (+/- SEM) maximal decreases in diameter of 23.9 +/- 3.6, 33.1 +/- 3.9, and 41.7 +/- 3.1 percent from base line in proximal, middle, and distal segments at a serotonin concentration of 10(-4) mol per liter. Smooth segments constricted more than irregular segments (42.0 +/- 4.6 vs. 21.1 +/- 1.6 percent). Four patients with stable angina had a marked reduction in collateral filling. All the patients with stable angina had angina during the intracoronary infusion of serotonin, and electrocardiographic changes were noted in six. All the patients with variant angina had angina, electrocardiographic changes, and localized occlusive epicardial coronary-artery spasm at concentrations of 10(-6) (n = 2) or 10(-5) (n = 3) mol per liter. CONCLUSIONS. Patients with stable coronary disease do not have the normal vasodilator response to intracoronary serotonin, but rather have progressive constriction, which is particularly intense in small distal and collateral vessels. Patients with variant angina have occlusive coronary-artery spasm at a dose that dilates normal vessels and causes only slight constriction in vessels from patients with stable angina. These findings suggest that serotonin, released after the intracoronary activation of platelets, may contribute to or cause myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. 
Metabolic activity in the areas of new fill-in after thallium-201 reinjection: comparison with positron emission tomography using fluorine-18-deoxyglucose. Reinjection of thallium-201 after recording the 3-hr delayed scan often demonstrates improvement in areas of persistent abnormalities. To determine the metabolic activity of these areas, the changes seen on stress/redistribution/reinjection thallium SPECT were compared with PET using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in 18 patients with coronary artery disease. Of 48 segments showing no redistribution on the delayed scan, the reinjection scan identified new fill-in in 20 segments (42%), all of which demonstrated FDG uptake. In contrast, only 7 of the 28 segments (25%) showing no fill-in after reinjection were PET viable (p less than 0.01). Eleven patients had coronary bypass graft surgery after the radionuclide study. The majority of the segments showing redistribution (87%) and new fill-in after reinjection (65%) improved in wall motion, whereas only eight segments (25%) without new fill-in improved after surgery. Of those without new fill-in, two segments showing PET ischemia improved in wall motion, whereas the remaining six segments showing PET scar did not improve after surgery. Thus, the segments showing new fill-in after reinjection are PET viable myocardium. However, reinjection thallium imaging still underestimates the extent of tissue viability compared to PET imaging. 
Effects of dipyridamole and aminophylline on hemodynamics, regional myocardial blood flow and thallium-201 washout in the setting of a critical coronary stenosis. Experiments were performed to characterize the interaction of intravenous dipyridamole and aminophylline on thallium-201 transport kinetics, regional myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis. In 12 dogs with a critical left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis, arterial pressure decreased from a mean value (+/- SEM) of 107 +/- 6 to 94 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and distal left anterior descending artery pressure decreased from 70 +/- 7 to 55 +/- 4 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) after intravenous administration of dipyridamole (0.25 mg/kg body weight). In the left anterior descending perfusion zone, the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.36 and the intrinsic thallium washout rate was significantly prolonged. Intravenous aminophylline (5 mg/kg) reversed the dipyridamole-induced systemic hypotension and transmural coronary steal and restored the thallium washout rate to baseline values. In six other dogs, aminophylline alone resulted in no alterations in systemic and coronary hemodynamics or regional myocardial blood flow. As expected, dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and coronary steal were prevented by aminophylline pretreatment. These data show that in a canine model of partial coronary stenosis, systemic hypotension, adverse regional flow effects (coronary steal) and prolonged thallium-201 washout consequent to intravenously administered dipyridamole are promptly reversed by intravenous aminophylline administration. Aminophylline alone had no significant hemodynamic and coronary flow effects. This study provides further insight into the altered thallium kinetics occurring as a consequence of dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and suggests that the prompt reversal of symptoms and signs of ischemia with aminophylline in patients receiving intravenous dipyridamole for clinical imaging studies probably reflects the reversal of transmural coronary steal. 
Selective prolongation of QRS late potentials by sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs: relation to slowing of ventricular tachycardia. Electrophysiologic Study Versus Electrocardiographic Monitoring Trial (ESVEM) Investigators. Sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on diseased, slowly conducting myocardium, and slowing of tachycardia caused by these drugs may result primarily from further prolongation of conduction time in slowly conducting tissue. In patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia, late potentials detected by signal-averaged electrocardiography (ECG) are thought to arise from slowly conducting ventricular myocardium. This study tested the hypothesis that sodium channel blocking drugs selectively prolong the late potential, or terminal low amplitude signal, portion of the signal-averaged QRS complex and that prolongation of the late potential would correlate with slowing of ventricular tachycardia. Fifty-six drug trials in 32 patients with spontaneous and inducible ventricular arrhythmias were studied. Prolongation of the late potential (11 +/- 15 ms) was significantly greater than prolongation of the initial portion of the QRS complex (4 +/- 9 ms) (p = 0.01). Selective prolongation of the late potential by drugs resulted in significantly greater QRS prolongation detectable by signal-averaged ECG than by standard ECG (p less than 0.0001). In 40 trials in which ventricular tachycardia remained inducible during drug therapy, the increase in induced tachycardia cycle length correlated strongly with the increase in late potential duration (p = 0.005) but not with change in the initial portion of the QRS complex. These data suggest that in patients with ventricular tachycardia, sodium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs have preferential effects on slowly conducting tissue and that drug effect on slowly conducting tissue contributes to prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length. 
Diagnosis and evaluation of renovascular hypertension. Indications for therapy. Renovascular hypertension is caused by two distinct conditions with different causes, fibromuscular dysplasia and atheroma. Diagnosis of the former is both simpler and more rewarding, whereas atheromatous lesions of the renal artery may be secondary to essential hypertension. It is therefore important to establish existence of functional renal ischemia as well as an anatomical lesion. Universal screening of all hypertensive patients is not recommended because of the relatively low prevalence of the disease and insufficient accuracy of available screening tests. When renovascular hypertension is clinically suspected, an oral captopril test is the most reliable office screening test. After this, digital subtraction angiography with renal vein renins or captopril renography are appropriate steps. However, the latter procedure, while promising, requires further evaluation. Duplex scanning of the renal arteries also comes into this category. Arteriography is done last, so that if renal ischemia is indicated, angioplasty can be attempted at the same time as arteriography. 
Determinants and significance of diltiazem plasma concentrations after acute myocardial infarction. The Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial Research Group. A total of 1,975 plasma diltiazem concentrations were obtained from 1,067 patients enrolled in a multicenter secondary intervention study of diltiazem after acute myocardial infarction. To evaluate the determinants and significance of diltiazem concentrations in this patient population, we related drug concentrations to a variety of clinical variables recorded on the case history forms. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that (1) time from the last drug dose, (2) drug dose taken, (3) patient height (an index of lean body weight), and (4) patient age were important determinants of plasma concentration. For an equivalent dose, plasma diltiazem concentrations in a 75-year-old patient were about double those of a 25-year-old patient. Total weight and drug dose prescribed did not significantly affect plasma concentrations. Whereas drug concentrations were higher (p = 0.01) among patients with left-sided heart failure, they were not altered by renal dysfunction, hepatic disease or beta blockers. Diltiazem concentrations were a significant determinant of diastolic arterial pressure (p less than 10(-9), but neither systolic pressure nor heart rate were significantly related to diltiazem concentration. The overall incidence of adverse experiences was not related to drug concentrations, but the occurrence of second- and third-degree atrioventricular block in the coronary care unit and the need for a temporary pacemaker were substantially higher among patients with a drug concentration greater than 150 ng/ml (7.4 and 1.9%, respectively) than among patients with lower concentrations (2.6% for atrioventricular block, 0.3% for pacemaker; p = 0.02 for each). The risk of atrioventricular block was particularly increased by high diltiazem concentrations in the face of acute inferior infarction. These results suggest that diltiazem's pharmacologic and clinical effects in a large population are concentration-related, and that the consideration of patient size, age, and left ventricular function in selecting a diltiazem dose may allow for effective drug therapy with a reduced likelihood of adverse effects. 
Bronchiolar morphology after systemic arterial interruption. To assess ischemic lesions as a factor in obliterative bronchiolitis after lung transplantation, the authors severed the left bronchial arteries of 15 dogs, together with the left stem bronchus, the latter being immediately reanostomosed. They examined the bronchioles at weekly interfals up to three and a half months. On the week chosen each dog was anesthetized, totally heparinized, and exsanguino-perfused with saline. Just after heart arrest, the thoracic aorta was injected with a barium solution until this white medium appeared in the bronchial arteries. The heart-lung blocs were excised en bloc, submitted to soft-tissue x ray, fixed, and then sliced to 1 cm. Corresponding right and left 5-mm-thick samples of these slices were prepared for contact microradiography followed by histologic 5-to-20-micron-thick, stained, correlated specimens. For two weeks the left bronchial arteries remained empty, but there was no necrosis or edema. Between two and four weeks barium solution appeared in the bronchial arteries, and the bronchiolar epithelium had become multistratified. Later the left bronchiangiogram became similar to the right, but there were more folds of the mucosa and a little submucosal fibrosis. These studies provide proof that no significant ischemic lesions occurred during repermeation of the bronchiolar vascular bed. Ischemia, if existent, is not a significant factor in obliterative bronchiolitis. 
Infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm in a 25-month-old child. Infective endocarditis in young children is uncommon, especially where there is no underlying structural heart disease. While septic embolization in adults occurs in up to 43% of the cases of endocarditis, there is little data on systemic embolization in cases of children. We present an unusual case of a 25-month-old child with infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm treated by mitral valve replacement and aortoiliac reconstruction. 
Retinal arterial macroaneurysms: risk factors and natural history. A case control study was conducted to identify the systemic and ocular risk factors for retinal arterial macroaneurysms. Forty-three patients with 52 photographically confirmed macroaneurysms were located. Forty-three age-matched, race-matched concurrent control patients were also identified. The patients with macroaneurysms had decreased visual acuity (p less than 0.0001) and a higher prevalence of hypertension (p = 0.037), female sex (p = 0.099), and retinal vein occlusions (p = 0.055) than controls. In patients with both a macroaneurysm and venous occlusion there was a 12.0 times higher prevalence of macroaneurysms in the area of retina drained by the occluded vein (p less than 0.05). Common findings associated with macroaneurysms included retinal haemorrhage (81% of patients), retinal exudate (70%), vitreous haemorrhage (30%), macular involvement (30%), and distal arteriolar narrowing (26%). Arteriolar occlusion occurred spontaneously (8%) or after laser photocoagulation (16%). 
Pulse rate, coronary heart disease, and death: the NHANES I Epidemiologic Follow-up Study. To determine whether associations of elevated resting pulse rate with CHD incidence or death in white men are independent of other risk factors and whether such associations exist for women and blacks, data were examined from the NHANES I Epidemiologic Follow-up Study. Over a follow-up period of 6 to 13 years, elevated RR for CHD incidence were found for older white men with baseline pulse greater than 84 beats/min compared with less than 74 beats/min after controlling multiple risk factors (RR = 1.37, 95% CL 1.02, 1.84). Risks of death from all causes, cardiovascular diseases, and noncardiovascular diseases were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors. CHD incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate. Risks of death from all causes, cardiovascular diseases, and noncardiovascular diseases, were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors. CHD incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate. Risk of death from all causes and cardiovascular diseases was elevated in black men and women with elevated pulse rate. Risk of death from noncardiovascular disease was elevated in black men with elevated pulse rate. The association with cardiovascular death was particularly striking in black women, even after adjusting for baseline risk factors (RR 3.03, 95% CL 1.46, 6.28). Further studies are needed to assess associations of pulse rate with CHD in blacks and to elucidate mechanisms in all groups. 
Assay of serum cardiac myosin heavy chain fragments in patients with acute myocardial infarction: determination of infarct size and long-term follow-up. To evaluate the correlation between myosin heavy chain release and the necrosis mass, serum levels of myosin heavy chain fragments were determined serially in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Eight of these patients were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents: the others were not treated. The same myosin titration was applied to the sera of 25 dogs with an experimental myocardial infarction. Six of the dogs were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents. The time courses of the myosin concentrations are typical and monophasic for all patients with a noncomplex myocardial infarction. The values for the kinetic parameters of myosin release are comparable to those previously reported. We have now determined that cumulative myosin release significantly correlates with cumulative creatine kinase (CK), CK-MB, and lactate dehydrogenase release, as well as with thallium-201 distribution, as determined for different patient groups. Thrombolytic treatment does not seem to qualitatively upset myosin kinetics. The results obtained in dogs with or without thrombolysis conclusively indicate that myosin release is a quantitative index of the necrosis mass. From a practical point of view, a few serial determinations of serum levels of myosin heavy chains are enough to estimate the necrosed mass in patients with acute myocardial infarction. More generally, serum myosin titration could be useful in detecting any cardiac disturbance involving myocardial injury resulting in membrane leakage of cardiac cells. 
Reliability of death certificate diagnoses. Consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in Kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes: hypertensive (HYP), ischaemic heart diseases (IHD), cerebrovascular diseases (CVD) and diabetes mellitus (DM). Direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically. Only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included. One cardiologist, who was provided with the WHO criteria and relevant documents on death certification, independently reviewed the records. To test the reviewer's bias and the reliability of his judgement, an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records. The two reviewers showed good agreement. Specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed. Due to possible reviewer bias, we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer. The agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates. The original certificates under-estimated CVD as an underlying cause of death by 69.2%, DM by 60%, IHD by 33.5% and HYP by 31.8% in our sample. Associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer. This bias calls for basing mortality statistics in Kuwait on hospital death committees' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates, use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification. 
Long-term results of catheter ablation of idiopathic right ventricular tachycardia Ten consecutive patients with recurrent episodes of symptomatic, idiopathic, sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) originating in the right ventricle underwent an attempt at catheter ablation of the ventricular tachycardia. There were seven women and three men, with a mean age of 39 +/- 14 years (+/- SD). None of the patients had any evidence of structural heart disease. The VT had a left bundle branch block configuration and an inferior axis in each patient, and the mean cycle length was 313 +/- 75 msec. Based on the methods of induction of the VT and the response of the VT to verapamil, the VT mechanism was presumed to be reentry in six patients, triggered activity in three patients, and catecholamine-sensitive automaticity in one patient. Sites for ablation were guided by pace mapping, and an appropriate target site was identified in the right ventricular outflow tract in each patient. From one to three shocks of 100-360 J (mean total, 336 +/- 195 J) were delivered from a defibrillator between the tip of the ablation catheter (cathode) and a patch electrode on the anterior chest (anode). An electrophysiology test 7-9 days after ablation demonstrated that VT was still inducible in only one patient, who was treated with amiodarone. One other patient had a recurrence of VT 3 weeks after ablation and was treated with verapamil. Eight of 10 patients were not treated with antiarrhythmic medications and have had no episodes of symptomatic VT during 15-68 months of follow-up (mean follow-up, 33 +/- 18 months). There were no acute or long-term complications. 
Angiographic contrast media interference with laser-induced fluorescence excitation and detection in atherosclerotic human coronary arteries. Laser-induced fluorescence has been used in conjunction with angiography for laser angioplasty guidance. The effect of radiopaque contrast media on the excitation and detection of arterial fluorescence has not been previously reported. Accordingly, fluorescence emission spectra from human coronary artery necropsy specimens (n = 7) during excitation with pulsed excimer laser excitation (308 nm) was examined before and after the addition of three different contrast media, sodium and meglumine diatrizoate, sodium and meglumine ioxaglate, and iopamidol. A decrease in overall fluorescence intensity was observed at all wavelengths for each contrast agent examined. The decrease in intensity of fluorescence emission was more marked at wavelengths less than 410 nm than at wavelengths above 425 nm. Similar effects were observed for contrast media diluted with whole blood. Absorption spectra for all three contrast media demonstrated absorption in the ultraviolet centered around 240 nm. We conclude that preferential absorption in the ultraviolet range by contrast media interferes with the excitation and detection of laser-induced fluorescence; use of visible light excitation may obviate interference with laser-induced fluorescence analysis of plaque. 
Antihypertensive effectiveness of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in the elderly. The Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension (MATH) Study Group. The Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension (MATH) trial was conducted to determine the therapeutic safety and efficacy of the once-a-day nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) formulation in a large and diverse cohort of patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. One of the goals of the MATH study was to evaluate the clinical utility of nifedipine GITS in elderly hypertensives. This analysis compares the safety and efficacy of nifedipine GITS in elderly patients (greater than or equal to 65 years of age) and nonelderly patients (adults less than 65 years of age). A total of 222 elderly and 933 nonelderly patients from 127 centers were evaluated. Following a 2 week placebo washout phase, patients were titrated over 1 to 6 weeks on nifedipine GITS 30 to 180 mg/day, increasing in 30 mg increments to achieve goal blood pressure, defined as sitting diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg and a 10 mm Hg decrease from baseline. Therapy was maintained at the optimal dose for an additional 12 weeks. Hemodynamic and laboratory parameters were assessed at baseline and at the final treatment visit. Baseline parameters were comparable between patient groups except for systolic blood pressure, which was significantly greater in the elderly compared with nonelderly patients (164 +/- 18 v 150 +/- 14 mm Hg, respectively, P less than .0001). After 12 weeks of therapy with nifedipine GITS, sitting and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure was significantly decreased from baseline for both elderly and nonelderly patients. 
Dipyridamole magnetic resonance imaging: a comparison with thallium-201 emission tomography. Limitation of space and motion artefact make magnetic resonance imaging during dynamic exercise difficult. Pharmacological stress with dipyridamole can be used as an alternative to exercise for thallium scanning. Forty patients with a history of angina and an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram were studied by dipyridamole thallium myocardial perfusion tomography and dipyridamole magnetic resonance wall motion imaging with a cine gradient refocused sequence. Images for both scans were obtained in the oblique horizontal and vertical long axis and short axis planes before and after pharmacological stress with dipyridamole. The myocardium was divided into nine segments for direct comparison of perfusion with wall motion. Segments were assessed visually into grades--normal, hypokinesis or reduced perfusion, and akinesis or very reduced perfusion. After dipyridamole there were reversible wall motion abnormalities in 24 (62%) of 39 patients with coronary artery disease and 24 (67%) of 36 patients with reversible thallium defects. The site of wall motion deterioration was always the site of a reversible thallium defect. Thallium defects affecting more than two segments were always associated with wall motion deterioration but most single segment thallium defects were undetected by magnetic resonance imaging. There was a significant correlation between detection of wall motion abnormality, the angiographic severity of coronary artery disease, and the induction of chest pain by dipyridamole. There were no significant differences in ventricular volume or ejection fraction changes after dipyridamole between the groups with and without detectable reversible wall motion changes but the normalised magnetic resonance signal intensity of the abnormally moving segments was significantly less than the signal intensity of the normal segments. 
Extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with a tortuous portal vein. Portal vein aneurysm is rare and its etiology is controversial. A case of extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with an unusually tortuous portal vein is described. Real-time ultrasonography showed anechoic masslike lesions at the porta hepatis communicating with the superior mesenteric vein and intrahepatic portal branches. This suggested the presence of two saccular portal vein aneurysms, 27 x 21 mm and 21 x 13 mm in size. Magnetic resonance imaging and portal venography confirmed the portal vein aneurysms and an unusually tortuous portal vein curving caudally between them. The liver was histologically normal and there was no evidence of portal hypertension. It is speculated that these portal vein aneurysms may have been congenital and that the associated tortuous portal vein might have been secondary to hemodynamic changes in the portal venous system. 
Effects of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the myocardium at organ and cellular level during prolonged hypothermic ischemic cardiac arrest. The effectiveness of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the heart, calcium (Ca++) uptake and binding, Ca++ ATPase of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), and MB fraction of creatine kinase (MBCK) of coronary sinus blood was investigated after one and a half hours of reperfusion following three hours of ischemic cardiac arrest. The dogs were divided into three groups: group I, sham bypass; group II, cold crystalloid cardioplegia; and group III, cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem. There was a decrease in aortic pressures left ventricular pressure development (dp/dt), left ventricular work index (LVWI), total systemic vascular resistance (TSVR), and left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP) in the sham bypass group. There was a decrease in cardiac index (CI), LVWI, and mean right atrial pressure (mRAP) and an increase in TSVR and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in group II as compared with group I. Although there was a tendency for a decrease in the indices of myocardial contractility in group II, they were not significantly different from those in group I. The indices of myocardial contractility, CI, and LVWI in group III were slightly higher than in group II, but they were not significantly different from each other. The values for calcium uptake by SR in groups II and III were similar but significantly lower than those in group I. Calcium binding in group III was significantly lower than that in group I. Calcium ATPase of SR in the three groups were similar. Although MBCK increased in all the groups, the increases were not significantly different among the three groups. The results of this study indicate that cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem was not better than cold crystalloid alone in preserving the cardiac contractility and cellular function during prolonged ischemic cardiac arrest. However, the cardiac function in terms of cardiac index was better preserved with diltiazem. 
Daytime hypertension in obstructive sleep apnea. Prevalence and contributing risk factors. We examined the prevalence of daytime hypertension in a modern sample of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and assessed the relative risk factors contributing to the development of hypertension in this disorder. Daytime hypertension was present in 92 (45 percent) of 206 male and female patients with OSA. Stepwise logistic regression revealed that only age and body mass index (BMI) were predictors of hypertension in this population. A subsample of 152 male patients with OSA was then compared to 904 men identified from a geographically and ethnically similar general population. When one controlled for age and BMI, the prevalence of hypertension in the two groups was the same except for those aged 25 to 44 years who were markedly obese (BMI greater than 31 kg/m2). In this group, 47 percent of the patients with OSA were hypertensive vs 26 percent of control subjects (p less than 0.05). Our data suggest that the high prevalence of hypertension in OSA is primarily related to age and the excess obesity seen in these patients. In morbidly obese young patients with OSA, factors directly related to OSA may also be contributing to the development of hypertension. With increasing age, other competitive risks may obscure any independent effect that OSA may exert. 
Intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil. An unusual complication of a Hickman catheter. Venous access devices (VAD) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer. Multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a VAD. The authors report a case of a Hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium, resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed, but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade. She recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction. 
Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia in the etiology and clinical course of hypertension. Patients with untreated hypertension have been shown to be resistant to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and are more hyperinsulinemic and hypertriglyceridemic than matched groups of patients with normal blood pressure. In addition, insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia have been demonstrated in spontaneous hypertensive rats and in Sprague-Dawley rats fed a fructose-enriched diet. The defect in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in these experimental models can also be shown at the cellular level. Experimental interventions that prevent insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia from developing in fructose-fed rats also greatly attenuate the increase in blood pressure. Since endogenous hyperinsulinemia and hypertriglyceridemia have been identified as factors that increase the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), it is likely that they contribute to the increased prevalence of CAD in hypertensive patients. Antihypertensive treatment may have exacerbated these metabolic abnormalities, which could help explain why it has been difficult to show that lowering blood pressure decreases the risk of CAD. These observations raise the possibility that abnormalities of carbohydrate and lipoprotein metabolism may play a role in both the etiology and clinical course of hypertension. 
Human dose-response relationship for decompression and endogenous bubble formation. The dose-response relationship for decompression magnitude and venous gas emboli (VGE) formation in humans was examined. Pressure exposures of 138, 150, and 164 kPa (12, 16, and 20.5 ft of seawater gauge pressure) were conducted in an underwater habitat for 48 h. The 111 human male volunteer subjects then ascended directly to the surface in less than 5 min and were monitored for VGE with a continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound device over the precordium or the subclavian veins at regular intervals for a 24-h period. No signs or symptoms consistent with decompression sickness occurred. However, a large incidence of VGE detection was noted. These data were combined with those from our previously reported experiments at higher pressures, and the data were fit to a Hill dose-response equation with nonlinear least-squares or maximum likelihood routines. Highly significant fits of precordial VGE incidences were obtained with the Hill equation (saturation depth pressure at which there is a 50% probability of detectable VGE [D(VGE)50] = 150 +/- 1.2 kPa). Subclavian monitoring increased the sensitivity of VGE detection and resulted in a leftward shift [D(VGE)50 = 135 +/- 2 kPa] of the best-fit curve. We conclude that the reduction in pressure necessary to produce bubbles in humans is much less than was previously thought; 50% of humans can be expected to generate endogenous bubbles after decompression from a steady-state pressure exposure of only 135 kPa (11 ft of seawater). This may have significant implications for decompression schedule formulation and for altitude exposures that are currently considered benign. These results also imply that endogenous bubbles arise from preexisting gas collections. 
Fatal fungal pericarditis after cardiac surgery and immunosuppression. The cases of two patients with fulminant pericarditis after cardiac surgery are reported. Both fungal infections developed after rethoracotomy for open-chest cardiac resuscitation and high-dose glucocorticoid treatment. Although the time course of both infections from the inoculation of fungi during rethoracotomy and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids to the lethal outcome was strikingly similar, histopathologic studies disclosed the disparate character of the two fungal pathogens responsible: the yeast Candida albicans and the angiotropic mold Aspergillus fumigatus. 
Quincke's edema, revisited. Angioneurotic edema involving the uvula is sometimes referred to as Quincke's edema. The term angioneurotic edema describes several closely related diseases manifested by recurrent, acute edema of the skin or mucosa. We report a case of uvular edema secondary to food allergy, treated successfully with steroids. A short review of angioneurotic edema and its management is also presented. 
Adult open heart surgery in New York State. An analysis of risk factors and hospital mortality rates This study analyzes data from New York State's new Cardiac Surgery Reporting System, which contains information about cardiac preoperative risk factors, postoperative complications, and hospital discharge. The purposes of the study were to determine the set of significant clinical risk factors and to identify cardiac surgical centers most likely to have serious quality-of-care problems. Significant risk factors for in-hospital death were age, gender, ejection fraction, previous myocardial infarction, number of open heart operations in previous admissions, diabetes requiring medication, dialysis dependence, disasters (acute structural defect, renal failure, cardiogenic shock, gunshot), unstable angina, intractable congestive heart failure, left main trunk narrowed more than 90%, and type of operation performed. Four of the 28 hospitals had significantly higher mortality rates than expected, given the risk factors of their patients. Subsequent site visits and medical record reviews confirmed that these facilities had high percentages of quality-of-care problems among cases resulting in mortality. 
Regression of coronary artery disease as a result of intensive lipid-lowering therapy in men with high levels of apolipoprotein B BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The effect of intensive lipid-lowering therapy on coronary atherosclerosis among men at high risk for cardiovascular events was assessed by quantitative arteriography. Of 146 men no more than 62 years of age who had apolipoprotein B levels greater than or equal to 125 mg per deciliter, documented coronary artery disease, and a family history of vascular disease, 120 completed the 2 1/2-year double-blind study, which included arteriography at base line and after treatment. Patients were given dietary counseling and were randomly assigned to one of three treatments: lovastatin (20 mg twice a day) and colestipol (10 g three times a day); niacin (1 g four times a day) and colestipol (10 g three times a day); or conventional therapy with placebo (or colestipol if the low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol level was elevated). RESULTS. The levels of LDL and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol changed only slightly in the conventional-therapy group (mean changes, -7 and +5 percent, respectively), but more substantially among patients treated with lovastatin and colestipol (-46 and +15 percent) or niacin and colestipol (-32 and +43 percent). In the conventional-therapy group, 46 percent of the patients had definite lesion progression (and no regression) in at least one of nine proximal coronary segments; regression was the only change in 11 percent. By comparison, progression (as the only change) was less frequent among patients who received lovastatin and colestipol (21 percent) and those who received niacin and colestipol (25 percent), and regression was more frequent (lovastatin and colestipol, 32 percent; niacin and colestipol, 39 percent; P less than 0.005). Multivariate analysis indicated that a reduction in the level of apolipoprotein B (or LDL cholesterol) and in systolic blood pressure, and an increase in HDL cholesterol correlated independently with regression of coronary lesions. Clinical events (death, myocardial infarction, or revascularization for worsening symptoms) occurred in 10 of 52 patients assigned to conventional therapy, as compared with 3 of 46 assigned to receive lovastatin and colestipol and 2 of 48 assigned to receive niacin and colestipol (relative risk of an event during intensive treatment, 0.27; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.10 to 0.77). CONCLUSIONS. In men with coronary artery disease who were at high risk for cardiovascular events, intensive lipid-lowering therapy reduced the frequency of progression of coronary lesions, increased the frequency of regression, and reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events. 
Changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill: implications for major surgery. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill. DESIGN--Prospective randomised study. SETTING--Family planning centre in London. SUBJECTS--24 women aged 35-45 investigated before, during, and after six months' use of combined oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms ethinyl oestradiol together with the progestogens desogestrel or gestodene. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS--Blood samples were taken immediately before and after six months of oral contraceptive use and one, two, four, six, eight, and 12 weeks after the pill had been stopped. During the six months of oral contraceptive use the plasma concentration of factor X and fibrinogen increased and that of antithrombin III decreased. Between two and six weeks after stopping the pill a rebound phenomenon occurred with plasma concentrations of antithrombin III increasing (mean change from baseline at two weeks 0.06 IU/l and at six weeks 0.10 IU/l) and fibrinogen decreasing (0.26 g/l change at two weeks and 0.40 g/l at six weeks). Factor X concentrations fell gradually and the values at eight weeks were not significantly different from those found before the combined pill was started. CONCLUSION--The combined pill should be stopped at least four weeks before major surgery, which carries the risk of postoperative thrombosis, to allow the potentially prothrombotic haemostatic changes that occur during its use to be corrected. 
Atrial fibrillation and left atrial enlargement: cause or effect? In a blinded controlled study, 58 consecutive patients with definite left atrial enlargement (M-mode dimension of at least 45 mm) were followed up after 1-2 years. The aim of the study was to examine the following: (a) the prospective risk of developing atrial fibrillation (AF); and (b) the effect of the heart rhythm on the left atrial size. Of 36 patients in sinus rhythm, one developed paroxysmal AF and one developed persistent AF during a median follow-up period of 20 months. Thus the incidence of new AF was 5% per year. Eighteen patients died before scheduled echocardiographic follow-up, but in the remaining subjects the left atrial dimension did not change significantly: the median increment was 1 mm in 20 patients who sustained sinus rhythm vs 2 mm in 16 patients with chronic AF (P greater than 0.05). Although left atrial dilatation may cause AF and vice versa, this study demonstrated that the incidence of new AF is low, despite the fact that the left atrial dimension is substantially increased. Similarly, AF per se does not appear to have any major impact on the left atrial dimension. 
Medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta. Surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients. In patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction, pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered. Surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances. 
Effect of tachycardia on regional function and transmural myocardial perfusion during graded coronary pressure reduction in conscious dogs The purpose of the present study was to examine subendocardial flow and function during graded coronary pressure reduction to determine the effect of tachycardia on the lower autoregulatory pressure limit (critical coronary pressure) in unanesthetized dogs. During atrial pacing at a rate of 200 beats/min, subendocardial flow measured by radioactive microspheres averaged 1.55 +/- 0.34 ml/min/g and remained unchanged as pressure was reduced over the autoregulatory plateau from 84 +/- 10 to 59 +/- 7 mm Hg. Further reductions in coronary pressure to below a critical coronary pressure of approximately 60 mm Hg were associated with concomitant reductions in subendocardial flow and the endocardial-epicardial flow ratio during tachycardia. Although regional function remained constant over the autoregulatory plateau, there was a rightward shift of the coronary pressure-function relation during ischemia in response to a steady-state increase in rate from 100 to 200 beats/min. Reductions in regional wall thickening began when coronary pressures reached 38 +/- 7 mm Hg at a heart rate of 100 beats/min and 61 +/- 6 mm Hg at a heart rate of 200 beats/min (p less than 0.005). Similar critical coronary pressure values were obtained for subendocardial segment shortening. Relations between subendocardial flow and myocardial function measured by both transmural wall thickening and subendocardial segment shortening were linear during pacing at a heart rate of 200 beats/min with relative reductions in wall thickening related to reductions in subendocardial flow on a nearly one-to-one basis. The results of this study demonstrate that there is a shift in the lower limit of subendocardial autoregulation during tachycardia as manifest by the onset of subendocardial ischemia at a higher distal coronary artery pressure. The shift in critical coronary pressure relates to an increase in resting flow requirements due to increased demand and diminished subendocardial vasodilator reserve at any given coronary pressure secondary to a reduction in the time available for diastolic subendocardial perfusion during tachycardia. 
Percutaneous extraction of fractured guidewire from distal right coronary artery. The incidence of retained hardware components in the coronary artery tree is likely to parallel the growing number and types of percutaneous coronary revascularization procedures being performed. Management has extended from the conservative option of simply leaving behind the retained components to the more aggressive approach of surgical removal. A percutaneous method is described herein which offers the interventional cardiologist an alternative method of managing patients with retained wire fragments contained entirely in the coronary artery. 
Late cardiac effects of doxorubicin therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood BACKGROUND. Cardiotoxicity is a recognized complication of doxorubicin therapy, but the long-term effects of doxorubicin are not well documented. We therefore assessed the cardiac status of 115 children who had been treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia with doxorubicin 1 to 15 years earlier in whom the disease was in continuous remission. METHODS. Eighteen patients received one dose of doxorubicin (45 mg per square meter of body-surface area), and 97 received multiple doses totaling 228 to 550 mg per square meter (median, 360). The median interval between the end of treatment and the cardiac evaluation was 6.4 years. Our evaluation consisted of a history, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recording, exercise testing, and echocardiography. RESULTS. Fifty-seven percent of the patients had abnormalities of left ventricular afterload (measured as end-systolic wall stress) or contractility (measured as the stress-velocity index). The cumulative dose of doxorubicin was the most significant predictor of abnormal cardiac function (P less than 0.002). Seventeen percent of patients who received one dose of doxorubicin had slightly elevated age-adjusted afterload, and none had decreased contractility. In contrast, 65 percent of patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter had increased afterload (59 percent of patients), decreased contractility (23 percent), or both. Increased afterload was due to reduced ventricular wall thickness, not to hypertension or ventricular dilatation. In multivariate analyses restricted to patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter, the only significant predictive factors were a higher cumulative dose (P = 0.01), which predicted decreased contractility, and an age of less than four years at treatment (P = 0.003), which predicted increased afterload. Afterload increased progressively in 24 of 34 patients evaluated serially (71 percent). Reported symptoms correlated poorly with indexes of exercise tolerance or ventricular function. Eleven patients had congestive heart failure within one year of treatment with doxorubicin; five of them had recurrent heart failure 3.7 to 10.3 years after completing doxorubicin treatment, and two required heart transplantation. No patient had late heart failure as a new event. CONCLUSIONS. Doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility. We hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years. 
A multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in France. This study was designed to assess the efficacy and tolerance of doxazosin in patients with mild, moderate, or severe essential hypertension in a general practice setting. Ninety-six adults of a mean age of 55 1/2 years took part in the 14-week study, consisting of a placebo phase (2 weeks), a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin (8 weeks), and a maintenance phase (4 weeks). Doxazosin, at a final mean daily dose of 3.4 mg, produced a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in blood pressure at all points of measurement during the study. The mean change in sitting blood pressure at the end of treatment was -15.4/-15.8 mm Hg. Of the 85 patients who could be categorized as a success or failure, 78 (92%) were considered a therapeutic success; 78 (89%) of the 88 efficacy-evaluable patients demonstrated an improvement in the severity category of their hypertension. Treatment with doxazosin produced a reduction in serum cholesterol (-3.1%) and triglyceride (-3.8%) levels, although these changes did not attain statistical significance. The calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years (according to the Framingham equation) was significantly (p less than 0.001) reduced by 22%, from 16.7 chances per 100 (baseline) to 14.3 chances per 100 (final visit). Twenty-six patients (27.1%) reported side effects that were possibly related to treatment, the most prevalent of which were vertigo (7.3%) and headache (6.3%). In four (4.2%) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and two (2.1%) were withdrawn prematurely. The investigator's assessments of tolerance was reduced and two (2.1%) were considered to be excellent or good in 85 (88%) patients. 
Pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations. Surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial. During a 7-year period (1982 to 1988), 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations. Patients had cardiac symptoms only; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms. The pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation. All underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation. The pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies. The final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma (4), adenocarcinoma (3), and bronchoalveolar carcinoma (1). Postoperatively, 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died. The actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95%. The 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88% compared with 100% for those with benign pulmonary pathology (p = 0.172). This experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients. 
Evolution of human cardiac myocyte dimension during prolonged mechanical support. In animal models using left ventricular assist systems over long time periods, myocardial cellular atrophy has been reported, raising concern that prolonged clinical use of such systems might lead to deterioration in left ventricular function. At the University of Pittsburgh, long-term clinical use of the Novacor (Baxter Healthcare Corp., Novacor Div., Oakland, Calif.) left ventricular support system for patients awaiting heart transplants has allowed study of the effects of long-term mechanical support on human subjects. This study determined that cardiac myocyte dimension is initially greater in patients with end-stage cardiac disease who require support rather than in patients with the same disease who do not require such support. Although myocyte dimension does decrease within a few days of the inception of support, this decrease merely brings cell size closer to the values usual in patients with chronic end-stage cardiac disease, and no further shrinkage is observed. Thus the Novacor left ventricular assist system does not appear associated with left ventricular atrophy, and its long-term use may not be detrimental to left ventricular function. 
Time of onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmia in relation to alcohol consumption. It is widely believed but has never been proved that idiopathic supraventricular tachyarrhythmias beginning during or after weekends or winter holidays are frequently alcohol-related ("holiday heart" syndrome). The time of arrhythmia onset was therefore studied in relation to self-reported ethanol consumption and results of a screening test for alcoholism (CAGE questionnaire) in 289 patients aged less than 65 years admitted for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. There were 102 patients having an etiologically idiopathic arrhythmia with a known time of onset. Among them, but not among those with disease-related arrhythmias, patients with arrhythmic episodes beginning on Saturdays or on Sundays were more often chronic alcohol abusers (9 of 19, 47%) than either patients with episodes beginning from Mondays through Fridays (18 of 83, 22%; p = 0.040) or control subjects from the out-of-hospital population (8 of 66, 12%; p = 0.002). In multivariate analysis, the time of arrhythmia onset was related to the CAGE response (G2 = 6.0, p = 0.014) but not to the most recent ethanol use. However, the increased frequency of problem drinkers among patients with weekend-onset idiopathic arrhythmias was only relative, and resulted from a decreased number of abstainers and non-problem drinkers. No conspicuous clustering of alcohol-related arrhythmias was seen after New Year's or May Day. Thus, although the present study confirms an association between heavy drinking and idiopathic arrhythmias beginning during weekends, it shows that the question may be of a relative rather than an absolute overrepresentation. The term holiday heart may also be somewhat misleading since no postholiday accumulation of alcohol-related arrhythmias was found. 
Role of oxygen free radicals in ischemic and reperfused myocardium. In recent years there has been considerable interest concerning the role of oxygen radicals in myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury. The sequential univalent reduction of oxygen gives rise to very reactive intermediate products. Normally, the tissue concentration of these intermediate products of oxygen is limited and the aerobic myocardium survives because of the existence of a delicate balance between the generation of the various oxidants and the maintenance of the antioxidant defense mechanism. Several possible sources have been identified for the production of active oxygen species after ischemia and reperfusion and these sources may be mutually interactive. The ability of scavengers of oxygen free radicals, including vitamin E, to improve mechanical, mitochondrial, and sarcoplasmic reticulum function in animal models of ischemic-reperfusion injury also suggests that oxygen free radicals are partly responsible for myocardial damage in these models, although caution in the interpretation of these data is necessary. 
Quinapril in chronic heart failure. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are now firmly established in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). Their beneficial acute and chronic hemodynamic effects are not associated with reflex tachycardia or drug tolerance. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors produce symptomatic improvement and improve exercise capacity in all grades of heart failure. They also improve the prognosis of patients with severe heart failure. Quinapril is a recently introduced, nonsulfhydryl ACE inhibitor, whose intermediate half-life makes it well-suited for the treatment of patients with CHF. The acute and chronic hemodynamic effects of quinapril are similar to those of other ACE inhibitors. In a large, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study of 225 patients with mild to moderate CHF, 10 to 40 mg/day quinapril significantly improved clinical status and exercise capacity in a dose-related manner. The incidence of side effects did not differ significantly from that of placebo. The initial studies with quinapril are promising and warrant further clinical investigation of this compound. 
Primary varicose veins: topographic and hemodynamic correlations. This study was conducted to correlate the clinical presentations of uncomplicated primary varicose veins with the topographic and anatomic source of reflux (escape points). One-hundred sixty-three patients with primary varicose veins (144 females, 19 males; 96 unilateral, 67 bilateral) in 230 involved limbs were examined. The origin and extent of venous reflux was traced with Doppler ultrasound. Three distinct groups were recognized. Group I. Typical saphenous varicosities with junctional escapes occurred in 164 (71.3%). Sapheno-femoral junction (SFJ) incompetence in 147, and sapheno-popliteal junction (SPJ) incompetence in 17 limbs. Group II. Atypical saphenous varicosities with non-junctional escapes occurred in 51 (22.17%) limbs. In 5 limbs, no escape was detected. Twenty-two limbs had escapes localized in the main perforators: mid-thigh perforator 17, upper calf 2, distal ankle in 3. Twenty-four limbs had their escapes in the auxiliary perforators: abdomino-pelvic 17, and circumflex iliac/external epigastric, 7 limbs. Group III. Non saphenous (lateral venous system) varicosities occurred in 15 (6.52%) limbs. Based on physical examination alone, 55 limbs would possibly have undergone unnecessary ankle to groin stripping and 83 limbs an unnecessary SFJ ligation. Doppler US is an essential diagnostic tool that can accurately map the origin and extent of the venous reflux. The obtained hemodynamic information will permit more selective, multimodal therapy and avoid the indiscriminate, often unnecessary stripping of the entire saphenous system in all cases of primary varicose veins. 
Impairment of the myocardial ultrastructure and changes of the cytoskeleton in dilated cardiomyopathy. This study was designed to determine the morphological correlate of chronic heart failure. Myocardial tissue from eight patients undergoing transplantation surgery because of end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy was investigated by electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against elements of the cytoskeleton: desmin, tubulin, vinculin, and vimentin. The tissue showed hypertrophy, atrophy of myocytes, and an increased amount of fibrosis. Ultrastructural changes consisted of enlargement and varying shape of nuclei, numerous very small mitochondria, proliferation of T tubules, and accumulation of lipid droplets and glycogen. The most obvious ultrastructural alteration was the decrease of myofilaments, ranging from rarefication to complete absence of sarcomeres in cells filled with unspecified cytoplasm. Immunocytochemistry showed that desmin was localized at the Z lines. In diseased myocardium, the amount of desmin was increased, but it was disorderly arranged. Tubulin formed a fine network throughout the myocytes and was significantly increased in cardiomyopathic hearts. Vinculin, a protein closely associated with the cytoskeleton, occurred not only at the sarcolemma and the intercalated disc but also within the myocardial cells. Ultrastructural changes and alterations of the cytoskeleton were severe in about one third of all cells. About one third of all cells showed moderately severe changes, and the remaining cells were normal. Vimentin was present in the interstitial cells and was increased in relation to the increase of fibrosis. We conclude that the increase of fibrosis, the degeneration of hypertrophied myocardial cells, and the alterations of the cytoskeleton are the morphological correlates of reduced myocardial function in chronic heart failure. 
Short-term changes in renal function, blood pressure, and electrolyte levels in patients receiving cyclosporine for dermatologic disorders. We compared the changes in renal function, blood pressure (BP), and concentrations of serum potassium, magnesium, and urate (uric acid) in two groups of patients not given transplants. Group 1, comprising 21 psoriatic patients, was treated with 14 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 4 weeks in a prospective, placebo-controlled study; group 2, comprising 28 patients with diverse cutaneous diseases, was given 6 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 1 to 3 months in a prospective, open-labeled study. Renal function (determined by serum urea nitrogen [SUN] and creatinine levels and urinalysis), BP, serum electrolyte levels (potassium and magnesium), and urate level were measured weekly for the first 4 weeks in both groups, and then, after 2 and 3 months of therapy, in group 2 only. During the first 4 weeks in group 1 patients, there were significant increases in values of SUN, creatinine, BP, potassium, and urate, and a significant decrease in the serum magnesium value. When data for the two groups were combined, the changes from pretherapy values in each of the above measures (except systolic BP) during the first 4 weeks correlated significantly with cyclosporine trough levels. In group 2, the changes that occurred in the first 4 weeks in the SUN value, SUN/creatinine ratio, and BP were magnified over the subsequent 8 weeks of treatment. In the combined group for the first 4 weeks of therapy, duration of therapy, independent of cyclosporine trough levels, correlated with changes in SUN, creatinine, and urate levels, but not with changes in the potassium or magnesium level or in BP. We conclude that the cyclosporine blood level was a better discriminant than cyclosporine dosage in the analysis of renal dysfunction and hypertension in these patients. 
Angioplasty of occluded coronary arteries: use of thin shaft balloon over-the-wire system without pre-dilatation. A retrospective review was done on 13 consecutive patients who underwent PTCA of totally occluded coronary arteries using a recently released thin shaft balloon over-the-wire angioplasty system. Balloon size was determined by the closest fit to the arterial size and used without predilatation techniques. This technique was initially successful in 12 patients with only 2 clinically insignificant episodes of distal embolization and one probable early reclosure. Using thin shaft angioplasty systems, balloon dilatation of totally occluded coronary arteries can be done safely with a single balloon in many cases resulting in simplified procedures and economic benefits. 
The role of chronotropic impairment during exercise after the Mustard operation. To better understand the role of chronotropic impairment on exercise performance after the atrial switch (Mustard) operation, 20 patients who had undergone this operation for uncomplicated d-transposition of the great arteries exercised to maximal volition using a 1 min incremental treadmill protocol. Heart rate, oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production and minute ventilation were monitored continuously. Two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained before testing to calculate the right ventricular inflow volume indexed to body surface area. All patients achieved maximal aerobic capacity based on their ventilatory patterns and respiratory exchange ratio. Maximal heart rate was reduced (175 beats/min; 87% of predicted for age) and maximal oxygen consumption was decreased (31 ml/kg per min; 75% of predicted for age and gender). There was no correlation between maximal oxygen consumption and maximal heart rate. Right ventricular volume index, however, had a significant inverse correlation with maximal heart rate (r = -0.62, p less than 0.005). There was no correlation between right ventricular volume index and heart rate at rest. These results suggest that decreased maximal oxygen consumption in patients after the Mustard procedure is not a result of chronotropic impairment. Right ventricular dilation may be a compensatory response to chronotropic impairment. 
The costs of prevention. A prevention program is cost-effective if it yields more health benefits than do alternative uses of health care resources. Some prevention programs meet this standard: either they actually save more health care resources than they utilize, or their net costs per healthy year of life gained are lower than those of alternatives such as curative or palliative medicine. Other prevention programs, however, are less cost-effective than are medical treatments for the same disease. One lesson for public policy is that generalizations about the cost-effectiveness of "prevention" are unwise. Another lesson is that prevention programs should not be subjected to a higher standard than other health programs: they should not be expected to save money, but they should be expected to yield improved health at a reasonable price. 
Geographical clustering of risk factors and lifestyle for coronary heart disease in the Scottish Heart Health Study. A large cross sectional study, the Scottish Heart Health Study, of 10,359 men and women from 22 districts of Scotland was undertaken to try to explain the geographical variation of coronary heart disease mortality. Analysis by district showed that of the classic risk factors only cigarette smoking was strongly associated with heart disease mortality among both men and women. Mean diastolic blood pressure was weakly associated with rates among men and high density lipoprotein cholesterol showed a strong negative association among women. Total cholesterol showed a weak negative association with heart disease mortality, but, because the serum concentrations of cholesterol were uniformly high in all districts, a strong association with mortality would not be expected. In both men and women many dietary factors showed moderate or strong associations with mortality from coronary heart disease in a district--of these a low consumption of vitamin C was most notable. Other factors associated with heart disease included alcohol consumption and serum triglycerides among men, and obesity, physical activity, and serum triglycerides among women. Many factors associated with heart disease showed strong intercorrelations. Clustering of risk factors (including smoking, alcohol, and diet among men, and smoking, diet, and obesity among women) was associated with much of the regional variation in heart disease mortality in Scotland. 
Upward shift of the lower range of coronary flow autoregulation in hypertensive patients with hypertrophy of the left ventricle BACKGROUND. At any given perfusion pressure, coronary reserve is expressed by the difference between autoregulated and maximally vasodilated flow. In hypertension the raised coronary resistance reduces the steepness of the pressure-flow relationship at maximal vasodilatation. In the presence of cardiac hypertrophy the line of autoregulated flow becomes higher. For these reasons coronary reserve is reduced and the point at which baseline flow approaches the maximal achievable flow might be shifted to a higher perfusion pressure. Thus, any reduction below this elevated and critical value of pressure would lower the coronary flow. METHODS AND RESULTS. The investigated patients were normotensive (controls, nine) and hypertensive with normal (group I, seven) or augmented LV mass index because of concentric LV hypertrophy (group II, eight). All had effort-induced angina and angiographically normal left epicardial branches. Flow in the great cardiac vein was measured by thermodilution in the baseline and during stepwise (5 mm Hg every 5 minutes) decrease of the coronary perfusion pressure with a titrated nitroprusside i.v. infusion; perfusion pressures of 60 mm Hg in the controls and 70 mm Hg in the hypertensives were taken as end points. Baseline flow averaged 102 ml/min in normotensives, 104 ml/min in hypertensive group I and 148 ml/min in hypertensive group II. At the end points flow was similar to baseline in the controls and group I. In group II coronary flow started to decline and myocardial O2 extraction started to slightly but significantly rise at perfusion pressures of 90-80 mm Hg; at the end point flow was reduced by 26% (p less than 0.01 from baseline). The perfusion patterns did not seem to be related to the changes in tension-time index and heart rate. CONCLUSIONS. The association of high blood pressure (reduced ability of the coronary arterioles to dilate) and hypertrophy of the myocardium (augmented baseline coronary flow) may shift the point of exhaustion of coronary reserve to a higher perfusion pressure and make the myocardium vulnerable to treatment-induced relative hypertension. 
Relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area, shape, and velocity of regurgitant color Doppler jets: an in vitro study. The relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area, shape, and velocity of regurgitant jets was studied in a pulsatile in vitro color Doppler flow model. A 2.5 MHz transducer connected to a diagnostic ultrasound machine was placed in a water tank facing pulsatile jets (duration, 0.5 second) obtained by a calibrated injector. Flow rate from 6 to 52 ml/sec were tested through a 5 mm diameter circular orifice. Four different three-dimensional inflow tract geometries were compared: (A) sharp-edged, (B) Venturi (funnel), (C) converging conical, and (D) diverging conical. Mean velocities of jets were measured by continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography. Driving pressures were also measured by means of a fluid-filled catheter. Two observers independently digitized contours of maximal color jet areas by computer system from two separate sets of experiments. Results are given as the mean values of the four measurements for each parameter. Jet areas were correlated to flow rate, with no difference from A through D. The shape (eccentricity) of jets was different between A and B (p less than 0.05), between B and D (p less than 0.01), and between C and D (p less than 0.01). The shape of jets was correlated with flow rate, continuous-wave velocity, and pressure gradient in B, C, and D but not in A. Measured pressure gradients and estimated gradients by continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography were similarly correlated from A through D. 
Comparison of the antihypertensive effects of delapril and enalapril. The angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors delapril and enalapril were compared in a double-blind, randomized, parallel study. The population included 142 patients with essential hypertension who were treated with delapril and 140 treated with enalapril. At the end of a 2 week initial placebo period, the diastolic blood pressure of these patients ranged from 95 to 115 mm Hg in the sitting position. After this placebo period, randomization took place. Patients in the delapril group received 15 mg of the drug twice daily. Treatment with enalapril was started with a daily dose of 10 mg. If the diastolic blood pressure did not fall to less than or equal to 90 mm Hg or at least by 15 mm Hg after 2 weeks of treatment, the doses of the ACE inhibitors were doubled. After another 2 weeks, 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily was added if the target level of diastolic blood pressure was not reached. Both drugs caused a similar decrease of systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The antihypertensive effect of both ACE inhibitors was increased by the addition of the diuretic. The frequency and severity of side effects were similar in the two groups of patients. It is concluded from this study that delapril and enalapril do not differ in antihypertensive efficacy nor in safety. 
Stroke volume during submaximal exercise in endurance-trained normotensive subjects and in untrained hypertensive subjects with beta blockade (propranolol and pindolol). The effect of beta-adrenergic blockade on stroke volume (SV) at increasing submaximal exercise intensities was studied in 12 endurance-trained normotensive and 12 untrained hypertensive (diastolic blood pressure greater than 95 mm Hg) men, aged 18 to 34 years. Subjects were assigned to each of 3 treatments in a double-blind, randomized order: placebo, propranolol (80 mg twice daily) and pindolol (10 mg twice daily) for 10 days, with a period of 48 to 60 hours from the initial dose to the first treadmill test and a 4-day washout period between drugs. Cardiac output was measured using the carbon dioxide rebreathing method and SV was calculated from cardiac output and heart rate as follows: SV = cardiac output/heart rate. Cardiac outputs were estimated at rest and while walking on a treadmill at 25, 45, 60 and 75% of the subject's previously determined maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max). No significant differences were found in cardiac output between either of the drugs and placebo at rest, or at any of the 4 rates of work. Propranolol significantly increased SV above placebo values (p less than 0.05) for both trained and untrained groups at the intensities of 45, 60 and 75%. Significant differences in SV were found between pindolol and placebo only at the intensities of 60 and 75% in the trained group. Contrary to expectations, SV showed no indication of a plateau with propranolol in the trained subjects throughout the 4 different exercise intensities, whereas a plateau was established under placebo conditions by 45% of VO2max in both trained and untrained subjects. These results suggest that both trained and untrained hypertensive persons can exercise with beta-adrenergic blockade at submaximal levels without compromised cardiac function. 
Interatrial shunt flow profiles in newborn infants: a colour flow and pulsed Doppler echocardiographic study. Interatrial shunt flow profiles in 36 normal term infants were examined serially by colour flow and pulsed Doppler echocardiographic techniques from within an hour of birth to four or five days after birth. Shunt flow across the foramen ovale was detected in 33 normal infants (92%) within an hour of birth (mean 40 minutes). The occurrence of interatrial shunting decreased with age, but a shunt signal was still detected in 17 infants (47%) on the fourth or fifth day of life, by then the ductus arteriosus had already closed in all the normal infants. The direction of interatrial shunt flow was predominantly left-to-right, but in 64% there was a coexistent small right-to-left shunt in diastole within an hour of birth; by four to five days it was found in 19%. In the six patients with persistent fetal circulation the direction of the interatrial shunt flow was predominantly right-to-left with biphasic peaks in diastole and systole at the early stage of the disease, and the period of right-to-left shunt flow during each cardiac cycle was significantly longer than that in normal infants examined within 1 hour of birth. In all patients the ductus closed before the foramen ovale. At the time of ductal closure in all patients with persistent fetal circulation right-to-left shunt flow was seen during diastole and its period was still prolonged. These findings suggest that interatrial shunting, predominantly left-to-right, is common in normal newborn infants. 
Prevalence and association of asteroid hyalosis with systemic diseases. We performed a cross-sectional study of 12,205 patients, which identified 101 patients (0.83%) with asteroid hyalosis. These patients were examined for associated systemic and ocular conditions. Diabetes mellitus was found in 29 of the patients with asteroid hyalosis (29%), as compared to ten of 101 (10%) control subjects (P = .0007). An increased prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension (61 of 101 [60%] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 29 of 101 [29%] control subjects; P = .0001) and atherosclerotic vascular disease (30 of 101 [30%] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 13 of 101 [13%] control subjects; P = .006) was also discovered in the asteroid hyalosis group. Additionally, patients with asteroid hyalosis were found to be more hyperopic than control subjects (P = .009). 
Relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy. We have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression. Six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly (group 1), and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia (group 2). Eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months. In group 1, 1 patient died and 3 patients (50%) experienced recurrent respiratory distress. Five infants sustained a major postoperative complication, and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days. In group 2, however, aortopexy was uniformly successful. There were no deaths, no postoperative complications, and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress, and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days. For children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia, aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality. Great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes. 
Two types of abnormal genes for plasminogen in families with a predisposition for thrombosis [published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1991 Apr 1;88(7):2967] The gene coding for plasminogen has been compared with several abnormal genes from Japanese patients by the polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequence analysis. Two types of abnormal genes coding for plasminogen were identified in these patients. In the type I mutation, a guanosine in GCT coding for Ala-601 near the active-site histidine was replaced by an adenosine resulting in ACT coding for threonine. This mutation was also shown by the loss of a cleavage site for Fnu4HI endonuclease, a restriction enzyme that recognizes GCTGC but not ACTGC. In the type II mutation, a guanosine in GTC coding for Val-355 was replaced by a thymidine resulting in TTC coding for phenylalanine. This change was readily shown by digestion with Ava II endonuclease, a restriction enzyme that recognizes GGTCC and not GTTCC. The type I mutation has been found to be identical to a plasminogen variant identified in Japanese patients by amino acid sequence analysis and also detected by isoelectric focusing, whereas the type II mutation is a unique amino acid substitution in the connecting region between the third and fourth kringles in plasminogen. DNA sequence analysis also revealed that the abnormal genes carry several silent nucleotide substitutions located primarily within introns and 5' and 3' flanking regions. 
Increased rat cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme activity and mRNA expression in pressure overload left ventricular hypertrophy. Effects on coronary resistance, contractility, and relaxation. We compared the activity and physiologic effects of cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) using isovolumic hearts from male Wistar rats with left ventricular hypertrophy due to chronic experimental aortic stenosis and from control rats. In response to the infusion of 3.5 X 10(-8) M angiotensin I in the isolated buffer perfused beating hearts, the intracardiac fractional conversion to angiotensin II was higher in the hypertrophied hearts compared with the controls (17.3 +/- 4.1% vs 6.8 +/- 1.3%, P less than 0.01). ACE activity was also significantly increased in the free wall, septum, and apex of the hypertrophied left ventricle, whereas ACE activity from the nonhypertrophied right ventricle of the aortic stenosis rats was not different from that of the control rats. Northern blot analyses of poly(A)+ purified RNA demonstrated the expression of ACE mRNA, which was increased fourfold in left ventricular tissue obtained from the hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy compared with the controls. In both groups, the intracardiac conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II caused a comparable dose-dependent increase in coronary resistance. In the control hearts, angiotensin II activation had no significant effect on systolic or diastolic function; however, it was associated with a dose-dependent depression of left ventricular diastolic relaxation in the hypertrophied hearts. These novel observations suggest that cardiac ACE is induced in hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy, and that the resultant intracardiac activation of angiotensin II may have differential effects on myocardial relaxation in hypertrophied hearts relative to controls. 
Vitamin C and cardiovascular risk factors. The concept that ascorbic acid (vitamin C) supplementation protects against coronary heart disease developed in the late 1970s when vitamin C intakes in industrialized nations were lower than at present. Supplementation was then shown to lower plasma total cholesterol and, among some elderly men, to raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. However, among people in initially good vitamin C nutriture, these effects are usually not seen. In five populations of essentially healthy people, blood pressure has been found to correlate negatively with vitamin C status. Recently, in a placebo-controlled, double-blinded study, extra ascorbic acid for 6 wk was observed to lower systolic and pulse pressure in a small group of borderline hypertensive subjects. 
Diagnostic echocardiographic features of the sinus venosus defect. To establish the diagnostic criteria for a sinus venosus atrial septal defect cross sectional echocardiograms, cineangiograms, and surgical notes of all patients with this diagnosis seen at the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh between 1986 and 1988 were reviewed. Seven patients were identified. In each the extent of the atrial septum and the nature of the junction of the superior vena cava with the atria were evaluated echocardiographically from the subcostal position. All had overriding of the superior vena cava and abnormally connected right pulmonary veins. Six patients had undergone cardiac catheterisation and cineangiography. Five patients underwent surgical repair. The operative findings were consistent with the expected morphology in all five, and these features were additionally confirmed in a specimen from the cardiopathological museum. Therefore, the basic anatomical feature of a superior sinus venosus interatrial communication is a biatrial connection of the superior vena cava. This, together with anomalous drainage of the right sided pulmonary veins, results in an interatrial communication outside the confines of the true atrial septum. Overriding of the superior vena cava across the upper rim of the oval fossa is suggested as the pathognomonic diagnostic feature that can clearly be demonstrated echocardiographically from the subcostal position. In essence the lesion is an interatrial communication rather than an atrial septal defect. 
Single lung transplantation for primary pulmonary hypertension. Single lung transplantation has become a therapeutic option for end-stage interstitial lung disease and obstructive lung disease. Our group recently extended this treatment to three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. All patients had marked decreases in pulmonary artery pressures and pulmonary vascular resistance and increases in cardiac output following single lung transplantation. Spirometry, lung volumes, and diffusion capacity were not different in comparison to preoperative studies. Quantitative ventilation-perfusion scans revealed the majority of perfusion distributed to the transplanted lung, with ventilation approximately equally divided between the native and the transplanted lung. Despite ventilation-perfusion imbalance, there was no resting hypoxemia and there was no arterial oxygen desaturation with exercise. One patient expired on the 30th postoperative day due to cytomegalovirus infection of the lungs. In the remaining two patients, maximum exercise capacity following transplantation was near normal in one recipient and reduced in the second recipient. Of note, there was no evidence of ventilatory limitation or impaired oxygenation during exercise in these two recipients. Although an exaggerated exercise ventilatory response was present, this did not limit exercise performance. This report supports the use of single lung transplantation for the treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension. 
Comparative effects of overweight on cardiovascular risk in younger versus older men. The relation of age and body mass index (BMI) to atherosclerosis risk factors was examined in 357 men. Older (greater than or equal to 45 years) men had higher (p less than 0.01) systolic and diastolic blood pressures, fasting cholesterol and glucose, and 1-hour glucose and insulin levels. Fasting insulin and triglyceride levels were not significantly different between the 2 age groups. Although older men (n = 170) had greater values for several risk factors, overweight (BMI greater than 25.5 kg/m2) increased risk factors more in men younger than 45 years (n = 187). In younger men, those with higher BMIs had a greater prevalence, respectively, of blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg (35.2 vs 11.2%, p less than 0.0001), cholesterol greater than 200 mg/dl (53.5 vs 29.3%, p less than 0.001), fasting triglycerides greater than 150 mg/dl (38.0 vs 10.3%, p less than 0.0001), 1-hour glucose greater than 160 mg/dl (15.5 vs 5.2%, p less than 0.05), fasting insulin greater than 11 microU/ml (28.2 vs 5.2%, p less than 0.0001), and 1-hour insulin greater than 110 microU/ml (28.2 vs 9.5%, p less than 0.001). In contrast, among older men, the prevalence of elevated blood pressure, cholesterol, triglycerides and glucose values was not significantly greater in the subgroup with high BMI. However, elevations of fasting (19.6 vs 6.4%, p less than 0.05) and 1-hour insulin (29.3 vs 11.5%, p less than 0.01) values were more common among older men with higher BMIs. 
Estimating left ventricular filling pressure during positive end-expiratory pressure in humans. In the critically ill, accurate measurements of left ventricular (LV) filling pressure using pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (Ppao) are important for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. In patients receiving positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), Ppao may not reflect LV filling pressure because of elevated pericardial pressure (Ppc). It has been proposed that in humans, Ppc and right atrial pressure (PRA) are equal, so that referencing Ppao to PRA may improve the assessment of LV filling pressure when Ppc is elevated. Similarly, it has also been shown in the dog that nadir Ppao immediately after airway disconnection from PEEP (nadir Ppao), accurately reflects LV filling pressure when LV filling pressure is greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg. We examined methods of estimating LV filling pressure using Ppao measurements under conditions in which increases in Ppc were the primary determinants of differences in the two measurements. Using left atrial pressure (PLA) relative to Ppc, called transmural PLA (PLAtm), as LV filling pressure, we compared the accuracy of Ppao, nadir Ppao, and Ppao relative to PRA to reflect PLAtm in 15 postoperative cardiac surgery patients in whom an air-filled pericardial balloon catheter and a left atrial catheter were inserted during surgery. PEEP was sequentially increased from zero to 15 cm H2O. We found that PRA always exceeded Ppc (p less than 0.01) and increased less with PEEP than did Ppc (p less than 0.05). At less than or equal to 5 cm H2O PEEP, both Ppao and nadir Ppao were similar to each other and to PLAtm. 
The association of elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine with progression of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Plasma homocyst(e)ine (the sum of free and bound homocysteine, homocystine, and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine, expressed as homocysteine) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 214 patients with symptomatic (claudication, rest pain, gangrene, amputation) lower extremity arterial occlusive disease and/or symptomatic (stroke, cerebral transient ischemic attacks) cerebral vascular disease and in 103 control persons. Mean plasma homocyst(e)ine was significantly higher in patients than in controls (14.37 +/- 6.89 nmol/ml vs 10.10 +/- 2.16, p less than 0.05). Thirty-nine percent of patients (83 of 214) had plasma homocyst(e)ine values greater than control mean + 2 standard deviations. Plasma homocyst(e)ine values were contrasted to age, male sex, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, renal failure, and plasma cholesterol. No difference was found in the incidence and/or level of any of these risk factors when patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine were compared to those with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine, both by univariate and multivariate analysis. Patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine were more likely to demonstrate clinical progression of lower extremity disease and of coronary artery disease, but not of cerebral vascular disease than were patients with normal plasma homocyst(e)ine, and the rate of progression was more rapid (p = 0.002). Progression of lower extremity disease as assessed in the vascular laboratory was also more common in patients with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine (p = 0.01). We conclude that elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine is an independent risk factor for symptomatic lower extremity disease or cerebral vascular disease or both. Symptomatic patients with lower extremity disease and with elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine also appear to have more rapid progression of disease. 
Visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery. A study was made with intra-operative flash--visual evoked potentials (VEP) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve. The VEPs recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings. Transient abolition of the VEP was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery, but absence of a previously normal VEP for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision. The technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve. 
Stress echocardiography and the human factor: the importance of being expert. The aim of this study was to evaluate how the diagnostic accuracy of a stress echocardiographic procedure, such as a dipyridamole echocardiography test, depends on the specific experience of the physician interpreting the test. Recordings of 50 consecutive dipyridamole echocardiographic tests were selected for the first part of the study. They were analyzed by 20 experienced echocardiographers with different backgrounds in stress echocardiography: 10 beginners (less than 20 stress studies interpreted with trained staff) and 10 experienced observers (greater than or equal to 100 stress studies performed). Diagnostic accuracy (true positive + true negative/total number of tests) versus the angiographic reference standard (greater than 70% coronary stenosis of at least one major coronary artery) was 62 +/- 6% for beginners and 85 +/- 3% for experienced observers (p less than 0.0001). In the second part of the study, 10 observers (5 beginners and 5 experienced observers) evaluated 2 different sets of 50 dipyridamole echocardiographic test studies before and after the training of the beginners. Before training, the accuracy of beginners was lower than that of experienced observers (61 +/- 7% versus 85 +/- 3%; p less than 0.001). After training, the accuracy gap was closed (83 +/- 3% versus 86 +/- 2%; p = NS). Therefore, interpretation of stress echocardiographic tests by an echocardiographer without specific training severely underestimates the diagnostic potential of this technique. One hundred stress echocardiographic studies are more than adequate to build the individual learning curve and reach the plateau of diagnostic accuracy that the test can yield. 
Nitrendipine-induced gingival hyperplasia. First case report. Drug-induced gingival hyperplasia is well documented within the literature. It has been associated with phenytoin, cyclosporine, and calcium channel blocking agents. Nitrendipine is an experimental calcium channel blocking agent that also appears to cause the side effect of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia. The clinical and histologic presentation of this side effect and possible biochemical mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed. 
Angioplasty from the contralateral approach: use of a guiding catheter and coaxial angioplasty balloons. An 8-F guiding catheter has been developed for use with coaxial angioplasty balloon catheters in angioplasty of the femoral artery from the contralateral approach when antegrade puncture of the ipsilateral femoral artery is not possible. The catheter may be used for angioplasty of the femoral artery bifurcation and the superficial femoral artery and for arterial stenoses in patients with renal transplants. 
Simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography: a new method of stress echocardiography The diagnostic use of exercise echocardiography has been widely reported. However, transthoracic exercise echocardiography is inadequate in up to 20% of patients because of poor image quality related to exercise. In an attempt to overcome these limitations, a system was developed in which transesophageal echocardiography is combined with simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing by means of the same probe. In a prospective study, transesophageal echocardiography was performed before, during and immediately after maximal atrial pacing in 50 patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Results of transesophageal stress echocardiography were considered abnormal when new pacing-induced regional wall motion abnormalities were observed. Correlative routine bicycle exercise testing was carried out in 44 patients. Cardiac catheterization was performed in all patients. The success rate in obtaining high quality diagnostic images was 100% by transesophageal echocardiography. All nine patients without angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease had a normal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram (100% specificity). Thirty-eight of 41 patients with coronary artery disease (defined as greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter narrowing of at least one major vessel) had an abnormal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram (93% sensitivity). The sensitivity of the technique for one, two or three vessel disease was 85%, 100% and 100%, respectively, compared with 44%, 50% and 83%, respectively, for bicycle exercise testing; the 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG) during rapid atrial pacing showed a sensitivity of 25%, 64% and 86%, respectively. Thus, rapid atrial pacing combined with simultaneous transesophageal echocardiography is a highly specific and sensitive technique for the detection of coronary artery disease. Ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities were detected earlier than observed ECG changes. The technique appears to be particularly suited to patients who are unable to perform an active stress test or those with poor quality transthoracic echocardiograms. 
Usefulness of color-flow Doppler in diagnosing and in differentiating supracristal ventricular septal defect from right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Color-flow Doppler is used for special localization of cardiac flows. The transeptal jet in supracristal ventricular septal defect (VSD) is directed toward the pulmonary valve and is often difficult to distinguish from the right ventricular (RV) outflow tract flow. Pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler can misread the VSD jet as a stenotic lesion in the RV outflow tract. This study describes the color-flow Doppler characteristics of supracristal VSD and determines if color-flow Doppler can differentiate supracristal VSD jets from RV outflow tract flow. The study group comprised 28 patients ranging in age from 3 days to 23 years (mean 6.4), with catheter-diagnosed supracristal VSD in 14, isolated pulmonary valve stenosis in 10 and RV infundibular obstruction in 4. The echocardiographic Doppler and color-flow Doppler data of all patients were reviewed without knowledge of catheterization diagnosis. In all patients with supracristal VSD, color-flow Doppler revealed an abnormal transeptal jet directed toward the pulmonary valve that occurred 5 to 10 ms before RV outflow tract flow was identified. VSD and RV outflow tract jet could be differentiated by pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler alone in 10 of 14 patients (71%). In 4 patients, differentiation was possible only with color-flow Doppler and electrocardiographic gating. Associated aortic regurgitation, or a fistula, or both, were detected in 6 patients. Pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler with or without color-flow Doppler correctly identified the level of obstruction in all patients with RV outflow tract lesions (14 of 14). Supracristal VSD jet occurs in early systole and is directed toward the pulmonary valve. 
Nitrous oxide does not alter infarct volume in rats undergoing reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion. This experiment was designed to determine if nitrous oxide alters neurologic and pathologic outcome from temporary focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats deeply anesthetized with a barbiturate. Two groups of rats were given intravenous methohexital such that a stable EEG pattern of burst suppression was achieved. In one group of rats (n = 11), the lungs were mechanically ventilated with 70% N2O/30% O2, and in the other group (n = 10), ventilation was done with 70% nitrogen/30% O2. The middle cerebral artery was then occluded for 2 h, during which time mean arterial pressure, blood gases, hematocrit, plasma glucose, and head temperature were held constant between groups. The total doses of methohexital administered were similar in both groups as were the plasma methohexital concentrations immediately prior to onset of ischemia. After reperfusion of the middle cerebral artery, the animals were allowed to awaken. Neurologic evaluations were performed prior to ischemia and at 24 and 96 h postischemia. Cerebral infarct volume was measured at 96 h postischemia using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and computer imaging techniques. There were no neurologic differences between the N2O and nitrogen groups at any experimental interval although both groups exhibited deficits at both 24 and 96 h postischemia relative to preischemic values. The two groups also had nearly identical cerebral infarct volumes (N2O = 231 +/- 97 mm3; nitrogen = 226 +/- 75 mm3; mean +/- SD). 
Central retinal artery obstruction in herpes zoster ophthalmicus and cerebral vasculopathy. We present a case of acute central retinal artery obstruction in association with Herpes zoster ophthalmicus and delayed cerebral vasculopathy. Retinal vascular obstruction is rare in zoster, and its occurrence during postherpetic cerebral vasculopathy has not been reported previously to our knowledge. The syndrome of delayed cerebral vasculopathy is discussed as is its possible relationship to central retinal artery obstruction. 
Five-year results of coronary bypass grafting for patients older than 70 years: role of internal mammary artery. Despite numerous references to the superiority of the internal mammary artery (IMA) over the saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization, its role in the elderly is still in question. From January 1984 through December 1988, 1,081 patients older than 70 years (mean age, 74.9 years) underwent bypass grafting, 354 (33%) receiving left IMA grafts based on the surgeon's preference and 727 (67%) receiving vein grafts only. Selection bias resulted in a higher incidence of known risk factors (such as cardiomegaly, arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, wall motion abnormalities, and preoperative combined New York Heart Association/Canadian Cardiovascular Association functional class IV) in patients in whom the IMA was not used. However, unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, and left main disease were not contraindications for using IMA grafts. The operative mortality rate was significantly lower in IMA patients (2.8% versus 7.6%). The actuarial 5-year survival rate (standard error) was higher in patients with IMA grafts, 89% (3%) versus 78% (2%), and postoperative functional class improved to a greater extent in IMA patients (87% of patients were in classes I and II). Arrhythmias and myocardial infarction were significant causes of late death only in patients with vein grafts. When patients are older than 70 years, patient selection factors clearly play an important role in the differential results between patients in whom the IMA is used and patients in whom vein grafts are used. As in younger patients, excellent results can be achieved in the elderly. 
Treatable complications in undiagnosed cases of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. In a study to determine the proportion of unrecognised cases and the prevalence of treatable complications of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), 46 probands were identified through genetics and renal clinics in Melbourne, Australia. 321 offspring of the probands who were older than 15 years and had not been previously diagnosed as having ADPKD were identified. 68 (21%) had ultrasound evidence of polycystic kidney disease. Of this previously undiagnosed group, 25 (37%) had one or more treatable complications at the time of diagnosis. The complications included 20 cases of hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 95 mm Hg or above), 7 cases of impaired renal function (serum creatinine 0.12 mmol/l or above), and 4 cases of bacterial urinary tract infection. 8 people had several complications. ADPKD has an important treatable component which is not being treated in a substantial proportion of affected individuals, because the disease is not being diagnosed despite the presence of a positive family history. 
End diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus assessed by pulsed Doppler echocardiography: a new predictor of the aortic regurgitant fraction. End diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus was measured within 72 hours of cardiac catheterisation by pulsed Doppler echocardiography in 30 controls and 61 patients with aortic regurgitation. The end diastolic flow velocity was determined at the peak R wave on a simultaneously recorded electrocardiogram. In all controls there was no reverse flow at the end diastole beneath the aortic isthmus. In patients with aortic regurgitation the end diastolic flow velocity correlated well with the angiographic grade of regurgitation (r = 0.81) and regurgitant fraction (r = 0.82). The mean (SD) values were 6.3 (5.2), 12.2 (4.3), 22.1 (5.7), and 34.3 (9.3) cm/s for patients with regurgitant fraction of less than 20%, between 20% and 40%, between 41% and 60%, and greater than 60%, respectively. An end diastolic flow velocity of greater than 18 cm/s predicted a regurgitant fraction of greater than or equal to 40% with a sensitivity of 88.5% and a specificity of 96%. The study suggests that the pulsed Doppler derived end diastolic flow velocity is a useful index in the routine non-invasive assessment of the severity of aortic regurgitation. 
Coronary artery disease in Chinese males without hypercholesterolaemia The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of various metabolic risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) in 246 male patients studied over a 2-year period. CAD was diagnosed on the basis of a history indicative of angina pectoris, an electrocardiogram diagnostic of myocardial ischaemia, and a positive coronary angiogram. Thirty-eight per cent of this population had diabetes, hypertension or both. Of the remaining individuals, 39% had a plasma cholesterol concentration greater than 5.2 mmol l-1, whereas 23% had a cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1. Plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels of a non-smoking subset of those subjects with a total cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 were compared with values of a matched group of individuals who did not have significant vessel disease as revealed by angiography. The results of these investigations indicated that patients with CAD and a plasma cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 exhibited an increase in plasma triglyceride concentration and a decrease in plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration. Since these subjects were not diabetic, hypertensive or hypercholesterolaemic, it is suggested that the observed changes in triglyceride and HDL metabolism made a major contribution to the CAD in these individuals. 
Oxygen supply and utilization relationships. A reevaluation. The relationship between oxygen transport (TO2) and oxygen consumption (VO2) has been studied in patients with a number of acute and chronic disorders. Many of these patients have been shown to have a linear relationship between these two variables over a wide range of TO2, which has been considered as evidence of pathologic supply dependency. This supply dependency contrasts with animal studies that have clearly demonstrated a biphasic relationship between TO2 and VO2. This review of the available data concerning the relationship between oxygen transport and supply under conditions of increased oxygen requirements and reduced oxygen transport suggests the possibility that the observed interaction in patients may, in many cases, represent the normal physiologic behavior of the system rather than an abnormal manifestation of impaired oxygen extraction. 
Intraoperative peripheral Nd:YAG laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty: short-term and intermediate-term follow-up. Laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty was performed in 48 arteries (iliac, superficial femoral, and popliteal). Indications for surgery were limb salvage (25%), rest pain (38%), and claudication (38%). Patients were categorized into three groups: lesions less than 5 cm, greater than 5 to 10 cm, or greater than 10 cm in length. Demographic characteristics, risk factors, and outcome measures were compared by use of Fisher's exact test and Student's t test. The time for vascular patency failure was compared by use of a standard Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for the three groups. Initial failure to recanalize was noted in 14% in lesions less than 5 cm, 40% in lesions greater than 5 to 10 cm, and 73% in lesions greater than 10 cm. The overall success rate was 38%, with a mean follow up of 1 year. The less than 5 cm lesion group had a significantly higher rate of overall success (59%, p = 0.005) than the other two groups combined. The greater than 10 cm lesion group did significantly worse (9%) than the other two groups combined (p = 0.028). Patients in the less than 5 cm group had significantly longer patency than the other two groups (p less than 0.01). Iliac lesions had a higher overall success rate (73%) than superficial femoral and popliteal artery lesions (35%) (p = 0.038). In conclusion, the widespread application of laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty cannot be justified without further long-term clinical and laboratory investigation. Conversely, the potential of this technique should not be dismissed out of hand. Proper patient selection, length and nature of the lesion to be treated, and the appropriate forms, doses, and method of delivery of laser energy, remain to be defined. 
Hemodynamic efficacy of rapid saline infusion and dobutamine versus saline infusion alone in a model of cardiac rupture. Despite recent reports describing survival after cardiac rupture, the effectiveness of circulatory support while awaiting definitive surgical treatment is controversial. To assess the efficacy of volume expansion and pharmacologic support in cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture, a model of hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade was developed and treatment with rapid saline infusion and dobutamine was compared with rapid saline infusion alone in 15 closed chest dogs. A right ventricular wound of reproducible size was produced by deflating an aortic valvuloplasty balloon that had previously been passed by way of the internal jugular vein into the pericardial space and through a stab wound in the right ventricular free wall. Hemodynamic values were compared at baseline, during tamponade and after a rapid infusion (1 liter at 100 ml/min) of either saline solution alone or saline solution plus dobutamine (20 micrograms/kg per min). Atrial and pericardial pressures increased significantly in both groups. Mean arterial pressure, cardiac output and stroke volume increased with combined saline and dobutamine infusion to values similar to those at baseline (91 +/- 19%, 114 +/- 43% and 94 +/- 37% of baseline, respectively). In contrast, saline infusion alone caused a small increase in cardiac output but failed to significantly increase mean arterial pressure or stroke volume (76.8 +/- 14.2%, 55 +/- 18% and 51 +/- 17% of baseline, respectively). Combined rapid infusion of saline solution and dobutamine infusion has a more beneficial hemodynamic effect and may be more effective than rapid saline infusion alone in resuscitating patients with hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture. 
Effect of antihypertensives on sexual function and quality of life: the TAIM Study OBJECTIVE: To evaluate treatment of mild hypertension using combinations of diet and low-dose pharmacologic therapies. DESIGN: Multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. SETTING: Three university-based tertiary care centers. PATIENTS: Patients (697) 21 to 65 years of age with diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 100 mm Hg as well as weight between 110% and 160% of ideal weight. INTERVENTION: Patients were stratified by clinical center and race and were randomly assigned to one of three diets (usual, low-sodium and high-potassium, weight loss) and one of three agents (placebo, chlorthalidone, and atenolol). MEASUREMENTS: Changes in measures of sexual problems, distress, and well-being after 6 months of therapy were analyzed. MAIN RESULTS: Low-dose chlorthalidone and atenolol produced few side effects, except in men. Erection-related problems worsened in 28% (95% CI, 15% to 41%) of men receiving chlorthalidone and usual diet compared with 3% (CI, 0% to 9%) of those receiving placebo and usual diet (P = 0.009) and 11% (CI, 2% to 20%) of those receiving atenolol and usual diet (P greater than 0.05). The weight loss diet ameliorated this effect. The low-sodium diet with placebo was associated with greater fatigue (34%; CI, 23% to 45%) than was either usual diet (18%; CI, 10% to 27%; P = 0.04) or weight reduction (15%; CI, 7% to 23%; P = 0.009). The low-sodium diet with chlorthalidone increased problems with sleep (32%; CI, 22% to 42%) compared with chlorthalidone and usual diet (16%; CI, 8% to 24%; P = 0.04). The weight loss diet benefited quality of life most, reducing total physical complaints (P less than 0.001) and increasing satisfaction with health (P less than 0.001). Total physical complaints decreased in 57% to 76% of patients depending on drug and diet group, and were markedly decreased by weight loss. CONCLUSION: In general, low-dose antihypertensive drug therapy (with chlorthalidone or atenolol) improves rather than impairs the quality of life; however, chlorthalidone with usual diet increases sexual problems in men. 
Strokes in Asians and Pacific-Islanders, Hispanics, and Native Americans. Stroke in Asian and Pacific-Islander populations remains the principal cause of death among adults, but its incidence in the United States approximates that of Caucasians. Although controversial, uncontrolled hypertension in certain population groups (e.g., northern Japanese) and high dietary saturated fat in others (e.g, Pacific-Islanders) are believed to be responsible for the high stroke incidence rates. The recent reduction in stroke frequency rates in these areas is thought to be the result of better hypertension control. In the Ni-Hon-San Study, the level of hypertension and its frequency were similar in Hawaii and Japan, but ischemic infarction and intracerebral hemorrhage were less frequent in Hawaii. Reduced meat and fat intake may contribute to small vessel disease in Japan. Stroke is the third major cause of death among Hispanic-Americans and Native Americans, yet there is a paucity of information, especially about stroke, in subgroups of these populations. There is also considerable ignorance and controversy about risk factors for stroke in these populations. The need for additional research is urgent. 
Sinistral (left-sided) portal hypertension. Between 1953 and 1988, 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis (SVT), 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension (SPH) were treated at our institution. SVT was identified at autopsy in nine patients. Twelve additional patients presented with SPH: bleeding esophageal varices, SVT and normal hepatic function. SVT was caused by pancreatic neoplasm (5), chronic pancreatitis (5), and pancreatic pseudocyst (2). SVT was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography, splenoportography, computerized tomography, and ultrasonography. Gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy (10) and barium swallow (2). Splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients. Three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy. Two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization, one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy. One splenectomized patient continued to bleed. No further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years. Sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function. Splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis. Splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice. 
Effects of occupied and unoccupied bed making on myocardial work in healthy subjects. Strict bed rest prescribed after acute myocardial infarction provides rest for the heart in an effort to lessen myocardial work. However, bed rest has been implicated as a threat to physical and psychosocial well-being. Nurses must question whether activities associated with bed rest, such as bed making by hospital personnel while the patient is occupying the bed, actually require less myocardial work than out-of-bed activities. In this study we examined cardiovascular function of 22 healthy individuals, 10 (45.5%) men and 12 (54.5%) women ranging in age from 34 to 69 years (mean 48 years), during occupied (side to side method) and unoccupied (patient up to chair) bed making. Cardiac output, heart rate, stroke volume, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, mean arterial pressure, total peripheral resistance, and the ratio of preejection period to left ventricular ejection time were measured by using an impedance cardiograph and vital signs monitor. Although differences between these measurements during the two bed making procedures were statistically significant (p less than 0.001), they were not deemed clinically significant for healthy subjects because they represent transient reflexive responses to posturally induced changes in venous return rather than substantial increases in myocardial work. When the goal is minimal myocardial energy expenditure, making the bed when it is unoccupied may offer a sound alternative to making an occupied bed. 
Role of prostanoids in renin-dependent and renin-independent hypertension. We investigated the role of prostanoid-mediated pressor mechanisms in setting the level of blood pressure in renin-dependent and renin-independent models of hypertension in unanesthetized rats. Intravenous administration of a blocker of thromboxane A2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors, SQ29548 (2 mg/kg bolus injection plus 2 mg/kg/hr for 3 hours), reduced from 162 +/- 4 to 144 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) the blood pressure of rats with aortic coarctation-induced hypertension at 7-14 days after coarctation when plasma renin activity is greatly increased. In contrast, treatment with SQ29548 was without effect on the blood pressure of either normotensive or hypertensive rats (i.e., aortic coarctation-induced hypertension at 90-113 days after coarctation, deoxycorticosterone-salt-induced hypertension) having normal or depressed values of plasma renin activity. The blood pressure-lowering effect of SQ29548 in the early phase of aortic coarctation-induced hypertension was positively correlated with the prevailing plasma renin activity and could not be demonstrated in hypertensive rats pretreated with indomethacin. We attribute the hypotensive effect of SQ29548 to interference with pressor mechanisms that depend on activation of thromboxane A2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors and suggest that such prostanoid-mediated mechanisms are operational and contribute to an increase in blood pressure in angiotensin-dependent forms of hypertension. Also prostanoid-mediated vasodepressor mechanisms are operational in the early phase of aortic coarctation-induced hypertension since the blood pressure of rats pretreated with SQ29548 was increased by the subsequent administration of indomethacin. Accordingly, the blood pressure of rats with aortic coarctation-induced hypertension is influenced by the interplay of prostanoid-mediated pressor and vasodepressor mechanisms. 
Thrombotic vasculopathy associated with cryofibrinogenemia. Cryofibrinogenemia refers to the presence of cold-precipitable plasma proteins associated with a variety of disorders, including malignancies, inflammatory processes, and thrombohemorrhagic phenomena. Few cases of essential or primary cryofibrinogenemia are reported. We report a case in a 48-year-old man of essential cryofibrinogenemia and hemorrhagic necrosis of the ears and of the upper and lower extremities. Histopathologic studies demonstrated extensive eosinophilic thrombi in the dermal vasculature, with minimal inflammation and no vasculitis. Cryofibrinogenemia should be considered in the investigation of patients with otherwise unexplained cold intolerance and dermal thrombosis associated with minimal or no inflammation. 
Tightening the screw: statutory and legal supervision of interhospital patient transfers. A federal statute governing the transfer of indigent patients from Medicare-enrolled hospitals was first enacted in 1986. Review of the statutory and other legal controls over interhospital transfers is precipitated by its recent amendment and the fining of a Texas physician for transferring a high-risk obstetric patient without following the statutory guidelines. These events are part of a pattern of increasing regulation of the practice of medicine. Physicians and hospital administrators responsible for hospital transfer policies should be aware of regulatory developments. Hospitals contemplating transfer of patients must develop transfer policies that comply with governing law, including state law. A transfer policy should provide guidelines as to when a patient is "stable for transfer". Patients may not be transferred unless a physician can certify that delay attendant to transfer will not be detrimental. Furthermore, the policy should specify the procedures to be followed to effect a transfer and any documentation that the physician will have to complete. 
Cerebral air embolism treated by pressure and hyperbaric oxygen. We used pressure and hyperbaric oxygen to treat 2 patients with cerebral air embolism, occurring as the result of invasive medical procedures, and neither suffered any permanent damage detectable by clinical examination and MRI. This outcome contrasts with reports of infarct and disability among untreated victims of air embolism. 
Rarity of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy in chronic alcoholics less than 40 years of age. Preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy, myocardial damage in the absence of overt congestive heart failure in chronic alcoholics, is well characterized at necropsy, but attempts to identify such a clinical entity before death have produced conflicting results. Studying subjects only at rest, the inclusion of older alcoholics and limitations of noninvasive techniques may explain some of the disagreement. To determine if preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy could be identified independent of the aforementioned limitations, 25 asymptomatic chronic alcoholics aged less than 40 years (mean 34), each of whom had consumed a minimum of 1 pint of whiskey or one 6-pack of beer greater than or equal to 5 days per week for greater than or equal to 5 years, underwent radionuclide ventriculography for measurements of systolic and diastolic function at rest, peak supine exercise and during recovery, and echocardiography for assessment of chamber size, wall thickness and left ventricular mass. Red blood cell levels of selenium and thiamine were measured to determine whether abnormalities were present in these 2 potential mediators of alcoholic cardiomyopathy. For comparison, an age-matched group of healthy control subjects was also studied. For alcoholics and control subjects at rest, mean ejection fraction (67 +/- 7% vs 71 +/- 6%) and diastolic peak filling rate (3.4 +/- 0.6 vs 3.3 +/- 0.6 end-diastolic volumes per second [EDV/s]) were similar. 
Assessment of ventricular function with an ambulatory left ventricular function monitor. Changes in ventricular function caused by activities of daily living, including standing, walking, stair climbing, and mental stress, were evaluated using a radionuclide device that recorded left ventricular function on a beat-by-beat basis. The ambulatory monitor was positioned over the patient's left ventricle after a gated blood pool scan. Monitoring revealed a 10% increase of left ventricular ejection fraction from baseline to brisk walking, an 18% increase during stair climbing, and a 6% increase with mental stress. In some subjects, however, the increase in ejection fraction during mental stress exceeded that during exercise. 
Blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas. A case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported. Attention is directed to this syndrome because, although rare, it is usually associated with oral lesions. The blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules. 
Multicenter patency trial of intravenous anistreplase compared with streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. The TEAM-2 Study Investigators. Thrombolytic therapy has been shown to improve clinical outcome when administered early after the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction; the mechanism of benefit is believed to be reestablishment and maintenance of coronary artery patency. Anistreplase is a second generation thrombolytic agent that is easily administered and has a long duration of action. To compare anistreplase (30 units/2-5 min) and therapy with the Food and Drug Administration-approved regimen of intravenous streptokinase (1.5 million units/60 min), a randomized, double-blind, multicenter patency trial was undertaken in 370 patients less than 76 years of age with electrocardiographic ST segment elevation who could be treated within 4 hours of symptom onset. Coronary patency was determined by reading, in a blinded fashion, angiograms obtained early (90-240 minutes; mean, 140 minutes) and later (18-48 hours; mean, 28 hours) after beginning therapy. Early total patency (defined as Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction grade 2 or 3 perfusion) was high after both anistreplase (132/183 = 72%) and streptokinase (129/176 = 73%) therapy, and overall patency patterns were similar, although patent arteries showed "complete" (grade 3) perfusion more often after anistreplase (83%) than streptokinase (72%) (p = 0.03). Similarly, residual coronary stenosis, determined quantitatively by a validated computer-assisted method, was slightly less in patent arteries early after anistreplase (mean stenosis diameter, 74.0%) than streptokinase (77.2%, p = 0.02). In patients with patent arteries without other early interventions, reocclusion risk within 1-2 days was defined angiographically and found to be very low (anistreplase = 1/96, streptokinase = 2/94). Average coronary perfusion grade was greater, and percent residual stenosis was less, at follow-up than on initial evaluation and did not differ between treatment groups. Enzymatic and electrocardiographic evolution was not significantly different in the two groups. Despite rapid injection, anistreplase was associated with only a small (4-5 mm Hg), transient (at 5-10 minutes) mean differential fall in blood pressure. In-hospital mortality rates were comparable for anistreplase and streptokinase (5.9%, 7.1%). Stroke occurred in one (0.5%) and three (1.6%) patients, respectively; one stroke was hemorrhagic. Other serious bleeding events and adverse experiences occurred uncommonly and with similar frequency in the two groups. Thus, for the end points of our study (patency, safety), anistreplase and streptokinase showed overall favorable and relatively comparable outcomes, with a few differences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy. We describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) and consumption coagulopathy, but without thrombocytopenia, which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor. The patient was a 54-yr-old Japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort. Angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma. The patient also had hematological disorders. At surgery, we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible. The patient has been well, with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings, 5 yr since her operation. This case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of MAHA, and if surgical treatment is adequate, hematological abnormalities may be eliminated. 
Doppler echocardiographic assessment of changes in pulmonary artery pressure associated with vasodilating therapy in patients with congestive heart failure. Transpulmonic pressure gradient and pulmonary artery pressures can be estimated from the Doppler pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities by applying the simplified Bernoulli equation. In this study, continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography was used to assess changes in pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities associated with administration of vasodilators in 10 patients with congestive heart failure. M-Mode echocardiographic parameters such as left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimension and fractional shortening did not change with administration of vasodilators. Pulmonary regurgitant flow velocity at end diastole decreased from 1.9 +/- 0.6 to 1.3 +/- 0.3 m/sec (p less than 0.01), and Doppler-estimated transpulmonic pressure gradient at end diastole decreased from 16 +/- 11 to 8 +/- 4 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). Doppler-estimated transpulmonic pressure gradient at end diastole was compared with catheterization-determined pulmonary arterial end-diastolic pressure before and after administration of vasodilators in three patients, and there was a good agreement between these measurements. Thus noninvasive and sensitive assessment of the effect of vasodilators on pulmonary arterial end-diastolic pressure in patients with congestive heart failure is possible with continuous-wave Doppler echocardiographic measurement of pulmonary regurgitant flow velocities. 
Effect of ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion on superoxide dismutase activity in rat brain. Acute cerebral ischemia increases the generation of free radicals, causing cell damage, and theoretically may decrease the activity of the scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase. To investigate the role of superoxide dismutase in cerebral ischemia, we used a model of middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. In this model an infarct is produced in the pyriform and frontoparietal cortices, extending into the lateral basal ganglia. We measured superoxide dismutase activity by using the xanthine oxidase cytochrome c reduction assay in these areas of rat brains. Tissue samples were analyzed 20 minutes, 2, 6, or 24 hours, or 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion and 2 or 24 hours or 7 days after sham operation (n = 8-10 at each time). There was no significant change in superoxide dismutase activity relative to control values in any brain area at any time up to 24 hours after surgery. However, 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion a significant decline in superoxide dismutase activity, to 55%-68% (p less than 0.05) of that in unoperated controls, was observed in all brain areas. Our results do not support an important role for changes in the activity of endogenous superoxide dismutase during the acute phase of cerebral ischemia. However, the decrease in superoxide dismutase activity 7 days after ischemia could indicate ongoing additional damage to peri-infarct tissue. 
Effects of fish oil supplements in NIDDM subjects. Controlled study. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a fish oil preparation (MaxEPA) on hemostatic function and fasting lipid and glucose levels in non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) subjects. Eighty NIDDM outpatients aged 55.9 yr (mean SD 11.5 yr) participated in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study of MaxEPA capsules (10 g/day) or olive oil (control) treatment over 6 wk. Patients received either MaxEPA or olive oil in addition to preexisting therapy. Metabolic and hemostatic variables were measured before treatment and after 3 and 6 wk. Platelet membrane eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) content increased in the treatment group (P less than 0.001). MaxEPA supplementation was associated with a significant fall in total triglycerides (P less than 0.001) but did not affect total cholesterol (P = 0.7) compared with control treatment. Fasting plasma glucose increased after 3 wk (P = 0.01) but not after 6 wk (P = 0.17) treatment with MaxEPA. Spontaneous platelet aggregation in whole blood fell in the MaxEPA group (P less than 0.02) after 6 wk, but there were no changes in agonist-induced platelet aggregation, thromboxane generation in platelet-rich plasma, or plasma beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor IV levels. An increase in clotting factor VII (P = 0.02), without changes in fibrinogen or factor X levels, occurred in the MaxEPA group. Similar reductions in blood pressure were observed in both groups. Dietary supplementation with MaxEPA capsules (10 g/day) in NIDDM subjects is associated with improvement in hypertriglyceridemia but with deleterious effects in factor VII and blood glucose levels. Most indices of platelet function are unaffected by this therapy. 
LVAS pump performance following initiation of left ventricular assistance. Prevention of disturbed flow (e.g., flow stasis) and consequent thrombosis in heart pumps is based upon design characteristics determined during laboratory bench tests. These tests employ optimal filling and emptying characteristics, such as the full-fill to complete empty mode in the Novacor left ventricular assist system. Filling characteristics of the Novacor LVAS were examined during the first 48 hours after implantation in 14 patients. Fill volume of the pump was reduced in pathologic states, such as cardiac tamponade, and following the initiation of right ventricular mechanical circulatory support. In addition, multiple regression analysis revealed that right ventricular function measured by the amount of inotropic support required, the right ventricular ejection fraction, and the total pulmonary resistance, significantly predicted left ventricular assist pump fill volume during the first 48 hours of support. Flow visualization simulating these clinical conditions of incomplete filling suggest inadequate valve washing, particularly around the inlet valve and its conduit, which may predispose to thrombus formation. 
Potential complications of high-dose epinephrine therapy in patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest Adults resuscitated from nontraumatic cardiac arrest who received intravenous epinephrine in doses chosen by the treating physician and who survived at least 6 hours were studied to determine if high-dose epinephrine produced more complications than standard-dose. A total of 68 patients were enrolled and evaluated for postresuscitation complications attributable to epinephrine, using a two-tailed t test, and contingency analysis. The 33 patients receiving high-dose epinephrine and 35 patients receiving standard-dose epinephrine were similar in demographics and variables known to affect outcome. There was no difference in potential complications between groups except serum calcium, which was 1.97 mmol/L (SD, 0.20) in the high-dose epinephrine group and 2.10 (SD, 0.20) in the standard-dose group. Hospital discharge rates (18% in the high-dose vs 30% in the standard-dose group) and neurological status on discharge were not significantly different. High-dose epinephrine did not produce increased direct complications in this cardiac arrest population compared with standard-dose epinephrine. 
A lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism. A large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported. We report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy. When the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism. 
Antibodies directed against neutrophils (C-ANCA and P-ANCA) are of distinct diagnostic value in systemic vasculitis. In a prospective study, sera from over 700 patients with suspected vasculitis, including over 200 patients undergoing renal biopsy, were examined for antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antigen (ANCA). An indirect immunofluorescence assay on ethanol fixed human neutrophils identified two types of autoantibody: C-ANCA, which produces diffuse cytoplasmic staining and P-ANCA, which produces an artefactual nuclear/perinuclear staining pattern. The diagnosis of patients in whom ANCA of either form was found was established following case note review according to defined diagnostic criteria. Forty of 45 patients whose sera contained C-ANCA at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 satisfied the diagnostic criteria for Wegener's granulomatosis or microscopic polyarteritis. Twelve of 30 patients with P-ANCA at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 were also classified as having one of these disorders. Seventeen of the remaining 18 patients had immune-mediated disorders with deep organ damage. Of 47 ANCA-positive patients who underwent renal biopsy, 21 had glomerulonephritis associated with Wegener's glomerulonephritis and a further 22 had a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis. Ethanol fixation is important for discrimination of C-ANCA and P-ANCA. C-ANCA are highly specific for Wegener's granulomatosis and microscopic polyarteritis. In patients undergoing renal biopsy, the presence of these antibodies is highly specific for a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis. 
Value of carvedilol in congestive heart failure secondary to coronary artery disease. Despite considerable interest in the use of beta-blocking agents in congestive heart failure (CHF), their clinical application is limited because of their negative inotropic effects. Beta blockers with vasodilating properties may have the advantage of overcoming this, however. Carvedilol, a beta-blocking agent with vasodilating properties, was evaluated in 17 patients with chronic CHF secondary to ischemic heart disease with a resting left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 45%, who were being maintained on diuretics. Exercise testing, radionuclide ventriculography, and right-sided cardiac catheterization were performed and intraarterial blood pressure measured before and after 8 weeks of carvedilol therapy in a dosage of 12.5 to 50.0 mg twice a day. Twelve patients completed the study and 5 withdrew. Symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement was demonstrated in 11 of the 12 patients. Heart rate and intraarterial blood pressure were both reduced by chronic therapy. Mean +/- standard deviation exercise time improved from 4.3 +/- 1.6 to 7.1 +/- 2.7 minutes (p less than 0.0001), as did resting left ventricular ejection fraction, from 27 +/- 9 to 31 +/- 11% (p less than 0.02). Pulmonary arterial wedge pressure fell from 19 +/- 7 mm Hg to 12 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) and total systemic vascular resistance from 1,752 +/- 403 to 1,497 +/- 310 dynes/s/cm-5/m2 (p less than 0.02). Stroke volume index improved also, from 31 +/- 6 ml to 40 +/- 6 ml (p less than 0.0005). These hemodynamic changes were mediated partly by vasodilation, diminished myocardial oxygen demand and reduction of sympathetic overactivity in the failing heart. These data suggest that carvedilol may have beneficial effects in patients with chronic CHF secondary to coronary artery disease. 
Hormone replacement therapy. How to select the best preparation and regimen. Hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the maturing female population. Estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life expectancy of women. Various estrogen and progesterone preparations are available, and their best application requires understanding of the different potencies and metabolic effects. Daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s. No doubt the future will bring even better delivery regimens. 
Comparative clinical pharmacology of calcium channel blockers. Calcium channel blockers are effective antihypertensive agents, both as initial monotherapy and in combination with other antihypertensive agents. These drugs are also effective in the treatment of chronic, stable angina, variant angina and supraventricular arrhythmias. Drugs in this class have different affinities for calcium channels in vascular smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, cardiac sinus and atrioventricular node. They are all useful in hypertension and angina, but only verapamil and diltiazem are also useful in the control of heart rate and supraventricular arrhythmias. Nimodipine may control vascular spasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Calcium channel blockers have also been used in the treatment of migraine headache and Raynaud's phenomenon. 
Comparison of myocardial imaging with iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl pentadecanoic acid and thallium-201-chloride for assessment of patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Iodine-123-iodophenyl-9-methyl-pentadecanoic acid [( 123I]MPDA) and thallium-201 (201Tl) were sequentially injected in 11 patients during exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Simultaneous dual-energy planar images were obtained at 5 min, 3 and 5 hr. All studies were concordantly either positive (8/11) or negative (3/11) by both radionuclides. Exact agreement for segmental uptake was 93%, 94% and 94% for 5-min, 3- and 5-hr images, respectively. Exact agreement for defect reversibility by 3 and 5 hr were 95% and 92%. The initial defect contrasts and myocardial-to-lung ratios were similar by both agents but myocardial-to-liver ratio was lower by [123I]MPDA at 5 min, which became similar to 201Tl at 5 hr. Normal percent myocardial clearances of both agents were comparable and significantly higher than those in defect zones. Thus [123I]MPDA is suitable for myocardial imaging and correlates closely with 201Tl for initial postexercise myocardial uptake and defect reversibility. Defect reversibility appears to result from differential myocardial clearance from normal and ischemic regions. 
The De Vega tricuspid annuloplasty. Perioperative mortality and long term follow-up. One hundred and fifty-three patients undergoing De Vega tricuspid annuloplasty, with or without other associated cardiac procedures between January, 1979, and June, 1987, were evaluated. There were 136 hospital survivors. The follow-up was 98.1% complete for a mean of 3.7 years/patient. Operative mortality was 11.1%; preoperative NYHA class and length of CPB were significant risk factors of perioperative mortality. The actuarial survival of operative survivors at 9 years was 73.5 +/- 11.8%. There were 7 late cardiac deaths among a total of 12 late deaths. Eleven patients required reoperation (2.1 +/- 0.6% patient-year). In seven patients it was necessary for recurrence of tricuspid regurgitation; six of these had also a mitral prosthesis malfunction or a periprosthetic leak. Residual tricuspid regurgitation was judged as mild, moderate or severe in 29.9%, 11.9% and 4.3% of the patients respectively. De Vega tricuspid annuloplasty is the method of choice for mild and moderate tricuspid insufficiency; in selected cases, with a more severe degree of regurgitation, better results could be achieved with a different surgical approach. 
Tilt test for diagnosis of unexplained syncope in pediatric patients. Thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope. If tilting alone did not induce syncope, isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute. In 80% of patients with a history of syncope, identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting: an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia, ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute. These symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position. For patients with frequent occurrences of syncope, especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes, a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun. The mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia. The tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood. 
Correction of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency using two homografts. Surgical correction of truncus arteriosus requires the creation of right ventricular to pulmonary artery continuity and closure of the ventricular septal defect. A variety of conduits have been used including valved and nonvalved. Despite a significant incidence of truncal valvar stenosis and insufficiency, this valve has seldom been replaced. We present 4 cases of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency that were repaired using two valved homografts: one to create the pulmonary outflow tract and the other to replace the abnormal truncal valve. Two of these patients are doing well after 4 months. Another child survived the operation and did well for 2 months when she died suddenly. The last child died 14 hours postoperatively from low cardiac output syndrome secondary to diabetic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. When truncal valvar abnormalities are present, the primary repair of truncus arteriosus in an infant should include replacement of the truncal valve. Total correction can be successfully achieved using two valved homografts, resulting in long-term palliation and freedom from thromboembolic events and the use of anticoagulants. 
The effects of benazepril, a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in mild to moderate essential hypertension: a multicenter study. Benazepril hydrochloride is a new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. In a multicenter study, 206 patients with mild to moderate hypertension were randomized to receive benazepril at a dose of 2, 5, 10, or 20 mg, hydrochlorothiazide, 25 mg, or placebo once daily for 4 weeks. The 20 mg dosage of benazepril lowered blood pressure to a degree equal to that of 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide: -12.2/7.7 mm Hg and -13.4/-7.5 mm Hg, respectively. Hydrochlorothiazide proved to be more effective in black subjects. At lower dosage levels of benazepril (2, 5, and 10 mg), blood pressure reduction was not significantly different from that with placebo. In those patients who failed to achieve goal diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg with monotherapy after 4 weeks, the addition of open-label hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/day) to benazepril, hydrochlorothiazide, or placebo produced a substantial additional decrease in blood pressure over a 2-week period. No definite adverse effects on hematologic measurements, serum biochemistry test results, or urinalyses were noted. Subjective adverse experiences were common in all groups but except in three or possibly four instances were not considered causally related to the study drug. 
Can heart failure be prevented, delayed, or reversed? A review of the clinical course of chronic heart failure demonstrates that current outcomes remain highly unsatisfactory both in mortality and perhaps more important in morbidity. The extraordinary satisfactory functional responses seen in patients who undergo cardiac transplantation clearly identify the primary cause as the status of the heart itself, whatever the pathophysiologic adjustments of the neuroendocrine system, and interventions of the wide variety of drugs. Since donor hearts are unlikely to be available even from younger sufferers of these clinical syndromes, prevention must be the hallmark. Protection of the viability of myocytes, such as in acute myocarditis and acute infarction, is essential. Myocardial collagen undergoes continual synthesis, and production is greatly stimulated in the presence of hypertrophy caused by increased wall stress. It is possible that excess collagen is intimately involved with diastolic ventricular dysfunction, but that this may be a reversible process if the collagen-producing stimulus is removed. Thus reduction in wall stress and reversibility of ventricular hypertrophy appear to be promising directions. However, to limit the catastrophic effects of chronic heart failure, early recognition of the precursors of these syndromes, prevention of progression, and surgical intervention in valvular heart disease at an optimal point in time are essential. 
Treatment of hypertension in the elderly: effects on blood pressure, heart rate, and physical fitness. The subjects were 36 hypertensive patients aged 61 to 79 years (mean, 66 years). After a placebo run-in period of one month, each patient was randomly assigned to two months of treatment with 100 mg of metoprolol, 50 mg of captopril, or 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide plus 2.5 mg of amiloride daily, or placebo. The doses were doubled if diastolic pressure was above 95 mm Hg after one month of treatment. Blood pressure, heart rate, and physical fitness (endurance during a standard cycle ergometer exercise) were measured and side effects assessed after each two-month treatment period. Mean blood pressures were significantly lower after treatment with metoprolol (154/92 mm Hg), captopril (157/92 mm Hg), and hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride (152/91 mm Hg) than after placebo (170/101 mm Hg). Heart rate was significantly lower after treatment with metoprolol (64 beats/minute) than after placebo (77 beats/minute). Exercise endurance was lower after treatment with metoprolol (498 seconds) and hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride (519 seconds) than after placebo (529 seconds) and higher after captopril (541 seconds). More patients reached the target exercise work load after captopril than after the other treatments. No patients withdrew from treatment because of side effects or abnormal laboratory test results. All three active treatments benefited the elderly hypertensive patients and did not lower their physical fitness. Captopril appeared to be more effective than the other two treatments. 
Left ventricular passive diastolic properties in chronic mitral regurgitation. BACKGROUND. In chronic mitral regurgitation, the myocardium responds to the increased filling volume by geometric alteration and eccentric hypertrophy. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of a pure volume overload on left ventricular diastolic chamber and myocardial properties and to assess the relation of passive diastolic function to systolic ejection performance. METHODS AND RESULTS. By use of simultaneous cineangiography and left ventricular micromanometry, left ventricular passive diastolic stiffness was evaluated in nine normal controls (group 1), 14 patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and a normal ejection fraction (greater than or equal to 57%, group 2), and 13 patients with mitral regurgitation and a reduced ejection fraction (less than 57%, group 3). Passive diastolic function was evaluated by using a three-constant elastic model. Left ventricular chamber properties were represented by the relation of pressure to volume; myocardial properties were evaluated by relating myocardial midwall stress to midwall strain. The constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness was decreased in group 2 compared with controls (p less than 0.05) but it was normal in group 3. The constant of myocardial stiffness was increased in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 (p less than 0.01). Among patients with mitral regurgitation, there was a significant inverse relation between ejection fraction and the constant of myocardial stiffness (r = -0.83). CONCLUSIONS. The chronic adaptation to volume overload in chronic mitral regurgitation tends to decrease left ventricular chamber stiffness. Patients with mitral regurgitation and a depressed ejection fraction demonstrated diastolic myocardial dysfunction. Compromised diastolic function in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and reduced systolic performance may contribute to the clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium: report of a successful resection with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. Hepatocellular carcinoma with a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium has been considered beyond the reach of resection. These patients usually die within a short period because of pulmonary embolism, heart failure, or cancer progression. The only treatment is hepatic resection with removal of the tumor thrombus. A 38-year-old woman underwent left lobectomy with removal of the tumor thrombus with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient had an uneventful course and is doing well 15 months after surgery, without signs of recurrence. We have proved that hepatic resection with removal of a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium can be carried out successfully. The next problem is whether the lives of these patients can be prolonged by this operation. 
Arterial revascularization by laser angioplasty: first Italian experiences. Eighty-seven laser angioplasty procedures were performed on 85 patients (73 men and 12 women). In the first phase (54 patients) a broad selection process included long occlusions (23.9 cm avg) and vessels with heavy calcification; in the second phase (31 patients) the authors treated vessels with shorter occlusions (10 cm avg) and less calcific. The primary success rate, based on number of procedures (73.5% overall) was 69% in the first phase but reached 81.3% in the second phase. There were 14 perforations (16%), 8 dissections (9.4%), and 4 peripheral emboli (4.7%). Six-month follow-up shows that the Winsor index maintained its initial improvement in 76.5% of all patients, or 62% in just the long occlusions. These data and a review of the cases suggest that no more of 10-20% of patients with claudication in lower extremities can be treated by laser angioplasty; the authors consider ideal candidates those patients who noncalcific lesions in the common iliac or superficial femoral arteries at the III medium level with obstructions shorter than 8 cm and good runoff. 
Influence of dietary cod liver oil on fatty acid composition of plasma lipids in human male subjects after myocardial infarction. A randomized crossover study was carried out to investigate the fatty acid profile and concentrations of plasma lipids in male patients with myocardial infarction (MI) who supplemented their diet with 20 ml cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks. Subjects were divided into two groups, A and B. Group A received cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks after hospital discharge, but none for the subsequent 6 weeks. Group B did not start taking cod liver oil until 6 weeks after hospital discharge, and they then took cod liver oil for 6 weeks. Diet, medication or smoking habits were kept as constant as possible during the study. During the period of cod liver oil intake, eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5 (n-3), EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 (n-3), DHA) increased significantly in phospholipids (PL), triglycerides (TG) and cholesterol esters (CE), whereas linoleic acid (18:2 (n-6), LA), dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (20:3 (n-6), DHGLA) and arachidonic acid (20:4 (n-6), AA) were significantly decreased in phospholipids. The plasma level of TG was significantly decreased during the cod liver oil intake. Total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and levels of apolipoproteins A1 and B were not affected by cod liver oil in these MI patients. 
Surgical correction of recurrent venous ulcer. Seventy-six limbs from 46 patients with comparable superficial and deep venous valve incompetence underwent surgical correction for recurrent venous ulcers of the leg that were refractory to various modes of nonsurgical and surgical treatments. A follow-up of 10 to 73 months (mean = 37 months), revealed the venous ulcer healed with perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping in 14 of 33 (44%), stripping plus valvuloplasty 17 of 21 (80%), stripping plus vein transposition 11 of 14 (78%) and stripping plus valve transplantation 6 of 8 (75%). In patients with incompetent deep venous valve and perforators, the disassociation of the superficial from the deep venous system (stripping) plus correction of the deep venous valvular incompetence (valvuloplasty, transposition or valve transplant) produced superior results in the treatment of recurrent venous ulcer when compared to perforator ligation and saphenous vein stripping alone (p less than 0.005). Adjunctive usage of elastic stockings and intermittent compression pneumatic boots in the perioperative period was helpful in controlling leg swelling and promoting wound healing. 
Spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Cardiac involvement is common in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and, when symptomatic, it portends a poor prognosis. We present a case of marked spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with AIDS. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of spontaneous recovery of ventricular function in an AIDS patient. 
Relation between beta-adrenergic blocker use, various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure. The Multicenter Diltiazem Post-Infarction Research Group. This study examined the relations among beta-adrenergic blocker use, various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure in patients after myocardial infarction. The study was performed with the placebo group of the Multicenter Diltiazem Post-Infarction Trial. Ejection fraction data were available in 1,084 patients; of these, 557 were receiving a beta-blocker and 527 were not. In addition to ejection fraction, other correlates of left ventricular function included the presence or absence of pulmonary rales, chest X-ray film evidence of pulmonary congestion and the presence of an S3 gallop. Beta-blocker use was less frequent in patients with an ejection fraction less than 30%, rales, an S3 gallop and pulmonary congestion on chest X-ray film. Twenty-one percent of patients with an ejection fraction less than 30%, 42% of patients with rales, 28% of patients with an S3 gallop and 28% of patients with pulmonary congestion were receiving beta-blocker therapy. For every correlate of left ventricular function, the chance of developing congestive heart failure was greater in patients with diminished left ventricular function than in those without. For each level of left ventricular function, the chance of developing congestive heart failure requiring treatment was greater in patients not taking a beta-blocker. 
Effects of xamoterol on inotropic and lusitropic properties of the human myocardium and on adenylate cyclase activity. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the effects of xamoterol in the human myocardium. In the presence of forskolin or milrinone, xamoterol increased isometric force of contraction, contraction velocity, and relaxation velocity in isolated, electrically driven preparations from human myocardium, but had no effect alone. There was no difference in the effect of xamoterol between right atrial myocardium and left ventricular myocardium from nonfailing (NF), moderately failing (NYHA II-III), and severely failing (NYHA IV) human hearts. The positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of isoprenaline were reduced depending on the severity of heart failure in left ventricular myocardium (i.e., NF greater than NYHA II-III greater than NYHA IV). In the presence of norepinephrine, xamoterol produced negative inotropic effects similar to those of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists pindolol and propranolol. Xamoterol alone had no effects on force of contraction, whereas pindolol and propranolol markedly reduced contractile force. In NYHA class IV, isoprenaline stimulated adenylate cyclase about twofold but xamoterol, like pindolol or propranolol, had no effect. Experiments with the beta 1- and beta 2-selective antagonists CGP 207.12A and ICI 118.551, respectively, showed that the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of xamoterol were mediated by beta 1-adrenoceptors. Consistently, xamoterol had a selectivity of 13.8 at beta 1-adrenoceptors as measured in radioligand binding experiments. It is concluded that xamoterol acts as a beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with a selectivity of 13.8 in human ventricular myocardium. The compound has an intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, as it produces beta 1-adrenoceptor-mediated positive inotropic and lusitropic effects in the presence of forskolin. The beneficial effects of xamoterol in patients with heart failure could be due to prevention of the detrimental effects of norepinephrine such as beta 1-adrenoceptor downregulation of an increase of Gi (inhibitory guanine-nucleotide binding protein). 
Myocardial infarct size-limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning was not attenuated by oxygen free-radical scavengers in the rabbit. BACKGROUND. The limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning on infarct size has been reported in canine hearts, which contain considerable amounts of xanthine oxidase, a free radical-producing enzyme. Furthermore, a recent study suggested that free radicals generated during preconditioning may contribute to the cardioprotective effect of preconditioning. The present study examined 1) whether preconditioning limits infarct size in rabbits, which, like humans, lack myocardial xanthine oxidase and 2) whether the cardioprotective effect of PC is mediated by free radicals. METHODS AND RESULTS. A branch of the circumflex coronary artery in rabbits was occluded for 30 minutes and then reperfused for 72 hours. Myocardial infarct size and area at risk were determined by histology and fluorescent particles, respectively. Five groups were studied: an untreated control group, a preconditioned group (PC group), a high-dose superoxide dismutase (SOD)-treated preconditioned group (high-dose SOD-PC group), a low-dose SOD-treated preconditioned group (low-dose SOD-PC group), and a SOD-plus-catalase-treated preconditioned group (SOD/CAT-PC group). Preconditioning was performed with four episodes of 5 minutes of ischemia and 5 minutes of reperfusion. The free radical scavengers (30,000 units/kg SOD for high-dose SOD-PC group, 15,000 units/kg SOD for low-dose SOD-PC group, and 30,000 units/kg SOD plus 55,000 units/kg catalase for SOD/CAT-PC group) were infused intravenously over 60 minutes starting 20 minutes before preconditioning. Infarct size as the percentage of area at risk was 45.1 +/- 3.5% (mean +/- SEM) in the control group (n = 11), 13.3 +/- 3.0% in the PC group (n = 12), 9.7 +/- 1.8% in the high-dose SOD-PC group (n = 8), 11.9 +/- 2.2% in the low-dose SOD-PC group (n = 6), and 9.6 +/- 2.3% in the SOD/CAT-PC group (n = 6) (p less than 0.05 versus control for the last four values). The differences in infarct size as the percent of area at risk among the PC, high-dose SOD-PC, low-dose SOD-PC, and SOD/CAT-PC groups were not significant. CONCLUSION. Ischemic preconditioning delays ischemic myocardial necrosis regardless of myocardial xanthine oxidase content. Free radicals are unlikely to have a major role in the mechanism of the preconditioning in rabbits. 
Natural history of moderate aortic stenosis. The natural history of severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis has been well documented. However, the natural history of moderate aortic stenosis remains poorly understood. Therefore, a group of 66 patients was identified who had a diagnosis of moderate aortic stenosis at the time of cardiac catheterization (aortic valve area 0.7 to 1.2 cm2) and who did not have surgical therapy during the 1st 180 days after cardiac catheterization. During a mean follow-up period of 35 months, 14 patients died of causes attributed to aortic stenosis and 21 underwent aortic valve replacement. The estimated probability for remaining free of any complication of aortic stenosis at the end of the first 4 years was 59%. Symptomatic patients with decreased ejection fraction or hemodynamic evidence of left ventricular decompensation were at greater risk for these complications. It is concluded that patients with moderate aortic stenosis are at significant risk for the development of complications. 
Echocardiographic assessment of doxazosin on left ventricular mass in patients with essential hypertension. A single daily dose of doxazosin taken during a 12-week period produced a significant reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass index in patients with mild or moderate hypertension. The systolic shortening coefficient was also increased and a trend in the improvement of ejection fraction, rate of circumferential fiber shortening, systolic contraction time, and preejective/ejective ratio was observed. No change in heart rate was recorded and no patients had side effects. The serum lipid profile was modified favorably, particularly with regard to the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio. By producing a reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass while favorably modifying the serum lipid profile, doxazosin produced a beneficial change in the overall coronary heart disease risk profile. 
Metabolic considerations in the choice of therapy for the patient with hypertension. The objective of treating patients with hypertension is not simply to reduce blood pressure but rather to prevent the associated morbidity and mortality. Recent assessments of clinical trials have shown that while the risk of stroke is consistently lower with antihypertensive therapy, the same degree of success has not been demonstrated for coronary artery disease (CAD). Although there are many explanations of why we have not done as well in preventing CAD, one possibility is that the therapy used in clinical trials, primarily thiazide diuretics and beta-adrenoreceptor blockers, has increased the patient's risk of developing coronary atherosclerosis or lethal arrhythmias. Four classes of antihypertensive agents are recommended for initial therapy--thiazide diuretics, beta-adrenoreceptor blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and calcium entry blockers. The metabolic effects of thiazide diuretics include electrolyte disturbances (hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hyponatremia), dyslipidemia (increased triglycerides), abnormalities of glucose metabolism (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and peripheral insulin resistance), and hyperuricemia. beta-Adrenoreceptor blockers have many of the same metabolic adverse reactions. beta-Adrenoreceptor blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) also cause dyslipidemias (lowered high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased triglycerides) and abnormalities of glucose metabolism (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and peripheral insulin resistance). beta-Adrenoreceptor blockers with ISA and third-generation beta-blockers with selective partial agonist activity (celiprolol and dilevalol) do not cause dyslipidemia and to date do not appear to induce abnormalities in glucose metabolism. ACE inhibitors may decrease triglycerides and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and captopril may improve insulin sensitivity. Calcium entry blockers are metabolically neutral. 
Intra-aortic balloon pump for combined myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic rupture. The coexistence of myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic injury is probably more common than recognized following rapid deceleration multisystem trauma. This report describes the successful application of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in a critically injured patient requiring emergent repair of a thoracic aortic tear complicated by ventricular failure due to cardiac contusion. 
Venous dysfunction of late pregnancy persists after delivery. Pregnancy is associated with DVT, pelvic thrombophlebitis, and lower extremity varicosities. Pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus is blamed. A prospective controlled study using plethysmography was performed. Venous capacitance and outflow were measured at term, and at 1 week, 6 weeks and 3 months following delivery. Results show decreased venous capacitance and venous outflow at term pregnancy, no improvement 1 week after delivery, modest improvement at 6 weeks, and dramatic statistically significant improvement in both parameters by 3 months. The persistence of venous dysfunction for several weeks after delivery indicates that changes in venous function at term pregnancy are largely the result of factors other than pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus. 
Dependence of Doppler echocardiographic transmitral early peak velocity on left ventricular systolic function in coronary artery disease. The influence of systolic function on pulsed Doppler echocardiographic transmitral flow velocity patterns was assessed before and after postextrasystolic (PES) potentiation in 12 normal subjects (control group) and in 25 patients with previous healed myocardial infarction (MI) group. Simultaneous high-fidelity left ventricular pressure measurements were performed in all patients. A programmed single-coupled right ventricular extrasystole was induced during echocardiographic and subsequent cineangiocardiographic recordings. Adequate angiograms for volumetric analysis in both baseline and PES beats were obtained in 23 patients (7 in the control group and 16 in the MI group). PES potentiation of contraction was more pronounced in the MI group than in the control group. PES changes in ejection fraction, stroke volume and end-systolic volume were significantly greater in the MI group than in the control group (11 vs 5%, p less than 0.005; 15 vs 5 ml/m2, p less than 0.005; and -13 vs -4 ml/m2, p less than 0.01, respectively). In contrast, PES potentiation prolonged the time constants of left ventricular pressure decline derived from exponential curve fits with a zero (Tw) and non-zero (Tb) asymptote pressure in the MI group to the same extent as in the control group (4 vs 5 ms, difference not significant [NS], and 9 vs 11 ms, NS, respectively). In the PES beat, peak E velocity remained unaltered (48 vs 49 cm/s, NS) in the control group, whereas it increased significantly (p less than 0.0001) from 47 to 51 cm/s in the MI group. 
Preservation of oscillations in postocclusive reactive hyperemia. Oscillations in skin blood flow (SkBF) during postocclusive reactive hyperemia are believed to be due to locally mediated events in the microcirculation. We characterized the activity of these oscillations in nine healthy young men who underwent 0, 10, and 40 Torr of lower body negative pressure (LBNP). Postocclusive SkBF was estimated in both forearms simultaneously in a stable thermal environment with laser-Doppler velocimetry. Periodic behavior of SkBF was characterized by frequency-domain power spectral analysis. LBNP at 40 Torr increased heart rate, decreased forearm blood flow, and decreased postocclusive SkBF amplitude but did not change the periodicity of SkBF in the frequency response range that is characteristic of postischemic SkBF oscillations (0.11 +/- 0.04 Hz). We observed that LBNP did not alter the frequency response of the postocclusive SkBF as quantified in the periodogram, even though the amplitude of the SkBF was markedly diminished as a part of the general decrease in arm blood flow. We found inferential evidence for a disseminated common pacemaker mechanism that performs similarly at distant sites. We conclude that the LBNP baroreflex-mediated modulation of SkBF reduces the amplitude but does not change the frequency behavior of postocclusive SkBF. We propose on the basis of our findings that the preservation of vasomotion suggests that this phenomenon is an adaptation to the ischemic changes induced by disruption of blood flow. 
Anatomic correlations of the long-axis views in biplane transesophageal echocardiography. The number of views obtainable during transesophageal echocardiography (TE) has been limited by the fixed position of the transducer at the end of the probe. This has confined standard TE studies to short-axis tomography of the heart and aorta. Recently, a biplane TE probe has become available that is capable of both long- and short-axis imaging. This study prospectively assessed the application of the long-axis plane of the biplane probe in providing complementary long-axis views in ambulatory patients. Six standard long-axis views could be obtained and were compared with corresponding anatomic sections to illustrate anatomic relations and facilitate structure identification. The long-axis views provide a better appreciation of the 3-dimensional nature of cardiac anatomy and function, especially in demonstrating the relation of vertically aligned structures. 
A technique for improving accuracy of the pulmonary artery diastolic pressure as an estimate of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Pulmonary artery diastolic pressure (PAD) is often used to estimate left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) when artifact, respiratory variation, or technical difficulties make the wedge pressure difficult to identify on the waveform. To determine which point on the PAD waveform best estimated LVEDP, we performed studies in 100 adults undergoing routine diagnostic cardiac catheterization. During normal spontaneous respiration, simultaneous recordings of the electrocardiogram, PAD, and LVEDP were obtained. Three end-expiratory measurements of PAD were recorded: at the lowest point on the waveform (PAD), at 0.04 seconds (PAD 0.04), and at 0.08 seconds (PAD 0.08) after the onset of the QRS complex. The PADs were correlated with LVEDP by linear regression. PAD 0.08 correlated best with LVEDP (r = 0.88, standard error of the estimate [SEE] = 3.6 mm Hg) whereas PAD 0.04 and PAD correlated slightly less strongly (r = 0.86, SEE = 4.0 mm Hg; r = 0.82, SEE = 4.4 mm Hg respectively). Therefore, when the wedge pressure is not easily determined, PAD 0.08 may be the best point on the waveform to use when attempting to estimate LVEDP in the clinical setting. 
Dapsone is an effective therapy for the skin lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and urticarial vasculitis in a patient with C2 deficiency. The deficiency of second component of complement (C2d) is the most common hereditary complement deficiency. Patients with C2 deficiency are frequently associated with an auto-immune disease process, in particular, systemic lupus erythematosus (LE)-like syndrome and/or vasculitic syndrome or bacterial infections. C2d has been associated with the LE subset of subacute cutaneous LE (SCLE), the presence of anti-Ro (SSA) antibodies, and the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types A10, B18, DR2. We describe the clinical, serologic and immunogenetic data in a patient with manifestations of Sjogren's syndrome who developed urticarial vasculitis and photosensitive annular SCLE which were effectively treated with oral dapsone. Our case illustrates the dynamic nature of LE. 
Cellular immunodeficiency in protein-losing enteropathy. Predominant reduction of CD3+ and CD4+ lymphocytes. Cellular immunological abnormalities were studied in a patient with protein-losing enteropathy associated with constrictive pericarditis. Analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood showed lymphopenia with a decrease of CD3+ and CD4+ T cells, whereas CD8+ lymphocytes, B cells and NK cells were within the normal range. Fecal loss of lymphocytes as a cause of lymphopenia was evidenced by a marked excretion of 111-indium-labeled peripheral blood mononuclear cells via stool. Proliferative responses against several mitogens were severely reduced as was in vitro IgG production. Delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction against a variety of antigens was absent. Vaccination with tick-borne encephalitis virus, used for primary immunization, and with the recall antigen tetanus toxoid resulted in a blunted antibody response. After pericardectomy, the severity of enteric protein loss declined, serum immunoglobulin levels returned to the normal range, and total lymphocytes and CD3+ and CD4+ counts increased but remained low even 12 months after surgery. Fecal loss of lymphocytes was found to be reduced after pericardectomy, but was higher than that seen in a disease control patient with active inflammatory bowel disease. In vitro immunoglobulin production returned to normal, DTH could be demonstrated against purified protein derivative and proteus antigen, but mitogen-driven blastogenic response of lymphocytes remained low. Revaccination with tick-borne encephalitis and tetanus toxoid antigens seven months after surgery resulted in a dramatic increase of serum levels of antibodies against both antigens, comparable to that seen in healthy control individuals. 
Elevated plasma beta-endorphin levels in patients with congestive heart failure Recent experimental studies show that the opioid system is important to the pathophysiology of cardiovascular impairment in congestive heart failure. Plasma beta-endorphin levels were measured in 37 patients with congestive heart failure and compared with those of 21 age- and gender-matched normal subjects. The relation of plasma beta-endorphin levels and cardiac function at rest and exercise capacity was assessed in 17 of the patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Exercise capacity was determined by symptom-limited maximal treadmill exercise with expired gas analysis. Plasma beta-endorphin levels were elevated and correlated with the patients' New York Heart Association functional cardiac status (control: 14.0 +/- 4.4 pg/ml; class II: 17.9 +/- 3.6 pg/ml; class III: 28.3 +/- 8.8 pg/ml; class IV: 46.7 +/- 14.6 pg/ml, mean +/- SD). No relation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels and left ventricular systolic performance as assessed by M-mode and Doppler echocardiography. Plasma beta-endorphin levels were negatively correlated with cardiac output determined by Doppler echocardiography and positively correlated with systemic vascular resistance (r = -0.733, r = 0.747, respectively, both p less than 0.001), but not correlated with calf blood flow as measured by a plethysmography. A good correlation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels at rest and exercise capacity. The correlations with peak oxygen consumption, anaerobic threshold, and peak rate-pressure product were r = -0.721, -0.672, and -0.674, respectively (p less than 0.01). The data show that plasma beta-endorphin levels are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure and reflect, to some degree, the severity of the disease. 
Value of ventricular electrogram recordings in the diagnosis of arrhythmias precipitating electrical device shock therapy. An antitachycardia pacemaker-cardioverter-defibrillator that is capable of storing ventricular electrograms before and after delivery of device shock therapy was implanted in 16 patients. Three of the patients experienced out-of-hospital device shock therapy preceded by minimal symptoms. Although limitations of electrogram analysis exist and are discussed, careful analysis and registration of electrograms during all supraventricular and ventricular rhythms observed during in-hospital testing served as an important reference for subsequent arrhythmia diagnosis. By analyzing the electrogram rate and RR interval stability and configuration, a definitive diagnosis was established in all three patients (atrial fibrillation, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and rate-sensing lead disruption, respectively). Thus, the ability to store ventricular electrograms before shock therapy represents a major advance in the management of patients who receive an electrical device to treat ventricular tachyarrhythmia. 
Captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. I have reported a case of captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice. This drug is being used with increasing frequency, so it is important that physicians recognize this adverse effect. Captopril-induced jaundice resolves after cessation of captopril therapy. 
IgG and IgA antibodies to the collagen-like region of C1q in rheumatoid vasculitis. We investigated the presence of IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis, and 80 healthy controls. IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, were found in less than 5% of the sera from RA patients and from healthy controls. In contrast, IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q were found in 29% and 61%, respectively, of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis. The occurrence of IgA antibodies to C1q has not been previously demonstrated. These results also demonstrate that IgG antibodies to C1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients: Sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain IgG or IgA antibodies to C1q, which contribute to immune complex formation. 
Effects of inosine on glycolysis and contracture during myocardial ischemia. The effects of inosine (INO) on substrate metabolism and rigor formation in ischemic myocardium were examined in isolated rabbit hearts. Metabolite content was assessed in tissue extracts by chemical analysis and in the whole heart by 13C and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In ischemic hearts metabolizing either [3-13C]pyruvate or [1-13C]glucose, 1 mM INO increased both total and 13C-labeled alanine content; lactate content was unaffected. At 3 minutes of ischemia, tissue alanine was 1.81 +/- 0.11 microM/g wet wt (mean +/- SEM) in hearts perfused with pyruvate+INO versus 1.23 +/- 0.15 microM/g wet wt in hearts perfused with pyruvate alone (p less than 0.05). INO reduced tissue glycogen during ischemia in pyruvate-perfused hearts. Tissue alanine content in ischemic hearts that were supplied glucose+INO (1.29 +/- 0.13 microM/g wet wt) was greater than in ischemic hearts supplied glucose alone (0.65 +/- 0.14 microM/g wet wt). Alanine was found to originate from pyruvate and was a glycolytic end product in glucose-perfused hearts. INO raised the [3-13C]alanine/[3-13C]lactate ratio in ischemic, intact hearts (glucose = 0.24 +/- 0.07 versus glucose+INO = 0.60 +/- 0.09; pyruvate = 0.49 +/- 0.08 versus pyruvate+INO = 0.89 +/- 0.08). At 7 minutes of ischemia, ATP content fell to 70 +/- 3% with glucose+INO versus 58 +/- 5% with glucose alone. Rigor (stone heart) was delayed from 14.7 +/- 1.3 to 23.2 +/- 1.6 minutes with INO. INO did not change ATP content in ischemic hearts that were supplied pyruvate but delayed rigor (pyruvate = 9.9 +/- 1.2 minutes; pyruvate+INO = 15.6 +/- 1.0 minutes), possibly at the expense of glycogen. Supplemental glucose improved the effectiveness of INO with pyruvate to preserve ATP (pyruvate+glucose = 42 +/- 6%; pyruvate+glucose+INO = 72 +/- 6%) and further delayed rigor (pyruvate+glucose = 13.3 +/- 1.5 minutes; pyruvate+glucose+INO = 20.3 +/- 1.8 minutes). Glucose metabolism supported improved energetic and contractile states in ischemic hearts treated with INO. Thus, cardioprotection of the ischemic heart by INO was associated with preservation of functional integrity and improved energy production due to increased glycolytic activity. Activation of glycolysis in the presence of INO was accommodated by augmented alanine production without the additional accumulation of lactate. 
Anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery. Surgical alternatives depending of the age of the patient. Four cases of anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery, three of which were operated upon in our Centre, are presented. An aortocoronary bypass with reversed autologous saphenous vein was carried out in both of the children; and in the adult, the anomalous ostium was closed from the interior of the pulmonary artery. After 84, 72, and 4 months of evolution, respectively, they were found to be asymptomatic, the mitral insufficiency had disappeared and the venous graft remained patent. In this paper, the clinical form of presentation, diagnostic possibilities and surgical treatment are analysed. 
Plastic bullet arterial embolization following gunshot injury to the heart. Case report and review of the literature. A plastic bullet penetrating the heart through the right ventricle embolized to the right profunda. Suture of the heart and extraction of the bullet resulted in uneventful recovery. The literature revealed 21 instances of embolization following proven heart penetration, in two cases through the right ventricle. 
Increased platelet membrane sodium-proton exchange rate in spontaneously hypertensive rats. It has been proposed that increased Na-H exchange activity is involved in the pathophysiology of genetic hypertension. We studied platelets of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), and domestic Wistar rats (DWR), since platelets have similarities to smooth muscle cells and have been shown to have potentially related ion metabolism abnormalities, such as increased intracellular calcium activity. We determined the exchange rate by the intracellular acidification-dependent, extracellular sodium-dependent volume increase. The rate of increase during the first 3 min is linear and is shown to be higher in SHR (0.475 X min-1) than in WKY (0.410 X min-1) or DWR (0.389 X min-1). We conclude that the Na-H activity is increased in platelets of SHR. Similar findings in lymphocytes and neutrophils of SHR, and analogous findings in platelets of humans with essential hypertension, suggest that this abnormality is expressed by several cell types, some of which may be involved in the pathophysiology of genetic hypertension in both rats and humans. 
New quantitative method for evaluating tricuspid regurgitation. A new quantitative method for evaluating regurgitation (TR) is proposed in order to select the most suitable treatment for functional TR associated with acquired valvular heart disease. The regurgitant volume per beat (VTR) is calculated using two-dimensional color Doppler and continuous-wave Doppler echocardiographies. In a study of 48 patients, preoperative VTR showed a significant correlation with tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole, right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Patients were classified into 3 groups according to preoperative VTR: Group I, VTR less than 10 cc (no. 18); Group II, VTR = 10-20 cc (no. 18); Group III, VTR greater than or equal to 20 cc (no. 12). This classification correlated well with the intraoperative findings of TR. In all Group I patients, VTR decreased without any tricuspid valve repair. In Group II, 17 of 18 patients underwent tricuspid annuloplasty, and showed a decrease in VTR to below 10 cc after surgery. In Group III, 10 underwent tricuspid annuloplasty and 2 tricuspid valve replacement. Three of the 10 with tricuspid annuloplasty showed a significant degree of postoperative VTR (10-20 cc). These 3 patients as well as the 2 with tricuspid valve replacement showed a preoperative peak-to-peak pressure difference across the tricuspid valve during the ejection phase (RVsp-TAv) of less than or equal to 20 mmHg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole of greater than or equal to 50 mm. In conclusion, no tricuspid valve repair was required in Group I (TR I). For group II (TR II) patients, tricuspid annuloplasty was necessary and adequate for TR correction. For Group II (TR III) patients, a more substantial procedure like tricuspid valve replacement should be performed, especially when the preoperative RVsp-RAv is less than or equal to 20 mmHg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole is greater than or equal to 50 mm. 
Congestive heart failure: a current overview. Congestive heart failure (CHF), a disease seen primarily in the older patient, can be due to either systolic or diastolic dysfunction. Management is quite different if the heart failure is due to a filling abnormality as compared to poor ventricular systole. The disorder also poses many diagnostic pitfalls in the elderly. Current understanding of CHF and its influence on diagnosis and management is the focus of this review. 
Characteristics of participants at baseline in the Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS). The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS) is a randomized, double-blind clinical trial currently being conducted to compare the effects of nonpharmacologic therapy alone with those of 1 of 5 active drug regimens combined with nonpharmacologic therapy, for long-term management of patients with mild hypertension. Six classes of drugs were studied: (1) acebutolol (beta blocker), (2) amlodipine (calcium antagonist), (3) chlorthalidone (diuretic), (4) doxazosin (alpha 1 antagonist), (5) enalapril (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) and (6) placebo. All participants received nutritional-hygienic advice to reduce weight and sodium and alcohol intakes and to increase physical activity. End points include blood pressure change, side effects and quality-of-life indices; incidence of electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities; and incidence of cardiovascular clinical events, including death, among participants receiving drugs as first-step treatment as well as nonpharmacologic treatment compared with incidence among those participants randomized to nonpharmacologic treatment only as the initial step. 
Extraperitoneal endarterectomy for iliofemoral occlusive disease. Sixty patients with iliofemoral occlusive disease were treated by autogenous anatomic reconstruction by endarterectomy. Endarterectomy was performed extra-peritoneally by the eversion technique. The operative technique and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed. Six patients had postoperative complications of acute anastomotic hemorrhage (two patients), would hematoma (two patients), and atelectasis (two patients). Sixty patients discharged with patient arterial reconstruction were followed up from 5 months to 17 1/2 years, with a mean follow-up of 53 months. There were no other vascular complications. Seventy limbs were at risk during this period, with an accumulative patency rate of 80.4% at 5 years and 71.4% at 10 years. There were 11 occlusions of the external iliac artery and one stenosis of the common femoral artery. Failures occurred mainly in the external iliac artery, which appears to be the limiting factor in the continued patency of endarterectomy. There were 18 deaths (30%). Nine deaths were attributed to the complications of arteriosclerosis. 
Pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension. Evidence of disordered venous innervation exclusively in the lower limbs. The pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension was studied in eight patients. Correction of the abnormal orthostatic changes by an inflated pressure suit (MAST) confirmed previous evidence of excessive gravitational pooling of blood in the leg veins. Intravenous L-norepinephrine infusion raised diastolic blood pressure in the same relationship to the infusion-induced increments in plasma norepinephrine concentrations as in normal subjects, indicating normal arteriolar responses. Contractile responses of the veins to infused L-norepinephrine were measured with a linear variable differential transformer (LVDT). The venous responses of hand veins in the patients fell within the 95% confidence limits of the responses of normal hand veins, as did the responses of foot veins in the seven normal subjects. However, foot veins of the patients with hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension, and both hand and foot veins of patients with "diffuse" autonomic failure, were supersensitive to norepinephrine, as reflected by a steeper slope of the regression of log (norepinephrine infusion rate) on percentage reduction in venous distensibility, and a significantly lower ED50 (i.e., norepinephrine infusion rate that induced 50% reduction in venous distensibility). The findings suggest anatomical or functional postganglionic denervation of lower limb veins causing excessive gravitational blood pooling with consequent orthostatic hypotension in these patients. 
Systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow in mitral stenosis. We measured systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow [Qbr(s-p)] during total cardiopulmonary bypass in 15 patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure (group A, mean pulmonary wedge pressure = 22.2 +/- 5.4 mm Hg, mean +/- SD) and in 15 patients with coronary artery diseases and normal pulmonary venous pressure (group B). Qbr(s-p) is the volume of blood accumulating in the left side of the heart in the absence of pulmonary and coronary flows. This blood was vented through a cannula introduced into the left atrium and measured. Qbr(s-p) was 76.3 +/- 13.9 ml/min (2.18 +/- 0.37 percent of extracorporeal circulation pump flow) and 22.3 +/- 2.1 (0.63 +/- 0.15) in group A and B, respectively (p less than 0.01). During total cardiopulmonary bypass, pulmonary venous pressure is approximately atmospheric pressure, and no differences in systemic blood pressure, extracorporeal circulation pump flow, and airways pressure were observed between group A and B. Therefore, vascular resistance through the bronchial vessels draining into the pulmonary circulation is reduced in patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure. 
Local hypothermia to prolong safe tourniquet time. Local hypothermia was studied as a method to safely prolong tourniquet time for reconstructive procedures of the upper extremity. An ice blanket constructed of flannel cloth and cold gel packs was applied to the limb for 45 minutes preoperatively. Seventy-eight patients were evaluated for complications resulting from hypothermia and prolonged tourniquet application. The duration of continuous tourniquet ischemia averaged two hours and 25 minutes. Intraoperative muscle temperature recordings indicated that the iced limbs were an average of 12.9 degrees cooler than noniced limbs before tourniquet inflation. Electron microscopic studies of biopsied muscle showed no evidence of ischemic changes. There were no postoperative complications associated with prolonged tourniquet inflation or the hypothermia blanket technique. Local hypothermia appears to be a safe and effective method of decreasing the adverse effects of tourniquet ischemia and allowing continuous tourniquet inflation time to extend safely beyond the customary two-hour limit. 
Diastolic dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Effect on active force generation during systole. We tested the hypothesis that intracellular Ca++ [( Ca++]i) overload underlies the diastolic dysfunction of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Myocardial tissue was obtained at the time of surgery or transplantation from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and was compared with control myocardium obtained from patients without heart disease. The isometric contractions and electrophysiologic properties of all myocardial specimens were recorded by standard techniques and [Ca++]i was measured with the bioluminescent calcium indicator aequorin. In contrast to the controls, action potentials, Ca++ transients, and isometric contraction and relaxation were markedly prolonged in the hypertrophic myocardium, and the Ca++ transients consisted of two distinct components. At 38 degrees C and 1 Hz pacing frequency, a state of relative Ca++ overload appeared develop, which produced a rise in end-diastolic [Ca++]i, incomplete relaxation, and fusion of twitches with a resultant decrease in active tension development. We also found that drugs with increase [Ca++]i, such as digitalis, exacerbated these abnormalities, whereas drugs that lower [Ca++]i, such as verapamil, or agents that increase cyclic AMP, such as forskolin, prevented them. These results may explain why patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tolerate tachycardia poorly, and may have important implications with regard to the pharmacologic treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Doppler echocardiographic study of porcine bioprosthetic heart valves in the aortic valve position in patients without evidence of cardiac dysfunction. To study the natural history of the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic heart valves, Doppler echocardiograms were recorded in a group of clinically stable patients at 2 and 5 years after replacement of native aortic valves with bioprosthetic valves. Eighteen patients completed a 2-year and 26 patients a 5-year follow-up examination. The effective orifice areas of identical models of bioprosthetic valves (Hancock II) were determined in vitro in a left-sided heart pulse duplicator system. In vivo Doppler-derived effective orifice areas were compared with the in vitro measurements for the same valve size. At both the 2- and 5-year follow-up examinations, the Doppler-derived effective orifice area was significantly less than the in vitro area (p less than 0.0001 at each interval). Ten of 16 valves evaluated serially decreased greater than 0.20 cm2 in the Doppler-derived effective orifice area between studies. The mean decrease in effective orifice area in valves evaluated serially was 0.25 +/- 0.29 cm2 (p less than 0.005). The peak transaortic gradient increased from 21 +/- 6 to 27 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). The mean transaortic gradient increased from 12 +/- 4 to 15 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). It is concluded that serial Doppler echocardiographic studies demonstrate a deterioration in the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic valves over time in patients with no symptoms or signs of valvular dysfunction and that Doppler echocardiography may be useful for identifying subclinical bioprosthetic valvular dysfunction. 
Insulin and hypertension. Relationship to obesity and glucose intolerance in Pima Indians. The relationships among blood pressure, obesity, glucose tolerance, and serum insulin concentration were studied in 2873 Pima Indians aged 18-92 yr (mean 37 yr). Age- and sex-adjusted to the Pima population, the prevalence of hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmHg, or receiving drug treatment) was 7.1% for subjects with normal glucose tolerance compared with 13.0% for subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and 19.8% for those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) (P less than 0.001). The prevalence ratio of hypertension was 1.8 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.2-2.5) for IGT and 2.6 (95% CI 2.0-3.2) for NIDDM compared with normal glucose tolerance, controlled for age, sex, and body mass index (BMI). In logistic regression analysis, hypertension was positively related to age, male sex, BMI, glucose tolerance, and fasting but not 2-h postload serum insulin concentration. Among subjects not taking antihypertensive drugs, however, neither fasting nor 2-h postload serum insulin was significantly related to hypertension. Furthermore, in 2033 subjects receiving neither antihypertensive nor antidiabetic drugs, blood pressure was not significantly correlated to fasting insulin concentration, and 2-h postload serum insulin was negatively correlated with diastolic blood pressure. In conclusion, insulin is not significantly related to blood pressure in Pima Indians not receiving antihypertensive drugs. Higher insulin concentrations in drug-treated hypertensive patients might result from the treatment rather than contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension. Thus, these data do not support a major role for insulin in determining the occurrence of hypertension or regulation of blood pressure in Pima Indians. 
When do cerebral emboli appear during open heart operations? A transcranial Doppler study. The transcranial Doppler technique enabled the detection of cerebral air emboli in 10 of 10 patients during open-heart valve operations despite standard deairing procedures. With this technique, the occurrence of emboli in the right middle cerebral artery was followed continuously in patients undergoing aortic or mitral valve replacement. Membrane oxygenators were used. Scattered emboli were observed during the insertion of the aortic cannula, at the start of cardiopulmonary bypass, and after the declamping of the aorta with the heart beating while empty. During the period of aortic cross-clamping, no emboli were detected. Despite careful deairing procedures, the recordings indicated a large amount of emboli during filling of the empty beating heart in all 10 patients. Thus, this study indicates that cerebral emboli in open heart procedures are most likely to occur during the redistribution of blood from the heart-lung machine to the patient when the heart is beginning to eject actively, despite careful standard deairing procedures. Meticulous deairing before declamping the aorta is strongly advocated. In addition, a short period of filling of the beating heart before final closure of the aortic incision or vent may decrease the incidence of cerebral emboli. A concomitant reduction in cerebral blood flow by hyperventilation or anesthetics or both during filling of the empty beating heart may also be beneficial. 
Silent myocardial ischemia: dilemma or blessing? Developing an optimal strategy for the evaluation and management of patients with silent myocardial ischemia is extremely difficult. Although otherwise healthy, asymptomatic individuals may be at risk of dying suddenly during exercise, neither exercise testing nor Holter monitoring reliably identifies those at greatest risk. In patients with underlying coronary artery disease, silent ischemia increases the risk of an adverse outcome. 
Echocardiographic diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva: operation without catheterisation in seven patients. A ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva was diagnosed by Doppler, colour, and cross sectional echocardiography in a consecutive series of seven patients. The diagnoses were confirmed at operation without cardiac catheterisation. Examination by pulsed and continuous Doppler echocardiography showed continuous turbulence in six patients with aneurysms rupturing into the right ventricular outflow tract and in the patient with rupture of an aneurysm of the non-coronary sinus into the right atrium. Colour Doppler echocardiography showed turbulent flow across the defects in all seven patients. A ventricular septal defect with aortic regurgitation was detected in one patient and an associated ventricular septal defect in another. Doppler, colour, and cross sectional echocardiography were useful non-invasive techniques for diagnosing a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva without the need for cardiac catheterisation. 
The effect of enoximone and dobutamine on hemodynamic performance after open heart surgery. A clinical comparison. In a prospective, randomized study the phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone was compared to dobutamine after open heart surgery. In either group 25 patients were treated with enoximone and dobutamine, respectively, beginning immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass until 4 hours postoperatively. The drug was administered as a continuous infusion of 5 micrograms/min/kg body weight. Under enoximone a significant increase of cardiac output [enoximone (E): + 100%; dobutamine (D): + 38%] and a significant decrease of pulmonary vascular resistance (E: -34%, D: +65%) and of total systemic vascular resistance (E: -59%, D: -7%) was achieved. Systemic blood pressure and heart rate were not different. Side effects were not observed. Enoximone proved to be safe and superior to dobutamine in low cardiac output states after open heart surgery. 
Lung function and pulmonary regurgitation limit exercise capacity in postoperative tetralogy of Fallot. Fifty-five patients with repair of tetralogy of Fallot were evaluated with treadmill exercise, pulmonary function testing and rest two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography to determine the relation among cardiopulmonary function, exercise capacity and ventricular arrhythmias. The mean age at repair was 8.1 +/- 2.1 years; age at the time of study ranged from 15 to 37 years (mean follow-up time after repair 18 +/- 5 years). Exercise duration was 92 +/- 17% of predicted. Maximal heart rate was 94 +/- 7% of predicted. No exercise test was stopped because of an arrhythmia. Thirty patients had oxygen consumption and ventilation measured during their final minute of exercise. Peak oxygen consumption was 31 +/- 8 ml/kg per min (86 +/- 18% of predicted). Twenty-five patients (45%) had low vital capacity at rest (less than 80% of predicted). Pulmonary regurgitation was identified in 42 (75%) of the patients and judged to be moderate in 10 (18%). Mild tricuspid valve regurgitation was identified in 64%. Doppler estimated right ventricular outflow gradient was greater than 15 mm Hg in 15% of the patients (mean gradient 24 mm Hg [range 16 to 56]). Age at repair, duration of follow-up and type of repair did not correlate with echocardiographic variables, ventilatory data, exercise performance or arrhythmias. Moderate pulmonary regurgitation was associated with increased right ventricular diastolic area and both were inversely related to exercise duration and vital capacity. Decreased breathing reserve during maximal exercise was associated with moderate pulmonary regurgitation and decreased vital capacity. The results indicate that exercise capacity in these patients is in general good; however, right ventricular volume loading and ventilatory dysfunction may produce exercise limitation. 
Selective pulmonary vasodilation with ATP-MgCl2 during pulmonary hypertension in lambs. We investigated the effects of infusions of ATP-MgCl2 on the circulation in 11 spontaneously breathing newborn lambs during pulmonary hypertension induced either by the infusion of U-46619, a thromboxane A2 mimetic, or by hypoxia. During pulmonary hypertension induced by U-46619, ATP-MgCl2 (0.01-1.0 mg.kg-1.min-1) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.4-40.7%, P less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at the highest doses (P less than 0.05). Left atrial infusions of ATP-MgCl2 caused systemic hypotension without decreasing pulmonary arterial pressure. During hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension, ATP-MgCl2 caused a similar significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure (12.0-41.1%, P less than 0.05), while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at high doses (P less than 0.05). Regression analysis showed selectivity of the vasodilating effects of ATP-MgCl2 for the pulmonary circulation during pulmonary hypertension induced either by U-46619 or hypoxia. ATP-MgCl2 is a potent vasodilator with a rapid metabolism that allows for selective vasodilation of the vascular bed first encountered (pulmonary or systemic). We conclude that infusions of ATP-MgCl2 may be clinically useful in the treatment of children with pulmonary hypertension. 
Giant cell arteritis. A case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate. Giant cell (temporal) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness, stroke, or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated. An elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis. Delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition. We describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications. 
The effect of doxazosin on platelet aggregation in normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension: an in vitro study. An in vitro assay was used to investigate the effects of doxazosin on the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine, collagen, and adenosine diphosphate. Platelet-rich plasma from normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension was compared. Doxazosin produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation in both groups, but significantly lower concentrations were required to inhibit platelet aggregation in plasma taken from patients with hypertension. The concentrations of doxazosin that inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro were similar to those that are used clinically to control blood pressure in patients with hypertension. 
Repair of transposition of the great arteries with intact ventricular septum and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Repair of transposition of the great arteries in patients with intact ventricular septum and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction has been restricted to atrial baffle procedures, with or without attempts to relieve or bypass the left ventricular outflow obstruction. However, the suboptimal results of these procedures, coupled with excellent functional results with the arterial switch operation in patients without obstruction, has made anatomic correction the goal in repairing these anomalies. We report a technique for the anatomic correction of transposition of the great arteries, intact ventricular septum, and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Its consideration in these difficult cases is advocated. 
Contrast echocardiographic mapping of collateralized myocardium in humans before and after coronary angioplasty Conventional coronary arteriography is able to demonstrate the presence of coronary collateral vessels but cannot delineate the specific region of myocardium to which they supply blood. To test the hypothesis that contrast echocardiography can specifically identify collateralized myocardium, contrast echocardiographic perfusion "maps" were compared in patients with (n = 12) and without (n = 12) angiographic evidence of coronary collateral flow, both before and after coronary angioplasty. Contrast echocardiographic images of the mid-left ventricle in the short-axis view at end-diastole were obtained after separate injections of a sonicated contrast agent into both the right and the left coronary arteries. A computer-based contouring system was used to determine the individual areas of myocardium perfused by each of the two coronary arteries and then to superimpose the images of the two perfusion beds. The resulting area of overlapping perfusion represented myocardium receiving blood flow from both coronary systems and was defined as collateralized myocardium. To normalize for heart size, overlap area was expressed as a percent of total myocardial area, which was the area between endocardium and epicardium in the short-axis view. To adjust for differences in vascular distribution, overlap area was expressed as a percent of the perfusion area of the recipient vessel. In patients with angiographic collateral flow, the recipient vessel was that vessel receiving the collateral flow. In patients without angiographic collateral flow, the right coronary artery was considered the recipient vessel. Overlap area was 1.3 +/- 0.4% of total myocardial area and 6.6 +/- 1.7% of recipient vessel area in patients without angiographic evidence of collateral flow compared with 30.6 +/- 2.5% and 89.2 +/- 6.4%, respectively, in patients with angiographic collateral flow (p less than 0.001 for both). In four patients in whom angiographic collateral flow was abolished by angioplasty, overlap area decreased from 30.3 +/- 5.3% to 6.8 +/- 2.7% of total myocardial area and from 100% to 18.5 +/- 5.4% of recipient vessel area (p less than 0.05 for both). Thus, contrast echocardiography is able to map the specific myocardial territory perfused by coronary collateral flow and document an immediate reduction in perfusion in this territory when collateral flow is abolished by angioplasty. 
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and cough. Prevalence in an outpatient medical clinic population. To determine the frequency of ACE inhibitor cough in an outpatient medical clinic population, a cross-sectional epidemiologic survey using mailed questionnaires was done. Patients were randomly selected from a computerized hospital pharmacy data base. The overall prevalence of cough was 19 percent in the ACE inhibitor groups compared with 9 percent in the hydrochlorothiazide-treated group. The observed odds ratio for cough among ACE inhibitor users was 2.3 (95 percent CI, 1.02 to 5.00). This study is the first systematic investigation of frequency and characteristics of ACE inhibitor cough that includes a control group. Our results suggest that cough may more frequently accompany treatment with ACE inhibitors than has been previously reported. We recommend that physicians specifically inquire about cough in patients taking an ACE inhibitor. Recognition of this side effect may prevent unnecessary testing and treatment of patients receiving ACE inhibitors. 
Left ventricular rupture complicating percutaneous mitral commissurotomy: salvage using percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support. Left ventricular rupture resulting in death has been reported to be a complication of percutaneous mitral commissurotomy. We report a 71-year-old man in whom a left ventricular rupture occurred during percutaneous mitral commissurotomy and resulted in hemodynamic collapse due to acute cardiac tamponade. The patient was stabilized using percutaneously instituted cardiopulmonary bypass support with subsequent repair of the left ventricle and successful mitral valve replacement. Three months later this patient remains in New York Heart Class I. 
Dilated cardiomyopathy complicated by a pedunculated and mobile left ventricular thrombus on ruptured false tendons. A 68-year-old man was admitted with congestive heart failure. He was treated with diuretics and digitalis; thereafter, the two-dimensional echocardiogram suggested a pedunculated and mobile left ventricular thrombus. He underwent surgical thrombectomy because of the high risk of systemic embolization. To our knowledge, this is the first case of dilated cardiomyopathy with a mobile left ventricular thrombus that was attached to ruptured false tendons. 
Axillary subclavian vein thrombosis. Changing patterns of etiology, diagnostic, and therapeutic modalities. Fifty-two patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis were treated in the last 10 years and were available for follow-up for at least 1 year. Eighteen of these were treated in the first 5 years, Group A, and 34 in the last 5 years, Group B. The causes in both Group A and Group B included respectively: effort or spontaneous 28 per cent and 29 per cent, catheter insertion related 17 per cent and 47 per cent, and malignancy or systemic disease 55 per cent and 24 per cent. None of the patients in Group A had noninvasive vascular testing (NIT). However, 27 patients in Group B had IPG/duplex imaging (NIT). All 18 cases in Group A and 27 cases in Group B were treated conventionally (anticoagulants). Seventy-three per cent of these had residual pain on exertion (venous claudication) and/or swelling. Fourteen of these cases had posttreatment NIT/venography. Four of these showed total resolution of the thrombus and all were symptom free. Ten had no resolution, and nine were symptomatic. Seven cases in Group B were treated with thrombolytic therapy. Five of these had total resolution of thrombus and were symptom free (71%). Two had no resolution with residual symptoms (29%) (statistically significant). In conclusion (1) More patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis seen recently are catheter insertion related; 2) Diagnosis should be initiated with duplex imaging; and (3) Thrombolytic therapy significantly decreased residual symptoms and yielded better resolution than anticoagulants. 
Changes in plasma free fatty acids and glycerols during prolonged exercise in trained and hypertensive persons taking propranolol and pindolol. The extent to which lipolysis is attenuated during prolonged submaximal exercise during beta blockade was determined in 12 normotensive endurance-trained and 12 hypertensive sedentary men using nonselective drugs with and without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA). Initially, subjects performed a graded treadmill test to determine maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max). This was followed by 2-hour walks at 25 and 45% of the subject's VO2max under each of 3 treatments: pindolol (ISA), propranolol (non-ISA) and placebo. The distribution of medication was randomized and double blinded. Blood samples taken at rest and every 30 minutes during the 2-hour walks were analyzed to determine the concentrations of free fatty acids (FFA) and glycerol. On the basis of the respective changes in FFA, glycerols and the respiratory exchange ratio, beta-adrenergic blockade did not attenuate lipolysis in the untrained hypertensive subjects when compared with the placebo administration. However, beta blockade did demonstrate a tendency to attenuate lipolysis in the trained, normotensive subjects when compared with results after placebo administration. This was particularly evident at 30 minutes of exercise, when both glycerol and FFA concentrations were not increased above resting values under both conditions of beta blockade. No differences between pindolol and propranolol were observed. Therefore, a beta-blocking agent with ISA properties appears to have no clear benefit with respect to lipid metabolism during low and moderate intensity exercise. Furthermore, these data demonstrate that beta blockade does not inhibit exercise-induced lipolysis at low and moderate intensities of exercise as formerly believed, and is unlikely to be the cause of fatigue normally observed during work in patient populations taking beta-blocking medication. 
Campylobacter fetus infection of abdominal aortic aneurysm. A 61-year-old man with Campylobacter fetus infection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm treated surgically is presented herein, the fifth survival case reported in the literature. Fever and back pain preceded the enlargement of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysm. The patient tolerated satisfactorily total excision of the aneurysm followed by axillo-femoral prosthetic bypass. Antibiotic therapy consisted of intravenous infusion of fosfomycin and gentamicin and oral administration of minocycline. The organism cultured from the aneurysmal wall and intraluminal thrombi was identified as Campylobacter fetus from its typical characteristics. It is concluded that this organism should be considered in all cases of infected aneurysm in elderly or debilitated patients. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and quality of life. The term quality of life implies more than adverse effects that make treatment intolerable. It is not new but has only relatively recently become a parameter to be measured in patients treated for cardiovascular disease. Lessons can be learned from other conditions in which the Karnovsky Index and the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scale have been used. Several investigators have used questionnaires to assess quality of life during antihypertensive therapy. However, assessment of the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition on quality of life has only been done recently. The largest and best known study, of 625 white men with mild hypertension, reported that patients given captopril showed a significant improvement after 6 months in general well-being, work performance, and those skills associated with cognitive function. No such improvement was found with methyldopa and there was significant worsening in measures associated with depression, sexual dysfunction, and life satisfaction. The propranolol group, while showing improvement in cognitive functioning and social participation, manifested worsening of sexual function and physical symptoms. Diuretic therapy had a greater negative impact on the quality of life of hypertensive patients than captopril, propranolol, or methyldopa alone. Whether these results will be seen in other patient populations, and the pharmacological basis for these results, remains to be determined. As newer agents become available (eg, beta-blockers with ancillary properties, calcium channel blockers with allegedly more selective actions on various vascular beds), comparative studies between these agents and ACE inhibitors old and new are awaited with interest. 
Lower extremity arterial disease in elderly subjects with systolic hypertension. The ratio of ankle-to-arm systolic blood pressure (ankle/arm index or AAI) appears to be a non-invasive indicator of flow-significant atherosclerosis and may be a useful measure of burden of disease in a high risk population. The prevalence of lower extremity arterial disease (LEAD) was assessed by this method in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP). Subjects were aged 60 and older with systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mmHg upon entry to the study. An AAI of 0.90 or less was considered indicative of flow-significant LEAD. The prevalence of LEAD by this method was 26.7% (50/187), while the prevalence of intermittent claudication (IC) was only 6.4% (12/187). Of those with IC, 66.7% (8/12) had confirmed LEAD. The prevalence of LEAD as measured by AAI increased with age in women and was associated with a history of current smoking and lower levels of high density lipoproteins. In this study population with systolic hypertension, LEAD, as measured by the AAI, is more prevalent than previously described in elderly populations and is associated with other risk factors for atherosclerosis. 
Spontaneous termination of reentry after one cycle or short nonsustained runs. Role of oscillations and excess dispersion of refractoriness. This study describes factors that contribute to spontaneous termination of reentry lasting one to 10 cycles after induction by a single premature stimulus. Reentry was studied in vitro in rings of canine atrial tissue from around the tricuspid valve orifice. Activation was recorded from a circular array of 10 extracellular bipolar electrodes equally spaced around the ring. In some experiments, transmembrane or monophasic action potential recordings were made near critical sites. Termination of reentry within one cycle after induction was recorded 110 times in 11 of 35 experiments. Important factors contributing to termination were 1) an obligatory reversal of the activation sequence that resulted in a long coupling interval in the critical region beyond the site of unidirectional block after the premature stimulus and 2) much longer refractory periods limited to this critical region, which facilitated unidirectional block but contributed to termination when this region was first activated with a short coupling interval at the end of the first reentrant cycle. Termination of nonsustained reentry lasting longer than one cycle resulted from oscillations of conduction and refractoriness initiated by the abrupt shortening of cycle length after initiation of reentry. Oscillations of conduction resulted from interval-dependent conduction of reentrant impulses that encountered partially refractory tissue. For reentry to become sustained, the oscillations after induction of reentry must dampen. Thus, damped cycle length oscillations after induction may identify clinical tachycardias caused by reentry with a partially excitable gap. 
Long-term follow-up in patients with incessant ventricular tachycardia. Seventeen patients with coronary artery disease, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or no organic heart disease who presented with incessant ventricular tachycardia (VT) were studied and followed for a mean period of 51 +/- 35 months. In these patients the incessant VT included greater than or equal to 3 episodes of sustained VT at a rate of greater than or equal to 120 beats/min and frequent episodes of nonsustained VT over a 24-hour period. No patient had electrolyte disorder, prolonged QT interval, drug-induced arrhythmia or myocardial infarction less than 2 weeks old. Six patients died within 27 months of follow-up; 4 from sudden death and 2 from acute myocardial infarction. Three of the 11 surviving patients had remission of their VT within 1 week after the diagnosis of incessant VT. In 3 other patients in whom antiarrhythmic drugs were discontinued during follow-up because of adverse effects of the drugs or other medical reasons, 2 were found in remission. In the remaining 5 alive patients, deliberate attempts were made to discontinue the antiarrhythmic drugs; 4 of these patients were found in remission when the drugs were discontinued. Thus, 9 of these patients (53%) with incessant VT had remission over a mean follow-up of 55 +/- 34 months after discontinuation of the antiarrhythmic drugs. The probability of remission in patients surviving incessant VT warrants trials of discontinuation of antiarrhythmic drugs in these patients. 
Prehospital cardiac arrest: the impact of witnessed collapse and bystander CPR in a metropolitan EMS system with short response times. OBJECTIVE: Numerous studies have shown initiation of bystander CPR to significantly improve survival from prehospital cardiac arrest. However, in emergency medical services (EMS) systems with very short response times, bystander CPR has not been shown to impact outcome. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of bystander CPR on survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in such a system. DESIGN: Prehospital, hospital, and death certificate data from a medium-sized metropolitan area were retrospectively analyzed for adult, nontraumatic cardiac arrest during a 16-month period. RESULTS: A total of 298 patients met study criteria. One hundred ninety-five arrests (65.4%) were witnessed, and 103 (34.6%) were unwitnessed. Twenty-five witnessed victims (12.8%) were discharged alive, whereas no unwitnessed victims survived (P less than .001). Patients suffering a witnessed episode of ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia (VF/VT) were more likely to survive (21.9%) than were other patients (2.0%, P less than .0001). Among witnessed patients, initiation of bystander CPR was associated with a significant improvement in survival (20.0%) compared with the no-bystander CPR group (9.2%, P less than .05). Bystander CPR was also associated with improved outcome when witnessed patients with successful prehospital resuscitation were evaluated as a group; 18 had bystander CPR, of whom 13 (72.2%) survived compared with only 12 of 38 patients with no bystander CPR (31.6%, P less than .01). CONCLUSION: Our data revealed improved survival rates when bystander CPR was initiated on victims of witnessed cardiac arrest in an EMS system with short response times. 
Evidence of an antiplatelet aggregation action of doxazosin in patients with hypertension: an ex vivo study. Eighteen patients with a mean age of 54.7 years were included in the study. All patients had a diagnosis of mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure of 96 to 114 mm Hg). The study design was single blind and in two phases: phase I, placebo (4 weeks), and phase II, the active treatment (8 weeks) with increasing doses, if needed, of doxazosin every 2 weeks (1, 2, 4, and 8 mg/day). Results show that doxazosin has an antihypertensive effect that is dose dependent. Systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures were decreased significantly, and no effect on heart rate was observed. Doxazosin significantly inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine, adenosine diphosphate, and collagen in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, treatment with doxazosin lowered total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels, without changing other standard biochemical parameters. This indicates that doxazosin could offer a distinct therapeutic advantage in the modulation of atherogenic and thromboembolic factors associated with coronary heart disease. 
Delayed detection of coarctation in infancy: implications for timing of newborn follow-up. During a recent 5-year period, 74 patients younger than 6 months of age were diagnosed with coarctation of the aorta. Coarctation was correctly diagnosed in only 22% of patients prior to referral despite readily apparent femoral pulse abnormalities in 86%. Infants whose symptoms were detected between 5 and 14 days of age were significantly more ill than infants outside this age range and had a high mortality rate (25%). The number of associated cardiac defects was not related to the severity of clinical illness in this group, suggesting that closure of the ductus arteriosus is the primary determinate of disease severity. Observations in two patients suggested that a detectable pulse discrepancy occurs between 3 and 5 days postnatally. Upper extremity hypertension was found commonly in infants after 5 days of age despite the presence of congestive heart failure. Earlier detection of coarctation in the newborn requires a diligent cardiovascular and peripheral pulse examination between 3 and 7 days of life, upper extremity and lower extremity blood pressure measurement, and a high index of suspicion. 
Identification of acute myocardial infarction patients suitable for early hospital discharge after aggressive interventional therapy. Results from the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry. BACKGROUND. Very early (day 4) hospital discharge has recently been proposed for selected patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI). The purpose of this study was to determine the most useful factors for identifying acute MI patients treated with aggressive interventional therapy who could be safely discharged on day 4. METHODS AND RESULTS. We studied 708 patients enrolled in the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Acute Myocardial Infarction trials I-III. Patients dying in the first 3 days and those with early (days 1-3) emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), late elective CABG (greater than or equal to day 4), or urgent/emergency CABG resulting from a late elective coronary angioplasty were excluded. The remaining 580 patients were randomly divided into a training sample (group 1) that was used to build a logistic regression model for predicting the absence of a late major complication and a test sample (group 2) that was used to validate this model. For this study, patients were considered appropriate for day 4 hospital discharge if they did not experience any of the following for 30 days after MI: death, reinfarction, cardiogenic shock, pulmonary edema, sustained hypotension, sustained ventricular tachycardia, high-grade atrioventricular block, acute ventricular septal defect, and recurrent ischemia necessitating urgent CABG. In group 1, four variables were independent predictors of freedom from late major complications: absence of early sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, absence of early sustained hypotension or cardiogenic shock, fewer coronary arteries with significant (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis, and a higher left ventricular ejection fraction. In group 2, 23% of patients had a logistic model prediction of a 3% or less chance of a late complication. These patients had no deaths or reinfarctions by day 30 and a 3% late major complication rate. CONCLUSIONS. The results of early cardiac catheterization and the absence of selected early (days 1-3) major complications do allow identification of a low risk subgroup of acute MI patients that may be suitable for very early discharge. 
Long-term cardiopulmonary bypass by peripheral cannulation in a model of total heart failure. The decompression of the left heart through a percutaneous helical spring positioned within the lumen of the tricuspid and pulmonary artery valves. We performed long-term closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass in an animal model of total heart failure (induced ventricular fibrillation). The extracorporeal system included a venous reservoir, a roller pump, a membrane lung, and a blood pulsator system. We cannulated the right external jugular vein for venous drainage and the right subclavian artery for arterial return. To decompress the left heart we passed by percutaneous cannulation a special helical spring mounted on a Swan-Ganz catheter (Baxter Edwards Divisions, Irvine, Calif.) and positioned it to rest within the pulmonary artery and tricuspid valves, which rendered them partly incompetent. After induced ventricular fibrillation, blood flow was raised to keep the central venous pressure at baseline values. The lungs were ventilated with 5% carbon dioxide in room air. During bypass, mean pulmonary artery pressure was 10.0 +/- 1.7 mm Hg, mean wedge pressure 11.9 +/- 1.8 mm Hg, and mean blood pressure 95.2 +/- 5.6 mm Hg. After 2 days (four animals) and 3 days (two animals) the hearts were defibrillated. There was immediate ejection from both sides of the heart. All sheep were weaned from bypass within 29 +/- 11 minutes and their lungs were ventilated with room air within 42 +/- 34 minutes. At autopsy hearts and lungs grossly appeared normal. We conclude that the percutaneous helical spring resting within right heart valves provided excellent decompression throughout the study, with full recovery of heart and lung function on defibrillation. 
Technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial imaging: same-day rest-stress studies and dipyridamole. Unlike thallium-201, technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi does not redistribute in the myocardium after injection. Thus, 2 separate injections, 1 at rest and the other at stress (or after dipyridamole), are required to differentiate ischemia from scar. From a physical viewpoint, a 24-hour interval between the 2 injections is preferable for detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) with Tc-99m sestamibi imaging. However, same-day studies are more convenient in clinical practice. Results of studies using different Tc-99m sestamibi injection protocols are presented with emphasis on the advantages of a rest-stress injection sequence with a low dose at rest (7 mCi) followed 2 hours later by a higher dose at stress (25 mCi). A prospective study was conducted in a patient population with proven CAD using same-day studies to compare a rest-stress (7 and 25 mCi, respectively) to a stress-rest (7 and 25 mCi) Tc-99m sestamibi injection sequence. There was an agreement in 87.3% of the analyzed segments between the 2 protocols. However, the largest discordance for type of defect applied to 7.4% of the segments judged ischemic in the rest-stress protocol, which were called scars on stress-rest. This study showed that a rest-stress sequence is preferable when using a same-day protocol with a short time interval (less than 2 hours) between the 2 Tc-99m sestamibi injections because the rest image performed initially represents a "true" rest study, which is not necessarily the case with the stress-rest sequence. Preliminary studies were performed to evaluate dipyridamole with Tc-99m sestamibi imaging in normal subjects and in patients with CAD. These studies showed that treadmill and dipyridamole Tc-99m sestamibi imaging are comparable and the results are similar to those obtained with thallium-201. 
Myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer. The hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years (mean, 41 years) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 (IL-2) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy. Death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients, sepsis in four patients, acute myocardial infarction in one patient, and myocarditis in one patient. Transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing. Noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients: the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one. Although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose IL-2 therapy are uncommon (1.5% in 652 consecutive patients), the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists, and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted. 
Sepsis-related cardiogenic shock. To further define cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with septic shock, serial conventional hemodynamic measurements combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic studies were performed at the bedside in 21 patients admitted for an acute episode of sepsis-related circulatory failure. Measurements obtained during the first hours of hospitalization revealed a group of six patients (group 1) with markedly depressed left ventricular function, as evidenced by a low cardiac index (CI) (2.2 +/- 0.8 L/min.m2), reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (21 +/- 8%), and an increased arterial-venous oxygen content difference. Right ventricular systolic function was also severely depressed. These patients were characterized as having sepsis-related cardiogenic shock secondary to profound myocardial depression, which was reversible within 24 to 48 h with inotropic support. The 15 remaining patients (group 2) exhibited an initially increased CI (4.9 +/- 1.8 L/min.m2), with a low systemic vascular resistance. In group 2, LVEF remained within the normal range despite abnormally low peripheral vascular resistance. This finding would suggest the presence of slight to moderate depression of left ventricular systolic function. All patients in this series had a normal left ventricular end-diastolic volume, whether profound myocardial depression was present or not. 
In vitro and in vivo evaluation of intraluminal ultrasound in normal and atherosclerotic arteries. This study evaluated the dimensional and morphologic precision of arterial images obtained using intraluminal rotating A-scan ultrasound catheters [5.0F (30 mHz) and 8.0F (20 mHz)]. Dimensions of in vitro ultrasound images from human arteries (eight normal and nine arteriosclerotic) were compared with those from histologic sections of the vessels. In addition, in vivo ultrasound studies (23 normal and 22 arteriosclerotic) of canine femoral arteries were compared with luminal dimensions obtained from angiograms of the vessels. The correlation of in vitro ultrasound images to luminal diameters (n = 22, r = 0.96), adventitial diameters (n = 19, r = 0.83), and wall thickness (n = 19, r = 0.68) in normal human vessels was significant (p less than 0.05). In vitro measurements of images and histologic specimens from human atherosclerotic arteries also correlated significantly (p less than 0.05) with luminal diameters (n = 27, r = 0.91), adventitial diameters (n = 24, r = 0.60), and wall thickness (n = 24, r = 0.62). Morphologically, in vitro images of the wall of normal human arteries had a concentric laminated appearance and atherosclerotic vessels had patchy echodense and echolucent areas. In vivo studies showed significant correlation of diameters for both normal (n = 16, r = 0.91, p less than 0.05) and arteriosclerotic (n = 16, r = 0.57, p less than 0.05) canine arteries compared with luminal dimensions measured from uniplanar angiograms. We conclude that rotating A-scan intraluminal ultrasound accurately defines both normal and atherosclerotic arterial wall morphology and dimensions. This technology may be valuable for intravascular guidance of angioplasty devices by identifying the location and consistency of lesions. 
Valve and great vessel stenosis: assessment with MR jet velocity mapping. For measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, the authors reduced the echo time (TE) of the field even-echo rephasing (FEER) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec, so minimizing the problem of MR signal loss from turbulent fluid. In vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec TE sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec (r = .996). Peak jet velocity measurements were made with MR imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves (n = 9), conduits (n = 19), or Fontan connections (n = 2) or with aortic coarctation (n = 6). Peak velocity measurements made with MR imaging agreed well with measurements made with Doppler ultrasound (US), which were available in 18 cases (standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec). Velocity mapping with fast-echo MR imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses, particularly at sites inaccessible to US, but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment, signal loss, phase wrap, or partial-volume effects. 
The natural history of thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia. Sixty-one of 375 women with hypertension and preeclampsia in a 48-month period had thrombocytopenia. By postpartum day 3, 90% of these women had rising platelet counts, and by day 4, 59 of 61 women had counts greater than 100,000/mm3. The two exceptions had other pathologic conditions in addition to preeclampsia. Thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia should resolve by postpartum day 4. 
Clinical performance of St. Jude and Medtronic-Hall prostheses: a randomized comparative study. Newer and improved models of mechanical prostheses are regularly added to surgeons' armamentarium. This study was designed to compare the clinical performance of two of the most used current models of mechanical prostheses. From August 1983 through July 1985, 182 white patients were prospectively randomized to implantation of the St. Jude Medical (95 patients) or Medtronic-Hall (87 patients) prostheses. There were 84 mitral, 85 aortic, and 13 double (mitral and aortic) valve replacements. There were no differences between the two groups with regard to sex distribution, age, functional class, emergency operation, and site of implantation. Early mortality was 3.2% for patients with the St. Jude valve and 5.7% for those with the Medtronic-Hall (p = NS). The survivors were followed for 3 to 5 years (mean, 4.2 +/- 0.6 years; cumulative follow-up, 559 patient-years). Late mortality was 7.1%/patient-year for the St. Jude group and 3.2%/patient-year for the Medtronic-Hall group (p less than 0.05). However, the valve-related mortality was equal (1.4%/patient-year) for both groups. Noncardiac causes accounted for most of the difference between the St. Jude and Medtronic-Hall groups (2.5%/patient-year and 0.4%/patient-year, respectively). There were no cases of thrombotic obstruction, whereas serious systemic thromboembolism occurred at the rate of 1.8%/patient-year (5 episodes) for the St. Jude group and 2.5%/patient-year (7 episodes) for the Medtronic-Hall group (p = not significant); there were another nine episodes of systemic embolism that left no sequelae. Three patients (St. Jude, 2; Medtronic-Hall, 1), all of whom had aortic valve replacement, required reoperation (0.5%/patient-year) because of prosthetic endocarditis, with two deaths. 
Regression of intracardiac thrombus after embolic stroke. Using two-dimensional echocardiography, we studied the pathophysiology of intracardiac thrombus regression accompanied by anticoagulant therapy in 82 consecutive patients with acute cardiogenic cerebral embolism. We noted intracardiac thrombus in 15 patients; nine of the 15 were started on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin potassium to maintain the prothrombin time between 2.5 and 3.5 (international normalized ratio). Serial two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained for these nine patients before and after anticoagulation, with the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide A, fibrinopeptide B beta 15-42, and D-dimer measured at the same time. In eight of the nine patients the intracardiac thrombi gradually decreased in size while the plasma level of fibrinopeptide A fell to within the normal range and the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide B beta 15-42 and D-dimer remained above the normal ranges. In the other patient the thrombus disappeared, with embolization to the right arm immediately after starting anticoagulant therapy. Mobile or small thrombi regressed earlier than nonmobile or large ones. We conclude that regression of intracardiac thrombi after anticoagulation may be based on the relative predominance of plasma fibrinolytic activity over anticoagulation-inhibited thrombin activity. 
Doppler ultrasound of the deep leg veins. A revolution in the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis and monitoring of thrombolysis. The diagnosis of lower limb deep vein thrombosis can be made rapidly by compression ultrasound. This noninvasive test has almost completely replaced contrast phlebography in some major hospitals in North America. Compression ultrasound is well suited for making the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis, measuring its extent, and monitoring the draining veins of the calf for evidence of spread of calf vein thrombosis. The nature of the deep vein thrombus, whether it is obstructing or nonobstructing, can be determined with the additional use of color Doppler mapping, a technique that displays flowing blood as a color overlay to the 2-dimensional real-time ultrasound image. Serial noninvasive determinations of the extent of thrombus in the lower-extremity deep veins is now possible with this combined sonographic imaging approach. Monitoring of possible changes in the extent of the thrombus burden can now be undertaken in patients enrolled in trials assessing the efficacy of different thrombolytic regimens. 
Free protein S deficiency in a family with venous thrombosis. Inherited deficiencies of protein S, an inhibitor of the coagulation system, are now recognized as occurring at least twice as frequently as antithrombin III deficiency in patients with venous thrombosis. Protein S is present in plasma in a complexed form, which is inactive, and in a free or functional form. Free protein S combines with activated protein C to inhibit factors V and VIII. This report describes the evaluation of a family with recurrent deep venous thrombosis and superficial thrombophlebitis. Levels of antithrombin III and protein C as well as plasminogen were normal. The levels of total protein S, which includes the value for the free and complexed forms of protein S, were also normal. However, the free protein S levels were greatly reduced in all symptomatic members who were studied. This report illustrates the importance of obtaining measurement of free protein S levels in patients who are suspected of having inherited venous thrombotic disorders. 
Hemodynamic determinants of vascular changes in hypertension and atherosclerosis. Several new concepts are reviewed concerning structural and functional changes in atherosclerotic and hypertensive blood vessels. First, in regard to modulation of vascular changes, atherosclerosis appears to progress more slowly during hypotension than during normotension. This finding may have implications for the optimal level of blood pressure. Second, structural "remodeling" of the vessel wall occurs in both atherosclerosis and hypertension. Remodeling helps to preserve the arterial lumen despite intimal proliferation in atherosclerosis. In contrast, remodeling (which differs from vascular hypertrophy) reduces the vascular lumen in chronic hypertension. Third, functional changes impair active vasodilator responses in both atherosclerotic and hypertensive vessels, in part by endothelium-dependent mechanisms. Finally, we propose that leukocytes as well as platelets may be important cellular mediators of spasm in atherosclerotic arteries. 
Change in sympathetic activity before, during, and after dialysis-induced hypotension. During the hemodialyses of eight patients with end-stage renal failure, who often had sudden-onset dialysis-induced hypotension, catecholamine (CA) levels were measured in the ultrafiltrate obtained by a mini-filter placed in series upstream of the dialyzer. The water evaporation rate from the skin (reflecting the perspiration rate) was also monitored. Results showed a temporary elevation in CA levels in the ultrafiltrate before hypotension occurred. This rise did not continue for long, returning to baseline when hypotension actually occurred. The temporary elevation may reflect transient compensation by the sympathetic nervous system for the decrease in vascular wall tension. It was also found that there was considerable water evaporation from the skin during hypotension. Because sweat gland activity is reflexively modulated by the baroreceptor, perspiration after a drop in blood pressure may reflect the normal diminiution in baroreceptor activity. 
Loss of endothelium-dependent relaxant activity in the pulmonary circulation of rats exposed to chronic hypoxia. To determine whether exposure to chronic hypoxia and subsequent development of pulmonary hypertension induces alterations of endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat pulmonary vascular bed, we studied isolated lung preparations from rats exposed to either room air (controls) or hypoxia (H) during 1 wk (1W-H), 3 wk (3W-H), or 3W-H followed by 48 h recovery to room air (3WH + R). In lungs pretreated with meclofenamate (3 microM), the endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (10(-9)-10(-6) M) and ionophore A23187 (10(-9)-10(-7) M) were examined during conditions of increased tone by U46619 (50 pmol/min). Acetylcholine or A23187 produced dose-dependent vasodilation in control lungs, this response was reduced in group 1W-H (P less than 0.02), abolished in group 3W-H (P less than 0.001), and restored in group 3WH + R. In contrast, the endothelium-independent vasodilator agent sodium nitroprusside remained fully active in group 3W-H. The pressor response to 300 pM endothelin was greater in group 3W-H than in controls (6.8 +/- 0.5 mmHg vs. 1.6 +/- 0.2 mmHg, P less than 0.001) but was not potentiated by the endothelium-dependent relaxing factor (EDRF) antagonists: hydroquinone (10(-4) M); methylene blue (10(-4) M); and pyrogallol (3 x 10(-5) M) as it was in controls. It was similar to controls in group 3W-H + R. Our results demonstrate that hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension is associated with a loss of EDRF activity in pulmonary vessels, with a rapid recovery on return to a normoxic environment. 
Clinical nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy: insight into metabolism. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy can nondestructively evaluate changes in metabolites with different disease states, as well as with therapeutic interventions. Animal studies have provided the basis for understanding changes in high-energy phosphates with myocardial ischemia. Studies of graded ischemia due to partial coronary stenosis have shown the sensitivity of the ratio of phosphocreatinine to inorganic phosphate to small reductions in myocardial blood flow and its relation to myocardial function. The application of NMR spectroscopy to humans requires precise localization techniques to avoid acquiring contaminating information from structures around the heart, such as the chest wall and diaphragm. With these localization techniques, metabolic evidence of ischemia has been demonstrated in patients with myocardial infarction and patients with known coronary disease, although the sensitivity of this technique for the diagnosis of inducible ischemia is unknown. At rest, patients with dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathies often have an elevated phosphodiester resonance, possibly signifying abnormal breakdown of membrane phospholipids. Increasing oxygen demand in these patients does not usually alter high-energy phosphates, suggesting that oxidative energy metabolism is preserved under these conditions. NMR spectroscopy is a powerful tool to increase understanding of metabolic changes in a variety of pathologic conditions. 
Left ventricular asynchrony in patients with pulmonary hypertension. Left ventricular regional wall motion was evaluated in 11 patients with pulmonary hypertension and 18 control subjects. All 11 patients had secondary pulmonary hypertension and less than 20% measured diameter stenosis in any vessel. This study utilizes a video-intensity-based frame-by-frame computerized technique. All pulmonary hypertensive patients showed early diastolic asynchrony in the anterior or apical regions that lasted 100-200 ms. The size of the abnormal area varied from 2 to 20% of the ventricular silhouette. Four patients also showed systolic abnormalities. No abnormalities were detected in the control group. The cause of the asynchrony detected in pulmonary hypertension is probably due to interventricular interaction caused by pressure gradients across the septum. 
Surgical repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect. Thirty-one patients underwent repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect (VSD) from 1980 to 1989. All patients were in New York Heart Association functional class IV, and 15 of them were in cardiogenic shock when operated on. Coronary arteriography was performed in all patients before surgery: nine had one-vessel, 11 had two-vessel, and 11 had three-vessel disease. The VSD was anterior in 15 patients and posterior in 16. The operative technique evolved over the years from a fairly extensive infarctectomy and reconstruction of the septum and right and left ventricular walls with a double Dacron patch, to minimal or no infarctectomy and closure of the VSD by excluding the infarcted muscle from the left ventricular cavity. This is accomplished by suturing a single patch of bovine pericardium to healthy endocardium surrounding the infarcted muscle. The right ventricle is left intact. Overall mortality was 10%, with three operative deaths. All deaths occurred in patients in cardiogenic shock who had three-vessel coronary artery disease. Thus, the mortality for patients in shock was 20%, and the mortality for patients with three-vessel disease was 27%. The operative mortality for patients with posterior VSD was twice as high as in patients with anterior VSD. However, univariate analysis of various clinical, hemodynamic, and operative variables indicated that only three-vessel disease was predictive of operative mortality. Because the number of patients was small and the overall operative mortality relatively low, the results of this analysis may not be valid. 
Thrombectomy for late graft limb occlusion: our experience in 182 consecutive cases. Late occlusion of an aortofemoral bypass graft is usually caused by fibrointimal hyperplasia or progressive atherosclerosis. Several surgical approaches have been advocated in order to minimize the operative risk, to correct the impaired inflow and to provide a satisfactory outflow. In the last 16 years, in the Institute of Vascular Surgery and Angiology of the University of Milan, we have operated upon 182 consecutive thrombosed grafts. Inflow was restored by performing a graft limb thrombectomy using a Fogarty balloon catheter and simultaneously employing an endarterectomy ring stripper to dislodge tenaciously adherent fibrinous material and thrombotic plug. As the superficial femoral artery was generally occluded, usually a good outflow was achieved by profundaplasty in 101 cases (55.5%) or direct bypass (interposition graft), to a more distal segment of the profunda femoris artery in 55 cases (30.2%). Concomitant popliteal or tibial revascularization was done in the remaining 26 cases (14.3%) when pre-operative or intra-operative findings suggested an inadequate collateral network through the profunda femoris artery. Early re-occlusion, which occurred in 14 cases (7.6%), generally due to insufficient outflow, was corrected by additional intervention in 7 cases (3.8%), while 7 legs were amputated for extensive atherosclerotic disease. Six patients died giving a mortality rate of 3.3%. This low rate in a high risk population is probably related to our policy of operating under loco-regional anaesthesia. Long term results, with a patency rate of 62.0% at 3 years and 60.2% at 5 years (life table method), prove that this operation is a durable procedure for correction of graft limb thrombosis. 
Thromboxane synthetase inhibition decreases polymorphonuclear leukocyte activation following hindlimb ischemia. Ischemia of the lower extremity has been shown to cause pulmonary leukostasis and increased pulmonary artery pressure. Thromboxane (TX) has been implicated as a mediator in this process. The effect of OKY-046, a TX synthetase inhibitor, on polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) production of superoxide anion (O2-) as determined by ferricytochrome reduction was examined. Fourteen dogs were subjected to 6 hours of bilateral gracilis muscle ischemia followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. O2- production from resting PMNs and PMNs stimulated with opsonized zymosan (OZ, 0.1 mg/ml) was measured prior to ischemia or drug treatment (baseline), and following reperfusion in both treated (n = 7) and control groups (n = 7). Serum TX levels were measured using a radioimmunoassay. Following reperfusion, TX levels in the treated group were decreased as compared with the control group (18 +/- 2 pg/ml vs. 72 +/- 26 pg/ml, P less than 0.05). Superoxide production by both resting and stimulated PMNs was also decreased in the treated group; from 0.98 +/- 0.16 nmol to 0.43 +/- 0.12 nmol O2- in the resting state (P less than 0.05) and from 13.3 +/- 1.5 nmol to 9.0 +/- 1.1 nmol O2- after stimulation (P less than 0.005). O2- production was increased in the control group following reperfusion as compared with baseline samples, and this increase was attenuated by treatment with OKY-046. TX synthetase inhibition decreases activation of PMNs following hindlimb ischemia. 
Intravascular ultrasound imaging of an acute dissecting aortic aneurysm: a case report. A case of acute dissecting aortic aneurysm is described in which intravascular ultrasonography was used at the time of aortography to produce real-time, 360 degree cross-sectional images of the aorta. The transmural vessel morphology visualized by this new catheter-based technology allowed confirmation of the diagnosis and identification of distal extension to the aortic bifurcation. The case demonstrates the unique potential of this modality in diagnosis and possible therapy in vascular diseases. 
The epidemiologic necropsy for abdominal aortic aneurysm. The epidemiologic necropsy measures the occurrence of unsuspected disease through the examination of necropsy records. The estimates of unsuspected disease should approximate what occurs in the living population. The necropsy records of the University of Kansas Medical Center (Kansas City) from 1950 to 1984 were examined for the occurrence rate of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Each adult patient was categorized as (1) without abdominal aortic aneurysm, (2) abdominal aortic aneurysm discovered as a necropsy surprise, or (3) abdominal aortic aneurysm diagnosed or suspected during life. Necropsy detection rates of unsuspected abdominal aortic aneurysms were compared with those found in five published screening surveys. The necropsy detection rate in men was 81 (0.019) of 4155 and was 28 (0.009) of 3142 in women, a difference that was statistically significant. When the necropsy series was adjusted to reflect the same demographic composition as the screening surveys, the results from necropsy and screening were statistically similar. In particular, two surveys from the United Kingdom showed screening detection rates among white men of 0.072 compared with a necropsy detection rate of 0.058. These results further support the use of the epidemiologic necropsy as a research tool for estimating the reservoir of disease in the population. 
Normal and diffusely abnormal myocardium in humans: functional and metabolic characterization with P-31 MR spectroscopy and cine MR imaging. The current study tested the concept that cine magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and phosphorus-31 MR spectroscopy might be used to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the functional and metabolic status of the myocardium in humans. Thirteen patients with congestive cardiomyopathy and eight healthy volunteers were imaged at 1.5 T with the one-dimensional chemical shift imaging technique for localization of P-31 MR spectroscopy and an electrocardiographically referenced gradient refocused sequence for imaging of the heart. Prominent peaks in the PDE and PME regions were observed in cardiomyopathic patients, but only the former peak was measured. The PCr/beta-ATP peak ratio was not significantly lower in cardiomyopathic patients compared with healthy subjects (1.51 +/- 0.08 vs 1.54 +/- 0.04). The ratios of PDE/PCr (0.80 +/- 0.07 vs 0.54 +/- 0.10) (P less than or equal to .01) and PDE/beta-ATP (1.19 +/- 0.10 vs 0.84 +/- 0.08) (P less than or equal to .05) were significantly higher in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy compared with healthy volunteers. Left ventricular systolic wall thickening was significantly lower and left ventricular peak and end-systolic wall stress and mass were significantly higher in cardiomyopathic patients compared with healthy volunteers. Thus, localized, gated P-31 MR spectroscopy combined with cine MR imaging allowed identification of both abnormal myocardial phosphate metabolism and abnormal ventricular function. While this study suggests that increased myocardial PDEs may be a marker for abnormal myocardium, the sensitivity and specificity of this marker need to be further evaluated. 
Natural history and cardiac manifestations of homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. Forty-nine patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (diagnosed on the basis of family history, xanthomatosis, total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein receptor status) were studied over a period of 13 years, and underwent cardiovascular assessment. Eleven died, nine of myocardial infarction. Seven underwent coronary artery bypass, and another five had surgery to relieve supravalvular and valvular aortic stenosis. A distinctive pattern of disease was noted. Coronary ostial stenosis (four patients) and aortic root stenosis (six patients), both consequences of aortic root cholesterol deposition, were the typical manifestations of heart disease in childhood and adolescence. Adults developed severe coronary artery disease with a high incidence of main stem lesions (four of five patients). Surgery provided effective treatment for coronary artery disease and aortic outflow tract stenosis. Overall survival appeared to be better than reported in other studies which may reflect the 'receptor-defective' status of this group of patients. 
Arterial mechanical properties in dilated cardiomyopathy. Aging and the response to nitroprusside. The effects of aging on arterial mechanical properties and the response to nitroprusside were examined in 25 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. High-fidelity pressures were recorded with a multisensor catheter. Pulse wave velocity was determined between two sensors in the thoracic aorta. Arterial compliance was determined by an analysis of the diastolic waveform and cardiac output. At baseline, despite a similar systemic vascular resistance, the pulsatile load (e.g., arterial compliance) and wave transmission characteristics (e.g., pulse wave velocity) were altered with aging. Arterial compliance was reduced in older (greater than 50 yr, n = 8) versus younger (less than 35 yr, n = 8) patients (0.51 +/- 0.17 vs. 1.33 +/- 0.63 ml/mmHg, P less than 0.01) and intermediate in those 35-50 yr of age (n = 9, 0.72 +/- 0.40 ml/mmHg). There was a positive correlation between age and pulse wave velocity (r = +0.90). Nitroprusside infusion decreased resistance, increased arterial compliance, and lowered pulse wave velocity in all groups. Yet, advancing age was associated with a greater fall in wave velocity for a given fall in aortic pressure. The slope (K) of the relation between pulse wave velocity and aortic diastolic pressure progressively increased with age (0.01 +/- 0.03, 0.06 +/- 0.02, and 0.09 +/- 0.03 m/s-mmHg). Multiple linear regression analysis revealed a significant relation between K and age. These data demonstrate that in older patients with dilated cardiomyopathy the left ventricle is coupled to an arterial circulation that has a greater pulsatile load, despite a similar steady load. Furthermore, these age-related changes in the arterial system affect the hemodynamic response to pharmacologically-induced vasodilatation. 
Direct visualization of ruptured chordae tendineae by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. To determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae, 28 patients who had surgical therapy for pure mitral regurgitation were evaluated prospectively by conventional transthoracic and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography. Seventeen patients (Group I) had ruptured chordae tendineae and 11 (Group II) had intact chordae tendineae. Transthoracic echocardiography detected ruptured chordae tendineae in 6 patients from Group I (sensitivity 35%) and flail leaflets in 11 patients from Group I (sensitivity 65%). Transesophageal echocardiography disclosed ruptured chordae tendineae in all 17 Group I patients (sensitivity 100%); the sensitivity was significantly higher than that of transthoracic echocardiography. No abnormal chordal echoes were visualized in any patient from Group II by either transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiography (specificity 100%). Transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detecting ruptured chordae tendineae and is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in establishing its diagnosis. 
Fibrous skeleton and ventricular outflow tracts in double-outlet right ventricle. Twenty-four hearts in which both great arteries arose from the right ventricle were studied to establish variations present within the fibrous skeleton and infundibular morphologies. Variations were also noted in the location of the ventricular septal defect and measurements were obtained of the outlet septum and the circumferences of the arterial valves. Completely muscular subarterial infundibulums were present in only 9 (37.5%) of the hearts, with varying degrees of fibrous continuity between the leaflets of the arterial and atrioventricular valves in the remainder. The aorta was rightward and posterior in 12 (50%) of the hearts, and subaortic and subpulmonary ventricular septal defects were present in equal numbers in this group. No subaortic defects were present when the aorta was side-by-side and right-sided. No subpulmonary defects were present in hearts with a posterior aorta. The mean ratio of 0.91 +/- 0.36 for the subpulmonary to subaortic length of the outlet septum was significantly less than the value of 1.54 +/- 0.41 noted previously in hearts with tetralogy of Fallot (p less than 0.001). 
Hemodynamic status in critically ill patients with and without acute heart disease. Physicians have been urged to reduce the use of the pulmonary artery catheter. However, there are no guidelines to help the clinician make the decision to use or withhold invasive monitoring in the individual patient. This study was designed to examine the accuracy of physician estimates of cardiac function in a spectrum of patients with hemodynamic instability to determine whether differences in accuracy among subgroups would suggest subgroups of patients who could be managed without invasive measurements. Physician estimates of cardiac index were found to be sufficiently accurate in patients without acute heart disease that initial management without invasive monitoring may be appropriate in selected cases. However, due to the general inaccuracy of physician estimates, efforts to improve the accuracy of clinical judgments of cardiac function and hemodynamic status should be pursued with vigor in patients both with and without acute cardiac dysfunction. 
Angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations. Report of a case and review of the literature Neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis (NAE) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells. Clinically, dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate. The origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined. The authors report a patient with NAE peculiar with respect to the following points: (1) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations; and (2) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the B-cell nature of the neoplastic cells, although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin. Despite the rarity, this type of NAE or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders, particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. 
Adverse haemodynamic effects of high-dose aprotinin in a paediatric cardiac surgical patient. High-dose aprotinin for reduction of intra- and postoperative blood loss was associated with profound hypotension and flushing in a 3.5-year-old child who underwent cardiac surgery. Treatment with noradrenaline and intravenous fluid was required. Cardiovascular stability was restored after 10 minutes. 
Brain and liver angiotensinogen messenger RNA in genetic hypertensive and normotensive rats. The brain's renin-angiotensin system in integrally involved in the regulation of blood pressure and fluid/mineral metabolism. Enhanced activity of the angiotensin system in the brain has been implicated as a possible source of the hypertension and the elevated salt appetite of the spontaneously hypertensive rat, as compared with the Wistar-Kyoto rat. This study tested whether these inbred strains of hypertensive and normotensive rats differ in central or peripheral expression of the gene coding for angiotensinogen, the prohormone for the angiotensin peptides. Angiotensinogen messenger RNA was measured in the brain by in situ hybridization and in the liver by Northern blot analysis, using a synthetic oligonucleotide. There was a 28% greater expression of the angiotensinogen gene in the region of the anteroventral hypothalamus, preoptic area, and medial septum of the hypertensive strain. There were no differences between strains in liver angiotensinogen gene expression. These results are consistent with the possibility that enhanced elaboration of the angiotensin prohormone in the brain contributes, in part, to the hypertension or the elevated salt appetite of the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 
Role of magnetic resonance contrast agents in cardiac imaging. Improvements in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology allow adequate spatial and temporal resolution to capture cardiac anatomy and contractile function in exceptional detail and with little risk. However, tissue characterization of the pathophysiologic state of the myocardium may require special indicators or MR contrast agents. These must be tailored for detection by the MRI process, but available agents are effective at low dose and provide a wide range of indicator properties (e.g., myocardial extracellular space, blood pool, capillary permeability and membrane transport). Each agent has a dynamic washin and washout time-intensity curve that may reflect myocardial perfusion or consequences of ischemia. The combined use of MRI and MR contrast agents may provide a single diagnostic examination that fully and quantitatively assesses all indexes of cardiac performance. Such information would be both global and regional, and would be well tolerated by patients. The cost, value and cost-effectiveness of such studies remain speculative. 
Purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by Nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease. Pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare, but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts. We describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease. Our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases. Longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach. 
Repair of coarctation with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch. Coarctation of the aorta with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries was treated surgically in a two-month-old boy with transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle. The aortic arch was repaired using side-to-side anastomosis of the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries, patch repair of the coarctated segment at the origin of the left subclavian artery, and ligation of the patent ductus arteriosus. Pulmonary arterial banding and balloon atrioseptostomy were performed for associated anomalies. 
Predictability and prognosis of PTCA-induced coronary artery aneurysms. The natural history of coronary aneurysms, defined as local dilatations exceeding the diameter of the normal adjacent vessel segments by at least 1.5 times, is not significantly different from the natural history of nonaneurysmal coronary disease. However, little is known about the prognosis of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PCTA)-induced coronary aneurysms. Therefore, we investigated the occurrence and the medium long-term prognosis of such aneurysms in 728 patients who, after successful PTCA, underwent repeat coronary angiography at mean 4.5 months post-PTCA. A coronary aneurysm at the site of PTCA ws noted in 3.9% of patients (n = 28). Of the potentially predictive factors analyzed, only a coronary dissection at the time of PTCA had statistically significant influence. The long-term prognosis of PTCA-induced coronary aneurysms was excellent. One patient underwent (unrelated) cardiac surgery, all other 27 patients remained eventfree. We conclude that the same benign nature of coronary aneurysmal disease holds true for those aneurysms that develop after PTCA. 
Patient evaluation for cardiac transplantation. The aim for cardiac transplantation is to improve the quality of life and the survival in patients with end-stage heart failure. Given the scarcity of donor organ availability, the expense of the transplantation process and follow-up care, as well as the tremendous emotional burden the process places on a patient and his/her family, it is essential to carefully screen potential candidates for their symptomatic, functional, hemodynamic, and psychosocial eligibility, and to rule out coexisting hemodynamic or comorbid conditions that would jeopardize successful transplantation and immunosuppression. Comprehensive screening of potential transplant candidates, which is best accomplished by a multidisciplinary team approach working closely with patients and their families, is essential to insure that maximum benefit is derived from this scarce and valuable resource. 
Exercise test predictors of ambulatory silent ischemia during daily life in stable angina pectoris. The predictive value of several exercise test parameters in identifying stable angina patients at risk of silent myocardial ischemia during daily life were examined. A total of 97 patients with coronary artery disease, stable angina and ambulatory electrocardiographic data were evaluated. Of the 86 patients with a positive exercise test, 39 (group 1) had greater than or equal to 1 episodes of ST-segment depression and 47 (group 2) did not develop ST changes during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. Comparison of the exercise test parameters between the 2 groups revealed early onset of ischemia during exercise tests as the single most significant (p less than 0.0005) predictor of ambulatory silent ischemia. The other exercise test parameters showing significant differences between the 2 groups were the peak exercise heart rate (117 +/- 23 vs 126 +/- 20 beats/min, p less than 0.05) and peak systolic blood pressure (160 +/- 27 vs 176 +/- 27 mm Hg, p less than 0.01), both of which were significantly lower in the group 1 patients. These data were used to derive simple mathematical formulas for calculating the risk of ambulatory silent ischemia. These results demonstrate that stable angina patients at risk of silent ischemia during daily life can be accurately identified by evaluation of selected exercise test parameters. 
Mechanisms of blood flow during pneumatic vest cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Mechanisms of blood flow during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) were studied in a canine model with implanted mitral and aortic flow probes and by use of cineangiography. Intrathoracic pressure (ITP) fluctuations were induced by a circumferential pneumatic vest, with and without simultaneous ventilation, and by use of positive-pressure ventilation alone. Vascular volume and compression rate were altered with each CPR mode. Antegrade mitral flow was interpreted as left ventricular (LV) inflow, and antegrade aortic flow was interpreted as LV outflow. The pneumatic vest was expected to elevate ITP uniformly and thus produce simultaneous LV inflow and LV outflow throughout compression. This pattern, the passive conduit of "thoracic pump" physiology, was unequivocally demonstrated only during ITP elevation with positive-pressure ventilation alone at slow rates. During vest CPR, LV outflow started promptly with the onset of compression, whereas LV inflow was delayed. At compression rates of 50 times/min and normal vascular filling pressures, the delay was sufficiently long that all LV filling occurred with release of compression. This is the pattern that would be expected with direct LV compression or "cardiac pump" physiology. During the early part of the compression phase, catheter tip transducer LV and left atrial pressure measurements demonstrated gradients necessitating mitral valve closure, while cineangiography showed dye droplets moving from the large pulmonary veins retrograde to the small pulmonary veins. When the compression rate was reduced and/or when intravascular pressures were raised with volume infusion, LV inflow was observed at some point during the compressive phase. Thus, under these conditions, features of both thoracic pump and cardiac pump physiology occurred within the same compression. Our findings are not explained by the conventional conceptions of either thoracic pump or cardiac compression CPR mechanisms alone. 
Elevated pulmonary artery pressure. An independent predictor of mortality. Analyses in this study were based on hemodynamic and angiographic data obtained in a cohort of 1,371 predominantly black patients during right and left heart catheterization. All patients were followed up prospectively for a mean of 117 weeks, and 103 fatal events were recorded. In Cox survival analysis, three variables were found to be independently related to survival: pulmonary artery mean pressure (PAMP), number of stenosed vessels, and left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (p less than 0.01); in multivariate stepwise analysis, PAMP entered the model first with the largest chi 2 value of the three prognostic variables (chi 2 = 33.4; p less than 0.0001). The PAMP was 32 percent higher in decedents compared with survivors (25 + 11 mm Hg vs 19 + 8 mm Hg, p less than 0.01 [mean, SD]) and a 10 mm Hg increase in PAMP was associated with a more than fourfold increase in the relative risk of dying; this finding was independent of pulmonary vascular resistance and therefore could not be attributed to primary pulmonary vascular or parenchymal disease. In both the subgroup of 1,118 patients with a normal LV ejection fraction (greater than 50 percent) and the 253 patients with a reduced ejection fraction (less than 50 percent), PAMP emerged as an independent predictor of mortality (p less than 0.0001 and 0.01, respectively), and is therefore a marker of cardiac disease beyond impairment of systolic contractile function. Among patients without obstructive coronary artery disease, PAMP alone provided prognostic information in the multivariate survival analysis. 
Adrenergic stimulation of renal prostanoids in the Lyon hypertensive rat. Young, genetically hypertensive Lyon (LH) rats exhibited an increased renal in vivo turnover of norepinephrine and an elevated urinary excretion of thromboxane B2 when compared with normotensive (LN) and low blood pressure (LL) controls. Therefore, the effects of norepinephrine (1.2 x 10(-8) to 9.6 x 10(-7) M) and of phenylephrine (5 x 10(-8) to 1.9 x 10(-6) M) on renal function and the urinary excretion of prostanoids were assessed in isolated perfused kidneys of 8-week-old LH, LN, and LL rats. In addition, the effects of norepinephrine were assessed before and during thromboxane A2/prostaglandin H2 receptor blockade by AH23848 (4 x 10(-6) M). Before drug infusion, LH kidneys differed from those of LN and LL controls by having an elevated renal vascular resistance and a decreased natriuresis and glomerular filtration rate; the urinary output of prostaglandin E2 and F2 alpha, of 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha, and of thromboxane B2 was similar in the three strains. The constrictor effects of norepinephrine and phenylephrine were significantly increased in LH rat kidneys compared with LL but not with LN controls, and their pressure-natriuresis was markedly reduced. Norepinephrine and phenylephrine induced a 10- to 20-fold dose-dependent increase in the synthesis of the four prostanoids, which was more pronounced in LH than in LN and LL rats for thromboxane B2 only. AH23848 infusion significantly reduced the vascular effects of norepinephrine and increased the natriuretic response of LH but not of LN and LL rat kidneys. 
Initial clinical evaluation of carotid artery laser endarterectomy. Clinical study of carotid artery laser endarterectomy began April 15, 1988. This report describes the first 10 cases that were performed in nine patients (five men and four women, mean age 70 years). Indications were asymptomatic stenosis (5), transient ischemic attacks (4), and stroke in evolution (1). There were two emergency cases and eight elective cases (including one reoperative case). Surgical exposure, systemic heparinization, vascular control, and a longitudinal arteriotomy were used. The cleavage plane between atheromas and media was developed with argon ion laser radiation (488 and 514.5 nm) directed through a 300 microns quartz fiber at power 1.0 W. Laser radiation was used to cut the atheromas out of the arteries and weld the end points. Residual atheromatous debris were vaporized with individual laser exposures. Arteriotomies were closed with sutures, and blood flow was restored. The endarterectomies were 3.9 +/- 1.1 cm long and required 330 +/- 97 joules. Mean clamp time was 22.5 +/- 7.9 minutes. Shunts were used in two cases. There were no arterial perforations or injuries as a result of laser light. Complications were hematoma (1), respiratory arrest (1), and transient neurologic deficit (1). Carotid endarterectomy is technically feasible with argon ion laser radiation. In the present series, postoperative observations, averaging 12 months and ranging from 5 to 19 months, have shown satisfactory results. No angiographic follow-up examinations were carried out. 
Efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and elevated levels of cholesterol. In hypertensive patients, elevated serum cholesterol is a frequent and sinister additional coronary risk factor. Selective alpha 1-adrenoreceptor inhibitors appear to have the unique ability to control both risk factors. Forty-two patients, ages 42 to 65 years, including 21 men with sustained hypertension and elevated serum cholesterol levels, were included in a trial of monotherapy with doxazosin administered once daily (range, 1 to 16 mg). The influence of the drug on high blood pressure and elevated serum cholesterol was evaluated over a 28-week period, which consisted of a 4-week, single-blind placebo lead-in period, an open 10-week dose-adjustment period, and finally a 14-week maintenance period. Of the 39 efficacy-evaluable patients, 25 (64%) achieved adequate blood pressure control (diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg or a decrease in diastolic blood pressure greater than 10 mm Hg) at a mean daily dose of 2 mg of doxazosin. No persistent changes occurred in heart rate. In the 32 patients with evaluable lipid data, there were nonsignificant trends to an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a reduction in total cholesterol, together with a significant reduction in serum triglyceride concentration. The combined changes in blood pressure and blood lipid levels resulted in a reduction of 36% in the calculated risk of coronary heart disease. Eleven patients reported side effects and four were withdrawn from therapy. These results confirm the antihypertensive and anticholesterolemic efficacy of once-daily treatment with doxazosin. 
Prospective study of quality of life before and after coronary artery bypass grafting OBJECTIVES--Measurement of changes in patients' perceptions of how differing states of health affect their lives and determination of the ability of preoperative variables to predict outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting. DESIGN--Prospective study with completion of questionnaires before coronary artery bypass grafting and at three months, one year, and five years afterwards. SETTING--Regional cardiothoracic centre. PATIENTS--100 Male patients all aged below 60 at the time of operation, who were patients of two cardiothoracic surgeons. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Patients' assessment of their health state in terms of functional capacity and aspects of distress, according to the Nottingham health profile and outcome of operation in terms of changes in symptoms, working life, and daily activities determined by self completed study questionnaires before operation and at three and six months afterwards. RESULTS--Intermediate one year results are reported. The differences between the Nottingham health profile scores before operation and at three months afterwards were significantly different (p less than 0.01), indicating an appreciable improvement in general health state, and at one year compared favourably with those from a normal male population. Analysis of responses to the study questionnaire showed that 65 of 89 patients (73%) were working at one year after operation with a further seven (8%) maintaining that they were fit to work but unable to find employment. The proportion of patients complaining of chest pain fell from 90% (88/98) before grafting to 19% (17/89) at one year after coronary artery bypass grafting, when 91% (81/89) patients maintained that their condition was either completely better or definitely improved. The significant positive factors affecting return to work and home activities were working before operation, short wait for operation, absence of breathlessness, and low physical mobility score in the Nottingham health profile (all p less than 0.001). CONCLUSIONS--Improvements were evident in general health state, symptoms, and activity at three months and one year after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Interventions likely to influence outcomes included reduction in waiting times for operation; rehabilitation initiatives; and more attention to the quality of information given to patients, their relatives, and the community. 
Increase of calmodulin activator in hypertension. Modulation by dietary sodium and calcium. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary calcium and sodium on blood pressure (BP) in normotensive rats (Wistar, WKY), spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Dahl rats and on calmodulin (CaM) activator, a newly-discovered hydrophobic compound that increases CaM activity in SHR and spontaneously hypertensive mice (SHM) tissues (J Clin Invest 82:276, 1988). The CaM activator was assessed by its capacity to stimulate a CaM-dependent phosphodiesterase (CaM-PDE). In Wistar rats, which were fed a high sodium diet (3.5%), BP significantly increased (P less than .01) from 106 +/- 4 to 128 +/- 8 mm Hg in parallel to an elevation of the CaM activator from 1.57 +/- 0.14 to 2.80 +/- 0.18 U. WKY, SHR, and Dahl salt-sensitive (DS/JR) and salt-resistant (DR/JR) rats were given low (0.15%) or high (2.5%) Ca diets, both with 1% sodium. In rats receiving high dietary Ca the progression of hypertension diminished and BP was lower in SHR (156 +/- 4 mm Hg) and young DS/JR rats (125 +/- 3 mm Hg) than in those receiving low dietary Ca (192 +/- 10 and 183 +/- 2 mm Hg). There was a concomitant decrease of CaM activator in these animals to levels indistinguishable from those of WKY or DR/JR rats. The activator was also found in the heart, kidneys and erythrocytes from SHM. In the presence of exogenously added CaM, lipidic extracts from the SHM heart showed augmented CaM-PDE activity relative to normotensive preparations. This difference was eliminated by trifluoperazine. 
The effects of age and peripheral vascular disease on the circulatory and mechanical response of skin to loading. The skin and subcutaneous soft tissues of amputation residual limbs are required to withstand externally applied loads of greater magnitude than similar tissues of the intact lower limb. Increased age and poor circulatory status may contribute to the increased risk of tissue injury seen in this population. This study evaluates the effects of age and circulatory status as risk factors for skin injury resulting from externally applied forces. Twelve young control (YC), six elderly control (OC) and 11 subjects with peripheral vascular disease (PVD) were studied. After base-line ankle arm index (AAI) measurements, TcPO2 electrodes were applied 10 cm below the knee over the medial surface of the tibia and the muscle belly of tibialis anterior. TcPO2 measurements and tissue displacements were obtained under the influence of incremented, normally oriented, external loads. The sensitivity of the tissues to applied loads was determined by calculating the load at which the TcPO2 reached zero. The stiffness of the tissues (displacement/load) was calculated under high (greater than 40 mm Hg) and low (less than 20 mm Hg) loading conditions. No difference was noted in tissue sensitivity to applied loads between the OC and YC populations. The TcPO2 decreased to zero in the PVD population at significantly lower applied loads than both the OC and YC populations. The tissue stiffness of the PVD and the OC populations over bone was greater than the YC population, but no significant differences were noted between the PVD and the OC populations. In summary, increased age does not result in a greater tissue sensitivity to externally applied loads, in spite of the demonstrated increased tissue stiffness. 
Ischemic intestinal complications in patients with burns. Enteral bacterial translocation has been implicated as a major cause of morbidity in instances of trauma, but little clinical evidence of the loss of intestinal mucosal integrity has been documented. A retrospective review of the medical and autopsy records of all patients admitted between 1982 and 1988 was performed to describe the incidence of intestinal pathologic findings. Of all deaths, a total of 53 per cent of adults (greater than 18 years old) and 61 per cent of children (zero to 17 years old) were noted to have ischemic intestinal pathologic findings on autopsy, ranging from superficial necrosis to full thickness mucosal necrosis extending into the omentum. More than 80 per cent of these patients were septic at the time of death, with endogenous intestinal flora species most frequently identified as the causative agent. Less than 1 per cent (n = 16) of the patients admitted were clinically identified with intestinal pathologic examination, surgically explored and underwent resection of the intestine. Despite intervention, this group suffered a 69 per cent mortality rate. Although the documentation of bacterial translocation in a human model may be obscured by other potential sources of contamination, for example, burn wound, in combination with the immunosuppression inherent to the thermally injured, may lead to bacterial contamination of the systemic circulation and, therefore, may be a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality after thermal injury. 
Does intracoronary infusion of Fluosol-DA 20% prevent left ventricular diastolic dysfunction during coronary balloon angioplasty? Distal intracoronary infusion of the perfluorochemical Fluosol-DA 20% has been shown to prevent systolic dysfunction during coronary artery balloon occlusion in coronary angioplasty. To assess its effect on global diastolic dysfunction, a randomized, single-blind, crossover protocol comparing intracoronary infusion of Fluosol or no infusion (control) was performed during 60 s balloon inflations in 10 patients (mean age 67 years) undergoing coronary angioplasty. Assessment of global systolic and diastolic function was obtained with high fidelity micromanometer measurements of left ventricular pressure. Eighteen pairs of balloon inflations (Fluosol versus control) were analyzed. Patients reported significantly less severe chest pain during inflations accompanied by Fluosol compared with control. However, during coronary balloon occlusion, no significant differences in the changes from baseline values were observed between Fluosol and control with regard to ventricular relaxation, including the time constant of early ventricular relaxation (tau) and maximal rate of fall in left ventricular pressure (maximal negative dP/dt). No differences between Fluosol and control were observed in terms of the increase in end-diastolic pressure or minimal diastolic pressure during balloon inflation. Mean systolic pressure decrease from baseline values was greater during control than during Fluosol inflations (-9.0 +/- 3.3 mm Hg, p = 0.013), but no significant difference was observed in the change in maximal rate of rise in left ventricular pressure (maximal positive dP/dt). These results suggest that Fluosol does not preserve global left ventricular diastolic function during coronary balloon occlusion, possibly because of its limited oxygen delivery capability relative to arterial blood. 
Clinical significance of plasminogen activator inhibitor activity in patients with exercise-induced ischemia. To assess the fibrinolytic system in patients with exercise-induced ischemia and its relation to ischemia and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD), 47 patients with CAD confirmed by results of coronary angiography underwent symptom-limited multistage exercise thallium-201 emission computed tomography. All patients with CAD had exercise-induced ischemia as assessed from thallium-201 images. Pre- and peak exercise blood samples from each patient and preexercise blood samples from control subjects were assayed for several fibrinolytic components and were also assayed for plasma adrenaline. The extent of ischemia was defined as delta visual uptake score (total visual uptake score in delayed images minus total visual uptake score in initial images) and the severity of CAD as the number of diseased vessels. In the basal condition, plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) activity was significantly higher in patients with exercise-induced ischemia as compared to control subjects (p less than 0.01), although there were no significant differences in other fibrinolytic variables between the two groups. Moreover, PAI activity in the basal condition displayed a significantly positive correlation with the extent of ischemia (r = 0.47, p less than 0.01). Patients with exercise-induced ischemia were divided into two groups (24 with single-vessel disease and 23 with multivessel disease). There were no significant differences in coronary risk factors, hemodynamics, or plasma adrenaline levels during exercise between single-vessel and multivessel disease except that delta visual uptake score was significantly higher in multivessel disease (p less than 0.01). 
Geriatric endocarditis: avoiding the trend toward mismanagement. The average age of patients with endocarditis is increasing. It is becoming a disease of the elderly, especially related to use of prosthetic heart valves and IV lines or catheters associated with bacteremias. Recognition is the major problem in the elderly patient since many features of the disorder are often attributed to aging. The diagnosis should be considered in the elderly patient with fever or other unexplained findings. Blood cultures are indicated to prevent misdiagnosis. 
Effect of atenolol and diltiazem on heart period variability in normal persons. Several time and frequency domain measures of heart period variability are reduced 1 to 2 weeks after myocardial infarction, and a reduced standard deviation of normal RR intervals over a 24 h period (SDNN) is associated with increased mortality. The predictive accuracy of heart period variability may be reduced by drugs used to treat patients after myocardial infarction. Accordingly, a randomized, three period, placebo-controlled, crossover (Latin square) design was used to determine the effect of atenolol and diltiazem on time and frequency measures of heart period variability calculated from 24 h continuous electrocardiographic recordings during treatment with atenolol, diltiazem and placebo in 18 normal volunteers. During atenolol treatment, the 24 h average normal RR (NN) interval increased 24% (p less than 0.001). The three measures of tonic vagal activity were significantly increased (p less than 0.001) during atenolol treatment: percent of successive normal RR intervals greater than 50 ms = 69%, root mean square successive difference of normal RR intervals = 61% and high frequency power in the heart period power spectrum = 84%. Low frequency power also increased 45% (p less than 0.01), indicating that this variable also is an indicator of tonic vagal activity over 24 h. Diltiazem had no significant effect on the 24 h average NN interval or on any measure of heart period variability. The decreased mortality rate after myocardial infarction associated with beta-adrenergic blocker but not calcium channel blocker therapy may be attributed in part to an increase in vagal tone caused by beta-blockers. 
Late noninvasive evaluation of cardiac performance in mildly symptomatic older patients with Ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve: role of radionuclide imaging. Ten patients 8 to 54 years of age with isolated Ebstein's anomaly of the tricuspid valve were evaluated by electrocardiography, maximal exercise treadmill testing, 24 h electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring, echocardiography and rest radionuclide imaging of the left ventricle. The patients presented after the 1st year of life and had not undergone surgical intervention. All except one were in functional class II. No patient had preexcitation on the surface ECG, but abnormal tachyarrhythmias or bradyarrhythmias were seen in five patients on 24 h ECG monitoring. Subnormal exercise performance was observed in five patients. Echocardiography demonstrated typical variable tricuspid valve displacement and paradoxic interventricular septal motion. Left ventricular end-diastolic dimensions were normal in all patients, but posterior wall motion was reduced in two. Moderate to severe tricuspid regurgitation with a Doppler jet velocity less than 2.5 m/s was demonstrated in eight patients. Left ventricular radionuclide scintigraphy revealed a subnormal ejection fraction (less than 50%) in 5 of 10 patients; these 5 had previously shown suboptimal exercise performance. The two youngest patients (less than 15 years) had no arrhythmia, normal exercise performance and normal left ventricular ejection fraction. There was no correlation between the degree of tricuspid valve displacement or regurgitation and the presence of rhythm disturbance, exercise performance or radionuclide left ventricular function. Late evaluation of patients with Ebstein's anomaly may demonstrate significant unsuspected abnormalities in cardiac rhythm, exercise performance and left ventricular function. Radionuclide scintigraphy is a useful noninvasive technique for assessing left ventricular dysfunction in these patients. 
Aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease (the Framingham Study). The relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta, as detected on chest x-rays, and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the Framingham cohort (n = 5,209). The prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age, with only a trivial male predominance. Its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65, even after other risk factors were taken into account. Similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease, stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women. In middle-aged men these risks were less marked. The predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age. Risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years. These results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process. The finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac, cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation. 
The utility of echocardiography in the diagnostic strategy of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture: a comparison of two-dimensional echocardiography versus Doppler color flow imaging. The diagnostic accuracy of Doppler color flow imaging in the diagnosis of postinfarction ventricular septal defects has not been established. In this study, 43 patients with unexplained hypotension or a new murmur in the periinfarct period were evaluated with conventional two-dimensional echocardiography and Doppler color flow imaging. The presence of a ventricular septal defect was confirmed by oximetry, ventriculography, operative repair, or autopsy in each case. Both two-dimensional and Doppler color flow imaging were 100% specific in excluding a ventricular septal defect. Doppler color flow imaging correctly identified the 12 confirmed ventricular septal defects in this study (100% sensitivity), whereas any combination of two-dimensional criteria only correctly identified seven (58% sensitive) (p less than 0.05). Doppler color flow imaging is superior to conventional two-dimensional imaging in the diagnosis of a postinfarction ventricular septal defect. In addition, Doppler color flow imaging localized the septal defect, and thus guided therapy and technique for repair. Carefully performed Doppler color flow examination can exclude or result in the rapid diagnosis of a ventricular septal defect, which eliminates the need for further time-consuming confirmatory testing. 
Clinical course of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated glomerulonephritis and systemic vasculitis. The Glomerular Disease Collaborative Network OBJECTIVES: To determine the spectrum of clinical manifestations in patients with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated glomerulonephritis; to determine renal and patient survival in these patients; to compare survival among patients treated with corticosteroids alone, corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide or corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide; and to assess the correlation of disease manifestations and treatment response with ANCA subtypes and serial autoantibody titers. DESIGN: Inception cohort study; mean follow-up of 24 months. SETTING: Collaborative network of 120 university and private practice nephrologists (The Glomerular Disease Collaborative Network). PARTICIPANTS: Seventy patients with ANCA and pauci-immune necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis, of whom 59 were treated with either corticosteroids alone (14 patients), corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide (30 patients), or corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide (15 patients). MAIN RESULTS: Of the 70 patients, 18 had renal-limited disease (idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis); 15, nonpulmonary extrarenal disease consistent with polyarteritis nodosa; and 37, pulmonary disease consistent with Wegener granulomatosis or alveolar capillaritis. There were overlapping manifestations of disease between patients with autoantibodies producing a cytoplasmic pattern and patients with autoantibodies producing a perinuclear pattern; however, the perinuclear pattern occurred more frequently in patients with renal-limited disease. Renal and patient survival was 75% at 24 months, and no difference in survival was seen between patients with renal-limited disease and those with systemic disease. No differences in survival were seen between patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and those treated with intravenous cyclophosphamide; however, the comparative data from patients treated with corticosteroids alone were inconclusive. In general, autoantibody titers correlated with response to treatment and disease activity, but there were exceptions. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with ANCA have various forms of necrotizing vascular inflammation, ranging from renal-limited disease to widespread systemic vasculitis, including polyarteritis nodosa and Wegener granulomatosis. Oral corticosteroids with either oral or intravenous cyclophosphamide appear to be equally effective therapy for ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis. 
Occlusive arterial disease as a form of presentation of homocystinuria. Homocystinuria was first described in 1962. The disease affects several systems including the eyes, skeletal and nervous and vascular systems. We present the case of a 28-year old woman who presented with a severe occlusive arteriopathy. Screening for the most usual causes of arterial disease in young patients was negative, but a study of aminoaciduria and column chromatography confirmed the diagnosis of B6-responsive homocystinuria. Although it was necessary to amputate her left leg, the patient remains asymptomatic 16 months after B6 therapy was started. 
Coronary and left ventricular hemodynamic responses following reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil in patients with coronary artery disease. The effects of reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil on coronary hemodynamics, myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2), and left ventricular (LV) performance were investigated, in a double-blind trial, in 12 patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing cardiac catheterization. Coronary sinus blood flow was measured by continuous thermodilution. Arterial and coronary sinus blood were analyzed for oxygen and lactate contents. The determinants of LV performance were obtained from the cardiac output measured by thermodilution and from left heart catheterization data. To reverse flunitrazepam-induced sedation, patients were randomly allocated to receive placebo or flumazenil (by increment, up to 1 mg) at the end of procedure. In the placebo group, no significant hemodynamic changes were observed. In the flumazenil group, heart rate, cardiac index, maximum velocity of shortening, and relaxation time constant were not significantly altered. By contrast, mean aortic pressure and LV end-diastolic pressure (baselines: 90 +/- 5 and 7.3 +/- 4.1 mmHg, respectively) increased (9%, P less than 0.05 and 67%, P less than 0.05, respectively) after flumazenil administration, but these changes represented mainly a return toward presedation values. MVO2 and coronary resistance were not significantly altered, whereas CSBF increased slightly (baseline: 119 +/- 20 ml/min; increase 10%, P less than 0.05). No electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial ischemia was observed during the study. These data show that reversal of benzodiazepine effects with flumazenil is not associated with a major alteration of LV systolic function, relaxation, or coronary hemodynamics in patients with coronary artery disease. Nevertheless, it should be cautiously used when LV end-diastolic pressure is increased at the time of its administration. 
The role of alpha adrenoceptor subtypes in sympathetic control of the acral-cutaneous microcirculation. In pithed and anesthetized rats, laser-Doppler flowmetry was used to evaluate the role of alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating sympathetic responses in acral regions of the cutaneous circulation. The intravenous administration of the selective alpha-1 agonist, phenylephrine, was a more potent vasopressor agent than BH-T 933 (a selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist) in pithed rats. However, BH-T 933 was more potent and more efficacious than phenylephrine in reducing cutaneous microvascular perfusion (CP). BH-T 933 also caused a greater increase in cutaneous microvascular resistance. Neural and humoral sympathetic effects on CP were characterized with selective alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists (prazosin and rauwolscine, respectively). It was found that frequency-related reductions in CP elicited by sciatic nerve stimulation were antagonized by prazosin, but not by rauwolscine. In fact, rauwolscine enhanced neurally evoked reductions in CP at the highest stimulation frequencies. However, both prazosin and rauwolscine antagonized reductions in CP elicited by electrical stimulation of the thoracolumbar outflow (sympathoadrenal activation). Ganglionic stimulation (intravenous 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium) also caused a profound, transient reduction in CP that was abolished by rauwolscine, but was not significantly altered by prazosin. In contrast, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium-induced increases in mean arterial pressure were reduced by prazosin, but not by rauwolscine. In ketamine-anesthetized rats, rauwolscine caused a dose-related increase in CP without altering mean arterial pressure, whereas prazosin lowered mean arterial pressure but did not alter CP. We conclude that acral regions of the cutaneous vasculature are more sensitive to alpha-2 vis-a-vis alpha-1 adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction. 
Demographic, social and stress correlates of hypertension among the urban poor. The relationship of demographic, social, and psychological variables to the diagnosis of hypertension in a population of urban, poor, predominantly black out-patients is reported. Subjects were 182 patients presenting for health care at Wayne State University Family Practice Clinic. Age, race, marital status, attendance at religious services, education, employment status, income, source of income and interpersonal stress were significantly related to a diagnosis of hypertension in this sample. Of those characteristics found to be significantly related to hypertension, discriminative analysis showed that age, race, education and frequency of church attendance were most important in predicting a diagnosis of hypertension among this out-patient sample of the urban poor. Implications for clinical care and for future research needs are considered. 
Cardiopulmonary assessment in beta-thalassemia major. Thalassemia patients succumb at a young age to congestive heart failure. Hitherto, attention has been focused on left ventricular function. This report emphasizes right ventricular dysfunction and abnormal pulmonary function. We performed cardiopulmonary evaluation, including echo-Doppler, spirometry, CO diffusion (DCO), and blood gas analyses in 35 patients with homozygous beta-thalassemia maintained by multiple blood transfusions. Six autopsy lung specimens were studied. Thalassemia patients exhibited pulmonary dysfunction, characterized by hypoxemia (85 percent of the patients were outside the 95 percent confidence limits), reduced lung volumes (51 percent), flow rates (63 percent) and DCO (50 percent). Right ventricular dysfunction was more prevalent than left ventricular dysfunction. Furthermore, 75 percent of the patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension consistent with more frequent right ventricular rather than left ventricular dysfunction. Our findings suggest that in thalassemia patients, complex cardiopulmonary abnormalities precede the final outcome of congestive heart failure. 
Extensive aneurysmal bone cyst of the mandible: surgical resection and immediate reconstruction. A case report. A case of extensive aneurysmal bone cyst of the mandible is described. The surgical defect was reconstructed immediately with two autogenous ribs and corallin porous hydroxyapatite. The postoperative results were good. There was no recurrence after 2 years of follow-up. The patient does not have any functional or esthetic problems. 
Interval gangrene of the lower extremity: a complication of vascular surgery. Interval gangrene, segmental ischemic necrosis proximal to a functioning distal anastomosis, is a rare complication after successful peripheral vascular reconstruction. Previous reports have demonstrated the gravity of this event in that major limb amputation was required in all cases. Two cases are presented to emphasize the need for maintaining segmental collateral circulation after successful distal extremity bypass. Despite a satisfactory result after distal (inframalleolar) bypass of a popliteal aneurysm, one patient had progressive ischemic gangrene of the upper leg and eventually required amputation. The contralateral limb was successfully managed by distal ligation of the superficial femoral artery, which maintained collateral flow from the proximal superficial femoral artery to the knee and leg. The second patient required a microvascular free flap to replace tissue loss and provide vascular graft coverage after initial multiple bypass failures and a final successful remote reconstruction to the dorsal artery of the foot that excluded the popliteal-crural collateral network. Patients with inadequate collateral circulation or disruption of the profundus or geniculate collateral pathways may require revascularization of sequential vascular beds. Recognition of the potential for interval gangrene is essential since the likelihood of its occurrence will increase in proportion to the number of distal bypasses being performed for limb salvage. Although adjunctive procedures will not completely eliminate the possibility of interval gangrene, awareness of this phenomenon with attention to the segmental collateral circulation can decrease the incidence of its occurrence. 
Narrow QRS ventricular tachycardia. OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of narrow QRS ventricular tachycardia (QRS duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds). DESIGN: Consecutive survey of patients with ventricular tachycardia. SETTING: Tertiary, referral-based arrhythmia service at a university medical center. PATIENTS: Sequential sample of patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who had a 12-lead electrocardiogram of the tachycardia available for review. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of 106 patients with ventricular tachycardia, 5 (4.7%; 95% CI, 2.1% to 10.6%) had ventricular tachycardia with a QRS duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds. Three of the five patients were previously incorrectly diagnosed as having supraventricular tachycardia. All five patients had at least two electrocardiographic findings other than QRS duration to suggest ventricular tachycardia. CONCLUSIONS: Narrow QRS ventricular tachycardia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of narrow QRS tachycardias. Electrocardiographic findings other than QRS duration are usually present to suggest the diagnosis. 
Detection and assessment of unstable angina using myocardial perfusion imaging: comparison between technetium-99m sestamibi SPECT and 12-lead electrocardiogram. Forty-five studies using technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were performed on patients hospitalized for spontaneous chest pain suggestive of myocardial ischemia. The studies were done after an injection during an episode of chest pain and a repeated injection when the patients were free of pain. All patients were hospitalized with a presumed diagnosis of unstable angina, and none had evidence of a previous myocardial infarction. The presence of a perfusion defect observed with Tc-99m sestamibi injected during chest pain had a 96% sensitivity and a 79% specificity for the detection of significant coronary artery disease (stenosis greater than or equal to 50%) on subsequent angiography. When the criterion of a larger perfusion defect during pain compared to absence of pain was used, the sensitivity was 81% and the specificity was 84%. In contrast, transient electrocardiographic ischemic changes during pain had a sensitivity of 35% and a specificity of 68%; electrocardiographic changes during or outside episodes of chest pain had a sensitivity of 65% and a specificity of 63% for the diagnosis. Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT represents a reliable noninvasive diagnostic tool that could aid in the diagnosis of myocardial ischemia in patients with spontaneous chest pain and provide additional information to that provided by the electrocardiogram. 
A simplified technique for the production of heart failure in the dog by rapid ventricular pacing. Prolonged rapid ventricular pacing (VP) in dogs produces low output heart failure (HF) characterized by cardiomegaly, ascites, and elevated plasma renin and norepinephrine levels. Commercially available pacemaker generators have a protective circuit that prevents pacing at rapid rates. Previously, investigators have had to use either external temporary pacemakers or customized generators to pace at rates greater than 130 beats per minute (bpm). The authors have developed a simple method to perform rapid VP by gluing magnets on Medtronic VVI generators, which allows programming in a temporary mode to sustain rates up to 400 bpm. Our results using 10 generators in 55 dogs demonstrates that HF is produced in all dogs when VP is maintained at 250 bpm for an average of 28 days. Technical difficulties during our early experience with this technique included magnets becoming unglued, loss of capture, and wound complications requiring generator removal. Thus, our method reuses commercially available generators to rapidly pace the ventricles and induce HF. 
Catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy in multiple endocrine neoplasia. A histologic, ultrastructural, and biochemical study. A catecholamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is reported in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 3. A histologic and ultrastructural study has been undertaken in cardiac biopsy samples, together with determination of myocardial Ca++ and cellular membrane fatty acids. Contraction band necrosis of cardiocytes with supercontraction of sarcomeres progressing to myofibrolysis and increased levels of myocardial Ca++ have been found as morphologic and biochemical abnormalities, respectively. No lipoperoxidation of cellular membranes or an alpha-adrenergic mediated reduction of coronary supply could be recognized in the study. We indicate a receptor-mediated intracellular Ca++ overload as the main abnormality responsible for myocardial impairment. 
Pseudoaneurysm: diagnosis with color Doppler ultrasound. Increasing numbers of interventional radiologic procedures, often with large arterial catheters, have led to increasing total numbers of complications. Pseudoaneurysm is not an infrequent complication. It is often difficult to differentiate pseudoaneurysm clinically from hematoma. In the past, we have used gray scale duplex scanning to aid in this differentiation. We have recently found color Doppler scanning to allow quicker, easier, and more accurate diagnosis. Color Doppler imaging also can often demonstrate the track between the artery and the aneurysm. 
Efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase on porcine left ventricular contractility after normothermic global myocardial ischemia and hypothermic cardioplegic arrest. A porcine model of normothermic global ischemia (40 minutes) followed by systemic cooling to 25 degrees C with 4 degrees C crystalloid cardioplegic arrest (90 minutes) was used to assess the efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase (r-HSOD) on postreperfusion left ventricular function while on cardiopulmonary bypass. Isovolumic hemodynamic function was monitored, and adenine nucleotide pool was measured in myocardial biopsy specimens and coronary sinus effluent. The treatment group of pigs (n = 7) received 15 mg/kg r-HSOD immediately before warm reperfusion, both left ventricular peak systolic pressure and developed pressure were significantly better in the r-HSOD group of pigs (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). This improvement persisted at 60 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). Myocardial ATP and total adenine nucleotides did not differ, nor did adenine nucleotide catabolites in the coronary sinus effluent differ between treatment groups of pigs. The exception to this was the nucleotide catabolite inosine, which was significantly elevated in coronary sinus effluent of pigs treated with r-HSOD at 30 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. placebo). In this model of global ischemia and reperfusion, a recombinant-derived human free-radical scavenger provides significant protection of systolic but not diastolic function. Values for myocardial ATP and total adenine nucleotide content suggest that the improvement in mechanical function during reperfusion is not due to enhanced preservation of myocardial bioenergetics. 
Early readmission of elderly patients with congestive heart failure. Repetitive hospitalizations are a major health problem in elderly patients with chronic disease, accounting for up to one fourth of all inpatient Medicare expenditures. Congestive heart failure, one of the most common indications for hospitalization in the elderly, is also associated with a high incidence of early rehospitalization, but variables identifying patients at increased risk and an analysis of potentially remediable factors contributing to readmission have not previously been reported. We prospectively evaluated 161 patients 70 years or older that had been hospitalized with documented congestive heart failure. Hospital mortality was 13% (n = 21). Among patients discharged alive, 66 (47%) were readmitted within 90 days. Recurrent heart failure was the most common cause for readmission, occurring in 38 patients (57%). Other cardiac disorders accounted for five readmissions (8%), and noncardiac illness led to readmission in 21 cases (32%). Factors predictive of an increased probability of readmission included a prior history of heart failure, four or more admissions within the preceding 8 years, and heart failure precipitated by an acute myocardial infarction or uncontrolled hypertension (all P less than .05). Using subjective criteria, 25 first readmissions (38%) were judged possibly preventable, and 10 (15%) were judged probably preventable. Factors contributing to preventable readmissions included noncompliance with medications (15%) or diet (18%), inadequate discharge planning (15%) or follow-up (20%), failed social support system (21%), and failure to seek medical attention promptly when symptoms recurred (20%). Thus, early rehospitalization in elderly patients with congestive heart failure may be preventable in up to 50% of cases, identification of high risk patients is possible shortly after admission, and further study of nonpharmacologic interventions designed to reduce readmission frequency is justified. 
Patient age and results of balloon aortic valvuloplasty: the Mansfield Scientific Registry experience. The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. Patients enrolled in the Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry were followed up a mean of 7 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. Results were compared for patients less than 70, 70 to 79 and greater than or equal to 80 years of age at time of valvuloplasty. As assessed by aortic valve area indexed to body surface area, stenosis was more severe in the older patients and the incidence of congestive heart failure was also greater in those aged greater than or equal to 80 years. The results of valvuloplasty were comparable in all three age groups, and indexed final valve area was not significantly different among the groups. In-hospital mortality ranged from 4.2% to 9.4%, but this and other complications were not significantly different among the groups. Total 7 month mortality was 23%. As performed in this registry study, balloon aortic valvuloplasty produced similar results in older and younger patients, despite initially more severe disease in the older patients. 
Thrombosis-related markers in unstable angina pectoris. While thrombus formation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of unstable angina, the value of thrombus-related markers for distinguishing unstable from stable angina is not well defined. Fibrin D-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor were prospectively analyzed in the peripheral blood of 46 patients (26 with unstable angina and 20 with stable angina or normal coronary arteries). Baseline blood samples were drawn within 24 h after rest pain in patients with unstable angina and in 19 of these 26 patients in less than 6 h. In patients with unstable angina, mean +/- SD (median) values for fibrin D-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor values measured 0.09 +/- 0.06 (0.07) microgram/ml and 9.1 +/- 9.6 (5.9) IU, respectively, compared to 0.11 +/- 0.10 (0.05) microgram/ml and 5.5 +/- 1.9 (5.0) IU/ml, in patients in the control group (p = NS for all comparisons between the two groups). Recurrent in-hospital pain, coronary anatomy and need for intervention showed no relation to the levels of these markers. In 19 additional patients (9 with unstable angina and 10 control patients) samples from the coronary sinus and the peripheral blood were also analyzed. Again, in patients with unstable angina all samples were drawn less than 24 h after rest pain; in six of nine patients samples were drawn in less than 6 h. A coronary sinus to peripheral blood gradient for either of these markers could not be demonstrated. The differences between peripheral and coronary sinus D-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor concentrations were also similar in patients with unstable angina and control patients. 
Pulmonary artery counterpulsation with a skeletal muscle power source. We evaluated the feasibility of using skeletal muscle (SM) to provide pulmonary artery (PA) counterpulsation in an acute pulmonary hypertension (PHT) model. PA counterpulsation was achieved in six dogs with a dual chambered pump powered by the latissimus dorsi muscle. A rate-responsive stimulator was used to make the muscle contract in counterpulsation. Graded PHT was induced by infusing 150 microns glass beads into the PA, while RV and PA pressures were monitored. With PA pressures ranging from 19/10 to 115/62 mmHg, effective counterpulsation was observed. The degree of counterpulsation was influenced by the extent of PHT induced, with the amount of RV tension-time index (TTI) unloading correlated with the level of PA systole (r = 0.92). Therefore, results were divided into two groups (Group 1: PA systole less than or equal to 40 mmHg, and Group 2: PA systole greater than 40 mmHg). In Group 1, RV TTI decreased from 11.29 +/- 0.76 to 9.99 +/- 0.72 mmHg.sec, PA diastole increased from 20 +/- 2.3 to 31 +/- 3.0 mmHg, and PA mean increased from 24 +/- 2.2 to 2.9 +/- 2.2 mmHg (all p less than 0.05). In Group 2, RV TT1 decreased from 15.12 +/- 1.83 to 10.99 +/- 0.90 mmHg.sec, PA diastole increased from 41 +/- 3.5 to 64 +/- 6.2 mmHg, and PA mean increased from 49 +/- 4.8 to 55 +/- 5.7 mmHg (all p less than 0.05). 
Effects of differential touch on nervous system arousal of patients recovering from cardiac disease. Previous research suggests that the neural properties of certain types of touch as well as their perceived significance to the disease state may be related to heightened activation of the nervous system. In this study the effects of different types of touch on nervous system arousal were examined in 59 adult patients who were receiving treatment for coronary artery disease. They were exposed to a standardized protocol that systematically varied the neural properties and procedural nature of the touch received. Measures of cardiovascular reactivity (heart rate and rhythm data as well as blood pressure measurements) and state anxiety were used as indexes of arousal. The results indicated that all types of touch evoked heart rate deceleration in contrast to both baseline and verbal conditions. However, there were no differential effects related to either the neural properties or procedural nature of touch. Diastolic blood pressure and state anxiety were also lower as a result of the touch. No changes were observed for systolic blood pressure or heart rhythm. In general, findings suggested that touch served to reduce arousal rather than to produce negative psychophysiologic consequences for recovery. 
[Ca2+]i transients in the cardiomyopathic hamster heart. Intracellular [Ca2+] transients were studied in isolated hearts of healthy and cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure perfused with glucose or pyruvate. Hearts of healthy hamsters developed similar pressures when perfused with either glucose or pyruvate, and [Ca2+]i transients were comparable in amplitude when perfused with either substrate. On the other hand, hearts of cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure developed normal pressure when perfused with pyruvate but developed depressed pressure (50%) when perfused with glucose. The amplitude of [Ca2+]i transients fell severely and was associated with a high diastolic [Ca2+]i in cardiomyopathic hamster hearts when the perfusate was switched from pyruvate to glucose. The high phosphomonoester sugars as evidenced by 31P nuclear magnetic resonance studies and the depressed oxygen consumption in the cardiomyopathic hamster hearts perfused with glucose reflect an inhibition in glycolysis and a subsequent decrease in mitochondrial activity. Without an adequate delivery of substrate to the mitochondria in the cardiomyopathic hamster, the myocardium is no longer capable of maintaining its [Ca2+]i homeostasis. 
Relevance of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity for beta blockers. Intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) characterizes a group of beta blockers that are able to stimulate beta-adrenergic receptors (agonist effect) and to oppose the stimulating effects of catecholamines (antagonist effect) in a competitive way. Partial agonists are ligands that elicit a submaximal response when bound to beta receptors at maximal occupancy. In the isolated rat atrium, acebutolol produces a maximal stimulatory effect that is only 17 +/- 8% of the maximal effect induced by the full beta agonist isoproterenol. The presence of ISA results in less resting bradycardia and less of a reduction in cardiac output than is observed with beta blockers without ISA. In the long term, partial beta agonists may produce arterial vasodilation and increase arterial compliance, possibly leading to additional beneficial effects in the treatment of hypertension. beta blockers with ISA do not have adverse effects on plasma lipoproteins during long-term treatment; in addition, the presence of ISA could counteract the up-regulation of beta adrenoceptors often observed with beta blockers without ISA. Finally, the presence of ISA has been a conflicting issue for the use of such beta blockers in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. However, the impressive results of the Acebutolol Prevention of Secondary Infarction trial in high-risk patients after myocardial infarction show that acebutolol, a beta blocker with moderate partial agonist activity, can be effective in decreasing the postinfarction mortality rate. By exhibiting a strikingly different hemodynamic profile from that of beta blockers without ISA, the partial beta agonists form an intriguing pharmacologic class of drugs for which prospective clinical trials should be extensively pursued. 
The role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices. Peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension, and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding. Treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices, stoma revision with devascularization, injection sclerotherapy, portacaval shunt, or liver transplantation. We reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices, who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis. Fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients. Surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients, although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients. Injection sclerotherapy, used in three patients, effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery. Definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding (portacaval shunt or liver transplantation) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery. 
Further mapping of an ataxia-telangiectasia locus to the chromosome 11q23 region. We recently mapped the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia group A (ATA) to chromosome 11q22-23 by linkage analysis, using the genetic markers THY1 and pYNB3.12 (D11S144). The most likely order was cent-AT-S144-THY1. The present paper describes further mapping of the AT locus by means of a panel of 10 markers that span approximately 60 cM in the 11q22-23 region centered around S144 and THY1. Location scores indicate that three contiguous subsegments within the [S144-THY1] segment, as well as three contiguous segments telomeric to THY1, are each unlikely to contain the AT locus, while the more centromeric [STMY-S144] segment is most likely to contain the AT locus. These data, together with recent refinements in the linkage and physical maps of 11q22-23, place the AT locus at 11q23. 
The diagnosis and management of aortic dissection. Aortic dissection is a severe disease. Most untreated patients with types I and II (proximal) dissection and over half of those with type III (distal) dissection die within 1 year. Most of the deaths occur within 2 weeks and are caused by rupture, aortic insufficiency, and branch vessel obstruction. Aortic dissection is suspected in patients with anterior chest and back pain that progresses downward. Diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography, aortography, or echocardiography. Appropriate medical treatment and corrective surgery, including total aortic replacement, performed in the acute and chronic stages, are now successful in over 90% of the cases; long-term results of treatment are steadily improving and are expected to exceed 50% at 10 years. The keys to a successful outcome are being aware of the symptoms of dissection, early diagnosis, and prompt application of appropriate treatment; diligent follow-up includes controlling blood pressure, decreasing the velocity of left ventricular contraction, monitoring the size of the residual aorta, and taking appropriate action if redissection, aneurysmal formation, or rupture occurs. 
Myocardial capillary permeability after regional ischemia and reperfusion in the in vivo canine heart. Effect of superoxide dismutase. This study assesses the effect of the superoxide anion scavenger superoxide dismutase on myocardial capillary permeability-surface area (PS) products for small hydrophilic molecules after ischemia and reperfusion. Open-chest dogs underwent a 20-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 1 hour of reperfusion. Myocardial plasma flow rate and capillary extraction of chromium 51-labeled EDTA or technetium 99m-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid were measured by the single-injection, residue-detection method before ischemia and 5 and 60 minutes after the start of reperfusion. In 13 dogs, no scavenger treatment was given (nonprotected control group), whereas eight dogs were treated systemically with 15,000 units/kg superoxide dismutase during 1 hour, starting 20 minutes before ischemia. In the control group, three dogs developed reperfusion ventricular fibrillation in contrast to none in the superoxide dismutase group. Before ischemia, plasma flow rate, myocardial capillary extraction fraction, and PS values were similar in the two groups. Five minutes after the start of reperfusion, plasma flow rate increased significantly (p less than 0.01) in both groups. In the control group, capillary extraction fraction increased by 12% (p = NS) in spite of the higher plasma flow; these increases in capillary extraction fraction and plasma flow induced a 69% increase in PS (p less than 0.01). In the superoxide dismutase-treated group, capillary extraction fraction decreased by 32% (p less than 0.05) in accordance with the increased plasma flow rate, resulting in an unchanged PS (p = NS). Sixty minutes after reperfusion, plasma flow rate, capillary extraction fraction, and PS returned to preocclusion values in both groups (p = NS). The increased capillary extraction fraction and PS values seen in the control group suggest an increased capillary permeability after ischemia and reperfusion. Superoxide anions seem to participate, directly or indirectly, in this response. 
Phenytoin administration by constant intravenous infusion: selective rates of administration. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the adequacy of seizure control and the adverse effects of administering an IV loading dose of phenytoin by constant infusion pump. DESIGN: A prospective study of patients presenting with acute onset of seizures. Patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 comprised all patients 50 years of age or younger without a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). Group 2 comprised all patients older than 50 years or with a history of ASCVD. SETTING: A rural community hospital emergency department. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Forty-two adult patients. INTERVENTIONS: Both groups received an IV loading dose of phenytoin at 15 mg/kg. Infusion rates were 50 mg/min and 25 mg/min for groups 1 and 2, respectively. Cardiac rhythm and vital signs were monitored throughout and after infusion. MEASURES AND MAIN RESULTS: Group 2 demonstrated significantly more cardiovascular side effects (hypotension and bradycardia) than did group 1 (Fisher's exact test, P less than .05). CONCLUSION: Phenytoin provided adequate seizure control in both groups. For individuals with ASCVD, IV phenytoin administration rates should not exceed 25 mg/min. For individuals without ASCVD, phenytoin administration at 50 mg/min appears safe and without significant cardiovascular side effects. 
Brucella endocarditis: the role of combined medical and surgical treatment. Brucella endocarditis, although a rare complication of brucellosis, is the main cause of death related to this disease. This report describes a case of aortic endocarditis due to Brucella abortus in an elderly farmer with known aortic stenosis. Urgent valve replacement was performed because of progressive heart failure despite appropriate antimicrobial treatment. The infection was cured with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and rifampin given for 3 months after surgery. A review of the literature reports on the 38 other cases of cured brucella endocarditis made clear the need for combined antimicrobial treatment and surgical valve replacement. 
Screening for hypercholesterolemia among Canadians: how much will it cost? [published erratum appears in Can Med Assoc J 1991 Mar 1;144(5):545] OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost of screening all Canadians aged 30 years or more without coronary heart disease (CHD) for hypercholesterolemia. DATA SOURCES: The expected results of initial screening of the serum cholesterol level were estimated on the basis of 1986 Canadian census data and the 1978 Canada Health Survey. The results of repeat testing were estimated on the basis of data from the Lipid Research Clinics Prevalence Study. Lipid profile results were extrapolated from tests at the Montreal General Hospital's clinical chemistry laboratory. Laboratory costs and primary care practitioner costs were provided by the Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists and provincial fee schedules respectively. MAIN RESULTS: Among 12,479,356 Canadians free of CHD 48.7% would be identified as being at high risk, 4.8% would be identified as being at moderate risk, and 46.6% would be reassured that their lipid risk for CHD was low. The total cost of implementing the program in the first year would be $432 million to $561 million ($325 million for laboratory tests and $107 million to $236 million for visits to primary care practitioners). CONCLUSION: The substantial cost of implementing a nationwide screening program must be weighed against the expected benefits to ensure that the final result is both practical and economically feasible. 
Veterans Administration Cooperative Study Group on Hypertensive Agents: effects of age on treatment results. In three double-blind studies of 1,396 hypertensive patients, the age-related effects of hydrochlorothiazide or bendroflumethazide were compared with those of propranolol, nadolol, or captopril, given singly or in combination with a thiazide. Patients in each treatment group were divided into those aged 55 to 69 years and those aged under 55. Whereas no age-related differences were apparent with propranolol, nadolol alone, or captopril alone, in all three studies the blood pressure-reducing effect was found to be greater in the older group of thiazide-treated patients than in the younger thiazide-treated group. The antihypertensive drugs studied are at least as effective in older as in younger hypertensive patients and the antihypertensive response with diuretics is greater in older patients than in younger patients. 
Repetitive intraoperative mapping and cryotherapy improve the results of endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia. Patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or a history of a sudden cardiac death episode and ventricular tachycardia inducible in the electrophysiology laboratory have a high incidence of recurrence and a high mortality despite medical therapy. Map-guided endocardial resection has improved treatment results, but is associated with a 10-30% failure rate. In our initial experience with endocardial resection (Group I) we incurred a 30% treatment failure rate. In the present study we have found the addition of sequential intraoperative mapping and routine use of cryotherapy (Group II) improved our results of ventricular tachycardia control without significant additional morbidity or mortality. 
Surgical resection of cor triatriatum in a 74-year-old man. Review of echocardiographic findings with emphasis on Doppler and transesophageal echocardiography. A 74-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with congestive heart failure secondary to cor triatriatum. He also had sick sinus syndrome with complete heart block and syncope that had been treated with a permanent pacemaker 20 years earlier. The patient underwent successful surgical resection of the atrial membrane with closure of an atrial septal defect. M-mode, two-dimensional, Doppler, and transesophageal echocardiographic findings are reviewed. A unique "spike and dome" pattern on continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography is described that may suggest diagnosis of cor triatriatum. 
Rapid histological changes in endomyocardial biopsy specimens after myocarditis. The course and response to treatment in acute lymphocytic myocarditis are conventionally monitored by endomyocardial biopsy performed every 3-12 weeks. A patient with a short history (five days) of acute myopericarditis of unknown aetiology presented in cardiogenic shock with evidence of severe systolic dysfunction on the echocardiogram. The initial biopsy specimen showed histologically unequivocal myocarditis. Repeat endomyocardial biopsy after four days of treatment with steroids and azathioprine showed substantial histological improvement, a reduction in cellular infiltrate and myocardial necrosis, and interstitial fibrosis. Serial biopsies at 2 weeks and then 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, and 14 months after the initial biopsy showed progressive clearing of cellular infiltrate, increasing interstitial fibrosis, and compensatory myocyte hypertrophy by 4 months. At 14 months scattered lymphocytes persisted but myocyte abnormalities had resolved completely. The patient remained symptom free and systolic function was normal during this recovery period. Early endomyocardial biopsy (within one week of diagnosis) may yield useful histological information on the response to treatment in patients with myocarditis. It may not be necessary to wait the customary 3-4 weeks to repeat the biopsy. This case shows the chronology of histological changes and emphasises that a return to normal myocardial function may precede resolution of the histological abnormalities, which may persist in part or may resolve totally after the acute episode. 
Role of echocardiography in acute myocardial infarction. Interventional therapies such as thrombolytic agents, angioplasty and surgery have emerged as important options in the management of patients with myocardial infarction. These therapies are aimed at improving myocardial perfusion with the ultimate improvement or restoration of myocardial function. Two-dimensional echocardiography with digital storage and display is an ideal technique for temporally monitoring regional ventricular function and the effectiveness of interventional therapy. By design, 2-dimensional echocardiography is noninvasive and can be performed conveniently at the bedside. For these reasons, echocardiography is the principal imaging technique at Indiana University Hospital for patients with acute myocardial infarction. Computer retrieval of echocardiograms can be achieved in about 10 seconds at the nurses' station in the coronary care unit. With the availability of such an examination, the physician has a better understanding of the site, size and function of the infarct area. The state of the noninfarcted myocardium is also assessed and may be critical to the patient's prognosis. With the digital recordings, serial studies can be displayed side-by-side, making it easier for the physician to follow the natural history or to judge the effect of therapy. Echocardiography also is useful in identifying many complications that can occur with myocardial infarction. For these reasons, and because echocardiography will also show related cardiac problems, it is indispensable in the management of acute myocardial infarction. 
Aortic regurgitation after left ventricular myotomy and myectomy. Five hundred twenty-five patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy underwent left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (LVMM) from 1960 to 1990. Four hundred ninety-six had nonregurgitant trileaflet aortic valves before LVMM. In 19 (4%) of these patients, aortic regurgitation developed after LVMM. Age of the 19 patients ranged from 10 to 58 years (mean age, 35 +/- 3 [+/- standard error of the mean]]. Seven were male and 12, female. Five patients underwent LVMM followed immediately by aortic valve replacement or valvuloplasty. Aortic regurgitation developed in 14 patients at a later date. The average New York Heart Association functional class improved from 3.2 +/- 0.1 to 1.3 +/- 0.1 (p less than 0.05, Student's t test) after operation. The average peak systolic left ventricular outflow tract gradient at rest and with provocation decreased from 65 +/- 8 to 14 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and 108 +/- 9 to 45 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), respectively, 6 to 8 months after operation. Aortic regurgitation occurred in 7 of the 14 patients at 6 months or less after operation, and 3 required operative repair. In the other 7 patients, aortic regurgitation developed 3 years or more after LVMM, and 3 of them also required operative repair. All 12 patients in whom aortic regurgitation developed at operation or within 6 months postoperatively had either a very small aortic annulus (less than or equal to 21 mm, 5 patients), a low mitral-septal contact lesion (greater than or equal to 35 mm below the aortic annulus, 3 patients), or both (4 patients). 
Increase in native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci: an Anglo-French clinical and microbiological study. Native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci has become more common. A study of 35 cases showed that the infections were usually acquired in the community and occurred in men (mean age 51 years). A pre-existing cardiac abnormality (mitral leaflet prolapse in a third of patients) was detected in 26 (74%). The source of the organisms in the community acquired infections was assumed to be the skin, though lesions were seldom demonstrated; most hospital acquired infections resulted from intravenous devices. Community acquired organisms were usually sensitive to penicillin, whereas those acquired in hospital were often multiresistant. Most infections were caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis. The frequency of acute presentation (26%) and of major neurological abnormality (23%), together with the need for valve replacement (often emergency) (51%) and the mortality (36%) suggest that coagulase negative staphylococci can be virulent aggressive pathogens, mimicking Staphylococcus aureus. 
Concept of maximal flow ratio for immediate evaluation of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty result by videodensitometry. BACKGROUND. In the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), immediate information about the result of the intervention is important, whereas morphological parameters are often less reliable than in diagnostic coronary arteriography. Recently, a new videodensitometric method was introduced and validated in animal experiments, which allows accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion between situations with different degrees of stenosis. This method uses mean transit time (Tmn) of the contrast agent at maximal hyperemia as a parameter for maximal flow and is strictly in accordance with indicated dilation theory. METHODS AND RESULTS. In 40 patients with angina pectoris, single-vessel disease, and a positive exercise test at the time of acceptance for PTCA, this approach was applied for evaluation of the improvement of maximal flow achieved by the PTCA. Maximal vasodilation was induced immediately before and 15 minutes after PTCA by intracoronary administration of papaverine, and digital angiographic studies were performed. By special breath-holding instruction, almost motionless, triggered image acquisition was possible during 15-20 heartbeats. Excellent subtraction images could be obtained, and reliable determination of Tmn at maximal hyperemia was possible in 33 patients both before and after PTCA. The ratio between maximal flow after and before PTCA, called maximal flow ratio (MFR), was represented by the ratio between Tmn before and after the intervention and compared with the results of exercise testing 24-48 hours before and 7-10 days after the procedure. After correction for pressure changes, MFR was 2.2 +/- 1.5 for the 33 dilated vessels and 1.0 +/- 0.2 for 25 normal vessels serving as a control. In 94% of all patients, an MFR value of more than 1.6 or less than 1.6 discriminated between presence or absence of reversal of exercise test result from positive to negative. If on-line judgment of success was based upon angiographic parameters or measurement of trans-stenotic pressure gradient, the relation with noninvasive functional improvement was present only in 66% and 74% of all patients, respectively. A definite range of what can be called normal Tmn at maximal hyperemia could be distinguished, and post-PTCA values for successfully dilated arteries returned completely to this normal range. CONCLUSIONS. Accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion before and after PTCA is possible in man, improvement of maximal flow is highly related to functional improvement as indicated by exercise test results, and, therefore, this method provides a straightforward way for on-line evaluation of the result of the intervention. 
Dipyridamole technetium-99m-2-methoxy isobutyl isonitrile tomoscintigraphic imaging for identifying diseased coronary vessels: comparison with thallium-201 stress-rest study. A same-day double injection protocol employing 99mTc-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (MIBI) and myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD) was assessed in 30 patients. SPECT was performed 1 hr after a first injection (250 MBq) of 99mTc-MIBI, given after 0.56 mg/kg dipyridamole (DPD) infusion. Patients were then reinjected at rest (750 MBq) and were reimaged 1 hr later. Within 1 wk, all patients underwent a complete stress-rest SPECT thallium study. Of the 330 myocardial segments evaluated, 25 were judged ischemic by both techniques, while persistent defects were demonstrated in 50 and in 47 with 99mTc-MIBI and 201TI, respectively. Six regions were considered for diseased vessels identification. Sensitivity and specificity for CAD were 100% and 75%, respectively, for both 201TI and 99mTc-MIBI. Sensitivity for identification of diseased vessels by 201TI was 68% for LAD, 89% for RCA, and 80% for LCX as opposed to 75%, 89% and 80%, respectively, by 99mTc-MIBI. Specificity was 93% in both cases for LAD, 73% and 63% for RCA, and 53% and 46% for LCX. 
Detection of coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary artery stenosis by transesophageal Doppler color flow echocardiography. Demonstration of disordered blood flow in a coronary artery may be helpful in anticipating the presence of stenosis. To examine the possibility of disordered coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary stenosis, left main coronary flow was visualized by transesophageal Doppler color flow echocardiography in 52 patients undergoing coronary angiography. Twenty patients had significant left main coronary stenosis (Group 1) and 32 patients did not (Group 2). Adequate two-dimensional echocardiographic images of the left main coronary artery were obtained in 17 patients in Group 1 and 30 patients in Group 2. Sixteen patients in Group 1, including five patients in whom the stenosis could not clearly be defined by two-dimensional echocardiography, exhibited the aliased reddish-yellowish elements producing the mosaic pattern at the stenotic or poststenotic segments, or both. In contrast, nonaliased bluish jets, suggesting laminar flow away from the transducer, were seen in echocardiograms from 27 patients in Group 2. This group included four patients with stenosis-like images on two-dimensional echocardiography. The aliased mosaic pattern was found in only three patients in Group 2 (p less than 0.01). Thus, sensitivity to detect the stenosis was improved when Doppler color flow imaging was applied. Flow velocity was significantly higher at the site of stenosis in patients in Group 1 (116 +/- 28 cm/s, n = 10, mean +/- SD) than in Group 2 (29 +/- 12 cm/s, n = 21, p less than 0.01), suggesting that the augmentation of flow velocity with or without turbulence due to the stenosis contributed to the appearance of the mosaic flow images. 
Effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and of hydralazine on endothelial function in hypertensive rats The function of the endothelium is impaired in hypertension. In spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), acetylcholine-induced relaxation is decreased and serotonin-induced constriction is increased. The goal of our study was to evaluate the effect of a long-term treatment with cilazapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, or hydralazine, a vasodilator, on the endothelium-dependent responses in aorta of SHR. Wistar-Kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference. Isolated aortic rings with or without endothelium were suspended in organ chambers. The rings with intact endothelium were contracted with norepinephrine. Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was markedly enhanced by cilazapril treatment. The tension achieved at maximal relaxation was 8 +/- 4% of norepinephrine contraction in the cilazapril-treated SHR versus 55 +/- 5% in the untreated SHR (p less than 0.001). Hydralazine had no significant effect. The effect of serotonin was also markedly modified by cilazapril. In untreated SHR, serotonin induced the release of a vasoconstrictor substance by the endothelium as assessed by the ratio of maximal tension induced by serotonin in rings with endothelium over maximal tension in rings without endothelium, which was greater than 1. This ratio was reversed in cilazapril-treated SHR but not in hydralazine-treated SHR. Captopril had effects similar to cilazapril. Finally, evaluation of carotid arteries showed that cilazapril also prevented morphological changes of the intima in SHR (i.e., infiltration by mononuclear cells). We conclude that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors prevent the functional and morphological alterations in endothelium that are found in hypertension and speculate that this action might participate in their antihypertensive effect. 
Effects of ketamine on the cardiac papillary muscle of normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy. The effect of ketamine (10(-5) and 10(-4) M) on the intrinsic contractility of left ventricular papillary muscle from normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy (BIO 82.62, 6-month old) was investigated. At these concentrations, ketamine induced a positive inotropic effect on normal papillary muscle, as shown by an increase in maximum unloaded shortening velocity (+19 +/- 4 and +34 +/- 5%, P less than 0.05), active isometric force (+32 +/- 8 and +57 +/- 11%, P less than 0.05), and peak power output (+40 +/- 8 and +80 +/- 16%, P less than 0.05), and induced a slight decrease in sarcoplasmic reticulum function. Ketamine had no effect on the curvature of the total force-velocity curve, suggesting that it does not modify myothermal economy. Contractility of papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less than that of controls, as shown by the decrease in isometric active force (-41%, P less than 0.02), peak power output (-33%, P less than 0.05), and sarcoplasmic reticulum function. The positive inotropic effect of ketamine on papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less marked than in controls and almost suppressed in some cases: only the maximum unloaded shortening velocity was significantly increased with 10(-5) M ketamine (+7 +/- 6%, P less than 0.05), whereas no significant changes were observed in active isometric force (+14 +/- 8 and +13 +/- 11%; nonsignificant [NS]) and peak power output (+9 +/- 5 and +13 +/- 8%; NS) with ketamine (10(-5) and 10(-4) M, respectively). 
Effects of standing on the induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. To evaluate the effects of standing on induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, electrophysiologic studies were performed in both the supine and standing positions in 22 patients with atrioventricular (AV) reciprocating tachycardia and in 11 with AV node reentrant tachycardia. AV reciprocating tachycardia was induced in 9 of the 22 patients with AV reciprocating tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 17 when standing. The effective refractory period of the AV node markedly shortened, from 275 +/- 72 to 203 +/- 30 ms (n = 16, p less than 0.005) after standing. The effective refractory period of the accessory pathway shortened slightly, from 293 +/- 75 to 278 +/- 77 ms (n = 8, p less than 0.005), after standing. AV node reentrant tachycardia was induced in 3 of the 11 patients with AV node reentrant tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 6 when standing. The effective refractory periods of the slow pathway and fast pathway shortened markedly, from 293 +/- 72 to 216 +/- 40 ms (n = 6, p less than 0.025) and from 416 +/- 85 to 277 +/- 50 ms (n = 10, p less than 0.005), respectively, after standing. Plasma norepinephrine levels increased during standing both in patients with AV reciprocating and in those with AV node reentrant tachycardia (n = 11, p less than 0.005, n = 8, p less than 0.005, respectively). In conclusion, standing, which is associated with increased sympathetic tone, changed the electrophysiologic properties of the reentrant circuits, facilitating induction of AV reciprocating tachycardia and AV node reentrant tachycardia. 
Effect of cyclosporine on the development of cerebral vasospasm in a primate model. The authors studied the effect of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine (CS) on the development of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) using a primate model of vasospasm. Eighteen monkeys were randomly divided into three groups: a sham-operated control group, an SAH group, and a CS-treated group. To induce SAH, the right side of the circle of Willis was dissected free of the arachnoid and an autologous blood clot was placed around the arteries. In the CS group, CS (5 mg/kg/day) was administered intramuscularly for 7 days after the induction of SAH. The vessel caliber was evaluated on angiograms before the induction of SAH (Day 0) and 7 days after SAH (Day 7). Histological changes and the deposition of IgG in the arterial wall were studied in the three groups. The combined values of the average reduction of the right cerebral arteries at Day 7 was significant (P less than 0.05) in the SAH group (-43.3%) and in the CS group (-31.3%) as compared with the Sham group (-0.7%); however, there was no significant difference between the values in the SAH and the CS groups. In the CS group, the average reduction in vessel caliber of the right middle and anterior cerebral arteries was significantly (P less than 0.05) less than in the SAH group; this did not prove true for the internal carotid artery, however. Although the deposition of IgG in the media and an inflammatory reaction were observed in the spastic arterial wall in both the SAH and CS groups, there was no definitive difference in these immune/inflammatory reactions between the two groups. It is suggested that CS may be helpful in reducing the severity of vasospasm, but may not have a major therapeutic effect, considering its systemic toxicity. 
Chronic pulmonary thromboembolism in dogs treated with tranexamic acid. BACKGROUND. Many questions remain regarding the pathogenesis, natural history, diagnosis, and treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension in patients. To answer such questions, we developed an animal model of this disorder. The brisk thrombolytic response of canines to acute embolism has, previously, prevented the establishment of such a model. METHODS AND RESULTS. The fibrinolytic inhibitor tranexamic acid was given orally to canines before, and for intervals after, pulmonary emboli were released from venous thrombi formed in vivo in femoral veins or the inferior vena cava. Preliminary studies disclosed that embolic residuals from femoral vein thrombi were not sufficient to cause significant, persistent pulmonary hypertension. With repetitive, larger thrombi embolized from the inferior vena cava, however, persistent pulmonary hypertension was achieved in most animals. CONCLUSIONS. Resolution of emboli in the canine can be inhibited by tranexamic acid. As in humans, a spectrum of embolic residuals is encountered, and the perfusion lung scan consistently underestimates the extent of embolic residuals. Studies of this animal model continue. 
Cardiovascular risk factor levels in ethnic Hawaiians. We report a cardiovascular risk factor survey of "native" Hawaiians 20-59 years old (70 percent, or 257), living on the Hawaiian Homestead lands on the island of Molokai, Hawaii. More than 60 percent of both sexes were overweight. Among males, 42 percent were smokers. The percent of the population with systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm Hg or a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm Hg or taking hypertensive medications was 14 percent of those ages 20-39 and 36 percent of those ages 40-59. The percent with serum cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.2 mmol/L ranged from 8 percent of those 20-29 years old to 46 percent in those 50-59 years old. Two percent of those ages 20-29 had a history of diabetes, or 2 + or greater glycosuria by dipstick, as did 23 percent of those ages 50-59. The majority of the known diabetics exhibited glycosuria and elevated glycohemoglobin levels, indicating poor control. Hypertension, although usually known to the participant, was frequently uncontrolled. From these data, it appears that among this group of Hawaiians major risk factors for cardiovascular disease were frequent, while at the same time the levels of awareness and/or control for most of these factors were low. 
Renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease. The estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $750 million. The relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis, as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population. 
Platelet fatty acids and function in two distinct regions of Belgium: relationship to age and dietary habits. We compared the dietary habits, fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids, and platelet function in two groups of healthy Belgian male subjects, known to differ in their mortality rate from coronary heart disease (CHD). In the Walloon subjects, there was a larger intake of saturated and a lower intake of (n-6) polyunsaturated fats, confirmed by the fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids. While plasma HDL and total cholesterol were similar in the present samples of the two communities, platelet aggregation to epinephrine was significantly higher in the Walloon subjects. When the two populations were divided into younger (28-54 years) and older (55-73 years) age groups, the older Walloon subjects exhibited platelet hyper-aggregability to most of the agonists, compared to the other three groups. In addition to dietary fats, alcohol and smoking habits, age was an important determinant of platelet phospholipid fatty acids and platelet reactivity. The present results reinforce those of previous studies, indicating that platelet behaviour is significantly affected by the main risk factors for CHD. 
Documentation of the effective length of action of antihypertensive treatment. The technique of automated ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring offers an innovative means for measuring BP throughout the 24-hour period. Recently available compact monitoring instruments have been shown to be accurate and to provide reproducible measurements of the circadian BP pattern. The monitoring procedure is advantageous in that it minimizes or avoids placebo effects during therapeutic trials. Moreover, its power makes it possible to draw statistically valid conclusions regarding efficacy in fewer patients than would be required if conventional methods were used. This procedure also enhances the diagnosis of hypertension by identifying patients with "office" or "white coat" hypertension, and thereby facilitates assessment of treatment effects in those patients who are truly hypertensive. Automated monitoring measures BP at critical times of the day, including the preawakening and early morning hours, and it enables peak and trough antihypertensive drug effects to be carefully quantified. Since patient compliance appears to be enhanced with once- or twice-daily dosing, antihypertensive agents with long durations of action (24 hours) are of considerable interest. This report reviews some recent studies in which the monitoring technique has been used to measure the efficacy and duration of action of differing antihypertensive drugs. 
Lipid screening: is it enough to measure total cholesterol concentration? OBJECTIVES--To determine whether measurement of total cholesterol concentration is sufficient to identify most patients at lipoprotein mediated risk of coronary heart disease without measurement of triglyceride and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentrations. DESIGN--Cross sectional screening programme. SETTING--Six general practices in Oxfordshire. PATIENTS--1901 Men and 2068 women aged 25-59. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Cardiovascular risk as assessed by fasting venous plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, triglyceride, and HDL cholesterol. RESULTS--2931 Patients (74% of those screened) had a total cholesterol concentration of less than 6.5 mmol/l. If the triglyceride concentration had not been measured in these patients isolated hypertriglyceridaemia (greater than or equal to 2.3 mmol/l) would have remained undetected in 185. Among these 185 patients, however, 123 were overweight or obese and only 18 (0.6% of those screened) had an increased risk associated with both a raised triglyceride concentration (greater than or equal to 2.3 mmol/l) and a low HDL cholesterol concentration (less than 0.9 mmol/l). Conversely, in the 790 patients with predominant hypercholesterolaemia (cholesterol concentration greater than or equal to 6.5 mmol/l and triglyceride concentration less than 2.3 mmol/l) measurement of HDL cholesterol concentration showed that 348 (9% of those screened) had only a moderately increased risk with a ratio of total to HDL cholesterol of less than 4.5 and 104 had a low risk with a ratio of less than 3.5. CONCLUSIONS--Fasting triglyceride and HDL cholesterol concentrations identify few patients at increased risk of coronary heart disease if the total cholesterol concentration is less than 6.5 mmol/l. HDL cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations should, however, be measured in patients with a total cholesterol concentration exceeding this value. Total cholesterol concentration alone may overestimate risk in a considerable number of these patients, and measurement of HDL cholesterol concentration allows a more precise estimate of risk. Measurement of the triglyceride concentration is required to characterise the lipoprotein abnormality. A patient should not be started on a drug that lowers lipid concentrations without having had a full lipoprotein assessment including measurement of HDL cholesterol concentration. 
Percutaneous valvuloplasty in a patient with mitral stenosis following surgical annuloplasty. A case is described in which a patient with a Carpentier-Edwards annuloplasty ring developed mitral stenosis and was treated with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty. Possible mechanisms for the development of mitral stenosis are briefly discussed. 
Epidemiologic aspects of heart failure. The prevalence of heart failure in Northwest London is 0.4%, a lower figure than that quoted for the United States. Heart failure is a common reason (5%) for medical admission to the hospital in the London area. The problem of heart failure is predominantly in persons over 65 years. Coronary artery disease is the most frequent cause, and hypertension is relatively uncommon. In those patients admitted to the hospital, the prognosis is poor. 
Magnetic resonance imaging: a reliable test for the evaluation of proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis. Symptomatic renal artery stenosis is a significant and treatable clinical problem. A reliable and accurate noninvasive method of screening for renal artery stenosis has not yet been found. We used magnetic resonance imaging to study 37 patients who had undergone recent renal angiography. Fourteen patients had normal renal arteries by angiography. In 23 patients either unilateral or bilateral stenosis or occlusion was present. The disease process in all patients appeared to be atherosclerosis. The average age of the 37 patients was 68 years. The magnetic resonance scans and angiograms were read independently by two different radiologists, each of whom was blinded to the clinical history and the results of the other study. Renal arterial stenoses found on angiogram and magnetic resonance scans were graded as absent (0% to 24%), mild (25% to 49%), moderate (50% to 74%), or severe (75% to 99%). The magnetic resonance imaging results concurred with the angiographic findings in 70 of 77 arteries (91%). Magnetic resonance imaging predicted the presence of a greater than 50% stenosis of the renal artery with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 94%. Magnetic resonance imaging may prove to be the best noninvasive screening test for proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis. 
Acute changes in the dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid system during experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. Early changes in intracranial pressure (ICP), ICP volume index, and resistance to absorption of cerebrospinal fluid induced by experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage were studied in cats. After SAH, the ICP was slightly elevated, and there was a decrease in the buffering capacity of the intracranial space and a sharp rise in outflow resistance. During infusion of blood into the cisterna magna with a constant infusion rate, an extensive increase in ICP could be demonstrated in contrast to the infusion of saline, which caused only slight elevation of ICP. Furthermore, during blood infusion, the ICP level did not reach a plateau phase of pressure, as was demonstrated during infusion of saline. It is suggested that the marked increase in ICP during blood infusion into the subarachnoid space is caused by intracranial volume loading and the simultaneous increase in cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance. It is concluded that the reported relationship between increased cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance and increased ICP supports the hypothesis of a strong increase in ICP during subarachnoid hemorrhage in human subjects. 
Cardiac performance in infants referred for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We performed cardiac evaluations in 59 infants referred for severe lung disease to determine whether cardiac performance was impaired in those requiring extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Infants were divided into two groups: group 1 (n = 25) received conventional therapy and group 2 (n = 34) received ECMO therapy after meeting established criteria. Ventilatory and oxygenation indexes and estimates of right ventricular systolic pressure were measured. Load-dependent and load-independent echocardiographic indexes of cardiac performance were also measured. The infants in the two groups had similar diagnoses, age, weight, inotropic support, ventilator and oxygenation indexes on admission, and survival. Heart rate and estimates of preload and afterload were similar in the two groups. Ventricular shortening fraction was 36.1 +/- 7.6% in group 1 and 40.5 +/- 8.8% in group 2 (p value was not significant). Velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (VCF/sec) was 1.41 +/- 0.35 in group 1 and 1.58 +/- 0.39 in group 2 (p value was not significant). The relationship between wall stress and ventricular shortening was similar in the two groups. There were no differences in cardiac output. Pulmonary artery pressure was estimated to be 56 +/- 13 mm Hg in group 1 and 63 +/- 10 mm Hg in group 2 (p = 0.017). Thus no significant differences were found in load-dependent or load-independent measures of cardiac performance in infants with severe lung disease treated with ECMO or conventional therapy. We conclude that cardiac failure is not the primary cause of clinical deterioration in infants with severe lung disease who require ECMO therapy. 
Biplane transesophageal echocardiography: technique, image orientation, and preliminary experience in 131 patients. Transesophageal echocardiography with use of a uniplane phased-array transducer with a transverse or horizontal scanning plane has become a well-established tool for evaluating cardiovascular diseases. Recent introduction of biplane probes has enhanced the diagnostic capability of this imaging technique. This article discusses the technique of biplane transesophageal echocardiographic examination and image orientation. The diagnostic value and advantages of various biplane transesophageal images of the heart, aorta, and aortic arch from various esophageal positions are described. 
Two-dimensional echocardiographic features of double outlet left ventricle. In a cyanotic newborn infant, the diagnosis of double outlet left ventricle was made from the two-dimensional echocardiographic examination. The diagnosis was later confirmed at cardiac catheterization and surgery. The parasternal and subcostal views were especially useful for identification of the origin of both great arteries from the morphologic left ventricle. A review of the medical literature since 1967 revealed 77 cases of double outlet left ventricle, most of which were diagnosed only at surgery or postmortem examination. The anatomic features demonstrated with two-dimensional echocardiography in this case are representative of the findings cited most often in the cases reported in the medical literature. 
Management of deep venous thrombosis in the pregnant female. Deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities is an uncommon but dreaded complication of pregnancy which can present diagnostic and therapeutic problems to the treating physician. From January 1, 1985, to December 31, 1988, 7867 deliveries were performed at St. Luke's Hospital. Five of these patients were pregnant women who were treated for deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities. The women were either in their second or third trimester of pregnancy. The clinical diagnosis in each case was confirmed with duplex ultrasonography. Each patient was treated with 7 to 10 days of intravenous heparin therapy and then discharged on subcutaneous heparin therapy. There were no bleeding complications related to the heparin therapy. No patient developed a pulmonary embolism. Each patient delivered a normal child. The only complication was a heparin induced rash in one patient which resolved when a different preparation of heparin was used. The management of deep venous thrombosis in pregnancy is discussed. 
In-hospital mortality after balloon aortic valvuloplasty: frequency and associated factors. Percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty has been accompanied by significant early periprocedural morbidity and mortality. Identification of factors associated with increased mortality might allow for improved selection of patients. The Mansfield Scientific Balloon Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry was analyzed to identify the frequency of in-hospital death and the factors associated with it. Of 492 patients undergoing the procedure, 37 (7.5%) died during the hospital stay in which valvuloplasty was performed. Twenty-four of these patients died within the first 24 h and the remainder died within 7 days after the procedure. There were significant differences in baseline clinical and hemodynamic characteristics as well as procedural and postprocedural variables between patients dying and those surviving the in-hospital period. Multivariate analysis identified four factors associated with increased mortality: 1) the occurrence of a procedure-related complication, 2) a lower initial left ventricular systolic pressure, 3) a smaller final aortic valve area, and 4) a lower baseline cardiac output. Thus, baseline hemodynamic, procedural and postprocedural variables and complications can be identified that are associated with increased mortality. 
Thickness of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque and ischemic risk. Noninvasive duplex scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque was performed in 286 consecutive patients referred to a cerebrovascular diagnostic laboratory. The presence and thickness of such plaque in the region of the carotid bifurcation were examined for association with the degree of vessel stenosis, age, sex, smoking history, history of prior transient ischemic attack or stroke, and systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease. Atherosclerotic plaque thickness was positively correlated with degree of vessel stenosis (P less than 0.0001). Both parameters were independent predictors of cerebrovascular events but plaque thickness was a better predictor of prior transient ischemic attacks (P less than 0.05), and vessel stenosis was a better predictor of prior stroke (P less than 0.005). Patient age (P less than 0.001) and pack-years of cigarette use (P less than 0.001) were independent positive predictors of carotid atherosclerotic plaque thickness. The greatest effect of smoking and atherosclerotic plaque thickness was seen in heavy smokers younger than age 55. Both carotid artery plaque thickness and pack-years of smoking were significant independent predictors of other systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease (P less than 0.05). Such noninvasive scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque demonstrates the significant role of age and smoking in the progression of disease. It also suggests a significant role for carotid atherosclerotic artery plaque in the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular events, especially transient ischemic attacks, even prior to the production of a flow-limiting stenosis. Finally, noninvasive screening of carotid artery plaque may provide a useful marker for the patient at risk for systemic atherosclerotic disease and identify the patient for whom maximal atherosclerotic risk factor modification is needed. 
Doxazosin and atenolol as monotherapy in mild and moderate hypertension: a randomized, parallel study with a three-year follow-up. The efficacy and safety of doxazosin (n = 83) and atenolol (n = 81) have been compared during a 3-year period. Doxazosin (mean dose at 3 years, 5.2 mg/day) and atenolol (mean dose, 66.4 mg/day) produced a sustained and overall similar reduction in blood pressure, with no evidence of tolerance. Doxazosin decreased mean blood pressure from 158/104 mm Hg to 146/90 mm Hg; with atenolol the decrease was from 160/103 mm Hg to 144/88 mm Hg. Whereas the reduction in blood pressure with atenolol was paralleled by a significant (p less than 0.05) decrease in heart rate (from a mean of 74 to 60 beats/min), doxazosin produced no clinically meaningful changes in heart rate. In contrast to atenolol, doxazosin reduced triglyceride levels by -5.9% (atenolol +22.5%), increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by +3.7% (atenolol, -11.2%), and increased the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio by +5.9% (atenolol, -10.3%); all of these values were significantly (p less than 0.001) different from those of atenolol-treated patients. Doxazosin also reduced the calculated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by -3.3% (atenolol, unchanged). The adverse effect of atenolol on lipid levels apparently negated any beneficial effect of blood pressure reduction, because the calculated coronary heart disease (CHD) risk actually increased significantly. In contrast, the reduction in calculated CHD risk in the doxazosin group was statistically significant at all points during the study. The safety profile of the drugs was similar. With the added potential of the reduction in the calculated risk of CHD among hypertensive patients,doxazosin represents an appropriate first-line drug for the treatment of essential hypertension. 
Stunned myocardium during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. The "stunned myocardium" is a syndrome of reversible myocardial dysfunction that may be mediated by oxygen-derived free radicals. This phenomenon has been seen in some neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We performed echocardiograms and measured creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes and lipid peroxide levels in 16 neonates before, during, and after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Infants who developed stunned myocardia by echocardiography did so shortly after initiation of bypass and exhibited concurrent elevations of the MB fraction of creatine phosphokinase. Lipid peroxide levels did not simultaneously rise. These data suggest that oxygen-derived free radicals may not cause the stunned myocardium seen in neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
Endovascular occlusion of vertebral arteries in the treatment of unclippable vertebrobasilar aneurysms. Twenty-one patients with aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation underwent unilateral or bilateral endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery. Six patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), 10 with mass effect, four with mass effect and SAH, and one with ischemic symptoms. Thirteen patients had good outcomes with complete clinical and angiographic cure. Six patients had partial thrombosis of their aneurysms. There was one death and one treatment failure. One patient suffered transient stroke. It is concluded that endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery following test occlusion is a safe and effective treatment for proximal aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation. 
A case report of giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa. Giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa is a rare disorder, which is generally asymptomatic and occasionally associated with temporal arteritis. The true clinical significance of this dramatic microscopic finding remains obscure, but arteritis of the uterus and adnexa may be associated with later development of giant cell arteritis elsewhere in the body. 
Functional chiral asymmetry in descending thoracic aorta To determine whether rotational blood flow or chiral asymmetry exists in the human descending thoracic aorta, we established the ability of color Doppler ultrasound to detect rotational flow in a tornado tube model of a vortex descending fluid column. In a model of the human aortic arch with a pulse duplicator, color Doppler was then used to demonstrate that rotational flow occurs first in the transverse arch and then in the proximal descending thoracic aorta. With the use of color Doppler esophageal echocardiography, 53 patients (age range, 25-78 years; mean age, 56.4 years) were prospectively examined for rotational flow in the descending thoracic aorta. At 10 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position, 22 of 38 patients (58%) revealed rotational flow with obvious diastolic counterclockwise rotation but less obvious systolic clockwise rotation. At 5 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position, 29 of 46 patients (63%) revealed rotational flow with a tendency toward systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise rotation. At the retro-left ventricular position, 47 of 53 patients (89%) revealed rotational flow, usually of a clockwise direction, occurring in systole. Our data suggest that aortic flow is not purely pulsatile and axial but has a rotational component. Rotational flow begins in the aortic arch and is carried through to the descending thoracic aorta, where flow is chirally asymmetric with systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise components. These data demonstrate an aortic rotational flow component that may have physiological implications for organ perfusion. 
Experimental studies of the physiologic properties of technetium-99m isonitriles. Recently, efforts have been directed at the development of technetium-99m (Tc-99m)-labeled isonitrile compounds for assessment of regional perfusion and viability after experimental myocardial infarction or ischemia. One of the most promising of these agents, Tc-99m sestamibi, has undergone rather extensive laboratory investigation. Like thallium-201 (Tl-201), the uptake of Tc-99m sestamibi in myocardial tissue is proportional to myocardial blood flow after intravenous injection. Similar to other diffusible indicators, Tc-99m sestamibi underestimates blood flow at high flow rates. In low flow regions, the myocardial uptake of this agent is higher relative to nonischemic uptake than is microsphere-determined blood flow. This is attributed to increased extraction at low flows. This first-pass myocardial extraction fraction for Tc-99m sestamibi is less than that for Tl-201. However, Tc-99m sestamibi has a higher parenchymal cell permeability and higher volume of distribution than T;-201. Tc-99m sestamibi shows minimal "delayed redistribution" after initial intravenous administration. Uptake of Tc-99m sestamibi is not altered by myocardial "stunning" or with ischemic dysfunction produced by sustained low coronary flow. The uptake of the isonitrile is still proportional to blood flow in these situations. In intact animal models, myocardial uptake of Tc-99m sestamibi during coronary occlusion delineates the in vivo area at risk. When Tc-99m sestamibi is administered after reperfusion following variable periods of preceding coronary occlusion, Tc-99m sestamibi uptake delineates the area of viable myocardium that is salvaged and not simply the degree of reflow. This suggests that serial Tc-99m sestamibi imaging might be useful in assessing the efficacy of coronary reperfusion after thrombolytic therapy. 
The future of nephrology. The Cellular and Molecular Age of Nephrology has dawned and the future is remarkably exciting. The successful attack on the major causes of renal disease, including genetic diseases, glomerulonephritis, diabetes, vasculitis, acute renal failure, and hypertension, will necessitate improved knowledge about pathogenesis. This new knowledge will allow early detection and target-specific therapies, the array of which is only limited by our imagination. The challenge to be an active player in this exciting future as a physician-scientist in the field of nephrology is indeed a rare opportunity. 
Beta blockers and the primary prevention of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure. A population-based, case-control study was conducted to determine whether beta blockers, used for the treatment of high blood pressure, prevent first events of coronary heart disease. All study subjects were health-maintenance organization enrollees with pharmacologically treated hypertension. Patients presented in 1982 to 1984 with new coronary heart disease, and control subjects were a probability sample of eligible hypertensive enrollees free of coronary heart disease. With the investigators blind to case-control status, the subjects' medical records were reviewed for other coronary risk factors, and the health-maintenance organization's computerized pharmacy database was used to ascertain the use of beta blockers. A larger proportion of controls than cases were using beta blockers. This difference was confined to the subgroup with nonfatal myocardial infarctions. For current use, the estimated relative risk for nonfatal myocardial infarction was 0.62 (95% confidence interval, 0.39 to 0.99). Among current users of beta blockers, higher doses conferred greater protection. Past use and total lifetime intake of beta blockers were only weakly associated with case-control status. The current use of beta blockers may prevent first events of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure. 
Latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty in the treatment of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Stimulated skeletal muscle grafts have been proposed as a means to reinforce ventricular wall in the treatment of severe myocardial failure. Latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty was performed in 11 patients with advanced heart failure due to cardiomyopathy who were in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or IV despite maximal medical therapy. There were no operative deaths. Eight patients were followed for a mean of 10.8 months. Two patients remain in muscle conditioning protocol. One patient died with latissimus dorsi ischemia and congestive heart failure. Four of the eight patients in long-term follow-up are in NYHA class I, three in class II, and one in class III. At 3 months of follow-up, rest radioisotopic left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 20.5 +/- 3.6% to 26.8 +/- 8.1% (p less than 0.01). Doppler-echocardiography demonstrated that left ventricular segmental wall shortening improved from 11.3 +/- 2.5% to 16.5 +/- 3.9% (p less than 0.01) and left ventricular stroke volume from 22.9 +/- 4.6 to 33.1 +/- 10 ml (p less than 0.01). Cardiopulmonary exercise test showed that maximal oxygen consumption during treadmill test increased from 14.8 +/- 3.7 to 18.2 +/- 3.3 ml/kg.min (p less than 0.05). At 6 months of follow-up, all the above values remained essentially unchanged. Furthermore, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was abolished without specific medical therapy in four patients. Thus, cardiomyoplasty improves left ventricular function, reverses congestive heart failure, and may improve long-term survival in severe cardiomyopathies. 
Total occlusion of the left main coronary artery in a young woman with survival: a case report. The total occlusion of the left main coronary artery (LMCA) is rare, and the survival depends on the existence of collateral circulation. The author presents a case of total occlusion of the left main coronary artery with survival in a young woman because he thinks this is a very rare case, owing to the sex and age of the patient. 
Crural artery bypass with adjunctive arteriovenous fistula. A modification in distal anastomosis. We carried out crural artery bypass with an adjunctive arteriovenous fistula in 8 lower extremities of 7 patients with severe ischemic symptoms and poor distal run-off. Mean blood flow rates in the implanted grafts ranged from 43 to 340 ml/min and those of the reconstructed crural arteries from 20 to 100 ml/min. A stenotic lesion was noted on postoperative angiogram in one patient and stasis symptoms caused by downward blood flow into the distal veins in another. The other patients have remained well with good function of the grafts 1-5 years after surgery. We modified the distal corner of the anastomosis as follows: three additional interrupted simple sutures were made on the anterior wall of the concomitant arteriotomy and venotomy incisions after making the common posterior wall of the vessel incisions. A vascular pocket formed at the distal corner of the anastomosis prevents stricture at the anastomosis. The vein is finally ligated just distal to the fistula to intercept downward blood flow into the distal veins. This modification in technique is recommended to prevent stricture of the distal anastomosis and postoperative stasis symptoms. 
The National Cholesterol Education Program: guidelines, status, and issues. The 1987 report of the Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) was concerned with who should be treated for high blood cholesterol levels and how they should be treated. Total cholesterol levels were classified for identification of cases. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were classified for decisions about treatment. The ATP guidelines emphasize diet as the primary approach to treating patients with high blood cholesterol levels. The recommendations of the report are being widely publicized through physician and patient educational programs and the mass media. The report of the Population Panel of the NCEP provides recommendations and guidelines for the public health approach to the problem of high cholesterol levels. When the recommendations of both reports are fully implemented, it is expected that substantial reductions in the incidence of coronary heart disease will be achieved. 
Coronary angioplasty requiring extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressure. Two cases are presented in which extraordinarily high balloon inflation pressures (20 and 17 atm) were required to successfully dilate a saphenous vein graft stenosis and a right coronary artery stenosis. The clinical application of high balloon inflation pressures and balloon selection is discussed. 
Septic pulmonary emboli. A rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers. An intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax. This is a previously unreported (to our knowledge) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis. This possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts. 
Ostium secundum atrial septal defect in the elderly. Atrial septal defect (ASD) is one of the most common congenital cardiac anomalies in adults. Life expectancy is shortened, and almost 90% of patients die by the age of 60 years. The progression of this congenital disease to congestive heart failure has been related to several factors such as the onset of pulmonary hypertension, arrhythmias, bronchopulmonary infections, or the development of other cardiovascular disease. We describe three cases of very old patients with significant ASDs and late development of symptoms. Given the higher risks and poorer long-term results of surgical closure of the defect in advanced age, the indications for such an intervention in elderly patients should be carefully evaluated. 
Popliteal aneurysms identified by intra-arterial streptokinase: a changing pattern of presentation. Five patients presenting with chronic or subacute leg ischaemia due to thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysm are described. Only one of these aneurysms was diagnosed before intra-arterial streptokinase infusion, which successfully lysed the thrombus in all cases. One aneurysm had been symptomatic for 5 years and another for 2 years. Popliteal aneurysm may well be underdiagnosed as a cause of chronic leg ischaemia. 
No finding of increased myocardial ischemia during or after carotid endarterectomy under anesthesia with nitrous oxide. Nitrous oxide (N2O) has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia. We investigated whether substitution of N2O for a portion of the anesthesia supplied by isoflurane increased myocardial ischemia in patients at risk for such ischemia. Seventy patients having carotid endarterectomies (63 patients) or other carotid surgery (seven patients) were prospectively, randomly assigned to an anesthetic regimen that included or excluded N2O. All other aspects of anesthetic management were similar, except for greater concentrations of oxygen and isoflurane in patients not given N2O. Perioperative monitoring for myocardial ischemia and infarction included 12- or 5-lead electrocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, and creatine kinase isoenzyme levels. By transesophageal echocardiographic or electrocardiographic criteria, 44% of patients given oxygen but only 21% of those given N2O had myocardial ischemia intraoperatively (P = 0.065). Similarly, myocardial infarction, identified by changes in creatine kinase isoenzymes, occurred in only one patient given N2O but in three given oxygen (not significantly different). Thus we found no trend indicating a greater incidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction associated with the use of N2O. 
Resolved and unresolved issues in the prevention and treatment of coronary artery disease: a workshop consensus statement. Advances in cardiovascular research during the past two decades have resulted in an improved understanding of the chain of events that lead to end-stage coronary artery disease. These developments have been paralleled by therapeutic advances that now make it possible to intervene at virtually every stage in the development of advanced cardiac disease, from asymptomatic persons at risk of developing coronary atherosclerosis to patients with end-stage heart failure. By interrupting this chain of events, perhaps at multiple sites, it may be possible to prevent or slow the development of symptomatic heart disease and hopefully prolong life. Many opportunities exist for obtaining further information regarding the underlying pathophysiology, the fundamental mechanisms of action of interventions designed to prevent and/or treat the development of myocardial ischemia and cardiac failure and for effecting favorably the natural history of various forms of heart disease. 
Florid pulmonary veno-occlusive disease. A young woman presented with rapidly progressive dyspnea and clinical findings strongly suggestive of primary pulmonary hypertension or possible pulmonary embolism (or both). She died of acute right-sided heart failure. A diagnosis of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease was made at autopsy. Approximately 100 cases of this disease have been reported previously in the literature. We describe a patient with a particularly florid progression of this unusual disease. Death occurred within six weeks of the onset of symptoms. 
Tricuspid valve repair for tricuspid valve endocarditis: tricuspid valve "recycling". Tricuspid valve endocarditis traditionally has been treated with either valve excision or valve replacement. To avoid implantation of foreign material in an infected field, we have applied the principles of mitral valve repair to 4 patients with tricuspid valve endocarditis. On preoperative echocardiography, all patients had 3 to 4+ tricuspid regurgitation, evidence of progressive right ventricular enlargement, and mobile vegetations. In each case, up to three quarters of the anterior leaflet was excised en bloc with infected chordae and papillary muscle heads. Surgical procedures included standard quadrangular resection, conversion to a bicuspid valve, and pericardial patch replacement of the anterior leaflet with mobilization of basal chordae to replace resected marginal chordae. On postoperative echocardiography, tricuspid regurgitation and right ventricular dimensions were reduced in 2 of 4 patients in spite of loss of leaflet tissue. All excised valve tissue demonstrated bacteria on Gram stain or culture. Nonetheless, all repaired valves were successfully sterilized without recurrent infections. Tricuspid valve repair can allow eradication of infection with potential for improving valve competency in complicated tricuspid valve endocarditis. 
The heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis. We tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques. Three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from HeLa cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region. These were a 17 kDa (CENP-A recognized by 34 sera), an 80 kDa (CENP-B recognized by 33 sera), and a 140 kDa polypeptide (CENP-C recognized by 26 sera). There was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides, although Raynaud's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-CENP-B reactivities (p less than 0.01). The heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in Japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker. 
Noninvasive assessment of intrinsic ventricular load dynamics in dilated cardiomyopathy On the basis of hemodynamic theory, a new noninvasive method is developed to provide improved insights into the significance of depressed Doppler left ventricular ejection variables in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. The net force (F) associated with intraventricular flow throughout ejection can be written as: F = A.dv/dt + B.v2, where v is the ejection velocity and A and B are variables related to the geometry of the ventricle and its outflow tract. Instantaneous levels of this force were calculated in 9 normal subjects and 10 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy using Doppler, M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography. The maximal ejection force (Fmax) was 47.5 +/- 8.5 kdyn in normal subjects and 25.5 +/- 6.2 kdyn in those with dilated cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001). Peak local acceleration and outflow velocity were severely depressed in those with cardiomyopathy compared with normal subjects (1,260 +/- 129 versus 2,671 +/- 430 cm/s2 and 71 +/- 14 versus 109 +/- 7 cm/s, respectively; p = 0.0001). Maximal ejection force was attained very early in ejection. A significant linear correlation was found between peak outflow acceleration and maximal ejection force (n = 19; r = 0.91, p = 0.0001). At the time of peak ejection velocity, the net force had decreased to 64% of its peak value in those with cardiomyopathy, whereas in normal subjects, it had decreased to only 84% of its peak value (p = 0.008). In normal subjects, the ejection force was positive during the first 75% of ejection, but in those with cardiomyopathy, it was positive only during the first 54% (p = 0.0003). Once its peak value was attained, total left ventricular systolic wall stress declined rapidly during ejection in normal subjects (to 33% of its peak value by end-ejection), whereas it remained elevated throughout ejection in patients with cardiomyopathy (at 60% of its peak value by end-ejection, p = 0.0001 versus normal). The maximal ejection force corresponded to a calculated intraventricular peak pressure gradient of 9.8 +/- 1.6 mm Hg in normal subjects and 6 +/- 1.2 mm Hg in those with cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001). The average contribution of the intrinsic component of the left ventricular systolic load (that is, wall stress associated with the ventricular to aortic pressure gradient) to the total myocardial load was 9.1% (range 7.3% to 11.2%) in normal subjects and 6.2% (range 3.9% to 7.5%) in those with cardiomyopathy (p = 0.0001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Chylothorax secondary to obstruction of the superior vena cava: a complication of the LeVeen shunt. A case of thrombosis of the superior vena cava was complicated by bilateral chylothoraces and a widened mediastinum. Removal of a clotted LeVeen shunt led to prompt resolution of the obstruction and chylothoraces. 
Apical segmental dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: subgroup with unique clinical features. A segmental wall motion abnormality is an unusual finding in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. To clarify its clinical significance, 48 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were analyzed. Eight patients (Group A) had apical segmental dysfunction; 40 (Group B) had normal wall motion. No patient in either group had coronary artery stenosis on selective coronary arteriography. In all patients in Group A, apical segmental dysfunction was revealed by left ventriculography; however, it could be detected by echocardiography in only two patients in Group A. Left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiogram (ECG) was more common in Group B (p less than 0.05). Abnormal Q waves were more frequently discovered in Group A (p less than 0.005) and were recognized predominantly in the lateral leads. On serial ECGs, a gradual development of abnormal Q waves was noted in six of eight patients in Group A. Malignant arrhythmias were more common in Group A (p less than 0.001). In two patients in Group A, left ventricular dilation and congestive heart failure developed during the follow-up period. Thus, the presence of a Q wave in the lateral leads on an ECG in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may indicate the presence of apical segmental dysfunction. Left ventriculography should be performed to examine the presence of this abnormality and 24 h ambulatory ECG monitoring should be done to detect malignant arrhythmias in patients who have abnormal Q waves in the lateral leads. Patients with this unique type of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy need careful follow-up evaluation. 
Evolution of the continuity equation in the Doppler echocardiographic assessment of the severity of valvular aortic stenosis. The use of Doppler techniques has greatly enhanced the noninvasive ultrasound technique for evaluation of valvular aortic stenosis. M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography could not reliably distinguish patients with severe aortic stenosis from those with milder obstructions. The hemodynamic information offered by Doppler complemented echocardiographic imaging and provided an alternative modality for evaluation of patients with aortic stenosis. By application of the modified Bernoulli equation, the pressure gradient across the stenotic aortic valve could be estimated by Doppler echocardiography. Though helpful and widely used, the information provided by the pressure gradient across the valve about the severity of the obstruction was not complete. The assessment of valvular aortic stenosis therefore includes an estimation of the valve area by application of the continuity equation. This review examines the maturation of the continuity equation by Doppler techniques and discusses the implications of the procedure. 
Annulo-aortic ectasia with DeBakey type II dissecting aneurysm in Gaucher's disease. Annulo-aortic ectasia is an extremely rare complication of Gaucher's disease. We report successful surgery in a patient with Gaucher's disease complicated by annulo-aortic ectasia and aortic dissection. Cabrol's operation was accomplished without bleeding or sternal adaptation problems. 
Flow patterns in dilated cardiomyopathy: a pulsed-wave and color flow Doppler study. In 48 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, pulsed-wave and color Doppler examination were performed. In addition, 14 normal patients served as control subjects. Peak inflow velocity at the level of the mitral valve, middle left ventricle, and apex and outflow velocity at the level of the apex, middle left ventricle, and subaortic area were measured. In normal patients there was brisk propagation of inflow velocity to the apex. Patients with dilated cardiomyopathy demonstrated delayed propagation and prolongation of the duration of inflow compared with control subjects (p less than 0.04). Continuous apical flow was visualized in 25% of dilated cardiomyopathies and in no normal patients. Apical velocities were significantly increased in cardiomyopathies with significant mitral regurgitation. Outflow velocities were decreased in dilated cardiomyopathy. In patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and apical dyskinesis, flow directed toward the base was measured in the middle left ventricle during isovolumic relaxation secondary to dyskinetic rebound. Patterns of abnormal flow in dilated cardiomyopathies are readily apparent by color M-mode and two-dimensional color Doppler. 
Mitral annular calcification: significant and worth acting upon. Mitral annular calcification (MAC) is a degenerative process which commonly occurs in the elderly and has multiple etiologies. Patients with MAC have a higher prevalence of left atrial enlargement, left ventricular enlargement, atrial fibrillation, conduction defects, mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and bacterial endocarditis than those without it. In addition, patients with the disorder have a higher incidence of cardiovascular events, thromboembolic cerebrovascular events, permanent pacemaker implantation, and valve replacement. This review discusses the significance of these warning signs, explores updated diagnostic procedures for MAC, and recommends some therapeutic strategies. 
Identification of ischemic and hibernating myocardium: feasibility of post-exercise F-18 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography. The identification of ischemic and hibernating myocardium facilitates the selection of patients most likely to benefit from revascularization. This study examined the feasibility of metabolic imaging, using post-exercise F-18 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) for the diagnosis of both ischemia and hibernation in 27 patients with known coronary anatomy. Normal post-exercise FDG uptake was defined in each patient by reference to normal resting perfusion and normal coronary supply. Abnormal elevation of FDG (ischemia or hibernation) was compared in 13 myocardial segments in each patient, with the results of dipyridamole stress perfusion imaging performed by rubidium-82 positron emission tomography (Rb-PET). Myocardial ischemia was diagnosed by either FDG-PET or Rb-PET in 34 segments subtended by significant local coronary stenoses. Increased FDG uptake was present in 32/34 (94%) and a reversible perfusion defect was identified by Rb-PET in 22/34 (65%, p less than .01). In 3 patients, ischemia was identified by metabolic imaging alone. In 16 patients with previous myocardial infarction, perfusion defects were present at rest in 89 regions, 30 of which (34%) demonstrated increased FDG uptake, consistent with the presence of hibernation. Increased post-exercise FDG uptake appears to be a sensitive indicator of ischemia and myocardial hibernation. This test may be useful in selecting post-infarction patients for revascularization. 
Doppler echocardiographic evaluation of pulmonary artery flow after modified Fontan operation: importance of atrial contraction. Doppler echocardiography was used to evaluate blood flow in the pulmonary artery in 14 patients 2 to 42 months (mean (SD) 17 (12) months) after a modified Fontan operation incorporating a direct atriopulmonary anastomosis. Preoperatively six patients had tricuspid atresia, six had a double inlet left ventricle, and two had pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum. The postoperative rhythm was sinus in 11 patients, junctional in one, ventricular pacing in one, and atrioventricular sequential pacing in one. In one patient the Doppler trace was unsatisfactory for analysis. In all patients forward flow in the pulmonary artery had biphasic peaks related to both atrial and ventricular contraction. The mean (SD) peak flow velocity that was synchronous with atrial contraction was 80 (30) cm/s and that synchronous with ventricular contraction was 74 (23) cm/s. The atrial contribution to total pulmonary artery flow, assessed by velocity-time integrals, varied between 22% and 73% (mean (SD) 45 (14)%). In patients with tricuspid atresia the mean (SD) peak flow velocity with atrial contraction was 90 (27) cm/s and that with ventricular contraction was mean (SD) 68 (24) cm/s. In patients with double inlet left ventricle the mean (SD) peak flow velocity was 67 (36) cm/s with atrial contraction and 80 (25) cm/s with ventricular contraction. The atrial contribution to total pulmonary blood flow in patients with tricuspid atresia was significantly higher (53 (11)%) than in those with double inlet left ventricle (37 (14)%). Pulmonary artery flow after modified Fontan operation was biphasic and was related to both atrial and ventricular contraction. 
Prevention of hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section by wrapping of the legs. Twenty-four parturients undergoing elective Caesarean section were allocated randomly to have the legs wrapped with elasticated Esmarch bandages immediately following spinal anaesthesia or to serve as controls. Significant hypotension (systolic arterial pressure less than 100 mm Hg and less than 80% of baseline value) was treated with i.v. ephedrine in 5-mg boluses. Leg wrapped patients had a significantly (P = 0.0033) lower incidence (16.7%) of hypotension than controls (83.3%). Only two patients in the leg wrapped group required ephedrine compared with 10 in the control group. Systolic arterial pressure was significantly (P less than 0.05) less in control subjects at 4, 5 and 6 min following spinal injection. No patient in the leg wrapped group became hypotensive following removal of the elasticated bandages. 
Monitoring the effect of CPAP on left ventricular function using continuous mixed-blood saturation. The hypothetic benefit of CPAP on cardiac performance and on a reduction in VO2 was tested in a patient before heart transplantation after acute myocardial infarction using continuous SvO2 monitoring. The CPAP added to inotropic support (enoximone plus dobutamine) and intraaortic balloon pumping dramatically increased SvO2 in relation to both an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in VO2 secondary to respiratory work reduction, validating the initial hypotheses. 
Hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure. An infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified Jatene technique. Severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed. The hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries. Probable causes are discussed. 
Improved survival after Hemopump insertion in patients experiencing postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock during cardiopulmonary bypass. Immediate placement of a Hemopump (HP) ventricular assist device was undertaken in nine patients (seven men, two women) after other attempts at weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) after coronary bypass surgery had failed. All nine patients (100%) were successfully weaned from CPB, and six (63.3%) gradually improved enough to permit removal of HP support. Five (83.3%) of the six who were weaned from CPB survived beyond hospital discharge. HP support was evaluated in terms of vital organ function, incidence of complications, and clinical outcome. In both survivors (S) and nonsurvivors (NS), serial hemodynamic measurements were taken. Although there were few differences in hemodynamic parameters between groups at 4 hr, by 24 hr the S group had markedly improved cardiac index, Glasgow Coma Scale, urinary output, and pulse pressure and required far less inotropic support than did the NS group. All four patients who required high dose inotropic agents to maintain acceptable end-organ perfusion on HP support died; three were unable to tolerate weaning from the HP, and all died within 72 hr of surgery because of ineffective myocardial recovery. None of the survivors required additional early inotropic augmentation. Renal perfusion appeared to be well maintained, even with mean arterial pressures below 60 mmHg during HP support. There were no episodes of hemolysis, infection, or limb ischemia in either group. Thus, the Hemopump provided excellent circulatory support for those patients who could not be weaned from CPB by traditional methods. 
Airway hyperresponsiveness in patients with microvascular angina. Evidence for a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle responsiveness. Anginal chest pain in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries may be caused by a limited coronary flow response to stress because of abnormal function of the coronary microcirculation (microvascular angina). Studies of forearm arterial function suggested that patients with microvascular angina may have a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle tone. Because dyspnea is common in these patients and seems disproportionate to the severity of myocardial ischemia, we studied air flow (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, or FEV1) in the basal state and after methacholine inhalation to determine whether bronchial smooth muscle is affected in this syndrome. Five of 36 patients with microvascular angina had a basal FEV1 of less than 70% of that predicted and did not receive methacholine. Of the remaining 31 patients, 14 (45%) had a more-than-20% reduction in FEV1 after methacholine inhalation (as much as 25 mg/ml), a response significantly greater than that of nine patients with heart disease (0%, p less than 0.025) and 24 normal volunteers of similar age and gender distribution (13%, p less than 0.025). Furthermore, the product of the methacholine dose inhaled and the magnitude of decline in FEV1 from baseline (methacholine response score) was significantly lower in patients with microvascular angina than in normal volunteers (16 +/- 8.6 versus 22.2 +/- 3.7, p = 0.026). We conclude that airway hyperresponsiveness is frequently demonstrable in patients with microvascular angina; these findings are consistent with our hypothesis that this syndrome may represent a more generalized abnormality of vascular and nonvascular smooth muscle function. 
Newer antihypertensive agents. Three recent additions to the list of antihypertensive agents have been approved for use as monotherapy or in combination with other drugs. Betaxolol hydrochloride (Kerlone) maintains its effect for 24 hours, making it a true once-a-day beta blocker. Penbutolol sulfate (Levatol) is as effective as other beta blockers and diuretics. Doxazosin mesylate (Cardura), a selective alpha 1 blocker, also allows once-a-day dosing and has produced favorable changes in lipid profiles. Two new drug delivery systems, one for verapamil hydrochloride (Verelan) and one for extended-release nifedipine (Procardia XL), allow less frequent dosing and may offer other advantages, such as greater compliance and a more tolerable side-effect profile. 
Predictors of cardiac survival after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. To assess the outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in patients with severe left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and to determine the predictors of mortality, 73 patients with LV ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% who underwent initial PTCA were analyzed. The majority of patients had prior (greater than 1 week) myocardial infarction (62 patients, 85%). Congestive heart failure and unstable angina were present in 24 (45%) and 49 (67%) patients, respectively. Multivessel coronary artery disease was present in 60 (83%). The LV ejection fraction ranged from 14 to 40% (mean 34%). Intraaortic balloon pump (15%) and percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support (4%) was used infrequently. Angiographic success was obtained in 109 of 128 lesions (85%) attempted. Complete revascularization was obtained in 16 of 60 patients with clinical success. Procedure-related mortality was 5% (4 patients). All patients were followed from greater than or equal to 6 to less than or equal to 71 months (average 26). The estimated survival was 79 +/- 5%, 74 +/- 6%, 66 +/- 7% and 57 +/- 8% at 1, 2, 3 and 4 years, respectively. A Cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of congestive heart failure, a lower LV ejection fraction and a higher myocardial jeopardy score for contractile myocardium were independent predictors of survival after PTCA in patients with LV dysfunction. In conclusion, a high-risk subset can be identified among patients with severe LV dysfunction who undergo PTCA. 
Left ventricular versus left atrial cannulation for the Thoratec ventricular assist device. In a retrospective study of 28 patients (23 men, 5 women) supported with ventricular assist devices greater than 3 days, the effect of LV cannulation versus LA cannulation on device performance was compared. Patients ranged in age from 12 to 67 years (mean 46 years) and were supported for 3-81 days (mean 15 years). Fifteen patients were supported with left VADs (6 LV and 9 LA), and 13 patients were supported with BVADs (5 LV and 8 LA). The mode of operation 91% of the time was the fill-to-empty mode. Ten data points were taken for each patient. LV cannulation results in higher VAD flow index at decreased preload, lower VAD systolic and vacuum pressures, and shorter diastolic durations. Eleven of the 28 patients survived. Although survival was greater in patients with LV cannulation, survival was more dependent upon reversibility of myocardial damage, eligibility for transplantation, or the development of complications. These data indicate that LV cannulation provides better VAD performance than LA cannulation in the fill-to-empty mode. 
Furosemide-131I-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition for the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension. PURPOSE: We have previously demonstrated the greater sensitivity of 131I-hippuran renography than 99mTC-DTPA scintigraphy to diagnose renovascular hypertension (RVH). This study assesses the predictive diagnostic value of furosemide-131I-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition in patients with and without RVH. PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients were investigated at the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center. Twenty-eight patients had RVH and 22 did not. Twenty-eight patients had normal or minimally decreased renal function (serum creatinine level 1.5 mg/dL or less) and 22 had renal insufficiency (serum creatinine level 1.8 mg/dL or more). Renography was performed 60 minutes after oral administration of 50 mg captopril or 10 minutes after intravenous injection of 40 micrograms/kg enalaprilat. Forty milligrams of furosemide were administered intravenously 2 minutes after injection of 131I-hippuran. The residual cortical activity (RCA) of 131I-hippuran was measured at 20 minutes. RESULTS: RVH was unlikely when RCA after ACE inhibition was less than 30% of peak cortical activity. Conversely, RVH was present when 131I-hippuran cortical activity steadily increased throughout the test to reach 100% at 20 minutes. In azotemic patients with RCA between 31% and 100%, RVH was differentiated from intrinsic renal disease by obtaining a baseline renogram without ACE inhibition and comparing RCA in that study and RCA after ACE inhibition. If RCA increased (indicating worsening renal function) after ACE inhibition, RVH was likely; whereas, intrinsic renal disease was more likely if RCA remained unchanged or decreased (indicating improved renal function) with ACE inhibition. The test had a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 96% in this population. There was a direct correlation between the results of angioplasty or surgery on high blood pressure and the changes in RCA before and after intervention (n = 20). CONCLUSION: Furosemide-131I-hippuran renography with ACE inhibition is highly predictive in identifying patients with RVH. 
Effects of ischemia and hemoglobin on vascular function in isolated rabbit aortas. The vascular endothelium is important in the modulation of vascular tone via production of endothelium-derived relaxing and contracting factors. The abdominal aortas of five groups of rabbits were subjected to varying lengths of ischemia (0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours), removed, sectioned into transverse rings, and placed in tissue baths containing Krebs' buffer at 37 degrees C and aerated with 95% O2/5% CO2. After equilibration the rings were tested for endothelium-dependent vasodilation with methacholine and nonendothelium-dependent vasodilation with nitroprusside. Endothelium-dependent relaxation as elicited by methacholine was impaired at 3 and 4 hours of ischemia but was not significantly different at 1 and 2 hours as compared to control, whereas endothelium-independent vasodilation remained normal throughout the different periods of ischemia. The addition of 1 x 10(-6) mol/L rabbit hemoglobin reduced the time needed to demonstrate significant impairment of endothelial function to 2 hours. Endothelium-independent vasodilation was not affected by hemoglobin. We conclude that hemoglobin exacerbates ischemia vascular dysfunction in the rabbit aorta. 
Prognostic value of radionuclide angiography in medically treated patients with coronary artery disease. A comparison with clinical and catheterization variables. To evaluate the usefulness of multiple measures from rest and exercise radionuclide angiography (RNA) in predicting cardiovascular death and cardiovascular events (death or nonfatal myocardial infarction) and to assess the prognostic usefulness of the RNA relative to clinical and catheterization data, we studied 571 stable patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease who had upright rest/exercise first-pass RNA within 3 months of catheterization and were medically treated. With a median follow-up of 5.4 years, 90 patients have died from cardiovascular causes, and 147 patients have either died or suffered a nonfatal myocardial infarction. Using the Cox regression model and a preselected group of RNA variables, the most important RNA predictor of mortality was exercise ejection fraction (chi 2 = 81, p less than 0.00001). Neither rest ejection fraction nor the change in ejection fraction from rest to exercise contributed additional predictive information. Two other RNA study variables, the change in heart rate from rest to exercise and rest end-diastolic volume index, did contribute additional prognostic information to the exercise ejection fraction (chi 2 = 23, p less than 0.0001). Compared with noninvasive clinical data (history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, and chest radiograph), RNA variables were considerably more predictive of mortality (chi 2 = 71 [clinical variables] versus chi 2 = 104 [RNA]). Remarkably, the strength of the relation of RNA variables with mortality was equivalent to that of the set of catheterization variables previously demonstrated in our large angiographic population to be prognostically important (chi 2 = 104 [RNA] versus chi 2 = 102 [catheterization variables]). The RNA contained 84% of the information provided by clinical and catheterization descriptors combined. Furthermore, the RNA contributed significant additional prognostic information to the clinical and catheterization data (chi 2 = 13.6, p = 0.0035). For cardiovascular events, the relative prognostic usefulness of the RNA was similar, although relations with this outcome were generally weaker. Descriptors from the rest/exercise RNA exhibit a powerful relation with long-term outcomes and can be useful in defining risk, even when clinical and catheterization data are available. 
Extended release felodipine in essential hypertension. Variations in blood pressure during whole-day continuous ambulatory recording. Intraarterial blood pressure (BP) monitoring during free ambulation (Oxford technique) was carried out in 12 essential mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients undergoing 4 weeks treatment with felodipine, 10 mg given once daily in an extended release formulation. Compared to placebo, felodipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout 24 h. The greatest reduction was observed at 10 AM, 3 h after drug administration (-32 +/- 6/-24 +/- 5 mm Hg for systolic and diastolic BP, respectively, P less than .001). Hourly BP values remained significantly lower up to and including the 24th hour during felodipine extended release treatment (-18 +/- 5/-11 +/- 3 mm Hg, P less than .001). Felodipine extended release also reduced 24 h blood pressure variability, evaluated on the standard deviation of each hourly mean (from 16.3 +/- 0.9/12.6 +/- 0.6 to 13.4 +/- 0.6/10.4 +/- 0.6 mm Hg, P less than .01). Furthermore, absolute BP values dropped significantly at the peaks of dynamic exercise (bicycle ergometer: from 248 +/- 13/123 +/- 11 to 204 +/- 24/102 +/- 13 mm Hg, P less than .001), isometric exercise (hand grip: from 232 +/- 18/133 +/- 16 to 180 +/- 20/101 +/- 16 mm Hg, P less than .001), and cold pressor test (from 229 +/- 20/127 +/- 14 to 178 +/- 22/99 +/- 15 mm Hg, P less than .001). In conclusion, felodipine extended release exerts a good antihypertensive effect which is maintained for 24 h and reduces the level of blood pressure peaks reached under different physical stresses. 
Dopamine and high-dose insulin infusion (glucose-insulin-potassium) after a cardiac operation: effects on myocardial metabolism. Myocardial insulin resistance, in association with surgical stress, restricts the availability of carbohydrates and increases the load of free fatty acids (FFAs) on the heart. On theoretical grounds adrenergic drugs may be expected to aggravate this situation, whereas the opposite is expected from insulin. The influence of dopamine and a combination of dopamine (7 micrograms/kg body weight/min) and high-dose insulin (7 IU/kg) on myocardial energy metabolism was studied in 19 patients 4 to 6 hours after a coronary operation. Infusion of dopamine (7 micrograms/kg body weight/min) induced metabolic changes that may be unfavorable to the strained myocardium. There was an increase of the myocardial FFA load and a rise in myocardial oxygen expenditure by 60% to 70%. There changes were, however, not matched by an increase in myocardial substrate uptake. "Oxygen wastage" of FFA metabolism at high circulating catecholamine levels is suggested. There were also signs suggesting an amplified systemic trauma response: systemic oxygen consumption increased by 15%, and an increase in the arterial levels of FFAs, glucose, and ketones was observed. Divergent metabolic effects of dopamine and insulin were demonstrated. The most prominent metabolic effects of adding high-dose insulin to dopamine were a marked reduction of arterial FFA levels and a shift toward myocardial carbohydrate utilization at the expense of FFAs. Myocardial uptake of FFAs ceased. Myocardial insulin resistance may thus to a significant extent be overcome by supraphysiological doses of insulin, even during infusion of adrenergic drugs. 
A prospective study of the incidence and natural history of femoral vascular complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Over a 14-month period patients undergoing 144 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures were evaluated for the presence of complications at the femoral puncture site. After percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty each patient was examined by a surgeon, and then a color-flow duplex scan of the groin was obtained. On the initial scan eight pseudoaneurysms, three arteriovenous fistulas, one combined arteriovenous fistula-pseudoaneurysm, and one thrombosed superficial femoral artery were detected for a major vascular complication rate of 9%. Pseudoaneurysm formation was associated with the use of heparin after removal of the arterial sheath. Seven pseudoaneurysms (initial extravascular cavity size range 1.3 to 3.5 cm) were followed with weekly duplex scans, and all thrombosed spontaneously within 4 weeks of detection. The three patients with isolated arteriovenous fistulas were each followed for at least 8 weeks, and the arteriovenous fistulas persisted. Early surgical intervention for postcatheterization femoral pseudoaneurysms is usually unnecessary as thrombosis often occurs spontaneously. We would advocate an operative approach for pseudoaneurysms that are symptomatic, expanding, or associated with large hematomas. Iatrogenic femoral arteriovenous fistulas should be considered for elective repair, but this may be delayed for several weeks without adverse sequelae. 
Mixed connective tissue disease with arterial thrombosis, antiphospholipid antibodies and heparin induced thrombocytopenia. We report a patient with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) who presented with thrombosis of the right femoral artery in association with antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). When treated surgically and with heparin prophylaxis, she developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis which necessitated amputation of a lower limb. Thus our patient developed 2 separate groups of autoantibodies associated with thrombotic events. Our case highlights an association between thrombosis, aPL and MCTD. Furthermore, it emphasizes a need for intensive monitoring when hypercoaguable individuals with connective tissue disorders are treated with heparin. 
Reduction of mortality, sudden death and non-fatal reinfarction with beta-adrenergic blockers in survivors of acute myocardial infarction: a new hypothesis regarding the cardioprotective action of beta-adrenergic blockade. Beta-adrenergic blockers have been shown definitely to reduce the incidence of total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, sudden death and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction. The mechanisms to explain this protective action of beta blockers have never been elucidated conclusively, and include the antiarrhythmic and myocardial oxygen demand-reducing effects of the drugs. An antithrombotic mechanism has also been suggested. However, beta blockers have relatively weak antiplatelet activity, suggesting that their antithrombotic effects may be related to prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than direct anticoagulant action. The therapeutic ability of beta blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surges, may protect a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque from fracture, thereby reducing risk of coronary thrombosis, myocardial infarction and death. 
Aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss, pain, and redness in her right eye. Results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative. Neurologic problems, bronchopulmonary pneumonia, recurrent skin lesions, and a low-grade fever developed. Progressive respiratory distress ensued, and the patient died 1 month after presentation. Cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for Aspergillus terreus. Postmortem histologic results showed extensive A terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous, retina, choroid, and anterior optic nerve. This organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland, left kidney, thyroid, urinary bladder, right lung, skin, esophagus, sputum, vessels of the myocardium, and brain. To our knowledge, A terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously. 
Does percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty accelerate atherosclerotic lesions? Recent reports have suggested that angioplasty may cause or accelerate coronary arterial stenoses secondary to traumatic injury. Ninety-four coronary angiograms performed in a 1 yr period were reviewed in patients who had successful coronary angioplasty 6 to 30 mo (mean 10.7) prior to restudy. Restenosis was found in 43 of 140 dilated lesions (31%) and in 41 of 94 patients (44%). Thirty-three (35%) patients had new or progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site. New or progressive lesions occurred with similar frequency in the arteries that did not have angioplasty (23/155 = 15%) as in the arteries that did (13/127 = 10%; chi-square n.s.). In the arteries which underwent angioplasty, new or progressive lesions occurred as commonly proximal to the PTCA site (7/14, 50%) as distal (6/13, 46%). New or progressive lesions occurred in 29% of patients with concomitant restenosis, and 40% of those without restenosis (chi-square n.s.). No clinical, angiographic, or procedural factors distinguished patients with new and progressive lesions in target vessels from those without these lesions in target vessels. Patients with progressive lesions anywhere in the coronary tree were more likely to have had a shorter duration of anginal symptoms before angioplasty and a family history of coronary disease when compared with patients without progressive atherosclerosis. In conclusion, new and progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site occur after the procedure but appear unrelated to the restenosis process or traumatic injury by angioplasty instrumentation. 
Use of pulmonary artery catheters in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Analysis of experience in 5,841 patients in the SPRINT Registry. SPRINT Study Group This study analyzes the use of PAC in a registry comprising 5,841 hospitalized patients with AMI. A total of 371 patients received PAC. In-hospital mortality was higher in patients with CHF who received PAC, while there was no difference in patients with cardiogenic shock or persistent hypotension. Mortality in patients receiving PAC was higher irrespective of the presence or absence of "pump failure." A separate analysis of discharge summaries of 364 patients with CHF showed that PAC was used more frequently in sicker patients and that when severity of CHF was assessed, no difference in mortality was found in patients with mild or moderate CHF. We conclude that while a higher in-hospital mortality is found in patients receiving PAC, this excess is likely related to difference in severity of CHF, which had not been assessed in every individual. It is unlikely that PAC increases mortality. 
Efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts. The initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed. There was an 88% (38/43) technical success rate (complete clot lysis) and a 74% (32/43) clinical success rate. Complications occurred in 10 patients (23%) and were related to bleeding in four patients (9%). Patient age, graft age, location, material, and the duration of occlusion did not significantly influence the initial outcome, although there was a trend toward a higher bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at the time of thrombolysis. A second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for long-term patency. This group included 32 grafts successfully treated with urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase. By life-table analysis there was a 55.6% 1-year patency, which fell to 42.4% at 4 years. Vein grafts had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts (69.3% versus 28.6% at 30 months). Grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than those without such lesions (79.0% versus 9.8% at 2 years). Based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts, thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances. Thrombolysis is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal runoff vessels. Thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous vein grafts whenever possible. 
Circulating heart-reactive antibodies in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in J Am Coll Cardiol 1990 Oct;16(4):839-46] Heart-reactive antibodies are commonly observed in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy. Such antibodies may be important in the pathogenesis of these disorders, yet the specific antigens recognized have not been studied systematically. This report characterizes circulating heart autoantibodies from patients with myocarditis (n = 17) or idiopathic cardiomyopathy (n = 71) and from healthy volunteers (n = 15). Indirect immunofluorescence demonstrated that high titer (greater than or equal to 1:20) immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody activity occurred in 59% of the myocarditis samples, 20% of the cardiomyopathy samples and none of the normal samples. All samples were tested by Western immunoblotting for IgG activity against a normal human heart extract. The number of antigens recognized by each sample was enumerated and the molecular weight of each antigen estimated; the prevalence of reactivity against antigens in selected molecular weight classes was determined. There was no difference in the mean number of heart antigens recognized by serum from each group. For most weight classes, prevalence either did not differ significantly among the various groups or subgroups or was greatest among samples from healthy volunteers. Prevalence of reactivity with 190 to 199 kilodalton (kd) antigens was greatest (p less than 0.05) among low titer serum samples from patients with myocarditis. High titer cardiomyopathy serum differed from normal serum by an increased (p less than 0.05) prevalence of antibodies to 40 to 49 and 100 to 109 kd antigens. These results suggest that western immunostaining may ultimately contribute substantively to identifying patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy. 
Effects of exercise on myocardial catecholamine content and ischemic injury in dogs with gradual coronary occlusion. The effects of exercise on catecholamine content and the extent of myocardial damage in dogs with Ameroid constrictor occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery were determined. Tissue samples from both the anterior and posterior walls of the left ventricle were obtained for determination of catecholamine content, and the rest of the ventricles were processed for histologic examination. When subjected to treadmill exercise for 40 days after surgery, obstructed animals performed significantly less exercise than sham-operated animals and showed significantly higher percentages of ischemia and necrosis in the left ventricle than sedentary, obstructed, sham-operated, or control dogs. Levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine in the posterior wall of the left ventricle were significantly lower than in the other groups. Our data show that exercise in this well-known model of chronic coronary artery stenosis produced deleterious effects on the myocardium and suggest a marked heterogeneity of catecholamine stores in the myocardium that may have important functional and electrophysiologic consequences. 
Spectrum of hemodynamic changes in cardiac tamponade. To investigate the pathophysiology of cardiac tamponade, the hemodynamics of 77 consecutive patients with greater than 150 ml of pericardial effusion were studied. Patients were classified into 3 groups based on the equilibration of intrapericardial with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures (mm Hg): group I (n = 16), intrapericardial pressure was less than right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures; group II (n = 13), intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial but not pulmonary arterial wedge pressures; group III (n = 48), intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures. Pericardiocentesis produced the following changes: group I--significant (p less than 0.03) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (7 +/- 2 mm Hg), right atrial pressure (3 +/- 2 mm Hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (2 +/- 2 mm Hg), and the inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (3 +/- 4 mm Hg) but no significant change in cardiac output; group II--significant (p less than 0.02) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (11 +/- 5 mm Hg), right atrial pressure (6 +/- 4 mm Hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (4 +/- 5 mm Hg), and inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (8 +/- 7 mm Hg), and increase in cardiac output (1.1 +/- 1.2 liters/min); group III--significant (p less than 0.001) decreases in intrapericardial pressure (16 +/- 7 mm Hg), right atrial pressure (9 +/- 4 mm Hg), pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (8 +/- 5 mm Hg), inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure (17 +/- 11 mm Hg), and increase in cardiac output (2.8 +/- 1.5 liters/min). The changes after pericardiocentesis in all parameters were significantly (p less than 0.05) greater in group III than in groups I or II except for the change in right atrial pressure, which was not significantly different in groups II versus III. The changes after pericardiocentesis indicate pericardial effusion caused the greatest abnormalities in group III but also caused significant abnormalities of pressure and flow in group II and of pressure alone in group I. 
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate in congestive heart failure. BACKGROUND AND METHODS. Physicians have long believed that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is low in patients with congestive heart failure, but this concept is based on a misinterpretation of the results in a single report published in 1936. To reevaluate this concept in the modern era, we measured the sedimentation rate in 242 patients who were referred for treatment of chronic heart failure. RESULTS. The sedimentation rate was low (less than 5 mm per hour) in only 24 patients (10 percent) but was increased (above 25 mm per hour) in 50 percent. Patients with low or normal sedimentation rates (less than or equal to 25 mm per hour) had more severe hemodynamic abnormalities than patients with elevated rates: lower cardiac index (mean +/- SEM, 1.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.1 liters per minute per square meter of body-surface area) and higher mean right atrial pressure (mean +/- SEM, 12 +/- 1 vs. 9 +/- 1 mm Hg) (both P less than 0.0001). New York Heart Association functional class IV symptoms were present in 66 percent of the patients with a low or normal sedimentation rate, as compared with 42 percent of those with elevated rates (P less than 0.0001). After one to three months of therapy, patients whose sedimentation rates decreased showed little hemodynamic or clinical response to treatment, whereas both cardiac performance and functional status improved in patients whose rates increased (P less than 0.02 for the comparison between groups). The sedimentation rate was correlated with the plasma fibrinogen level (r = 0.64, P = 0.0025), and changes in the sedimentation rate during treatment were correlated inversely with changes in mean right atrial pressure (r = -0.57, P = 0.0002). During long-term follow-up, patients with low or normal sedimentation rates had a worse one-year survival than patients with elevated rates (41 vs. 66 percent, P = 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is correlated with the severity of illness in patients with chronic heart failure. Because of its lack of discriminatory power, however, the test is of limited value in the clinical management of this disorder. 
Single photon emission computed tomography with thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia: correlation with coronary arteriography, exercise thallium imaging and two-dimensional echocardiography The feasibility, safety and diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with thallium-201 imaging during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia were evaluated in 53 patients with and 7 without coronary artery disease proved by coronary angiography. Adenosine was infused intravenously at a dose of 0.14 mg/kg body weight per min for 6 min and thallium was injected at 3 min. Adenosine caused an increase in heart rate (68 +/- 12 at baseline versus 87 +/- 18 beats/min at peak effect, p less than 0.0001) but no change in blood pressure. The sensitivity and specificity were 92% (95% confidence intervals 81% to 98%) and 100% (95% confidence intervals 59% to 100%), respectively; 20 (61%) of 33 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease were also correctly identified. In 30 patients, the predictive accuracy of adenosine thallium imaging was slightly higher than that of exercise SPECT thallium imaging (90% versus 80%, p = NS) (95% confidence intervals 72% to 97% and 61% to 92%, respectively). In 25 patients, two-dimensional echocardiography during adenosine infusion disclosed a new wall motion abnormality in 2 (10%) of 20 patients with coronary artery disease; 80% of these patients had reversible thallium defects (p less than 0.001). Side effects were mild and transient; aminophylline was used in only three patients. Thus, adenosine SPECT thallium imaging provides a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. The results are comparable with those of exercise SPECT thallium imaging. Most reversible defects in the adenosine study are not associated with any transient wall motion abnormality. 
Nonsurgical treatment of Histoplasma endocarditis involving a bioprosthetic valve. Endocardial involvement associated with disseminated histoplasmosis has been infrequently documented, especially among patients with prosthetic valves. The therapeutic approach to these patients is also not yet clearly defined. A 54-year-old man with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to histoplasmosis was successfully treated with amphotericin B. A review of the literature suggests that the optimal form of therapy is likely a combination of surgical replacement of the involved valve and high dose amphotericin B. Successful therapy with amphotericin B alone may, however, be achieved if surgery is not a viable option. 
Lower extremity arterial disease in systemic lupus erythematosus. Lupus vasculitis primarily affects microvascular circulation, and large-vessel thrombosis is a rare complication of this disease. Large-vessel occlusive disease in systemic lupus erythematosus is most likely related to hypercoagulability in addition to immune complex-mediated endothelial damage. We describe the 11th and 12th patients reported to have systemic lupus erythematosus and macrovascular occlusive disease of the lower extremities. Our experience and a review of the literature suggest that, while aortoiliac disease is amenable to bypass or endarterectomy, infrainguinal disease is rarely correctable surgically, and amputation becomes necessary in most of these patients. 
Spontaneous myocardial ischemia and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram. The effects of transient myocardial ischemia on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram were investigated in 13 patients with coronary artery disease and spontaneous angina undergoing 3-channel ambulatory electrocardiography. Ischemia was seen as ST elevation in 2 patients or ST depression in 11; it was anterior in 5 patients, inferior in 4 and undefined in 4. Signal-averaged electrocardiograms with noise levels less than or equal to 1 microV were obtained from Holter tapes during 54 of 61 ischemic attacks recorded in the study group (88%), and compared with 54 tracings recorded within 60 minutes of the index attacks. Baseline tracings were normal in 8 patients (62%), showed a long QRS duration in 2 (15%), and both a long QRS duration and a late potential in the remaining 3 (23%). Comparison of recordings at baseline and during ischemic attacks revealed no significant changes in signal-averaged electrocardiographic parameters. Absence of significant differences was also noted when analysis was performed according to the type of ischemic attacks (associated with ST elevation [n = 14] or ST depression [n = 40]), their location (anterior [n = 21] or inferior [n = 23]), their duration (greater than 10 minutes [n = 29] or less than or equal to 10 minutes [n = 25]), and their magnitude (greater than 2 mm [n = 18] or less than or equal to 2 mm [n = 36]). It is concluded that spontaneous transient myocardial ischemia, independent of its type, location, duration and magnitude, does not generate a substrate for late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram. 
Symptomatic pericardial effusion in lung cancer patients: the role of fluid cytology. During the years 1975-1988, twenty lung cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion were treated conservatively at our center. Echocardiography demonstrated small pericardial effusion in 2 patients, medium size effusion in 3 patients and large amount of fluid in 15 patients. Fifteen patients developed cardiac tamponade; in three of these patients, this was the presenting manifestation of lung cancer. Pericardiocentesis resulted in prompt, though temporary, symptomatic relief in all patients. Fluid cytology demonstrated suspected malignant cells in 2 patients and malignant cells in 13 patients. Based on cytology, the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma was established in six patients, small cell carcinoma in three patients, and epidermoid carcinoma in one patient. All patients were dead within 9 months from the time of diagnosis of pericardial effusion; 17 died within less than 3 months. It is concluded that pericardial effusion in lung cancer is indicative of rapid tumor progression and short survival. Fluid cytology provides an immediate and accurate means of diagnosis. 
Occlusion of the brachial artery by thrombus dislodged from a traumatic aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery. The successful treatment of a brachial artery occlusion caused by a chronic embolizing aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery is described. In the case of embolizing axillary artery aneurysms, the best therapy is resection of the aneurysm followed by distal thromboembolectomy and vascular reconstruction by a saphenous vein segment. Prosthetic material should be reserved as a second choice. In this particular case successful therapy consisted of ligation of the anterior humeral circumflex artery proximal and distal to the aneurysm, resection of the aneurysm, and transcubital thromboembolectomy. 
Hemodynamic effects of diltiazem during vasoconstrictor pulmonary hypertension in sheep. Calcium channel blockers have been effective as pulmonary vasodilators in patients with pulmonary hypertension. The current study therefore compared the effects of prostaglandin E1, an effective pulmonary vasodilator, with the effects of the water-soluble calcium channel blocker diltiazem during pulmonary hypertension in sheep. Pulmonary hypertension was produced by continuous intravenous administration of U46619 to halothane-anesthetized sheep. Prostaglandin E1 decreased pulmonary artery pressure 29%, decreased pulmonary vascular resistance (Rp) 57%, and did not affect the ratio of pulmonary to systemic vascular resistance (Rp/Rs). Diltiazem decreased pulmonary artery pressure 15%, decreased Rp 50%, and did not affect Rp/Rs. When 0.33 mL/kg polyethylene glycol-ethanol vehicle (the vehicle used for nifedipine administration in a prior study) was administered during diltiazem infusion, pulmonary artery pressure increased 19%, Rp increased 72%, and Rp/Rs increased 29%. These results indicate that diltiazem is an effective pulmonary vasodilator and suggest that the previously reported unfavorable results of nifedipine may have been due to the vehicle used for nifedipine administration. 
Uses and limitations of transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of atrial septal defect in the adult. Two-dimensional and color Doppler echocardiography accurately detected the presence of an atrial septal defect (ASD) in 47 of 50 adults (mean age 40 years) confirmed by surgery or cardiac catheterization, or both. It correctly categorized all patients with ostium secundum and ostium primum ASD but misdiagnosed 3 of 5 patients with surgically proven sinus venosus ASD. The shunt flow volume across the ASD was calculated with the standard Doppler equation, and assuming the ASD to be circular correlated with shunt flow volume obtained by cardiac catheterization (r = 0.74). The maximum width of the color flow signals moving across the ASD was taken as its diameter. Mean flow velocity was determined either by placing a pulsed Doppler sample volume parallel to the flow across the ASD as visualized by color Doppler or by color M-mode examination, which allowed determination of flow velocities using a previously validated method that incorporates a computer analysis of pixel color intensity. The pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio obtained by color-guided conventional Doppler interrogation of the left and right ventricular outflow tracts correlated poorly with cardiac catheterization results (r = 0.38). In patients with associated tricuspid regurgitation, the peak systolic pulmonary artery pressure obtained by color Doppler-guided continuous-wave Doppler correlated well with that obtained at cardiac catheterization (r = 0.89). The maximum color Doppler jet width of the flow across the ASD poorly correlated with ASD size estimated at surgery (r = 0.50). 
Diagnostic value of maximal exercise tidal volume. Though breathing pattern is frequently analyzed during clinical exercise testing, there is little information regarding its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of impaired exercise tolerance. This study tested the hypothesis that differences in peak tidal volume during exercise between patients with different cardiorespiratory diseases are related largely to differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment (vital capacity), not to differences in disease state. Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, restrictive lung disease, bronchial asthma, and heart disease (mitral valve disease or left ventricular dysfunction) were studied. Subjects selected had one and only one of the above diagnoses. All subjects performed maximal (symptom-limited) incremental exercise on a cycle ergometer. Multiple linear regression of all subjects (n = 30) in all four groups showed a significant correlation between VTmax and VC: VTmax = 0.55, VC -0.09 L (r = 0.827, p less than 0.0001). The VTmax/VC (x 100) was (mean +/- SD) 44 +/- 15, 54 +/- 11, 56 +/- 11, and 54 +/- 12 for the COPD, RLD, BA and HD patients respectively. There was no significant difference between any of the groups. We concluded that differences in VTmax between different patients are related largely to differences in VC (ie, differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment), not to differences in disease state. Measurement of VTmax or the VTmax/VC ratio has little value in the differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea. 
In vivo technetium-99m S12 antibody imaging of platelet alpha-granules in rabbit endothelial neointimal proliferation after angioplasty. To examine the specificity of technetium-99m monoclonal antibody (S12) imaging for identifying activated platelets at interventional injury sites in atherosclerotic rabbit arteries, subgroups of unheparinized rabbits (n = 39) underwent serial percutaneous transluminal aortic angioplasty (PTA) procedures (with or without intravascular stent placement) followed by in vivo and then ex vivo gamma camera imaging, scanning, and immunoelectron microscopy to determine the intravascular loci of S12 Fab' antibody binding. Despite angiographic vessel patency, image-derived ratios of in vivo S12 binding in injured versus uninjured vascular segments were significantly increased (p less than 0.05) after one PTA (1.3 +/- 0.17, n = 7), PTA twice at 6-week intervals (1.4 +/- 0.22, n = 7), and PTA plus stent placement (1.6 +/- 0.28, n = 7) compared with control experiments (1.1 +/- 0.13, n = 7). Ex vivo imaging of blood-free excised aortas confirmed S12 localization at PTA (2 +/- 0.4, n = 3) and PTA plus stent placement (5 +/- 3.8, n = 7) sites (both p less than 0.05 versus controls). S12 antibody uptake decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) at 1 week after PTA plus stent placement in vivo (1.1 +/- 0.10, n = 4) and ex vivo (1.6 +/- 0.7, n = 3). Electron microscopic studies confirmed dense platelet, fibrin, and red blood cell deposition in regions of acute injury, with endothelial neointimal proliferation at 1 week after PTA. Immunoelectron microscopic studies confirmed specific in vivo S12 binding (22:1 versus nonrelevant IgG) at sites of alpha-granule GMP-140 expression in activated platelets. Therefore, S12 studies may be useful to localize sites of platelet-derived mitogen release at arterial PTA injury sites. 
Pseudo pre-excitation with concertina effect in idioventricular tachycardia. The concertina effect is a phenomenon where the QRS complexes reflect alternating phases of gradual widening and narrowing. This is most commonly due to ventricular pre-excitation, and the changes in QRS morphology are due to variability of the ventricular zone that undergoes pre-excitation. This presentation reflects a case where the concertina effect is due to an idioventricular tachycardia at a rate nearly identical to the sinus rate. Variable degrees of ventricular fusion therefore occur, and the concertina effect ensues, in relation to slight variations of the sinus cycle. 
Myocardial temperature during cardiac operations: influence on right ventricular function. Maintenance of right heart integrity is frequently neglected during coronary operations. Right ventricular dysfunction sometimes limits the success of the surgical procedure, however. In addition to the use of cardioplegic solutions, myocardial hypothermia during ischemic cardiac arrest seems to be an important factor for guaranteeing right ventricular performance thereafter. This study was designed to measure myocardial temperature in patients with coronary artery disease who have significant stenosis of the right coronary artery in comparison with those who do not have stenosis of the right coronary artery and to evaluate the influence of myocardial temperature on right ventricular hemodynamics after cardiopulmonary bypass. Right ventricular function was assessed by thermodilution technique, which allows measurement of right ventricular ejection fraction, right ventricular end-diastolic volume, and right ventricular end-systolic volume. Right ventricular temperature differed significantly between the two groups, with the lowest value of 15.1 degrees +/- 1.8 degrees C in the group without stenosis of the right coronary artery and a value of 22.2 degrees +/- 2.1 degrees C in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery. Left ventricular and septal temperatures were without group differences within the investigation period. Right ventricular hemodynamics were impaired only in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery with a decrease in right ventricular ejection fraction from 44.2% to 34.1% immediately after termination of bypass and an increase in right ventricular end-diastolic volume index (+38%) and right ventricular end-systolic volume index (+70%). Cardiac index decreased only in this group, too (-22.5%). Analysis of covariance revealed a significant correlation only between changes in right ventricular ejection fraction, right ventricular end-diastolic volume, and right ventricular end-systolic volume and the course of right myocardial temperature. It is concluded that right ventricular hypothermia is more difficult to achieve in patients with a diseased right coronary artery. Constant myocardial hypothermia, however, seems to be important in guaranteeing right ventricular function, which easily can be evaluated by the thermodilution technique. 
Effect of epinephrine and lidocaine therapy on outcome after cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation. One hundred ninety-nine patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest persisted in ventricular fibrillation after the first defibrillation attempt and were then randomly assigned to receive either epinephrine or lidocaine before the next two shocks. The resulting electrocardiographic rhythms and outcomes for each group of patients were compared for each group and also compared with results during the prior 2 years, a period when similar patients primarily received sodium bicarbonate as initial adjunctive therapy. Asystole occurred after defibrillation with threefold frequency after repeated injection of lidocaine (15 of 59, 25%) compared with patients treated with epinephrine (four of 55, 7%) (p less than 0.02). There was no difference in the proportion of patients resuscitated after treatment with either lidocaine or epinephrine (51 of 106, 48% vs. 50 of 93, 54%) and in the proportion surviving (18, 19% vs. 21, 20%), respectively. Resuscitation (64% vs. 50%, p less than 0.005) but not survival rates (24% vs. 20%) were higher during the prior 2-year period in which initial adjunctive drug treatment for persistent ventricular fibrillation primarily consisted of a continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate. The negative effect of lidocaine or epinephrine treatment was explained in part by their influence on delaying subsequent defibrillation attempts. Survival rates were highest (30%) in a subset of patients who received no drug therapy between shocks. We conclude that currently recommended doses of epinephrine and lidocaine are not useful for improving outcome in patients who persist in ventricular fibrillation. 
Effects of nitroprusside on transmitral flow velocity patterns in extreme heart failure: a combined hemodynamic and Doppler echocardiographic study of varying loading conditions. To explore the mechanisms of change of left ventricular diastolic filling associated with preload and afterload reduction, the influence of nitroprusside on the transmitral flow velocity pattern, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and left ventricular pressure interaction was studied in 11 patients with end-stage heart failure. Pulsed Doppler echocardiographic recordings of mitral inflow were obtained with simultaneous high fidelity left ventricular and phase-corrected pulmonary capillary wedge pressure recordings before and during levels of nitroprusside infusion. With nitroprusside, left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressures decreased by 14% and 41% (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.05), respectively, and cardiac output increased by 67% (p less than 0.05). The pulmonary capillary wedge-left ventricular crossover pressure decreased by 41% (p less than 0.05), but the time constant of isovolumetric left ventricular pressure decrease T was insignificantly changed. Isovolumetric relaxation time and acceleration and deceleration times of the early diastolic filling wave were significantly prolonged with nitroprusside infusion (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.05, respectively). Peak early diastolic filling velocity was maintained (65 +/- 11 to 62 +/- 13 cm/s, p = NS) in spite of the decreased absolute crossover pressure. Changes in peak early diastolic filling velocity correlated weakly with changes in the crossover pressure (r = 0.48, p less than 0.05) and correlated better with the crossover to left ventricular minimal pressure difference (r = 0.78, p less than 0.05). Peak early diastolic filling velocity appears to be most affected by the early diastolic pulmonary capillary wedge to left ventricular pressure difference rather than the absolute pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. The lack of peak flow velocity change during nitroprusside infusion could be explained by either the associated decrease in left ventricular minimal pressure or downward shift of left ventricular diastolic pressure by the same amount as the decrease in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. This may reflect a reduction of external constraint to ventricular distensibility produced by a reduction in filling volume in patients with a markedly dilated ventricle. Thus, a prolonged early diastolic filling period and preserved peak early diastolic filling velocity in spite of decreased left ventricular filling pressure and constant relaxation rate are associated with the beneficial effects of nitroprusside on left ventricular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure. 
Afibrinogenemia and hypobetalipoproteinemia in a kindred. A 3-year-old boy with minor bleeding problems had no plasma fibrinogen measured by both clottable assay and immuno-precipitation. Low normal fibrinogen levels were present in the mother and father. Markedly decreased plasma cholesterol and apolipoprotein B levels were found in the father, proband's brother, and the paternal side of the kindred. The proband and his mother had normal plasma total cholesterol and apolipoprotein B levels. These findings are compatible with autosomal dominant transmission of hypobetalipoproteinemia and autosomal recessive transmission of afibrinogenemia. Two members of the father's family had plasma cholesterol levels below the fifth percentile but elevated levels of fibrinogen (6.0 and 4.4 g/L). Both have symptomatic coronary heart disease. Finding coronary heart disease with very low cholesterol but elevated fibrinogen levels is consistent with fibrinogen levels being an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease. 
Prognostic importance of the serum magnesium concentration in patients with congestive heart failure. Magnesium abnormalities are common in patients with congestive heart failure but the clinical and prognostic significance of an abnormal serum magnesium concentration in this disorder has not been investigated. Therefore, the relation between serum magnesium concentration and the clinical characteristics and long-term outcome of 199 patients with chronic heart failure was evaluated. The serum magnesium concentration was less than 1.6 mEq/liter in 38 patients (19%), within the normal range in 134 patients (67%) and greater than 2.1 mEq/liter in 27 patients (14%). Patients with hypomagnesemia had more frequent ventricular premature complexes and episodes of ventricular tachycardia than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration (p less than 0.05). Even though the two groups were similar with respect to severity of heart failure and neurohormonal variables, patients with a low serum magnesium concentration had a significantly worse prognosis during long-term follow-up (45% versus 71% 1 year survival, p less than 0.05). Patients with hypermagnesemia had more severe symptoms, greater neurohormonal activation and worse renal function than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration but tended to have fewer ventricular arrhythmias. Hypermagnesemic patients had a worse prognosis than did those with a normal magnesium concentration (37% versus 71% 1 year survival, p less than 0.05). In conclusion, the measurement of serum magnesium concentration provides important clinical and prognostic information in patients with chronic heart failure. 
Cardiovascular and hormonal effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide in congestive heart failure. The effects of infusing human alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide were studied in eight patients with congestive heart failure, five normal rabbits and five rabbits with adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy. In patients with heart failure, calcitonin gene-related peptide caused a dose-dependent increase in cardiac output and decrease in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure. The systemic blood pressure and right atrial and pulmonary wedge pressures decreased only at the highest infusion rate (16 ng/kg per min). Heart rate remained unchanged. Plasma epinephrine increased (p less than 0.05), whereas aldosterone, atrial natriuretic peptide and prolactin concentrations decreased (p less than 0.05). Plasma norepinephrine, renin activity, cortisol and growth hormone concentrations remained unchanged. In both groups of rabbits, the drug decreased blood pressure and increased cardiac output and heart rate. There was a significant increase in renal blood flow (p less than 0.05). The peptide did not affect the contraction amplitude of human and rabbit ventricular myocytes. These findings suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a vasodilator in the rabbit and humans with little direct effect on ventricular myocardium. This peptide may be useful in some forms of heart failure. 
Ventricular ectopy: significance and management. Ventricular ectopy is a normal variant of cardiac rhythm, and its significance in an individual is related to cardiac risk factors and the presence or absence of heart disease. Although there is good evidence in many forms of heart disease that complex VEBs indicate a high risk of death, treatment of asymptomatic VEBs with antiarrhythmic drugs has not been shown to improve survival and may be hazardous. Treatment should be directed at the underlying heart disease. Those with heart disease and severe symptoms resulting from VEBs will often require electrophysiological assessment as to specific antiarrhythmic therapy. Those without heart disease can usually be managed by reassurance and do not require antiarrhythmic drugs. 
Effects of brief coronary occlusion and reperfusion on porcine coronary artery reactivity. The loss of coronary vasodilator reserve after ischemia-reperfusion may be due to endothelial injury, and this vascular dysfunction may contribute to functional alterations observed after ischemia. To determine whether endothelial dysfunction occurs after relatively brief periods of moderate low-flow ischemia in vivo, open-chest swine were subjected to 15 minutes of critical, subtotal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion (80%) followed by 60 minutes of reperfusion. Serial measurements of regional coronary flow were made with the radiolabeled microsphere technique. After 60 minutes of reperfusion, the left anterior descending coronary artery was excised together with a section of the normally perfused left circumflex coronary artery to examine in vitro the relaxations to the endothelium-dependent dilators ADP and bradykinin and to the endothelial-independent dilators sodium nitroprusside and adenosine. Contractions to serotonin in quiescent rings were also examined. Endocardial and transmural blood flows recovered to preocclusion levels within 60 minutes of reperfusion, as did the epicardial-to-endocardial ratio. Vascular responses in isolated, reperfused left anterior descending coronary artery rings were significantly different from responses in control left circumflex coronary artery rings. Endothelium-dependent relaxations to adenosine diphosphate and bradykinin were significantly depressed in the left anterior descending coronary artery rings compared with left circumflex coronary artery rings (p less than 0.05). Serotonin-induced contractions were significantly greater in occluded-reperfused left anterior descending than in left circumflex coronary arteries (p less than 0.05). Relaxations to adenosine and sodium nitroprusside were not significantly different between the two groups. 
Studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. XXIII. Deleterious effects of simulated thrombolysis preceding simulated coronary artery bypass grafting with controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion. This study tests whether simulated thrombolysis before controlled reperfusion (i.e., simulated coronary artery bypass) causes reperfusion injury that obviates the benefits of subsequent controlled reperfusion and results in unnecessary ventricular arrhythmias. Fifteen dogs underwent acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. In 10 dogs we simulated thrombolysis after 1 hour of ischemia (delivering 10% to 15% of control flow at 5 ml/min), followed 1 hour later by either normal blood reperfusion at systemic pressure (to simulate percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) in five dogs or regionally controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass in five others to simulate coronary bypass. In five dogs ischemia was prolonged to 2 hours, and the initial reperfusate was blood cardioplegic solution on total vented bypass (to simulate primary coronary bypass). All hearts receiving simulated thrombolysis (100%) after 1 hour of ischemia had reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation. All hearts treated by simulated angioplasty recovered regional contractility (56% of control systolic shortening), whereas there was no (0%) recovery of spontaneous contractility after subsequent blood cardioplegic reperfusion, and only two (40%) dogs had contractile reserve capacity (6% +/- 49%). Conversely, surgically controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion without preceding low-flow normal blood reperfusion after 2 hours of ischemia resulted in no ventricular arrhythmias (0%; p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis), 72% +/- 7% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of regional contractility (ultrasonic crystals), and 114% +/- 11% (p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis) recovery of contractile reserve with calcium chloride stimulation. We conclude that controlled reperfusion (simulating coronary artery bypass) with blood cardioplegic solution produces immediate functional recovery and avoids the ventricular fibrillation that follows simulated thrombolysis despite the need for prolonged ischemic time. Preceding controlled reperfusion by normal blood reperfusion (simulated thrombolysis) shortens the ischemic time but nullifies immediate functional recovery possible by simulated coronary bypass and produces unnecessary arrhythmias. 
Cardiac arrest due to spontaneous coronary artery dissection in a patient with coronary ectasia--a case report. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection is a rare event and only in a few patients has the diagnosis been angiographically confirmed during life. A spontaneous dissection of the right coronary artery was detected as a cause of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in a patient with coronary artery ectasia. 
Hyperresponsiveness of the extrathoracic airway in patients with captopril-induced cough It has been suggested that cough from captopril may originate from an increased sensitivity of receptors in the extrathoracic airway (EA). To explore this hypothesis, we assessed the responsiveness of EA and bronchi and the cough sensitivity to inhaled histamine in nine hypertensive patients with captopril-induced cough (group 1) during treatment and one month after withdrawal of the drug treatment. Nine patients who were asymptomatic while receiving captopril (group 2) and nine patients receiving no current treatment (group 3) served as controls. The EA responsiveness was assessed by using the maximal midinspiratory flow (MIF50) as an arbitrary index of EA constriction and was expressed as the histamine concentration causing a 25 percent decrease in MIF50 (PC25MIF50). PC15FEV1 was the index of bronchial responsiveness and PCcough (dose causing five or more coughs) was that of cough sensitivity. Airway hyperresponsiveness (EA-HR or BHR) was diagnosed when PC25MIF50 or PC15FEV1 were 8 mg/ml or lower. Patients with captopril-cough, as compared with controls, had significantly lower values of PC25MIF50, PC15FEV1, and PCcough; EA-HR and BHR were found, respectively, in seven and three of these patients and in none of the control subjects. In all the patients of group 1, cough and EA-HR resolved after withdrawal of captopril treatment, while BHR persisted in one. PC25MIF50, PC15FEV1, and PCcough were all significantly improved. Our findings suggest that cough during captopril therapy may originate from receptors in the EA. 
Intraocular pressure increases with fenoldopam, but not nitroprusside, in hypertensive humans. Fenoldopam mesylate stimulates adenyl cyclase in porcine ocular trabecular meshwork and raises intraocular pressure in humans. To clarify whether this results from direct activation of the dopamine-1 receptor or indirectly from baroreflex sympathetic stimulation after blood pressure reduction, intraocular pressure was measured in 14 patients with accelerated/malignant hypertension, randomized between intravenous fenoldopam or sodium nitroprusside. Intraocular pressure was measured with a Perkins tonometer, before and at the twentieth minute of each dose increment. In seven patients with a mean blood pressure of 232/131 mm Hg treated with fenoldopam, intraocular pressure increased in a dose-dependent fashion, from 16 +/- 1 to 20 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.005). In contrast, seven patients with a mean blood pressure of 225/134 mm Hg treated with sodium nitroprusside exhibited no change in intraocular pressure (15 +/- 1 versus 14 +/- 1 mm Hg) despite similar blood pressure reduction. Increases in heart rate were not significantly different. Rates of urinary excretion of norepinephrine plus epinephrine increased significantly relative to baseline (p less than 0.05) but were not different between groups. These data suggest that the increase in intraocular pressure with fenoldopam results from specific activation of the dopamine-1 receptor and is not caused by baroreflex sympathetic stimulation. Because dopamine-1 receptors may modulate intraocular pressure, dopamine-1 receptor blockers might be useful therapy for glaucoma. 
The prevalence of retinal vascular abnormalities in children and adolescents with essential hypertension. We studied 97 children and adolescents with essential hypertension by evaluating photographs of the optic fundus and fluorescein angiography. Photographs were examined for the presence of arteriolar narrowing, tortuosity, and arteriovenous nicking. Intraobserver and interobserver variability in determination of abnormalities was low with agreement of 75% for narrowing, 90% for tortuosity, and 100% for arteriovenous nicking. The prevalence of abnormalities was 41% (95% confidence interval, 31% to 50%) for arteriolar narrowing, 14% (95% confidence interval, 19% to 21%) for tortuosity, and 8% (95% confidence interval, 5% to 11%) for arteriovenous nicking. Of 97 patients, 50 (51%) had one or more abnormality. Retinal abnormalities are relatively common in young patients with essential hypertension. 
Myocardial protein turnover in patients with coronary artery disease. Effect of branched chain amino acid infusion. The regulation of protein metabolism in the human heart has not previously been studied. In 10 postabsorptive patients with coronary artery disease, heart protein synthesis and degradation were estimated simultaneously from the extraction of intravenously infused L-[ring-2,6-3H]phenylalanine (PHE) and the dilution of its specific activity across the heart at isotopic steady state. We subsequently examined the effect of branched chain amino acid (BCAA) infusion on heart protein turnover and on the myocardial balance of amino acids and branched chain ketoacids (BCKA) in these patients. In the postabsorptive state, there was a net release of phenylalanine (arterial-cardiac venous [PHE] = -1.71 +/- 0.32 nmol/ml, P less than 0.001; balance = -116 +/- 21 nmol PHE/min, P less than 0.001), reflecting protein degradation (142 +/- 40 nmol PHE/min) in excess of synthesis (24 +/- 42 nmol PHE/min) and net myocardial protein catabolism. During BCAA infusion, protein synthesis increased to equal the degradation rate (106 +/- 24 and 106 +/- 28 nmol PHE/min, respectively) and the phenylalanine balance shifted (P = 0.01) from negative to neutral (arterial-cardiac venous [PHE] = 0.07 +/- 0.36 nmol/ml; balance = 2 +/- 25 nmol PHE/min). BCAA infusion stimulated the myocardial uptake of both BCAA (P less than 0.005) and their ketoacid conjugates (P less than 0.001) in proportion to their circulating concentrations. Net uptake of the BCAA greatly exceeded that of other essential amino acids suggesting a role for BCAA and BCKA as metabolic fuels. Plasma insulin levels, cardiac double product, coronary blood flow, and myocardial oxygen consumption were unchanged. These results demonstrate that the myocardium of postabsorptive humans is in negative protein balance and indicate a primary anabolic effect of BCAA on the human heart. 
The role of peripheral capacitance and resistance vessels in hypotension following hemodialysis. The arterial pressure (AP) response to hemodialysis was studied with echocardiography and strain gauge plethysmography in 17 patients with end-stage renal disease; mean AP was unchanged in seven (group A) and was reduced by more than 10 mm Hg in 10 patients (group B). Following dialysis, body weight decreased and heart rate increased equally in both groups. Ejection fraction did not change in the two groups. Left ventricular end-diastolic volume fell by 13 +/- 10% in group A and by 24 +/- 16% in group B. Cardiac index (CI) fell in group B, but remained unchanged in group A. Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) did not change in both groups. The change in mean AP before and after dialysis was significantly correlated with that in Cl (r = 0.49, p less than 0.05), but not with that in SVR. Calf venous pressure-volume curves were not different between the two groups before dialysis. Hemodialysis shifted the curve toward the volume axis for group B but not for group A. These results suggest that hypotension following dialysis is mainly due to the fall in cardiac output, in which increases in venous distensibility play an important role. 
Echocardiographic evaluation of cardiac structure and function in elderly subjects with isolated systolic hypertension One hundred four participants in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) trial (mean age 71 +/- 6 years) were examined by Doppler echocardiography to gain information on the cardiac structural and functional alterations in isolated systolic hypertension. Participants had a systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm Hg with diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg and were compared with 55 age-matched normotensive control subjects. Left ventricular mass index was significantly higher in the participants than in the normotensive subjects (103 +/- 28 versus 87 +/- 23 g/m2, p = 0.0014) and 26% of the participants met echocardiographic criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy compared with 10% of normotensive subjects. Left atrial index was also greater in participants than in normotensive subjects (2.26 +/- 0.32 versus 2.11 +/- 0.24 cm/m2, p = 0.005) and 51% of participants had left atrial enlargement. Doppler measures of diastolic filling were significantly different between the two groups, with peak atrial velocity higher (76 +/- 17 versus 69 +/- 17 cm/s, p = 0.02) and ratio of peak early to atrial velocity lower (0.76 +/- 0.23 versus 0.86 +/- 0.22, p = 0.0124) in participants. There was no correlation between left ventricular mass index and Doppler measures of diastolic function, but relative wall thickness correlated significantly with peak atrial velocity (r = 0.22, p = 0.016) and peak early to peak atrial velocity ratio (r = 0.24, p = 0.007). There was no difference in M-mode ejection phase indexes of systolic performance (shortening fraction and peak velocity of circumferential fiber shortening) between the two groups. 
Kawasaki disease: echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the United Kingdom. Ninety-one patients with Kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988. In the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness (the first month), the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days (range 5-30) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 (28%). Two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions, and one died. Coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 (23%) patients, most often in younger children. The remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses, and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities. Seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography. Selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis, which the Japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness. 
Effect of mitral regurgitation and volume loading on pressure half-time before and after balloon valvotomy in mitral stenosis. Doppler pressure half-time (PHT) is frequently used to assess mitral valve area (MVA), but the reliability of PHT has recently been challenged, specifically in the setting of balloon mitral valvotomy when hemodynamics have been abruptly altered. The effect of volume loading both before and after balloon mitral valvotomy on computation of MVA by Gorlin and by PHT in 18 patients with high-fidelity micromanometer measurements of left atrial and left ventricular pressure was therefore examined. Echocardiographic MVA increased from 0.91 +/- 0.15 to 1.97 +/- 0.42 cm2 after valvotomy. Volume loading produced significant increases in left atrial pressure (16 to 23 before and 12 to 20 mm Hg after valvotomy), in cardiac output (3.7 to 4.1 before and 3.9 to 4.6 liters/min after valvotomy), and in mitral valve gradient (11 to 14 before and 5 to 7 mm Hg after valvotomy). These hemodynamic changes were associated with modest but significant decreases in PHT and increases in MVA estimated by 220/PHT (0.66 to 0.81 before and 1.64 to 1.96 cm2 after valvotomy), whereas the MVA by Gorlin was not affected in a consistent fashion by volume loading (0.85 to 0.89 before and 1.66 to 1.69 cm2 after valvotomy). The correlation between Gorlin MVA and 220/PHT was only fair (r = 0.73, p less than 0.001) and was significantly poorer among patients with greater than 1+ mitral regurgitation (r = 0.72) than among those with less or no regurgitation (r = 0.79) (p = 0.001 by analysis of covariance for mitral regurgitation effect). 
Is baldness a risk factor for coronary artery disease? A review of the literature. A literature search identified eight articles containing data on both baldness and coronary artery disease (CAD). Three of these articles described case-control studies that showed a positive relationship between baldness and CAD when controlling for CAD risk factors. Three other case-control studies showed no such relationship, but these did not control for CAD risk factors. The results of two cohort studies were inconclusive. Insufficient data were available from these studies to analyze possible relationships between baldness and CAD risk factors themselves. Overall, the data reviewed suggest that a small risk of CAD due to baldness may exist, but this risk is smaller than that of well-known CAD risk factors such as smoking and hypertension. Future research should emphasize proper control for age and CAD risk factors. 
Acquired Lutembacher syndrome or mitral stenosis and acquired atrial septal defect after transseptal mitral valvuloplasty. Critical mitral stenosis in selected patients may be treated successfully with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty. Complications of this procedure, particularly an atrial septal defect following transseptal approach, are generally of minor clinical significance. We describe a woman who initially underwent a successful percutaneous double-balloon mitral valvuloplasty via the transseptal approach. Three months later she presented with right-sided heart failure. Color Doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization demonstrated an atrial septal defect (ASD) as well as restenosis of the mitral valve. We conclude that significant ASDs may occur following transseptal mitral valvuloplasty with appearance of right ventricular failure and that color Doppler imaging aids in the diagnosis of this new variant of the classical Lutembacher syndrome. 
Hormones regulating cardiovascular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure and their relation to mortality. CONSENSUS Trial Study Group. There is a varying hormonal activation in heart failure. To be able to evaluate this activation and relate it to prognosis, we took blood samples at baseline and after 6 weeks from 239 patients with severe heart failure (all in New York Heart Association class IV) randomized to additional treatment with enalapril or placebo. In this study (CONSENSUS), which has previously been reported, there was a significant reduction in mortality among patients treated with enalapril. The present data show in the placebo group a significant positive relation between mortality and levels of angiotensin II (p less than 0.05), aldosterone (p = 0.003), noradrenaline (p less than 0.001), adrenaline (p = 0.001), and atrial natriuretic factor (p = 0.003). A similar relation was not observed among the patients treated with enalapril. Significant reductions in mortality in the groups of patients treated with enalapril were consistently found among patients with baseline hormone levels above median values. There were significant reductions in hormone levels from baseline to 6 weeks in the group of patients treated with enalapril for all hormones except adrenaline. There were no correlations between these changes in hormone levels. Summarily, there is a pronounced but variable neurohormonal activation in heart failure even in patients with similar clinical findings. This activation is reduced by enalapril therapy. The results suggest that the effect of enalapril on mortality is related to hormonal activation in general and the renin-angiotensin system in particular. 
Effect of hemodilution on capillary and arteriolovenous shunt flow in organs after cardiac arrest in dogs. The purpose of this study was to observe the changes in capillary and arteriolovenous shunting blood flow after cardiac arrest and subsequent resuscitation by venous return occlusion produced by inflation of an intra-atrial balloon and cross-clamping of the ascending aorta, and to determine how hemodilution might modify such changes. Organ capillary blood flow and the fractional distribution of cardiac output were measured by the microsphere (9-microns diameter) trapping method in dogs. Simultaneously, the arteriolovenous shunt rate was measured by continuous collection of venous blood drained at 4.8 ml.min-1 for 2 min from the brain, kidney, liver, splanchnic organs, skeletal muscle of the pelvic limb, and all of the systemic circulatory organs. The capillary blood flow of the brain, thyroid gland, pancreas, and stomach decreased after circulatory arrest in five nonhemodiluted dogs (group C); arteriolovenous shunt rate was unchanged after circulatory arrest in this group. However, with hemodilution, which was induced either before (pre group, n = 5) or after (post group, n = 5) circulatory arrest, no change occurred in the shunt rate in any of the organs, with the exception of an increase in the systemic arteriolovenous shunt rate in the pre group. Capillary blood flow was maintained at almost the same level as before circulatory arrest in the pre group, but increased significantly in several organs of the post group. The data indicated that hemodilution might be effective for prevention of organ ischemia after cardiac arrest. 
Haemorheological changes in patients with retinal vein occlusion after isovolaemic haemodilution. In 83 patients with central retinal vein occlusion and branch vein occlusion we measured the haematocrit (HCT), plasma viscosity (PV), red cell aggregation (RCA), red cell filterability (RCF) and apparent whole blood viscosity (WBV). A control group (n = 41) was matched for sex, age, and cardiovascular risk factors. Measurements were performed before and after treatment with isovolaemic haemodilution (IHD). We found no significant differences between patients with retinal vein occlusion (RVO) and control subjects in haematocrit, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, and red cell filterability and no increased whole blood viscosity in the patient group. Patients with ischaemic retinal vein occlusion and non-ischaemic retinal vein occlusion did not show different haemorheological parameters either. After treatment with haemodilution, only the haematocrit and whole blood viscosity were significantly decreased, and there were no changes in plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation or red cell filterability. 
Xanthine oxidase inhibition does not limit canine infarct size. BACKGROUND. Evidence supporting the role of xanthine oxidase in myocardial reperfusion injury is based on studies with pharmacological interventions used to inhibit enzyme function. Controversy exists, however, regarding the true role of xanthine oxidase in reperfusion injury. This study was performed to determine whether xanthine oxidase inhibition limits myocardial injury due to coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion. METHODS AND RESULTS. Anesthetized dogs underwent coronary artery occlusion (90 minutes) and reperfusion (6 hours). Oxypurinol (28 mg/kg) or amflutizole (30 mg/kg), chemically unrelated inhibitors of xanthine oxidase, or vehicle was infused intravenously 15 minutes before and 3 hours after reperfusion. Regional myocardial blood flow was determined with radiolabeled microspheres. Infarct size was determined with the tetrazolium method. Myocardial infarct size (percent of risk region) was less in oxypurinol-treated dogs, 32 +/- 16%, compared with that of the control group, 46 +/- 15%. Infarct size for the amflutizole-treated dogs, 40 +/- 21%, was not significantly different from that of the control group. There were no differences in rate-pressure product or collateral blood flow to account for differences in infarct size. Uric acid concentration in the coronary venous plasma increased after reperfusion in the dogs treated with vehicle but not in the drug-treated dogs. Xanthine oxidase inhibition was demonstrated in each of the drug treatment groups, but only oxypurinol limited the extent of myocardial injury. CONCLUSIONS. Previously reported cardioprotective effects of allopurinol, noted to occur only when the drug was administered chronically, may be related to a property of oxypurinol, a major metabolite of allopurinol. The beneficial effect of oxypurinol is unrelated to inhibition of superoxide formation during xanthine oxidase-catalyzed oxidation of xanthine and hypoxanthine. 
Early postoperative balloon coronary angioplasty for failed coronary artery bypass grafting. In a small number of patients, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) fails to relieve anginal symptoms. The usefulness of coronary angioplasty for the treatment of early (less than or equal to 90 days) recurrent ischemia after CABG was examined. Forty-five patients were treated from 2 to 90 days after CABG, including 8 patients studied emergently for prolonged ischemic symptoms. One-, 2- and 3-vessel native disease was found in 4, 10 and 31 patients, respectively. At the time of postoperative angiography, the major anatomic mechanism of recurrent ischemia was complete vein graft occlusion in 12 patients (27%), internal mammary artery occlusion in 3 (7%), vein graft stenoses in 13 (29%), internal mammary artery stenoses in 10 (22%), unbypassed disease in 4 (8%) and disease distal to the graft insertion site in 3 (7%). Angioplasty was successful at 91 of 98 sites (93%), including 95% of 41 lesions in native arteries, 89% of 46 lesions in vein grafts and 100% of 11 internal mammary artery lesions attempted. Complete revascularization was achieved in 84% of patients. There were 2 in-hospital deaths and 2 myocardial infarctions. Two additional patients underwent repeat CABG before discharge after uncomplicated but unsuccessful angioplasty. At late follow-up of the 43 survivors (mean 44 months), there were 4 deaths, 2 of which were noncardiac. Repeat CABG was required in only 3 patients and repeat angioplasty was performed in 10. Angina was absent or minimal in 35 patients; 17 patients were employed full time. Thus, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty can relieve myocardial ischemia after unsuccessful CABG in the majority of patients. 
HLA class II (DR and DQ) antigen associations in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Validation study and meta-analysis of published HLA association studies We previously reported antigen frequency differences for HLA-DR4 and HLA-DRw6 between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) patients and healthy controls in a pilot study. To confirm these findings, we undertook an independent study with a prospective hypothesis regarding the frequencies of DR4 and DRw6; typing for a second family of class II antigens (HLA-DQ) was included because of the proximity of the DQ loci to the DR loci and the strong linkage disequilibrium between some of the DR and DQ alleles. Comparing a new consecutive series of IDC patients (n = 41) and healthy blood bank controls (n = 53), we confirmed an increase of DR4 antigen frequency in patients (49% versus 21%, p less than 0.005). A trend toward decreased expression of DRw6 among patients was also noted (10% of patients versus 23% of controls). HLA-DQw4 was significantly elevated in patients compared with controls (27% versus 6%, p less than 0.005; relative risk, 6.1; etiologic fraction, 0.22). We identified the combined DR4-DQw4 haplotype in five of 41 Caucasian IDC patients (12%) and none of 53 controls (p less than 0.007). A comparison of specific antigen frequencies between the preliminary and validation studies did not reveal significant differences; therefore, the data from the two studies were examined in combination. For the combined studies, DR4 was elevated (51% versus 27% in controls, p less than 0.001), and DRw6 was decreased (9% versus 24% in controls, p less than 0.01). The relative risk for DR4 was 2.8, and the etiologic fraction was 0.33. 
The role of intracaval filters in patients with COPD and DVT. A retrospective study of the Coney Island Hospital experience with Greenfield filters over a five-year period was undertaken. During this period, a total of 78 intracaval filters were placed in 76 patients. The patients' charts were reviewed for (1) indication for Greenfield filter placement, (2) complications of the procedure, (3) associated medical problems, and (4) follow-up information. The data revealed one statistically significant subpopulation within the group that had particularly poor survival statistics after intracaval filter insertion. These were patients who had a pulmonary embolism and also had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Considering the low morbidity associated with this procedure, it is the author's feeling that prophylactic intracaval filters in patients with deep vein thrombosis and COPD may be warranted. 
Obesity-related hypertension: evaluation of the separate effects of energy restriction and weight reduction on hemodynamic and neuroendocrine status. PURPOSE: Although weight reduction generally lowers blood pressure, it is unclear whether the response is due to concurrent dietary changes or to reduced body mass itself. In this study, the independent effects of energy restriction and weight reduction were examined prospectively in 24 obese, hypertensive, normoglycemic women whose dietary intake was tightly controlled. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sodium, potassium, and calcium intake, the polyunsaturated/saturated fat ratio, and the proportional composition of carbohydrate, fat, and protein were constant throughout the 5-month protocol. Hemodynamic and neuroendocrine status was evaluated in four 10-day hospital phases: two prior to weight loss (energy balance and then 800-kcal intake), and two after an average loss of 13 kg to normal body weight (800 kcal and then return to energy balance). RESULTS: Fasting serum insulin, triiodothyronine:reverse triiodothyronine ratio, resting metabolic rate, and heart rate declined, and sodium and potassium balances were negative during energy restriction. Catecholamines, renin, aldosterone, plasma volume, cardiac output, and blood pressure showed no consistent response to changes in energy intake. By contrast, weight reduction independently lowered blood pressure, plasma volume, cardiac output, and plasma renin activity. Body fat pattern remained unchanged. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that weight loss has a blood pressure-lowering effect that is distinct from energy restriction and that is related to changes in blood volume and cardiac output. 
Successful CPR in a severely hypothermic patient using continuous thoracostomy lavage. Severe hypothermia with cardiopulmonary arrest often requires prolonged resuscitation while rewarming procedures are implemented. A 63-year-old male in cardiopulmonary arrest with a core body temperature of 23.7 C was resuscitated successfully after core rewarming by means of a two-chest-tube continuous thoracostomy lavage procedure. This lavage procedure resulted in effective and rapid rewarming after other conventional rewarming methods had failed. 
Doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in general medical practice in Latin America. This Latin American study assessed in the general practice setting the efficacy and tolerance of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure, 95 to 115 mm Hg). Patients (n = 220) were treated with doxazosin for 12 weeks as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. At the final visit, doxazosin produced a mean change in sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressure of -18.4/-14.4 mm Hg, at a mean daily dose of 4.3 mg. One hundred sixty-three (77.6%) of the 210 evaluable patients were considered a therapeutic success. Lipid analyses identified a statistically significant (p = 0.02) reduction in total serum cholesterol (4.85%) and an overall decrease in triglyceride levels (5.12%). According to the Framingham Heart Study equation, doxazosin produced a highly significant (p less than 0.001) 20% reduction in the calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years. Of the 220 patients evaluated, 54 (24.5%) reported side effects that were considered related to treatment. Ten (4.5%) patients reported side effects unrelated to treatment and 37 (16.8%) reported events of unknown relationship. Most side effects were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. Nine patients (4.1%) were discontinued from therapy and in 13 (5.9%) the dose was reduced. The most prevalent side effects were headache and dizziness. The investigator's overall assessment of antihypertensive efficacy was excellent or good for 176 patients (80.4%); tolerance was considered excellent or good in 193 patients (88.5%). 
Factors affecting survival in total artificial heart recipients before transplantation. To identify factors affecting the successful bridge to transplantation, experience with 32 recipients of the Jarvik-7 artificial heart was reviewed. Between patients with and without a successful bridge, there were no significant differences in preoperative hepatorenal function or postoperative hemodynamics, but there were significant differences in body size. When recipients were divided according to body surface areas of less than or greater than 1.8 m2, the smaller patients more frequently developed respirator dependence (73% vs. 18%, p less than 0.01), renal failure (53% vs. 18%, p less than 0.05), and hepatic failure and sepsis, resulting in less frequent qualification for transplantation (20% vs. 65%, p less than 0.05). There were no successful bridge operations in seven patients with body surface areas of less than 1.7 m2, and only one success in nine patients who were less than 170 cm in height, despite use of a smaller stroke volume model. The smaller patients had poorer ventricular filling, which was largely compensated for by the drive controls set for significantly longer diastole and higher vacuum, resulting in similar hemodynamics between the groups. The results suggest that device fitting as manifested by body size is an important factor affecting major organ recovery and subsequent transplantation in recipients of the Jarvik-7 artificial heart. A paracorporeal device may be advisable for patients with body surface areas of less than 1.8 m2 or who were less than 175 cm in height until an even smaller model with a better fit in the thorax becomes available. 
Fusiform dilatations of the carotid artery following radical surgery of childhood craniopharyngiomas. Between 1982 and 1990, a series of 31 children with craniopharyngiomas underwent initial surgery at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia with an attempt at total tumor removal. Nine (29%) of them were found to have fusiform dilatation of the supraclinoid carotid artery either at the time of surgery for recurrence (one patient) or on routine surveillance with enhanced computerized tomography 6 to 18 months postoperatively (eight patients). The finding of carotid enlargement was confirmed in seven cases with magnetic resonance angiography and in one case with a formal arteriogram. Eight of the nine patients remain alive at a mean of 3.7 years after diagnosis. None have experienced hemorrhage or other symptoms referrable to fusiform dilatation of the carotid artery, which is believed to result from surgical manipulation of the carotid artery. 
In-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in men. The impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention. Psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge. Once discharged, patients in the treatment group responded to the GHQ by telephone on a monthly basis and, when they reported high levels of stress symptoms (GHQ greater than or equal to 5), received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems. Control patients received routine medical care after discharge. Post-hoc subgroup analyses based on life-table methods showed that, for patients receiving routine care after discharge, high stress (GHQ greater than or equal to 5) was associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 5 years (p = 0.0003) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of reinfarction over the same period (p = 0.09). In contrast, highly stressed patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk. Although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac mortality (p = 0.006) and AMI recurrences (p = 0.004) among highly stressed patients, there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of stress in the hospital. 
Direct CO2 laser "revascularization" of the myocardium. Evidence of regional myocardial perfusion and contractile function after direct CO2 laser myocardial revascularization (DLR) is lacking. We examined myocardial segment shortening, adenine nucleotide concentrations, and regional blood flow after DLR of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) distribution before and after its proximal ligation in seven anesthetized conditioned dogs. Sonomicrometry assessed myocardial fiber shortening and radioactive microspheres were used to estimate baseline regional blood flows. Cardiopulmonary bypass was followed by cardioplegia arrest. Laser channels (1 mm diameter) were made every 3 to 5 mm in the LAD region with an 80 watt Laser-sonics CO2 unit. Bypass was terminated, the LAD occluded, and parameters reassessed. Core samples of myocardium from the lased LAD and control circumflex area were taken to assess adenine nucleotides. After occlusion, LAD distribution blood flow and myocardial shortening were reduced to pre-lasting ischemic controls. Adenine nucleotides were reduced in the LAD region relative to the control CMX area. DLR cannot be relied upon to acutely revascularize the ischemic myocardium. 
Pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive patient with prior granulomatous aortitis. A 59-year-old man showed asynchronous development of noninfectious granulomatous aortitis with aneurysm, followed 9 months later by pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in association with elevated serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody levels. To our knowledge, the combination of large artery vasculitis and small vessel systemic vasculitis (capillaritis) has not been previously reported. This case may represent a hybrid type of systemic vasculitis combining features of giant cell arteritis and Wegener's granulomatosis. 
Long-term effect of mexiletine on left ventricular function and relation to suppression of ventricular arrhythmia. The effects of oral mexiletine on left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) and ventricular arrhythmias--and a possible relation between these effects--were evaluated during 3 months of therapy in 29 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) and a moderately reduced to normal LVEF by 24-hour Holter monitoring and by radionuclide ventriculography at rest and during maximum tolerable exercise testing. After an average titration period of 13 days, a mean daily mexiletine dose of 739 mg was maintained throughout the treatment. At the end of titration and after 3 months of treatment, patients with a baseline LVEF less than or equal to 40% (group 2) responded with a median reduction of the hourly VPC rate by 90 and 81%, respectively, compared with 79 and 72% in those with a baseline LVEF greater than 40% (group 1). Couplets and runs of ventricular tachycardia were almost completely suppressed in nearly all patients. A single patient had a proarrhythmic increase in VPCs during treatment. Compared with baseline, there were no significant changes in resting or exercise LVEF after 1 or 3 months of treatment in either of the 2 groups of patients. No correlation was found between treatment-induced changes in arrhythmia frequency and in resting EF. No symptoms of congestive heart failure developed. The study confirms that long-term use of mexiletine is efficacious and relatively free of cardiac depressant effects even in patients with diminished LV function. 
A prospective comparison of rubidium-82 PET and thallium-201 SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging utilizing a single dipyridamole stress in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease The purpose of the present study is to prospectively compare myocardial perfusion imaging with rubidium-82 (82Rb) by positron emission tomography (PET) with thallium-201 (201Tl) imaging by single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) by recording both studies with a single dipyridamole handgrip stress, and reading both sets of images with the same display technique. In a series of 202 patients with previous coronary arteriography, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 82Rb PET were 93%, 78%, and 90% and for 201Tl SPECT 76%, 80%, and 77%, respectively. When 70 patients with previous therapeutic interventions were excluded, the remaining 132 patients showed a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 95%, 82% and 92% for 82Rb PET and 79%, 76%, and 78% for 201Tl SPECT. The improved contrast resolution of PET resulted in markedly superior images and a more confident identification of defects. 
The management of primary pulmonary hypertension. Primary pulmonary hypertension is a clinical syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypertension in the absence of sufficient underlying cardiac, parenchymal pulmonary, or systemic disease to account for it. The population of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension is a heterogeneous one, both clinically and histologically. As the etiologic mechanisms are unknown, therapy is directed toward the consequences of the pulmonary vascular process. Oxygen supplementation, the use of digoxin and diuretics for symptomatic heart failure, and anticoagulation all may have a role in treating primary pulmonary hypertension, although vasodilator therapy has been the main area of investigation. Screening for vasodilator responsiveness, defining a favorable vasodilator effect, predicting long-term effectiveness, and deciding who to treat have all been controversial. New approaches, such as use of high-dose calcium channel-blocking agents and continuous intravenous infusion of prostacyclin (an investigational agent), have recently been proposed. When medical therapies are exhausted, heart-lung or lung transplantation has increasingly become an option for selected patients. 
Report of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society's consensus conference on the Management of the Postmyocardial Infarction Patient. In October 1989, the Canadian Cardiovascular Society announced a program to achieve consensus on important issues in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease. This report on the management of the postmyocardial infarction patient represents the first in a series of these consensus conferences. The process for establishing consensus recommendations involved several steps. A primary panel of 11 experts from various fields was selected to review the available clinical evidence and to make a list of recommendations about management decisions in the postmyocardial infarction period. The initial report was distributed to a secondary panel of 16 reviewers* representing allied health care constituencies from across Canada. On the basis of the critical reviews and feedback from these reviewers, a revised report was distributed to all members (over 800) of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society for further review and feedback. This iterative approach resulted in a penultimate report that was presented at a plenary session of the annual scientific meeting of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society on Oct. 18, 1990, in Halifax, NS. On the basis of discussion and feedback from this symposium, the consensus review was completed. 
Adaptation to ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Clinical, hemodynamic, and metabolic features The clinical, electrocardiographic, and coronary hemodynamic responses to sequential 90-second occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 12 patients undergoing elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were examined. Transmyocardial lactate metabolism was examined in an additional group of seven patients with clinical and hemodynamic features similar to the first group. We noted that in comparison with the initial balloon occlusion the second occlusion was characterized by less subjective anginal discomfort, less ST segment shift (0.44 +/- 0.13 versus 0.21 +/- 0.07 mV, p = 0.01), and lower mean pulmonary artery pressure (25 +/- 1.0 versus 20 +/- 1.7 mm Hg, p = 0.005). In addition, for the same heart rate-blood pressure product, cardiac vein flow during the second inflation was significantly lower than that recorded during the first inflation (96 +/- 1.4 versus 83 +/- 2.4 ml/min, p = 0.005). Finally, there was significantly less myocardial lactate production during the second inflation (lactate extraction ratio: first inflation, -0.11 +/- 0.03; second inflation, -0.03 +/- 0.02; p = 0.04). We conclude that the lessened clinical, electrocardiographic, hemodynamic, and metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia during the second of two periods of coronary artery occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty supports the concept of adaptation to myocardial ischemia (ischemic preconditioning). 
Long-term follow-up of patients after transcatheter direct current ablation of the atrioventricular junction. The long-term follow-up study (41 +/- 23 months) of 47 patients undergoing direct current ablation because of drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias is reported. Significant early complications occurred in four patients and included hypotension, pericarditis, nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and one sudden death. In 42 patients (86%), complete atrioventricular (AV) block was initially achieved. During the follow-up period, AV conduction resumed in 2 of these 42 patients. Of the seven patients in whom ablation was unsuccessful, two developed late complete AV block and three had symptomatic improvement. An improved activity level was reported among 83% of the patients with successful ablation. Health care utilization manifest as the number of hospital admissions per year before and after ablation decreased significantly after ablation (2.4 +/- 2.0 versus 0.3 +/- 0.5, p less than 0.001). Echocardiographic evaluation in five patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (27 +/- 7%) before ablation showed a significant increase (45 +/- 14%, p less than 0.05) after an average follow-up period of 31 months. New onset of congestive heart failure occurred after ablation in four patients, of whom two had no structural heart disease. The total mortality rate, including the one patient with sudden death, was 17% and was significantly higher among patients with underlying structural heart disease. Transcatheter direct current ablation is an effective treatment in patients with drug-resistant supraventricular tachycardia, providing a beneficial long-term outcome including an improved quality of life and a decrease in health care utilization. 
Effects of thoracic epidural anesthesia on coronary arteries and arterioles in patients with coronary artery disease. The effect of cardiac sympathetic blockade by high thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) (T1-T6, bupivacaine) on the luminal diameter of normal and diseased portions of epicardial coronary arteries was determined by quantitative coronary angiography in patients (n = 27) with severe coronary artery disease (CAD). In a separate group of patients (n = 9) with severe CAD, the effects of TEA on coronary arterioles (resistance vessels) were studied, by measuring total and regional myocardial blood flow and metabolism with the retrograde coronary sinus thermodilution technique. At the stenotic segments, TEA induced an increase in luminal diameter from 1.34 +/- 0.11 to 1.56 +/- 0.13 mm (P less than 0.002), but did not change the diameter of the nonstenotic segments (3.07 +/- 0.13 to 2.99 +/- 0.13 mm). In the second group of patients, TEA induced no changes in coronary perfusion pressure, total or regional myocardial blood flow, coronary venous oxygen content, coronary blood flow distribution, regional myocardial oxygen consumption, or lactate extraction or uptake. Two patients had chest pain in the control situation and had regional myocardial lactate production that was attenuated by TEA. We conclude that TEA may increase the diameter of stenotic epicardial coronary artery segments in patients with CAD without causing a dilation of coronary arterioles. These effects may be beneficial when high TEA is used to treat severe ischemic chest pain in patients at rest. 
Diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis: long-term observations in patients treated with ancrod. Twenty-two patients with histologically demonstrated diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis (DPLN) and glomerular thrombosis received a 14-day course of ancrod, followed in most by nitrogen mustard (mechlorethamine hydrochloride) 0.4 mg/kg. Many were referred when renal function was deteriorating despite large doses of prednisone. The patients had severe disease; there was a high degree of glomerular sclerosis; the median serum creatinine was 137 mumol/l, the diastolic blood pressure 101 mm Hg. Reported previously was a short-term improvement in renal function, blood pressure, and renal histology. Reported here is the long-term follow-up on all 22 patients for an average of 58 months. Three died of causes other than renal failure. Eleven developed end-stage renal disease an average of 27 months after ancrod treatment. The other 8 are alive with no deterioration of renal function after an average of 70 months. This outcome seems satisfactory when disease severity is taken into consideration. Factors present at treatment start that might be associated with subsequent renal function deterioration were: prior prolonged prednisone treatment, extensive glomerular sclerosis, high plasma alpha 2-antiplasmin and possibly triglycerides. During the follow-up period after completion of treatment, later relapses of SLE and DPLN appeared to be an important predictor of deterioration of renal function. 
Catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation. Incidence and clinical significance. The incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation has not been studied extensively. Given the frequency with which right heart catheters are employed to measure cardiac output, it is important to know whether the severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is sufficient to invalidate the measurement of thermodilution cardiac output. Accordingly, the purpose of the present prospective study was to determine the incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation in 25 men (mean age, 58.1 +/- 1.4 years) using Doppler ultrasound. The tricuspid valve was interrogated from two orthogonal views using pulsed-wave and color flow Doppler, either in the presence or absence of a 7-French catheter across the tricuspid valve. The severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was graded semiquantitatively using a validated scoring system. Pulsed-wave Doppler studies showed that the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was 48 percent, and that the average tricuspid regurgitation score increased from 0.41 +/- 0.16 to 0.61 +/- 0.17 (p less than 0.01). Color flow Doppler studies showed similar findings. Further, the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was not related to the patient's underlying hemodynamic status or right ventricular geometry. In conclusion, this study shows for the first time that the quantitative extent of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is small, and is therefore unlikely to be important clinically, particularly with regard to the assessment of thermodilution cardiac output. 
Relative risks of left ventricular aneurysmectomy in patients with akinetic scars versus true dyskinetic aneurysms. From 1971 to 1988, 303 patients underwent left ventricular aneurysm resection. We analyzed preoperative and procedure-related variables to ascertain risk factors for surgery. A distinction was made between akinetic and dyskinetic aneurysms to assess potential relation with postoperative outcome. Indications for surgery were arrhythmia in 20 patients, congestive heart failure in 81, angina in 133, congestive heart failure and angina in 42, and other combinations in the remaining 27 patients. The left ventricular aneurysm was dyskinetic in 180 patients and akinetic in 121. Risk factors and surgical procedures were similar in both groups. Left ventricular ejection fraction was less than or equal to 30% in 98 patients. Coronary bypass grafting was performed in 269 patients, with an average of 2.3 grafts per patient. Mitral valve replacement, the most common concomitant procedure, was performed in 16 patients. Intra-aortic balloon assist was required postoperatively in 47 patients. Overall operative mortality was 13% (38 patients) and was due to low cardiac output in 23 patients and arrhythmia in 12 patients. Univariate and multivariate analyses related early mortality to New York Heart Association functional classification of heart failure, the predominant indications of arrhythmia or congestive heart failure, left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 30%, the need for intra-aortic balloon support, and the excision of an akinetic (18%) rather than dyskinetic (8%) left ventricular aneurysm. Over a follow-up period averaging nearly 5 years, the actuarial survival at 5 years was 63% in the dyskinetic group and 51% in the akinetic group. 
Stroke and its modification in Parkinson's disease. Previous studies have not agreed on the incidence of ischemic stroke in persons with Parkinson's disease. There are epidemiologic and neurochemical facets of Parkinson's disease that might confer some benefit or protection against ischemic stroke. We used a case-control method to determine the lifetime history of ischemic stroke in 200 patients with Parkinson's disease and 200 controls of a similar age range. Analysis was also carried out for myocardial infarction as a marker of generalized atherosclerotic disease and for stroke risk factors. The cumulative incidence of ischemic stroke was significantly less in the patients with Parkinson's disease than in the controls, as was the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction. Among risk factors, significantly fewer patients with Parkinson's disease used tobacco than controls. The decreased incidence of ischemic stroke in the patients with Parkinson's disease appears to be related to their less severe generalized atherosclerosis, possibly due to their lower incidence of tobacco use. In view of the known potential for dopamine to exacerbate experimental ischemic tissue damage, the possibility that the dopamine deficiency in the central nervous system of persons with Parkinson's disease confers an additional specific protective benefit against ischemic stroke cannot be excluded and requires further study. 
Comparison of blood flow assessment between laser Doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance method in ischemic intestine in dogs. Blood flow of the colon and the ileum was measured before and after intestinal devascularization by laser Doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance technique in 10 dogs in order to evaluate the clinical usefulness of laser Doppler velocimetry. The submucosal blood flow of the colon and the ileum measured by the hydrogen gas clearance method was significantly decreased, as was the subserosal blood flow of both sites measured by laser Doppler velocimetry. There was a linear relationship between the flow values using the two methods both in the colon (r = 0.7192, p less than 0.001) and in the ileum (r = 0.7646, p less than 0.001). These data suggested laser Doppler velocimetry may be a useful method to assess the degree of intestinal ischemia because of its noninvasiveness and good correlation with submucosal blood flow by the hydrogen gas clearance technique. 
Doppler assessment of left ventricular filling pattern in silent ischemia in patients with Prinzmetal's angina. Spontaneous angina is an ideal condition in which to study left ventricular (LV) dysfunction induced by acute myocardial ischemia. In 6 patients with Prinzmetal's angina, LV diastolic function during 16 episodes of spontaneous angina was studied by simultaneous recordings of electrocardiographic (ECG), echocardiographic and hemodynamic parameters. In particular, pulsed Doppler echocardiography measured peak velocity of early (E) and late (A) transmitral flow and E/A ratio, as indexes of relative early versus late LV filling. During the ischemic attacks, the time sequence of pulsed Doppler echocardiographic and ECG changes showed 3 distinct phases: (1) "waxing phase: transmitral flow changes with minimal ECG modifications (E/A = 0.85 +/- 0.1); (2) "steady" phase: maximal ECG changes (E/A = 0.9 +/- 0.1); and (3) "waning" phase: regression of the ECG changes (E/A = 1.26 +/- 0.15). In each phase, E/A ratio showed a significant difference from the baseline value (E/A = 1.17 +/- 0.2) as a result of changes in E, suggesting that myocardial ischemia affects mainly the early phase of diastole. In the waxing phase, LV diastolic dysfunction preceded systolic abnormalities, as documented by a significant reduction of E/A ratio in the absence of alterations in LV ejection fraction, as well as in systemic arterial and pulmonary wedge pressures. Finally, all the recorded parameters were consistent with LV "contractile rebound" occurring in the waning phase and affecting both diastole and systole. 
Risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly. We found increased age (p = 0.001) and history or evidence of stroke (p = 0.016) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers. These results suggest that subcortical ischemia, as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin, contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults. 
Effectiveness of the once-daily calcium antagonist, lacidipine, in controlling 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure. The efficacy of the new once-daily dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, lacidipine, in reducing ambulatory intraarterial blood pressure (BP) was examined in 12 untreated hypertensive patients. The intraarterial recording was commenced 24 hours before the first 4-mg dose and was continued for a further 24 hours thereafter. After dose titration and chronic therapy, a second 24-hour ambulatory BP recording was made. There was a steady onset of drug action, maximal at 2 hours, but with reflex tachycardia after the first dose. Chronic administration reduced BP throughout the 24-hour period, without tachycardia. Mean daytime reduction in BP was 20 mm Hg systolic (p less than 0.005) and 12 mm Hg diastolic (p less than 0.02). Mean nighttime reduction was 8-mm Hg systolic (p less than 0.05) and 6-mm Hg diastolic (difference not significant). There was no postural decrease in BP on 60 degrees head-up tilting and hypotensive action was maintained during isometric exercise (reduction at peak of 32/18 mm Hg, p less than 0.05) and throughout dynamic exercise (reduction at peak of 23/14 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). Lacidipine is an effective once-daily antihypertensive agent, with good control of stress response. 
B-mode imaging and histomorphometric evaluation of carotid atherosclerosis. The quantitative and qualitative evaluation of atherosclerotic lesions by the ultrasonography has presented several problems, above all, the determination of accuracy and reproducibility of this methodology in humans. The present study aims to evaluated the results of B-mode imaging of extracranial carotid arteries in patients selected for surgery as compared with histologic results of the observations of the samples obtained by endarterectomy. Shrinkage effects of the histologic samples were taken into consideration. Several bidimensional images of atherosclerotic lesions, as obtained by ultrasound at different incident angles, were used to establish their maximum thickness. The maximum degree of the vessel stenosis calculated by ultrasound showed a high correlation (Y = 0.47X + 42.4, se = 0.11, r = 0.5, p less than 0.001) compared with the one obtained by histology. The imaging methodology provided however, a mean overestimation of the stenosis of about 7%. Relationships among the amount of calcium (p less than 0.03); necrotic core p less than 0.056); and echogenic types, ie, soft, mixed, and hard; have been suggested by a statistical trend. The results suggested that of the vascular lumen due to advanced atherosclerotic lesions. Qualitative interpretation of atherosclerosis by B-mode imaging, ie, morphologic characteristics, seem, at present, to be of value, but more investigations in depth are needed. 
Clinical experience with the Palmaz-Schatz coronary stent. Initial results of a multicenter study. Stenting of native coronary arteries with a balloon-expandable stent was attempted in 226 patients after elective angioplasty. Delivery of the device was successful in 213 (94%) of the patients. Of these, 39 received aspirin and dipyridamole only (group 1) and 174 received aspirin, dipyridamole, and warfarin for 1-3 months (group 2). There was no abrupt closure (less than or equal to 1 day) or perioperative death in either group. In-hospital or perioperative complications in group 1 compared with group 2 were as follows: subacute closure (1-14 days), seven (18%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively, p less than 0.0001; myocardial infarction, five (13%) patients versus one (0.6%) patient, respectively; condition requiring urgent bypass surgery, one (2.5%) patient versus no patients, respectively. Thus, the incidence of major complications such as death, myocardial infarction, or a condition requiring urgent bypass surgery was 15% in group 1 and 0.6% in group 2. Clinical follow-up revealed that 92% of the patients were asymptomatic at 3 months after stenting compared with 6% before stenting (p less than 0.0001). Of the 13 patients who were symptomatic, nine underwent cardiac catheterization and, ultimately, successful elective coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery. We conclude that a high delivery success rate can be expected with this device and that clinical thrombosis is less frequent in anticoagulated patients than in nonanticoagulated patients. Furthermore, in this selected patient population, coronary stenting results in a low incidence of in-hospital and perioperative complications. Clinical success, defined by absence of symptoms, appears to be sustained at 3 months. 
Limitation of myocardial infarct size by a right ventricular assist device. To evaluate the effects of an RVAD on myocardial ischemic injury during right coronary artery (RCA) ligation, a pneumatically driven pusher plate pump was inserted between the right atrium and pulmonary artery, and the RCA was ligated at its origin for two hr. There were 18 sheep, of which nine each served as the control and RVAD groups. Hemodynamic parameters and blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus. Area at risk and area of infarct were detected by gentian violet injection and triphenyltetrazolium (TTC) staining. Hemodynamic parameters (left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP), cardiac output (CO], and creatine kinase levels in coronary sinus blood tended to be beneficial, to some degree, in the RVAD group. Electron microscopic examination revealed chromatin clumping and mitochondrial destruction, however this ultrastructural damage was more severe in the control group. The ratio of area of infarct to area at risk in the RVAD group was significantly less than that in the control group, being 20.25 +/- 6.93% vs. 47.24 +/- 10.53% (p less than 0.05). The infarct size induced by RCA occlusion was significantly reduced by the RVAD, due to the right ventricular unloading via reduced myocardial oxygen demand. 
Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in newborn lambs infected with group B streptococcus. To determine the efficacy of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (IABC) in neonatal group B Streptococcal (GBS) infection, we studied five lambs, 10-14 days old, weighing from 4.7 to 6.7 kg. The lambs were instrumented with arterial and venous catheters, and a 5 French intra-aortic balloon catheter with balloon volumes of 3-5 ml was inserted into the femoral artery. A continuous infusion of heat-killed GBS organisms was infused at a rate of 1.7 to 6.2 x 10(8) org/kg/min, until a 30-50% decrease in cardiac output was attained. IABC was then instituted for 30 minutes, hemodynamic measurements repeated, and IABC was stopped. GBS infusion caused significant decreases in cardiac output (282 +/- 62 vs. 165 +/- 38 ml/min/kg) and pH (7.39 +/- 0.02 vs. 7.33 +/- 0.06), and significant increases in mean pulmonary artery pressure (14.4 +/- 2.1 vs. 36.2 +/- 12.1 mm Hg) and pulmonary vascular resistance (1.20 +/- 0.38 vs. 5.08 +/- 1.49 mm Hg/L/min/kg). Institution of IABC during continuous GBS infusion significantly increased cardiac output (225 +/- 1.27 ml/min/kg). The institution of the IABC also resulted in a significant decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance (2.6 +/- 1.3 mm Hg/L/min/kg). The authors conclude that IABC improves cardiac output and decreases pulmonary vascular resistance in newborn lambs with GBS infection. 
Stimulation of active renin release in normal and hypertensive pregnancy. 1. Active plasma renin concentration but not total renin concentration is reduced in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension compared with normotensive pregnant women. This study was conducted to determine whether women with pregnancy-induced hypertension are able to stimulate release of active renin. 2. Active plasma renin concentration was measured as the generation of angiotensin I at physiological pH in the presence of excess renin substrate, and total renin concentration was determined in the same way after trypsin activation. Inactive plasma renin concentration was calculated as the difference between total renin and active plasma renin concentrations. 3. Resting active plasma renin concentration was significantly greater in third-trimester primigravidae compared with normotensive non-pregnant women and active plasma renin and total renin concentrations rose significantly without a fall in inactive plasma renin concentration in both groups after 2 h ambulation, suggesting increased release of active plasma renin and not conversion of circulating inactive to active renin. These responses were blunted in women taking oral contraceptives. 4. Although the active plasma renin concentration was significantly reduced in third-trimester primigravidae with pregnancy-induced hypertension, total renin concentration was not significantly different compared with normotensive women of similar gestation and in both groups 30 min 60 degrees head-up tilt increased active but not inactive plasma renin concentration. 5. These studies show that in normal pregnancy active plasma renin concentration can be stimulated to a similar extent as in non-pregnant women, despite a higher resting level. This appears to be due to increased secretion of active plasma renin rather than conversion of circulating inactive to active renin. 
The relation of serum cholesterol to risk of coronary heart disease: implications for the elderly. Elevated cholesterol is a known risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in young and middle-aged persons. Because of the high prevalence of CHD in a growing elderly population, physicians must decide whether to devote clinical attention to this condition in older patients. Longitudinal cohort studies show that while the association between serum cholesterol and CHD decreases after age 55 years, it still persists. Primary prevention trials performed mostly on middle-aged men have reduced the incidence rate of CHD through cholesterol lowering but they have yet to show a reduction in overall mortality. Secondary prevention studies of lipid alteration have reported decreased mortality and slowed progression of coronary stenoses, again in predominantly male subjects aged less than 60 years. Implications of these findings for care of older patients are discussed along with recommendations for clinical management and future research. 
Inotropic effects of angiotensin II on human cardiac muscle in vitro. The direct effects of angiotensin II (Ang II) on human cardiac muscle were investigated using isolated trabecular muscles from failing and functionally normal hearts. Atrial and ventricular trabeculae were studied. Results demonstrated a positive inotropic effect of Ang II on human cardiac muscle. Comparison of the effects of Ang II among groups indicated that the responsiveness tended to be greater in atrial and normal muscle compared with failing muscle. Results of this study also demonstrated heterogeneity in the responsiveness to Ang II among human muscles, which was not correlated with patient age, sex, diagnosis, prior treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, or heart function. A significant correlation between response to Ang II and response to isoproterenol was demonstrated in failing ventricular trabeculae, which may suggest that defects in beta-adrenergic responsiveness in the failing human ventricle are accompanied by a loss of responsiveness to Ang II. Studies were extended to the Syrian cardiomyopathic hamster and its control. A dose-dependent inotropic response occurred in normal hamster ventricular muscle but was significantly diminished in cardiomyopathic muscle. Ang II did not shorten the timing of contraction, and pretreatment with adrenergic-blocking agents did not shift the dose-response curve, indicating that the response was not cyclic AMP mediated. This study demonstrates for the first time that Ang II can exert an inotropic effect directly on human cardiac muscle and confirms that there is a direct effect of Ang II on hamster cardiac muscle. The study further suggests, however, that the inotropic response to Ang II in cardiac muscle is heterogeneous and may be diminished by heart failure. 
Comparative roles of intraoperative epicardial and early postoperative transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of surgical repair of congenital heart defects In 94 consecutive patients undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects the results of intraoperative (after cardiopulmonary bypass) epicardial two-dimensional and Doppler color flow imaging were compared with those of sequential transthoracic echocardiography performed within 24 h of surgery and again before hospital discharge to define the precise role of intraoperative imaging. In 6 of 7 patients with a residual defect requiring immediate surgical revision, intraoperative imaging correctly identified the defect; spectral Doppler imaging underestimated or did not identify a residual outflow tract gradient in 17 patients. Left atrioventricular (AV) valve regurgitation after repair of complete AV septal defect was underestimated in three patients. Although intraoperative documentation of good ventricular function was usually associated with a good outcome, in three patients poor systemic ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with early mortality. A minor degree of shunting around the patch was a common finding on epicardial and early postoperative imaging and persisted at the time of hospital discharge in 17 of 46 patients who had undergone patch closure of a ventricular septal defect as part of the surgical procedure. Additional trabecular septal defects were missed on color flow imaging after cardiopulmonary bypass in three patients, one of whom required subsequent reoperation. Although intraoperative two-dimensional and color flow imaging permitted the recognition of the majority of residual defects requiring immediate revision, residual outflow obstruction or AV valve regurgitation was usually underestimated. 
Follow-up recatheterization after balloon aortic valvuloplasty. Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry Investigators. The results of recatheterization were assessed in a select group of 95 patients enrolled in the Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry to determine whether any procedural or patient-related variables at baseline predicted either initial immediate or follow-up (6.2 +/- 3.3 months) results. At the follow-up catheterization, 39 (41%) of the patients were in improved condition and 56 patients (59%) had recurrence of symptoms, allowing for analysis of the effect of the procedure in two symptomatic patient subsets. In the total group the aortic valve area increased initially from 0.56 +/- 0.16 to 0.87 +/- 0.27 cm2 but partial return to the baseline valve area was evident at follow-up (0.63 +/- 0.25 cm2). Similarly, the mean aortic gradient initially decreased from 72 +/- 30 to 35 +/- 16 mm Hg but then increased to 55 +/- 25 mm Hg at follow-up. Neither the initial nor the late hemodynamic results appeared affected by any definable procedural variable at the time of valvuloplasty, including the maximal diameter of balloons, number of balloons simultaneously used, mean inflation time or total number of inflations. Such technical concerns also did not seem to affect short- or long-term outcome. Similarly, no baseline hemodynamic variable clearly separated those who became increasingly symptomatic from those whose condition was improved at the 6 month interval. At recatheterization, a reduction in the aortic valve area toward baseline was observed in 24 (62%) of the 39 improved patients and in 45 (80%) of the 56 who were symptomatic. 
Preoperative measurement of pulmonary vascular resistance in complete transposition of the great arteries. Transposition of the great arteries is frequently complicated by the early onset of pulmonary vascular disease. It is difficult to measure pulmonary blood flow by the Fick principle because the pulmonary arteriovenous oxygen content difference is small and bronchial blood flow is increased in this condition. In eight patients (mean age 7.7 years, range 3 months to 29 years) with transposition of the great arteries mass spectrometry was used to measure oxygen uptake and predict pulmonary end capillary blood oxygen content. The effects of the bronchial circulation were studied by computer modelling. There was close agreement between pulmonary end capillary and pulmonary vein blood oxygen contents but the resultant percentage difference in arteriovenous content difference was significant (mean (SE of difference)) (14.5(3.8)%). The effect of the bronchial circulation was to give spuriously high estimates of pulmonary blood flow. The error was greatest when oxygen consumption was low and aortic blood was very desaturated. 
The influence of dialysate sodium and variable ultrafiltration on fluid balance during hemodialysis. An important factor in the development of hypotension during hemodialysis (HD) is a decrease in blood volume, due to ultrafiltration (UF) and an insufficient refill of the intravascular compartment. This insufficient refill might be caused by a transcellular fluid shift from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment. We studied the influence of dialysate sodium concentration and UF rate on the refill rate, blood volume, intracellular (ICV) and extracellular fluid volume (ECV). Three different HD strategies were studied in 15 patients: (A) conventional HD (dialysate sodium 140 mmol/L); (B) HD with a sodium profile (140-148 mmol/L); and (C) HD with a sodium profile and a variable UF rate (high-low UF rate). ICV and ECV were measured by non-invasive conductivity measurements, blood volume was calculated from erythrocyte counts before and after treatment. Blood volume decrease was most pronounced during conventional HD, due to insufficient refilling without a detectable transcellular fluid shift. The sum of the decrease in ICV and EVC was less than during (B) and (C). The insufficient refill led to a higher prevalence of hypotension and cramps. The strategies (B) and (C) led to an significant and comparable transcellular fluid shift to the extracellular compartment. Thus, the use of a sodium profile led to a better intravascular refill and clinical tolerance of HD. Addition of a UF profile did not improve this any further. 
Perioperative monitoring of blood flow in femoroinfragenicular vein grafts with Doppler ultrasonography: a preliminary report. A system for monitoring blood flow in femorodistal vein grafts with Doppler ultrasonography in the immediate postoperative period has been developed. Twenty-three grafts have been monitored for periods of up to 72 hours. Seventeen grafts have remained patent at minimum follow-up of 6 months, and six grafts occluded in the immediate postoperative period. Successful Doppler recordings were obtained in 16 successful and all failed grafts. Fast Fourier transform analysis of the Doppler signals was performed, and pulsatility index and time-averaged mean velocity were derived from the spectral information. Successful grafts displayed hyperemic flow with pulsatility index less than 2 and time-averaged mean velocity greater than 10 cm/sec. Failed grafts could be classified in two groups: those that occluded less than 24 hours after operation and those that occluded after 24 hours after operation. Short-term failure was categorized by highly pulsatile flow, with pulsatility index rising rapidly and time-averaged mean velocity falling correspondingly before actual cessation of flow. Delayed failure was less well defined but was suggested by failure to develop, or early deviation from, the hyperemic flow seen in successful grafts. Occlusion was heralded by development of the pulsatile pattern seen in the short-term failure group. 
Changes in left ventricular volume, mass, and function during the development and regression of supraventricular tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy. Disparity between recovery of systolic versus diastolic function. Chronic supraventricular tachycardia causes a dilated cardiomyopathy in man. Terminating this tachycardia appears to result in symptomatic improvement; however, its effects on left ventricular (LV) volume, mass, and function have not been fully examined. Accordingly, hemodynamic studies using simultaneous echocardiography and catheterization were performed in three groups of pigs: 1) those subjected to rapid left atrial pacing (240 beats/min) for 3 weeks (SVT, n = 8), 2) those subjected to supraventricular tachycardia for 3 weeks followed by termination of pacing and a 4-week recovery period (PSVT, n = 9), and 3) sham-operated controls (CTR, n = 10). Systolic pump function was assessed using fractional shortening (FS), peak ejection rate [peak (-)dD/dt], and maximum rate of pressure development [peak (+)dP/dt]. Diastolic function was assessed using the time constant of isovolumic pressure decline (tau), peak early diastolic filling rate [peak (+)dD/dt], the chamber stiffness constant (Kc), and the myocardial stiffness constant (Km). Supraventricular tachycardia caused LV dilation (end-diastolic dimension [EDD] increased from 3.5 +/- 0.4 cm in CTR to 4.9 +/- 0.5 cm in SVT, p less than 0.05) but no change in LV mass (LV weight-to-body weight ratio [LV/BW]) was 2.58 +/- 0.3 g/kg in CTR and 2.66 +/- 0.4 g/kg in SVT), all indexes of systolic function became abnormal (FS fell from 30 +/- 4% in CTR to 13 +/- 5% in SVT, p less than 0.05), and the indexes of relaxation and filling were slowed (tau increased from 36 +/- 3 msec in CTR to 51 +/- 13 msec in SVT, p less than 0.05). There were no significant changes in Kc or Km. After terminating the supraventricular tachycardia, LV volume fell but remained greater than that in CTR (EDD was 4.2 +/- 0.4 cm in PSVT, p less than 0.05 versus CTR) and substantial LV hypertrophy developed (LV/BW was 3.48 +/- 0.5 g/kg in PSVT, p less than 0.05 versus CTR). Systolic function returned to normal (FS was 31 +/- 5% in PSVT) but diastolic function remained abnormal. In PSVT, tau remained prolonged (49 +/- 12 msec, p less than 0.05 versus CTR), Kc increased from 3.7 +/- 1.0 in CTR to 7.4 +/- 1.2 (p less than 0.05), and Km increased from 4.4 +/- 1.5 in CTR to 13.9 +/- 9.7 (p less than 0.05). Thus, the improvement in systolic function that occurs after the termination of supraventricular tachycardia is associated with the development of LV hypertrophy and persistent diastolic dysfunction. 
Coronary artery disease in the octogenarian: angiographic spectrum and suitability for revascularization. The angiographic findings of 84 consecutive octogenarians presenting with symptoms of coronary artery disease (CAD) were examined to determine the extent of CAD as well as suitability for both coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The frequency of 0-, 1-, 2-, and 3-vessel and left main CAD was 7, 14, 21, 57 and 13%, respectively. Based on angiographic criteria, 69 of 78 patients (88%) with significant CAD had suitable coronary anatomy for CABG. Only 24 patients (31%) had coronary anatomy amenable to PTCA. CABG was performed in 19 patients with an operative mortality of 16% and major complication rate of 37%. PTCA was performed in 12 patients with a clinical success rate of 83%, mortality of 8% and major complication rate of 8%. It is concluded that in octogenarians with CAD, cardiac catheterization will often reveal coronary anatomy that is suitable for CABG but less suitable for PTCA. The morbidity and mortality associated with these interventions are high. 
Use of the variable-length intraluminal sutureless graft. From August 1987 to May 1988 we treated 4 patients with acute ascending aortic dissections with a variable-length intraluminal aortic prosthesis. This operation uses profound hypothermic circulatory arrest and represents a refinement of existing techniques. There was no mortality, and morbidity was minimal. Modifications of this technique can be used in performing proximal aortic root reconstruction with a composite valved conduit. The use of a variable-length intraluminal prosthesis and hypothermic circulatory arrest is illustrated. This is a safe and useful technique in select cases of acute ascending aortic dissection. 
Insulin resistance and blood pressure in young black men. Insulin resistance, independent of obesity or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, has been demonstrated to be associated with high blood pressure. To determine if insulin resistance could be an antecedent to hypertension in a high-risk population, we studied normotensive (112 +/- 12/70 +/- 10 mm Hg) and borderline hypertensive (135 +/- 8/85 +/- 5 mm Hg) lean young black men (22-26 years old) with the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique. All subjects had clinically normal oral glucose tolerance. Body mass index and percent adipose mass were the same in both groups. Fasting plasma insulin concentration was significantly higher in the borderline hypertensive group (p less than 0.01). Insulin-directed exogenous glucose metabolism at the same degree of steady-state hyperinsulinemia was significantly lower in the borderline hypertensive group (5.98 +/- 2.22 versus 8.22 +/- 1.96 mg/kg/min; p less than 0.01). For the total population, a significant inverse correlation existed between the glucose infusion rate and systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.01). These data indicate that there is a relation between insulin-mediated glucose uptake and blood pressure. Furthermore, in this high-risk population insulin resistance may precede the onset of established essential hypertension. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in evaluation and management after a Fontan procedure. Transesophageal echocardiography was used in 18 patients (aged 1.6 to 34 years, mean age 12.6) to assess the immediate (5 patients) or intermediate (13 patients) results after a Fontan-type procedure. The findings were correlated with precordial echocardiographic (all patients) and cardiac catheterization (11 patients) data. Atrial shunting was documented by transesophageal studies in three patients (precordial in one patient). In two patients it was confirmed by cardiac catheterization; the third underwent reoperation based on the transesophageal study alone. Pulmonary artery obstruction was documented in three patients (precordial in one patient) and was confirmed by subsequent cardiac catheterization in all. Evaluation of anterior Fontan connections was successful in 5 of 8 patients (precordial in 6 of 8), and posterior connections in 10 of 10 patients (precordial in 5 of 10). A Glenn shunt could be evaluated in eight of nine patients (precordial in three of nine). Thrombus formation was detected by transesophageal studies in three patients (precordial in one patient); repeat studies were used to evaluate thrombolytic therapy in two. Atrioventricular valvular regurgitation (11 of 18 patients) was better defined by transesophageal than by precordial studies (5 of 18). A coronary artery fistula was identified in two cases (precordial in none). Transesophageal pulsed Doppler interrogation of pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein flow patterns consistently allowed a detailed evaluation of the Fontan circulation. Transesophageal echocardiography is an important diagnostic and monitoring technique after the Fontan procedure. In this series, it was far superior to precordial ultrasound evaluation and of substantial additional value to cardiac catheterization. 
Antihypertensive effect and pharmacokinetics of nitrendipine in children. Nitrendipine, a new calcium-channel antagonist, was used to treat 25 children (aged 6 months to 17 years) with severe hypertension. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures (mean +/- SEM) fell from 148 +/- 2/99 +/- 2 mm Hg to 128 +/- 4/77 +/- 3 mm Hg after 24 hours and to 121 +/- 2/75 +/- 2 mm Hg after 2 weeks. No further reductions in systolic or diastolic blood pressure were observed after continued therapy. Transient reflex tachycardia occurred during the first week of therapy. Other adverse effects were uncommon and included headaches, flushing, palpitations, and edema. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated at steady state after an oral dose of 0.56 +/- 0.04 mg/kg in 13 children. Although absolute oral bioavailability could not be determined, estimates of the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, the apparent peak serum concentration, and the apparent time at which the peak serum concentration occurred indicated that both the rate of absorption and oral bioavailability are variable. Coadministration of nitrendipine with food decreased the rate of absorption and may have reduced oral bioavailability. A relationship between age and the apparent plasma elimination half-life of nitrendipine was not observed. Nitrendipine, 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg per dose administered orally every 6 to 12 hours, appeared to be an effective and safe treatment for resistant hypertension in infants and children. 
Platelet activation by emotional stress in patients with coronary artery disease. We studied the effects of experimentally induced emotional stress (mental arithmetic) on different hemodynamic parameters, catecholamine levels, and serum and platelet function tests in 25 postinfarction patients and in 10 apparently healthy, age-matched control subjects. Mental stress (10 minutes) induced significant increments in heart rate, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, double product, and cardiac output, indicating a sympatho-adrenal stimulation that was confirmed by a significant increase in serum epinephrine and norepinephrine levels. All of the effects disappeared at minute 10 of recovery. Concomitantly, the test produced a significant increase in platelet aggregation (induced by 3 microM ADP or 1 microgram/ml collagen), the formation of circulating platelet aggregates, and an increase in thromboxane B2 levels in plasma and serum. These effects were also rapidly reversible. Similar activation of hemodynamic parameters and a similar but less evident increase in platelet function by emotional stress were observed in control subjects. A possible artifact due to factitious platelet activation by catheter sampling was excluded with experiments in which a 40-minute rest was introduced after the baseline period and before mental stress; platelet activation did not occur during baseline or rest periods, only after emotional stress. Furthermore, the antiplatelet drug dipyridamole reduced the stress-induced formation of platelet aggregates in postinfarction patients. These results demonstrate the existence of a direct link between emotional stress and platelet function and offer an explanation of one of the mechanisms through which mental stress may be involved in the development of coronary artery disease. 
Drug-induced supraventricular tachycardia: a case report of fluoxetine. We report the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension in a 54-year-old woman after maintenance therapy with fluoxetine. Although cases of tachycardia and palpitations have been reported, supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension have not been directly attributed to fluoxetine. 
The dynamics of platelet thrombus formation rate, thrombus retention time, and rate of embolization on a control and heparin bonded polyurethane angio-catheter. The dynamics of platelet deposition and embolization from control and heparin bonded polyurethane catheters (CPC and HBPC) was evaluated with In-111 labeled autologous platelets (IN-PLT) and a computerized gamma camera (CGC). Ten non-heparinized dogs (18-25 kg) were catheterized in both femoral arteries with 10 cm of CPC and HBPC (5 Fr., Cordis) 24 hr after injection of 300-420 microCi of In-PLT, and imaged for 3 hr with the computerized gamma camera. The regional platelet deposition curves (RPDC) indicated multiple peaks and valleys; the curves were analyzed for early rate of thrombus formation (upswing), thrombus retention time (full width at half maxima of the RPDC-peak), and rate of embolization (downswing) on both catheters. The four parameters (mean +/- SD) of thrombosis on catheters and integral of the radioactivity time curve for the 3 hr duration of imaging were calculated from normalized counts/sec. The rate of thrombus formation and rate of embolization are higher for the control than HBPC, suggesting that heparin-bonding decreases the early rate of thrombosis and embolization. The thrombus adhesivity and retention time appear shorter for the control catheter, indicating that the control thrombogenic catheter forms multiple thrombi and emboli than HBPC. The integral appears larger for the control catheter than HBPC. In vivo (dynamic) studies, in vitro studies, and critical analyses of the radioactivity time curve were essential for complete evaluation of thrombogenicity of catheters and other cardiovascular prostheses. 
Job dimensions associated with severe disability due to cardiovascular disease. This study explored associations among job activities and disability due to cardiovascular disease by merging national disability data with independently-obtained job activity data. Disability data were taken from a 1978 U.S. health interview survey (n = 9855). Expert ratings of job activities (dimensions) were obtained from a job analysis database (n = 2485 occupations). The two databases were merged such that job dimension data were imputed to each occupation in the disability database. Odds ratios for cardiovascular disability were calculated for scores in the second, third, and fourth quartiles for each of the 32 job dimensions, using scores in the first quartile as the standard. Job dimensions associated with cardiovascular disability were (a) hazardous situations; (b) vigilant work and responsibility for others; (c) exchanging job-related information; and (d) attention to devices. Occupations identified with high scores on these job dimensions included transportation jobs (air traffic controllers, airline pilots and attendants, bus drivers, locomotive engineers, truck drivers), teachers (preschool, adult education), and craftsmen/foremen (machinists, carpenters, and foremen). 
Short-term effect of hepatic arterial versus portal venous reperfusion on energy levels of liver tissue. The hepatic artery and the portal vein blood vary in flow, oxygenation, and hormonal content. It was uncertain which blood supply has a greater effect on the recuperative process of the hepatocytes in the ischemic liver during the initial reperfusion. The ability of the liver cells to restore its energy phosphates is related to the viability of the liver. This study was designed to determine the differences of the high energy phosphate in the liver predicated upon whether reflow was first provided by either the hepatic artery or the portal vein followed by subsequent reperfusion from both vessels. The recovery of ATP upon 10 min of only hepatic arterial reperfusion after 15 min of total ischemia was much slower compared to the portal venous reperfusion only. It may be undesirable, therefore, to reperfuse the liver with hepatic arterial blood first immediately after warm liver ischemia. 
Effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin E1 on regional myocardial function in the ischemic canine heart. The effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin E1 on regional myocardial function were studied in dogs. Sixteen dogs were randomly assigned to one of two drug treatment groups of eight dogs each. The first group (G1) was treated with 0.4 mg/kg hydralazine administered as a bolus. The second group (G2) received prostaglandin E1 given as an infusion for a total dose of 0.8 micrograms/kg. Regional myocardial function was assessed through the measurement of myocardial segment shortening during systole. We call this index percent systolic shortening (%SS). An ischemic heart preparation was created by partial occlusion of coronary blood flow. The degree of induced ischemia was determined by following the reduction in %SS. Hydralazine reduced %SS of the ischemic myocardium while increasing the cardiac index, stroke volume index, and coronary blood flow. Prostaglandin E1 increased %SS, cardiac index, and stroke volume index in the ischemic heart preparation. Hydralazine, therefore, induced dissociation between global ventricular function and regional myocardial function whereas prostaglandin E1 did not. The present findings emphasize that evaluation of vasoactive drugs should consider their effects on regional myocardial function as well as on global hemodynamics. 
Medical management of congestive heart failure. The syndrome of congestive heart failure can result from a variety of cardiac disorders of which left ventricular dysfunction is the most common. The clinical presentation is determined by the interaction between cardiac dysfunction and a series of compensatory mechanisms that are activated throughout the body. Therapy for this disorder is best approached through an understanding of this complex relationship and an appreciation for the influence of preload, afterload, and contractility on cardiac performance. Recent important advances in therapy include the use of combined diuretic therapy, a better understanding of the value of the digitalis glycosides, and evidence that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can relieve symptoms and prolong life. More intensive therapy earlier in the course of congestive heart failure appears to have some clinical benefit. The use of ACE inhibitors during this phase may delay progression of the underlying left ventricular dysfunction. Future therapy will be influenced by the results of ongoing trials that are testing both new agents and expanded indications for drugs that are currently available. 
Relative accuracy of three scintigraphic methods for determination of right ventricular ejection fraction: a correlative study with ultrafast computed tomography. The accuracy of three scintigraphic methods for determination of right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) was tested in 29 patients using ultrafast computed tomography (UFCT) as the gold standard. RVEF measurements by the ECG-gated first-pass approach showed excellent correlation with the UFCT results (r = 0.96, y = 0.06 + 0.91x), while both the standard gated acquisition blood-pool imaging (r = 0.71, y = 0.14 + 0.59x) and the nongated first-pass curve approach (r = 0.63, y = 0.18 + 0.37x) significantly underestimated RVEF. The error can be ascribed to partial inclusion of the atrial activity in the region assigned to the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve plane was found to move by a distance equal to 9%-33% (mean = 20%) of the right ventricular long-axis between systole and diastole. This translational motion was more pronounced with higher EFs. 
Estrogen replacement and coronary artery disease. Effect on survival in postmenopausal women. The relationship among postmenopausal estrogen use, coronary stenosis, and survival was examined retrospectively in 2268 women undergoing coronary angiography. The patients were selected for study if their age was 55 years or older at the time of angiography or if they had previously undergone bilateral oophorectomy. Postmenopausal estrogen use in 1178 patients with coronary artery disease (greater than 70% stenosis) and 644 patients with mild to moderate coronary artery disease (5% to 69% stenosis) was compared with 446 control subjects (0% stenosis) using life-table analysis. Over 10 years of follow-up, there was no significant difference in survival among patients initially free of coronary lesions on arteriography who had either never used (377) or ever used (69) estrogens. Among patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis, 10-year survival of those who had never used estrogens was 85.0% and it was 95.6% among 99 "ever users." Survival was 60.0% among those with more than 70% coronary stenosis who had never used estrogen and it was 97.0% among 70 ever users. The "never users" group were older (65 vs 59 years), had a lower proportion of cigarette smokers (40% vs 57.1%), a higher proportion of subjects with diabetes (21.7% vs 12.9%) and hyperlipidemia (58% vs 44%), and approximately equal numbers of hypertensives (56.0% vs 54.3%). Cox's proportional hazards model was used to estimate survival as a function of multiple covariables. Estrogen use was found to have a significant, independent effect on survival in women. We conclude that estrogen replacement after menopause prolongs survival when coronary artery disease is present, but it has less effect in the absence of coronary artery disease. 
Intermittent claudication, heart disease risk factors, and mortality. The Whitehall Study In the Whitehall study, 18,388 subjects aged 40-64 years completed a questionnaire on intermittent claudication. Of these subjects, 0.8% (147) and 1% (175) were deemed to have probable intermittent claudication and possible intermittent claudication, respectively. Within the 17-year follow-up period, 38% and 40% of the probable and possible cases, respectively, died. Compared with subjects without claudication, the probable cases suffered increased mortality rates due to coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease, but the mortality rate due to noncardiovascular causes was not increased. Possible cases demonstrated increased mortality rates due to cardiovascular and noncardiovascular causes. This difference in mortality pattern may be due to chance. Possible and probable cases still showed increased cardiovascular and all-cause mortality rates after adjusting for coronary risk factors (cardiac ischemia at baseline, systolic blood pressure, plasma cholesterol concentration, smoking behavior, employment grade, and degree of glucose intolerance). Intermittent claudication is independently related to increased mortality rates. It is not a rare condition, and simple questionnaires exist for its detection. The latter can be usefully incorporated in cardiovascular risk assessment and screening programs. 
Predictors of long-term cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The predictors of 5-year cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) were analyzed in a series of 637 consecutive patients. The average age was 59 +/- 11 years in 472 men and 165 women. Diabetes mellitus, previous myocardial infarction and unstable angina were present in 119 (19%), 261 (41%) and 305 (47%) patients, respectively. Angiographically, 460 patients had 2-vessel and 177 patients had 3-vessel CAD. The left ventricular contraction score was greater than or equal to 12 in 55 patients. Angiographic success (less than 50% residual stenosis) was achieved in 85% of the 1,343 narrowings and clinical success was obtained in 526 (83%) of the 637 patients. Complete revascularization was obtained in 177 (34%) of 526 successful patients. Procedure-related complications resulted in death in 9 patients (1.4%), in Q-wave myocardial infarction only in 6 patients (0.9%) and in emergency bypass surgery in 44 patients (6.9%) (of whom 10 had Q-wave myocardial infarction). Follow-up for greater than or equal to 1 year and up to 6 years after PTCA was obtained in 608 (95%) of the 637 patients. To determine the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival, 28 clinical, angiographic and procedural variables were analyzed by Cox proportional-hazards regression. The estimated 5-year survival after PTCA was 88 +/- 2% in successful patients and 77 +/- 5% in patients in whom PTCA was unsuccessful (p less than 0.001). When clinical success was forced into the Cox regression, the left ventricular contraction score of greater than or equal to 12, diabetes mellitus and age greater than or equal to 65 years showed additional adverse effects on survival. 
Cardiorespiratory effects of antagonism of diazepam sedation with flumazenil in patients with cardiac disease. The specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil is currently under intense study. Despite much clinical experience, no detailed invasive hemodynamic studies of its use in cardiac patients have been published. In the present study, hemodynamic and respiratory variables were measured in 10 cardiac patients undergoing catheterization of the right and left sides of the heart, before and after sedation with intravenous diazepam, and after reversal of sedation with flumazenil. A sleep dose of diazepam (12.2 +/- 5.1 mg, mean +/- SD) caused only slight decreases in mean arterial pressure (103 +/- 12 to 98 +/- 14 mm Hg; P less than 0.05), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (13.2 +/- 6.3 to 11.7 +/- 6.6 mm Hg; P less than 0.05), and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (20.8 +/- 7.5 to 17.3 +/- 10.0 mm Hg; P less than 0.05), with no significant changes in respiratory gas homeostasis. Intravenous flumazenil (0.22 +/- 0.07 mg) resulted in spontaneous awakening and return to full orientation, yet caused no significant alteration in either hemodynamic or respiratory variables measured. Reversal of diazepam-induced sedation by flumazenil in cardiac patients appears safe and effective. 
Disappearance of renin-induced proteinuria by an ACE-inhibitor: a case report. A 55-year-old man developed renovascular hypertension that was characterized by high plasma renin activity. This was accompanied by nephrotic range proteinuria. Treatment with nifedipine and furosemide lowered the blood pressure to normal values, but proteinuria persisted. However, treatment with an ACE-inhibitor brought resolution of the proteinuria, suggesting a role for angiotensin II in urinary protein loss. 
Inverse correlation between plasma vitamin E and mortality from ischemic heart disease in cross-cultural epidemiology. Essential antioxidants were determined in plasma of middle-aged men representing 16 European study populations, which differed sixfold in age-specific mortality from ischemic heart disease (IHD). In 12 populations with "common" plasma cholesterol (5.7-6.2 mmol/L) and blood pressure, both classical risk factors lacked significant correlations to IHD mortality, whereas absolute levels of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) showed a strong inverse correlation (r2 = 0.63, P = 0.002). Evaluating all populations, cholesterol and diastolic blood pressure were moderately associated, but their correlation was inferior to that of vitamin E. In stepwise regression and multiple regression analysis, mortality was predictable to 62% by lipid-standardized vitamin E, to 79% by vitamin E and cholesterol, to 83% after inclusion of lipid-standardized vitamin A (retinol), and to 87% by all the above parameters plus blood pressure. Thus, in the present study the cross-cultural differences of IDH mortality are primarily attributable to plasma status of vitamin E, which might have protective functions. 
Myocardial metabolism of fluorodeoxyglucose compared to cell membrane integrity for the potassium analogue rubidium-82 for assessing infarct size in man by PET Potassium loss from damaged myocardial cells is linearly related to CPK enzyme loss reflecting extent of necrosis. The potassium analog, rubidium-82 (82Rb), is extracted after i.v. injection and retained in viable myocardium but is not trapped or washed out of necrotic regions. To compare myocardial cell metabolism with membrane dysfunction as indicators of necrosis/viability, 43 patients with evolving myocardial infarction and coronary arteriography had positron emission tomography using fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and the potassium analog 82Rb. Percent of heart showing FDG defects and 82Rb washout on sequential images indicating failure to retain the potassium analogue were visually assessed and quantified by automated software. Infarct size based on rubidium kinetics correlated closely with size and location on FDG images (visual r = 0.93, automated r = 0.82), suggesting that loss of cell membrane integrity for trapping the potassium analog 82Rb parallels loss of intracellular glucose metabolism, both comparable quantitative markers of myocardial necrosis/viability. 
Femoro-popliteal and femoro-distal bypass: a comparison between in situ and reversed technique. The present report compares the in situ technique with that using the reversed vein for femoropopliteal bypass. In 1986 the in situ technique was introduced at our clinic as the preferred method for femoropopliteal bypass with the lower anastomosis below the knee or femorodistal bypass. Forty patients operated with the in situ technique were compared with an equal number of patients operated with the reversed technique 1983-1985. The two groups were comparable regarding concomitant cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, preoperative ankle-brachial index and level of distal anastomosis. Patency after 6 months was significantly higher (84%) for the in situ grafts compared to reversed veins (49%). The difference was mainly caused by a significantly higher patency for in situ grafts anastomosed to infrapopliteal arteries. Despite better patency rates in the in situ group limb salvage at 6 months was the same in both groups. Operating time was also similar in both groups. It is concluded that the in situ technique is superior to the reversed technique, at least in infrapopliteal reconstructions. The superior patency rate and the technical advantages without apparent disadvantages are the basis for the recommendation to use the in situ technique for femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypass. 
Ultra short-acting intravenous beta-adrenergic blockade as add-on therapy in acute unstable angina. To assess the efficacy and safety of the ultra short-acting beta-blocking agent, esmolol, in acute unstable angina, we administered esmolol to 21 patients who had persistent angina despite conventional medical therapy. Following a baseline Doppler echocardiographic examination, esmolol was titrated to reduce the rate-pressure product by at least 20%. Once the patients had been receiving a maintenance dosage for 30 minutes, Doppler echocardiographic studies were repeated. Mean esmolol dose at target response was 17 +/- 16 mg/min, with the dosage range of 8 to 24 mg/min. Esmolol was effective in alleviating anginal chest pain in 18 of the 21 patients. Seven patients eventually underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and eight had coronary bypass surgery. The remainder were discharged receiving medical therapy including oral beta-blockade. During esmolol therapy, heart rate and blood pressure decreased significantly (86 +/- 14 to 68 +/- 12 beats/min and 125 +/- 16 to 103 +/- 20 mm Hg, both p less than 0.001). Cardiac output decreased from 5.4 +/- 1.3 to 4.5 +/- 1.1 L/min (p less than 0.001) secondary to a decrease in heart rate as stroke volume remained unchanged. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 47 +/- 12 to 49 +/- 13 with esmolol therapy, although this change was not statistically significant. Both the one third filling fraction as well as E/A ratio (ratio of early-to-late diastolic filling velocities) increased with esmolol therapy (35 +/- 8% to 38 +/- 8% and 0.73 +/- 0.2 to 0.85 +/- 0.23, both p less than 0.005), indicating improvement in left ventricular diastolic function. 
Effects of low perfusate Ca2+ concentration on newborn myocardial function after ischemia. A greater dependence on transsarcolemmal Ca2+ flux and immaturity of Ca2+ sequestration capacity may potentiate Ca2(+)-mediated reperfusion injury in the newborn myocardium. The effect of serum ionized Ca2+ concentration on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function after ischemia was studied in 5-7-day-old piglets undergoing a 90-minute period of cold-blood cardioplegic arrest. In the control group, Ca2+ was maintained at 1.2 mM (Group A [n = 6]). The cardioplegic solution and bypass perfusate were modified to achieve a low Ca2+ concentration, 0.25 mM, in Group B (n = 6). Left ventricular pressure-volume loops were acquired by using high-fidelity pressure-sensor-tipped and volume-conductance catheters. Ventricular function was assessed from the slope of end-systolic (Ees) and end-diastolic (k) pressure-volume relations during transient caval occlusion. Both groups showed a significant reduction in Ees after ischemia (p less than 0.05). Intergroup comparison of Ees after ischemia demonstrated a better recovery of the systolic function in the low Ca2+ group, 64 +/- 7% versus 49 +/- 6% in the normal Ca2+ group (p = 0.05). There was a significant increase in chamber stiffness index in group A (k, 0.48 +/- 0.06 to 0.65 +/- 0.05 ml-1, p less than 0.01) versus no significant change in group B. This study shows 1) the feasibility of acquiring continuous pressure-volume data in neonatal hearts by using a conductance catheter system, and 2) better preservation of systolic function and diastolic compliance in normal newborn myocardium by low Ca2+ concentration in the peri-ischemic period. 
Fragmented atrial activity in patients with transient atrial fibrillation. Prediction of atrial fibrillation (AF) is very important in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or in the selection of pacemaker therapeutic modality. In 25 patients with transient AF, the response of the atrial activity width to extrastimuli was examined in comparison with 25 patients without AF to see if the results could be used as an index of subsequent occurrence of AF. Programmed electrical stimulation using eight basic stimuli followed by single or double extrastimuli (P1P2 or P1P2P3) were delivered to the high right atrium, and the atrial activities were examined. The prolongation of the atrial activity caused by extrastimuli was termed fragmentation (Frg), and it was defined as the prolongation of more than 150% of the basic stimuli. Frg zone was defined as the zone of coupling intervals of the extrastimuli (P1P2 or P2P3) that caused Frg, and delta max Frg was defined as the difference between the widest Frg and the atrial wave width during basic stimuli. Fragmentation was reproducibly induced by extrastimuli, and there was an inverse relationship between Frg duration and the coupling interval of the extrastimuli (P1P2 or P2P3). Frg zone and delta max Frg were wider and longer in patients with transient AF in comparison with the control group for both single and double extrastimuli (p less than 0.001). AF inducibility using double extrastimuli was significantly high in patients with AF. 
Body surface mapping of high-frequency components in the terminal portion during QRS complex for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia in patients with previous myocardial infarction. To study the clinical significance of terminal QRS high-frequency components for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia, an 87-lead body surface signal-averaged mapping was performed in 21 healthy subjects (control) and in 41 patients with previous myocardial infarction (anterior, 20; inferior, 21). Mapping data were analyzed and averaged (129.7 +/- 26.5 beats) for 160 seconds, and the signal-averaged beat was filtered with a bidirectional bandwidth (80-250 Hz) digital filter. J-point was determined from the 87-lead RMS voltage of nonfiltered QRS. For each lead, we calculated the sum of the absolute value of filtered QRS from 20 msec ahead of the J-point to the J-point (A-20). The body surface distribution of A-20 was expressed as A-20 map. The maxima in A-20 maps were mainly located on the upper sternal region in healthy subjects, on the left anterior chest in patients with previous anterior myocardial infarction, and on the central anterior chest in patients with previous inferior myocardial infarction. In the patients in both the group with anterior myocardial infarction and the group with inferior myocardial infarction, the value of maximum was significantly greater than in the subjects in the control group (0.181 +/- 0.086 and 0.138 +/- 0.048, respectively, vs. 0.075 +/- 0.031 mV.msec; p less than 0.01). In patients with myocardial infarction (n = 41), the value of maximum was significantly greater with ventricular tachycardia (n = 11) than without ventricular tachycardia (n = 30) (0.240 +/- 0.076 vs. 0.130 +/- 0.043 mV.msec; p less than 0.01). 
Subnormal parasympathetic activity after cardiac transplantation. Heart period variability (standard deviation of 120 consecutive RR or PP intervals) was used to assess baseline parasympathetic activity in 18 patients with congestive heart failure before and after orthotopic cardiac transplantation, and was compared to that of 16 age-matched control subjects. Mean heart period variability (+/- standard error of the mean) was significantly greater (p less than 0.05) in control subjects (58 +/- 5 ms) than in the patients at any time before or after transplantation. Heart period variability of innervated recipient atria did not change significantly early (1 to 4 weeks) after transplantation (16 +/- 2 to 24 +/- 5 ms; p = 0.11), but increased significantly between weeks 15 and 37 after transplantation (30 +/- 5 ms, p less than 0.002 versus before transplantation). A stepwise regression model (R2 = 0.35; p = 0.01) showed that heart period variability was directly related to time after transplantation and inversely related to systolic arterial pressure after transplantation and degree of rejection. Heart period variability of the denervated donor atria did not change from early to late periods after transplantation, suggesting that vagal reinnervation of the donor heart had not occurred. These data indicate that baseline parasympathetic activity does not increase significantly during the first month after transplantation but increases significantly between months 3 and 6. 
Why do lean hypertensives have higher mortality rates than other hypertensives? Findings of the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program. Specific causes of death were analyzed for 10,908 participants in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program, to explore possible explanations for the observed excess 8.3-year mortality from all causes in hypertensives with low body mass. Although the cardiovascular mortality rate among men in the lowest decile of body mass (body mass index 21.96 or less) was 50% higher than that of men in the median class (body mass index 26.4-28.8), death rate for noncardiovascular deaths was more than 2 1/2 times higher in men with lean versus median body mass. The pattern was similar among women. Among noncardiovascular causes, striking differences in mortality rates between lean hypertensives and those of average body mass were observed for cirrhotic death (relative risk of 12+ in men and 11+ in women), for nonmalignant respiratory disease in men (relative risk of 7+), for violent death (both sexes), and for malignant neoplasms in men. Prevalence of smoking was almost twice as high in the lowest compared with the median body mass group; among the lean, excess deaths, particularly noncardiovascular deaths, were concentrated among smokers. Thus, male smokers in the lowest decile of body mass constituted only 3% of the study population, but contributed 8% of all deaths, 11% of all noncardiovascular deaths, and 22% of all cirrhotic deaths. A larger proportion of deaths occurred early in follow-up in the lean versus other hypertensives, suggesting occult disease among the lean at baseline. There was no evidence that more severe or treatment-resistant hypertension was present in or could explain excess mortality among the hypertensives with low body mass. The inference from the findings is not that overweight is protective for hypertensives nor that excess risk is due to leanness per se. Rather, a reasonable hypothesis, particularly from findings on specific causes of death, is that excess mortality in lean hypertensives is due to deleterious lifestyles, particularly smoking and excess alcohol intake, contributing to both leanness and risk of death. 
Effect of long-term exercise on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development after gradual coronary artery occlusion in pigs. The effect of myocardial ischemia, induced by long-term exercise, on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development was examined in pigs after gradual occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery (LCx) with an ameroid occluder. Thirty days after surgery, regional myocardial function and blood flow were assessed during exercise in 22 pigs separated into exercise (n = 12) and sedentary groups (n = 10). The exercise group trained on a treadmill for 25 +/- 1 days, 30-50 min/day, at heart rates of 210-220 beats/min. After 5 weeks, another exercise test was performed. In the exercise group, after training, we observed an improvement in systolic wall thickening, expressed as a percentage of rest, in the collateral-dependent LCx region from 64 +/- 8% to 87 +/- 6% (p less than 0.01) at moderate exercise levels (220 beats/min) and from 45 +/- 7% to 73 +/- 7% (p less than 0.01) at severe exercise levels (265 beats/min). Transmural myocardial blood flow in the LCx region expressed as a ratio of flow in the nonoccluded region of the left ventricle also increased significantly (p less than 0.01) during severe exercise after 5 weeks. The sedentary group showed an improvement in systolic wall thickening in the LCx region during moderate exercise compared with the initial exercise test (p less than 0.05) but no significant change in systolic wall thickening or myocardial blood flow ratios during severe exercise after 5 weeks. We conclude that long-term exercise after gradual LCx coronary artery occlusion in pigs improves myocardial function and coronary collateral reserve in collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise. 
Prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by primary ventricular fibrillation. Principal Investigators of the SPRINT Study. In 5,839 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), hospitalized between July 1981 and July 1983 in 14 coronary care units in Israel, the incidence of primary ventricular fibrillation (VF) was 2.1%. Patients with primary VF resembled counterparts without VF in terms of age, gender, frequency of previous AMI and past cigarette smoking habits. The hospital course of patients with primary VF revealed increased incidence of primary atrial fibrillation and atrioventricular block. Increased serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase were noted among the patients with primary VF. In-hospital mortality rate was 18.8% in 122 patients with primary VF compared with 8.5% in 3,707 patients forming the reference group (p less than 0.01). Adjustment by age using logistic function yielded an estimate of 2.86 for relative mortality odds associated with primary VF, and further adjustment by gender, history of AMI, systemic hypertension, and by enzymatically estimated infarct size slightly reduced the estimated odds, at 2.52 (95% confidence interval, 1.42 to 4.46). Prognosis after discharge from the hospital was independent of primary VF. In conclusion, primary VF exerts an independent, significant effect on in-hospital mortality. 
Emergency aortocoronary bypass after failed angioplasty. One thousand two hundred fourteen percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties were performed over a 38-month period. Sixty patients required immediate emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after angioplasty failure; 7 of these had evidence of acute myocardial infarction before angioplasty and were excluded from the study. Of the 53 patients remaining, 27 (51%) had electrocardiographic and enzyme evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction. Two patients died (4%), and 10 had postoperative complications (19%). No statistical significance was noted comparing age, sex, incidence of prior myocardial infarction or myocardial dysfunction, time for revascularization, or average number of grafts completed in those with single-vessel (n = 21) versus multiple-vessel (n = 32) coronary artery disease. Postoperatively, those with multiple-vessel disease required intraaortic balloon pump support (p = 0.06) and antiarrhythmic medications more frequently than single-vessel patients (p less than 0.01) and had a higher complication rate (p less than 0.05). Although not reaching statistical significance, the data also suggest a higher death and postoperative myocardial infarction rate in patients with multiple-vessel disease. Emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty carries a higher morbidity and mortality than elective coronary artery bypass grafting, particularly for patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease. 
Effects of theophylline, atenolol and their combination on myocardial ischemia in stable angina pectoris. The effects of theophylline (400 mg twice a day), atenolol (50 mg twice a day) and their combination on myocardial ischemia were studied in 9 patients with stable angina pectoris in a randomized, single-blind, triple crossover trial. Placebo was administered to the patients during the run-in and the run-off periods. A treadmill exercise test and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained at the end of each treatment period. Compared with placebo, theophylline significantly improved the time to onset of myocardial ischemia (1 mm of ST-segment depression) from 7.8 +/- 3.7 to 9.5 +/- 3.7 minutes (p less than 0.03) and the exercise duration from 9 +/- 3.4 to 10.1 +/- 3.5 minutes (p less than 0.04). During atenolol and during combination treatment, the time to the onset of ischemia and the exercise duration were similar (10.8 +/- 4.2 and 11.2 +/- 3.2 minutes, 11.2 +/- 3.6 and 11.5 +/- 3.2 minutes, respectively) and longer than during theophylline administration (p less than 0.05). Ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring showed that, during theophylline administration, the heart rate was higher than during placebo throughout the 24 hours (p less than 0.05). During atenolol and during combination treatment the heart rate was similar and in both cases lower than during placebo (p less than 0.05). Compared with placebo, theophylline decreased the total ischemic time from 97 +/- 110 to 70 +/- 103 minutes (p less than 0.05). 
Renal artery stenosis in patients with aortic dissection: increased prevalence The authors retrospectively analyzed the prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 63 consecutive patients with aortic dissection who underwent thoracic and abdominal aortography. Ten patients (16%) had renal artery stenosis, five with atherosclerosis and five with fibromuscular lesions. Risk factors for aortic dissection were Marfan disease in nine patients, bicuspid aortic valve in one, and hypertension in 54 (including seven patients with Marfan syndrome). If the patients with Marfan syndrome and the patient with the bicuspid aortic valve are excluded, renal artery stenosis was present in 10 of 53 patients (19%) when the cause of dissection was presumably hypertension. This finding suggests that renovascular hypertension is a greater risk factor for aortic dissection than is essential hypertension. The success of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) in controlling renovascular hypertension has been proved. In this series, emergent PTRA successfully controlled the hypertension in one patient with a type B dissection, resulting in an excellent clinical outcome. Angiography should be routinely performed on patients with aortic dissections to evaluate for renal artery stenosis. 
Changes in physician practice for the prevention of cardiovascular disease. To determine recent changes in physicians' practices for cardiovascular disease risk reduction, a randomly selected sample of practicing primary care physicians in the upper Midwest was interviewed by telephone in 1987 and again in 1989 (response rates, greater than 90%; N = 241). The reported mean cutoff levels for labeling a total serum cholesterol level as abnormal dropped from 5.84 to 5.43 mmol/L (226 to 210 mg/dL) and for initiating medication, from 7.34 to 6.54 mmol/L (284 to 253 mg/dL). The proportion of physicians using diuretics as preferred step 1 antihypertensive agents dropped from 60% to 32%. Preferences became evenly divided among diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers. Advice about physical exercise changed little, but consensus among practicing physicians was high. Substantial improvements were found in smoking cessation activities. Practicing physicians are proving to be responsive to new scientific evidence and education in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. 
Tricuspid valve dysplasia or displacement in intrauterine life. In 450 cases of structural heart disease diagnosed prenatally, 38 fetuses (8.5%) had either a dysplastic or a displaced tricuspid valve. The tricuspid valve was dysplastic in 22 fetuses, all of which had evidence of tricuspid regurgitation resulting in right atrial dilation and increased cardiothoracic ratio. An associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve occurred in 16 fetuses. The remaining 16 fetuses had Ebstein's malformation, 14 with evidence of tricuspid incompetence at presentation and 10 with an associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve. Of the 38 cases, the pregnancy was interrupted in 17, spontaneous intrauterine fetal death occurred in 8, 11 infants died postnatally and 2 infants are still alive; additional abnormalities were found in 8 cases (chromosomal anomalies in 2, ventricular septal defects in 2, corrected transposition in 2, the Chiari malformation in 2, supraventricular tachycardia in 1 case and coarctation of the aorta in 1). Fetuses with severe abnormalities are selected for fetal echocardiography by the four chamber screening program and a high rate of natural loss both in intrauterine life and immediately after birth was observed in the 21 cases in which pregnancy was continued. This would explain the higher incidence of tricuspid valve disease in our prenatal compared with postnatal series. Although increased cardiothoracic ratio and associated lesions of the right ventricular outflow tract contribute to the poor outcome in the cases detected prenatally, the absence of these features does not always indicate a good prognosis because progression of disease can occur with advancing gestational age. No absolute measurement or single echocardiographic feature emerged as a consistent predictive factor of prognosis. 
Haemostatic changes during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment of postmenopausal women. To identify changes in haemostatic balance during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment, 60 postmenopausal women with climacteric complaints, mean age 55.4 years (range 44-68) were randomly allocated to receive one of four hormone replacement regimens for one year. All four formulations were administered daily and continuously, each contained 2 mg of 17 beta-oestradiol in combination with either norethisterone acetate, 1 mg (group A) or 0.5 mg (group B) or megestrol acetate, 5 mg (group C) or 2.5 mg (group D). No significant changes occurred during treatment within or between the groups in platelet count, fibrinogen and 2-antiplasmin. Activated partial thromboplastin time was shortened (P less than 0.05) in group D and a decline in factor VII activity and antigen (P less than 0.001) and in ATIII activity (P less than 0.05) was noted in group A. Protein C tended to decline in all treatment groups but statistically significant changes were noted only in groups A and C. Two women developed crural thrombosis during the observation period. 
Drug response at electropharmacologic study in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias: the importance of ventricular refractoriness. The clinical and electrophysiologic predictors of successful antiarrhythmic drug therapy for patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia were evaluated in 59 consecutive patients undergoing serial electropharmacologic trials. Structural heart disease was less frequently present in patients for whom effective therapy was found (p less than 0.05). The presence of coronary artery disease and a history of prior myocardial infarction were significantly more frequently present in patients for whom antiarrhythmic drug therapy could not be found (p less than 0.05). The corrected QT interval and ventricular effective refractory period measured at a pacing cycle length of 400 ms were significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders (QT interval 428 +/- 52 versus 460 +/- 59 ms; ventricular effective refractory period 237 +/- 28 versus 254 +/- 24 ms; (p less than 0.05). In addition, the interelectrogram coupling interval of the ventricular extrastimulus initiating ventricular tachycardia was significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders (223 +/- 37 versus 251 +/- 33 ms; p = 0.003). Logistic regression analysis identified a short ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval (p less than 0.01) and absence of prior myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05) as the only independent predictors of antiarrhythmic drug suppression of the induction of ventricular tachycardia. Greater drug-induced increments in the ventricular effective and functional refractory periods were observed in responders than in nonresponders as was the shortest ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval. Thus, baseline electrophysiologic measurements identify patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who are likely to respond to antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Furthermore, these patients demonstrate greater drug-induced electrophysiologic changes. 
Epidemiologic features of asymptomatic cerebral infarction in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. We performed unenhanced computed tomographic scans on 141 asymptomatic patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. Thirty-six patients (26%) had hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction. The majority of these were small deep infarcts, seen in 29 patients (21%), but 13 patients (9%) had cortical or large deep infarctions. Twelve patients had more than one infarct on computed tomographic scan. Increasing age and increased left atrial diameter were the only clinical features associated with asymptomatic infarction. Patients older than 65 years with a left atrial diameter greater than 5.0 cm (n = 23) had a 52% prevalence of asymptomatic infarction. Patients younger than 65 years with a left atrial diameter less than 5.0 cm (n = 38) had an 11% prevalence of silent infarction. Patients with only one of these risk factors (n = 72) had a 24% prevalence of silent infarction. Infarction was more common in those with chronic (34%) as opposed to intermittent (22%) nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but this difference was not significant. Hypertension, diabetes, duration of atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, history of myocardial infarction, and echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction were not associated with asymptomatic infarction. A history of hypertension was present in only 35% of our patients with small-deep asymptomatic infarction, similar to the percentage in patients without stroke. Asymptomatic cerebral infarction is common in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. The association with enlarged left atria and the lack of correlation with major cerebrovascular risk factors suggests a cardioembolic mechanism. Further study is needed to determine the functional and prognostic significance of these strokes. 
Reversible cardiogenic shock due to chest tube compression of the right ventricle. A 62-year-old woman developed shock immediately after the insertion of a right-sided chest tube. A chest roentgenogram showed the chest tube to be overlying the heart and possibly compressing the right ventricle. An animal model was developed to replicate this clinical situation. Using a domestic goat model pulmonary artery, peripheral arterial catheters were inserted along with a right sided chest tube placed to suction. A second chest tube guided by a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope placed within its lumen was positioned between the right ventricle and the sternum of the animals. Thirteen paired measurements in three goats (average of 4.3 measurements per animal) of cardiac output, heart rate, and mean arterial blood pressure were made at baseline and after chest tube placement over the right ventricle. The data were analyzed using a paired t test statistic. Compared with baseline measurements, there was a significant decrease in cardiac output (p less than 0.001) and mean arterial pressure (p less than 0.001) as well as an increase in heart rate (p = 0.0056) after placement of the chest tube across the right ventricle. We conclude that a misplaced chest tube compressing the right ventricle can impede cardiac output and lead to a low cardiac output state. Physicians inserting chest tubes in patients should be aware of this potential complication as it is easily treated by withdrawal of the chest tube. 
The tangled web of coronary risk factors. Although epidemiologic, genetic, and pathophysiologic studies have shown that low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) are involved in the development of coronary artery disease, the standard measurement of LDL cholesterol comprises a number of separate components that may contribute in different ways to the disease process. Some of these components appear to be of particular pathologic importance. Intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDLs) and lipoprotein (a) are highly atherogenic species that each normally account for up to 10% to 15% total LDL cholesterol but may be disproportionately elevated in pathologic states and may therefore contribute disproportionately to coronary disease risk in certain patients. Recently, another subclass of LDL, characterized by relatively small particle size and increased density, also has been found to be associated with relatively increased risk of coronary disease. Furthermore, levels of this subclass, designated LDL-III, are linked to a number of interrelated hormonal and metabolic factors, each of which have also been associated with risk of coronary artery disease. These include male gender, postmenopause, abdominal adiposity, elevated triglyceride levels, increased levels of apolipoprotein B, and reductions in high-density lipoproteins (HDLs), particularly in the HDL2 subclass. Other studies have demonstrated that many of these factors are also commonly associated with relative insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. Thus, a lipoprotein profile characterized by a relative increase in LDL-III and a reduction in HDL2 is indicative of a constellation of metabolic features that defines a high-risk state and that makes it extremely difficult to single out one or more factors that are most directly involved in the disease process. Combinations of genetic and environmental factors acting on this "tangled web" of risk factors may account for much of the variation in coronary disease susceptibility found in the general population. 
Unnecessary deaths from valvular aortic stenosis. The annual mortality from aortic valvular stenosis was calculated among potential candidates for surgical replacement of the aortic valve. From the Swedish Central Register of Causes of Death, 70 patients below the age of 80 years who had died from aortic stenosis during a 1-year period in the County of Stockholm (population 1.5 million), were identified. A retrospective analysis of their medical records showed that 37 individuals were suitable candidates for surgery. The presence of aortic stenosis had been verified at autopsy in 31 (84%) patients. The remaining six patients (16%) had their aortic stenosis diagnosis established by a thorough non-invasive investigation performed before death. Although typical signs and symptoms of aortic stenosis were recorded in all 37 patients, only six (16%) of them had been considered by their physicians to be suitable candidates for surgery prior to death. The deceased patients were compared with a group of 68 patients who had undergone aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis during the same period. There were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to symptoms and clinical findings, except for a higher incidence of syncope in the operated group. It is concluded that, of 105 (68 surgically treated and 37 deceased) eligible patients with aortic stenosis, 37 individuals did not receive surgical care in time. The reason for this was probably insufficient knowledge of the curability of the disease. 
The changing clinical spectrum of thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease). Between 1970 and 1987, 112 patients were diagnosed as having thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO). The age was 42 +/- 11 years (mean +/- SD; range, 20-75 years); 23% were women, and 7% were more than 60 years old when they were first diagnosed. Ischemic ulcerations were present in 85 (76%) patients: 24 (28%) patients with upper-extremity, 39 (46%) patients with lower-extremity, and 22 (26%) patients with both upper- and lower-extremity lesions. Ninety-one (81%) patients had rest pain, 49 (44%) patients had Raynaud's phenomenon, and 43 (38%) patients had superficial thrombophlebitis. We were able to follow up 89 of the 112 (79%) patients for 1-460 months (mean follow-up time, 91.6 +/- 84 months). Sixty-five (73%) patients had no amputations, while 24 (27%) had one or more of the following amputations: finger, six (15%) patients; toe, 13 (33%) patients; transmetatarsal, four (10%) patients; below knee, 14 (36%) patients; and above knee, two (5%) patients. Forty-three (48%) patients stopped smoking for a mean of 80 +/- 105 months (median, 46.5 months; range, 1-420 months), and only two (5%) patients had amputations after they stopped smoking, while 22 (42%) patients had amputations while continuing to smoke (p less than 0.0001). The spectrum of patients with TAO is changing in that the male-to-female ratio is decreasing (3:1), more older patients are being diagnosed, and upper-extremity involvement is commonly present. In the 48% of patients who stopped smoking, amputations and continued disease activity were uncommon. 
High urinary cAMP in hypertensives despite careful drug treatment--an epidemiological study from the Dalby population. The correlation between serum calcium (S-Ca), plasma parathyroid hormone (P-PTH) and hypertension was determined in a population-based, cross-sectional study of carefully treated hypertensives (n = 391; diastolic blood pressure 90.2 mmHg; 57 years) compared with normotensive controls (n = 328; diastolic blood pressure 82.1 mmHg; 57 years). Levels of urinary cyclic-adenosinemonophosphate (U-cAMP), but not of plasma cAMP (P-cAMP), were higher (P less than 0.001) in hypertensives than in controls. This was the case regardless of the type of drug treatment and the blood pressure level that was reached. U-cAMP correlated with adrenaline in multivariate analyses. S-Ca levels were higher (P less than 0.001) and S-Mg levels were lower (P less than 0.001) in hypertensives than in controls. This was not explained by thiazide treatment. Thus, despite 'adequate' blood pressure reduction, substantial differences in S-Ca, S-Mg and U-cAMP still exist between hypertensives and normotensive controls. 
Myocardial imaging with Tc-99m teboroxime: technique and initial results. This study examined the results of Tc-99m teboroxime imaging in 22 patients aged 59 +/- 9 years and compared the results with those of thallium-201. The exercise and rest teboroxime studies were obtained within 3 hours of each other using a dose of 15 mCi/study. Because of the very short wash-out half-life of teboroxime, imaging was begun within 1 to 2 minutes after injection. Both SPECT and planar images were obtained; the SPECT protocol was modified by changing the number of frames, the time per frame, or the filters used for reconstruction of images. The planar images were obtained in the supine or upright position. Shorter acquisition time for SPECT (10 sec/frame) and the use of a Butterworth filter with a frequency cutoff of 0.3 cycle/cm and a power of 10 yielded best image quality. There was a close agreement with thallium results in identifying an abnormal or normal perfusion pattern in 89% of vascular territories. The scans were abnormal by both techniques in 12 patients, normal in nine patients, and discordant in only one patient. Thus Tc-99m teboroxime myocardial imaging is feasible at rest and during exercise using either SPECT or planar imaging. Shorter acquisition time and appropriate filtering for SPECT imaging and the upright position in planar imaging improve image quality and are convenient for the patient. 
Clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of ventricular tachycardia in children with normal hearts. Characteristics of 18 patients with clinical ventricular tachycardia (VT) and normal hearts documented by physical examination, echocardiography, and angiocardiography were analyzed. There were 13 males and 5 females, aged 1 to 16 years (mean +/- SD, 9.7 +/- 4.8 years). Six patients had hemodynamic instability during VT and the other 12 patients were hemodynamically stable. Two patients (11%) presented with sustained VT and 16 (89%) with episodes of nonsustained VT at varying intervals (3 of 16 with repetitive monomorphic VT). Among 14 patients on whom exercise tests were performed, seven had exercise-induced VT. During electrophysiologic studies, VT was induced in 16 of 18 (89%) (in 13 patients with morphology identical to clinical VT). VT was induced by programmed stimulation (single, double, and burst stimulation of the right atrium or right ventricular apex during sinus rhythm or during pacind for eight beats) in 5 of 18 (28%) patients; with isoproterenol, VT was aggravated spontaneously in 6 of 15 (40%) patients; and during stimulation VT was induced in 8 of 15 (53%) patients. Among patients whose VT was not induced during programmed stimulation, VT was induced with the addition of isoproterenol in 11 of 12 (92%). All 14 patients in follow-up are in stable condition, seven patients with medication and seven without medication. Pediatric patients with normal hearts and clinically detected VT usually have VT induced by programmed stimulation, either with or without isoproterenol stimulation. 
Long-term evaluation of indobufen in peripheral vascular disease. Indobufen--an inhibitor of platelets aggregation--has been used in 306 patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral vascular disease. Patients were treated and followed up for one year. One patient of every 3 treated with indobufen was treated with ASA, and a control group of patients receiving no treatment was also followed up. The authors studied by means of a treadmill exercise test the pain-free walking distance (PFWD), the global walking distance (GWD), and the recovery time after exercise. The treatment period was completed by 290 patients: 204 claudicants, 51 claudicants with diabetes, and 35 with a short PFWD and GWD (greater than 150 m). Indobufen was more effective than ASA in improving the PFWD and GWD in all groups. There were also fewer side effects with indobufen, and cardiac morbidity and mortality was also reduced. In conclusion indobufen showed its activity and safety in chronic treatment of patients with peripheral disease, and we suggest that it may be used for long periods without side effects. 
Relation of cardiac output at rest and during exercise to age in essential hypertension. It has been suggested that the decline of cardiac output with age is due to increased prevalence of disease, particularly occult coronary artery disease. Therefore, the relation of cardiac output (direct oxygen Fick method) to age was analyzed in 110 sixteen- to 64-year-old men with World Health Organization stage I or II essential hypertension at the time of the hemodynamic study, who were alive and free of cardiovascular complications 7 years later. At supine and seated rest, during upright bicycle exercise at 50 W and and at peak work load, cardiac output was inversely (p less than 0.01) related to age. These relations were independent of weight and mean intraarterial pressure. Stroke volume decreased with advancing age at supine rest, but not at rest and during exercise in the seated position. Heart rate was not affected by age in the supine position, but was slower in older patients during upright rest and at peak exercise. In conclusion, in patients with essential hypertension who remained free of cardiovascular complications for 7 years, cardiac output was independently and inversely related to age at various levels of activity. These findings suggest that occult cardiovascular disease does not explain the decline in cardiac output with age in patients with essential hypertension. 
Essential hypertension, metabolic disorders, and insulin resistance. Essential hypertension is frequently associated with several metabolic abnormalities, of which obesity, glucose intolerance, and dyslipidemia are the most common. This report discusses the epidemiologic evidence for the coexistence of these risk factors and questions why hyperinsulinemia and essential hypertension cosegregate. The euglycemic insulin clamp and the insulin suppression test are documented with respect to the physiologic functions of insulin, and the mechanisms of insulin resistance in essential hypertension are discussed. Evidence to suggest that insulin resistance is a marker for an "atherogenic syndrome" is reviewed. It is concluded that all the hemodynamic and metabolic disorders of essential hypertension and insulin resistance are closely related. The clinical approach to the patient with any of the abnormalities in question should take into consideration the whole cluster, with therapy aimed at ameliorating the entire hemodynamic-metabolic profile. 
Arteriographically determined occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous bed in impotent patients following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma. To determine the presence, location and pattern of arterial occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed in impotent men following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma, we reviewed the selective internal pudendal arteriograms of 20 patients with a history of blunt perineal and 7 with blunt pelvic trauma who had immediate development of impotence. Arteriographic studies of 104 other impotent patients also were reviewed and compared. Patients with persistent impotence immediately after blunt pelvic and perineal trauma had significantly different patterns of arteriographically demonstrated occlusive disease within the distal hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed consistent with the site of the traumatic injury. Those who sustained blunt pelvic trauma and complained of immediate impotence revealed arterial occlusive lesions mainly in the internal pudendal, common penile, cavernous and dorsal arteries. The incidence of arterial lesions in the distal internal pudendal or common penile artery was significantly higher (p less than 0.01) in patients with blunt pelvic trauma (92%) than in those with blunt perineal trauma (35%). Patients who sustained blunt perineal trauma and complained of immediate impotence demonstrated a more focal pattern of pathological arterial occlusion primarily in the cavernous and dorsal arteries. The incidence of a solitary arterial lesion in the cavernous artery without proximal disease was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) in patients with blunt perineal trauma (48%) than in those with blunt pelvic trauma (8%). It is hypothesized that blunt trauma without immediate impotence may be a potential risk factor for later development of arterial vasculogenic impotence, and that unrecognized or seemingly innocuous trauma may be a factor in cases of idiopathic impotence. Patients without trauma and with vascular risk factors have a more diffuse pattern of arteriographically demonstrated arterial lesions. 
Upper-extremity deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. A prospective study. We prospectively evaluated the prevalence of pulmonary embolism (PE) in 30 consecutive patients with proved deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of the upper extremity. Ten patients (seven male and three female; mean age, 43 years) had primary DVT, and 20 patients (14 male and six female; mean age, 52 years) had catheter-related DVT. Ventilation-perfusion lung scans were routinely performed at the time of hospital admission to all but one patient (one patient was critically ill, and he died four days after DVT diagnosis because of massive PE). Lung scan findings were normal in nine of ten patients with primary DVT, and they were indetermine in the remaining patient. By contrast, perfusion defects were considered highly suggestive of PE in four patients with catheter-related DVT; two patients had indeterminate lung scans, and 13 patients had normal scans. We conclude that PE is not a rare complication in upper extremity DVT, and that patients with catheter-related DVT seem to be at a higher risk. 
Pregnancy associated with Gorlin's syndrome. A pregnant woman with Gorlin's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours. The main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure. This was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production. 
Prostacyclin production in myocardial infarction in the acute phase and during follow-up. Twenty-five patients with myocardial infarction were monitored in the acute phase and during follow-up with regard to the in vivo production of prostacyclin (PGI2) and thromboxane (TxA2), by measurement of their major urinary metabolites, 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-TxB2, respectively. In 22 of these patients PGI2 and TxA2 production were also assessed before, during and after an exercise test performed 6 weeks after discharge. In approximately 24% of patients the in vivo production of prostacyclin did not increase during the acute phase of the infarction process. This inability was usually associated with a decrease in the release of heart muscle enzymes, and was mostly frequently observed in women. During the exercise tolerance test, none of the patients showed any increase in prostacyclin production, in contrast to healthy volunteers, in whom a significant increase was seen. There were no differences between patients with and without an increase in prostacyclin production during the acute phase. At the follow-up 2 years after the myocardial infarction, eight cardiac events had occurred, all of which were noted among patients who exhibited an expected increase in prostacyclin production in association with the infarction. This would seem reasonable, since most of the patients in this group had larger primary infarctions. 
The effects of cyclosporin A on eicosanoid excretion in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Alterations in renal eicosanoid levels have been postulated as a factor in cyclosporin A (CSA) nephrotoxicity. The effects of CSA on renal eicosanoid excretion in rheumatoid arthritis were studied over a 24-week period, during which treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was discontinued. The initial dosage of CSA was 4 mg/kg/day; at week 24, the mean dosage of CSA was 3.9 mg/kg/day. At week 24, the mean (+/- SD) serum creatinine level (1.04 +/- 0.24 mg/dl) was 32% above the baseline value; renal blood flow had decreased by 21% (P less than 0.03) and the glomerular filtration rate had decreased by 16%. There was a significant increase (P less than 0.03) in the 2,3-dinor thromboxane B2 level at week 2, but there was no significant change in the levels of the other eicosanoids. This study demonstrates that after CSA treatment, there is a selective increase in a thromboxane metabolite that parallels an increase in renal vascular resistance, even in the absence of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, and with unimpaired formation of other vasodilator eicosanoids. 
Effect of halothane and isoflurane on postischemic "stunned" myocardium in the dog. Short periods of coronary artery occlusion are known to produce prolonged periods of ventricular dysfunction. The effects of halothane or isoflurane on contractility and metabolism in postischemic "stunned" myocardium were studied in an open-chest canine model in which the left anterior descending artery (LAD) was occluded for 15 min and then reperfused. Regional function in the LAD and circumflex artery (CIRC) areas were measured with sonomicrometry, and metabolic data were determined from simultaneous arterial and venous measurements of oxygen and lactate. Halothane and isoflurane produced equivalent decreases in systolic shortening in both normal (CIRC) and stunned (LAD) areas of the heart. Furthermore, the amount of depression was similar with either halothane or isoflurane. Halothane 0.75 MAC significantly decreased systolic shortening in both the LAD region (from 38.8 +/- 25.9% to 11.0 +/- 21.8%) and in the CIRC region (from 116.7 +/- 24.7% to 87.5 +/- 23.3%). At equivalent MAC concentrations of isoflurane, the values were 42.5 +/- 45.7 to -7.0 +/- 49.9% in the LAD region and 91.5 +/- 11.9% to 66.9 +/- 23.9% in the CIRC area. At 1.5-MAC halothane, systolic shortening in the LAD region decreased from 47.9 +/- 47.2% to -0.6 +/- 20.3% and in the CIRC area from 114.6 +/- 16.8% to 76.0 +/- 18.7%. Isoflurane at 1.5 MAC produced significant decreases, from 23.4 +/- 54.5% to -15.6 +/- 27.1% in the LAD region and from 94.4 +/- 33.2% to 61.3 +/- 28.2 in the CIRC area. 
Dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy: the experience with its application in one hundred seventy patients with known or suspected unstable angina. We evaluated the safety, accuracy, and potential clinical utility of intravenous dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy with thallium-201 in 170 patients, 78 with suspected and 92 with known unstable angina. All had coronary angiography. Noncardiac side effects (26%), induced chest discomfort (44%), and ST segment changes (12%) were similar in the two groups. No significant arrhythmias occurred. Two patients had prolonged chest pain, both with extensive reversible image abnormalities and associated creatinine kinase-MB release. Both had elective bypass surgery. Twenty-eight patients had normal coronary arteries, and 35 had single-vessel disease. Scintigraphic per patient sensitivity and specificity were 91% and 79% with a per vessel sensitivity of 74% and a per vessel specificity of 78% without between-group differences. During a brief follow-up period, 62 patients with image abnormalities had coronary revascularization, and there were seven deaths without intergroup differences. In a similar patient group that did not have angiography, scintigraphic defects were less frequent and less extensive, revascularization was not performed, and subsequent deaths occurred less often. Dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy is an accurate alternative to exercise testing in the evaluation of patients with unstable angina pectoris. Although not without risk, the method appears relatively safe and should be considered as a guide to diagnosis, and probably to prognosis and management. 
Myocardial perfusion-contraction matching. Implications for coronary heart disease and hibernation. Experimental studies demonstrate that short-term regional perfusion-contraction matching, in which the energy demands of regional myocardial contraction are reduced to match the diminished myocardial substrate supply, occurs during states of low coronary blood flow under resting conditions and during exercise-induced ischemia. This phenomenon is rapidly reversible and appears to occur in several clinical settings. Sustained perfusion-contraction matching is observed in states of partial experimental ischemia of intermediate duration lasting several hours. This condition might be called short-term hibernation and resembles clinical conditions such as unstable angina pectoris or myocardial infarction with some residual perfusion in which the contractile defect can be improved by reperfusion provided the ischemia is not severe enough to cause transmural necrosis. Such experimental and clinical observations may or may not relate to the setting of regional dysfunction at rest in patients with chronic coronary heart disease, in whom manifestations of acute ischemia may be absent but improvement of wall motion abnormalities occurs after CABG or balloon angioplasty. This condition may constitute the hypothetical state of chronic myocardial hibernation, for which tentative evidence exists from metabolic and perfusion studies using PET. Whether such a condition of prolonged perfusion-contraction matching might be associated with adaptive processes that could allow its persistence for long periods without manifest ischemia remains to be investigated. 
Accelerated non-muscle contraction after subarachnoid hemorrhage: cerebrospinal fluid testing in a culture model. The cause of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been studied intensively, but it is still controversial whether the observable luminal narrowing should be attributed to the contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells or whether it results from some organic change in the wall. A proliferation of myointimal cells, accompanied by increased deposition of collagen, as well as myonecrosis, have been frequently observed several days after aneurysm rupture. Studies from our laboratory showed that these myointimal cells had characteristics identical to myofibroblasts. In this study, we quantitatively and morphologically examined the effect of cerebrospinal fluid on the ability of myofibroblasts to alter collagen matrices using an in vitro model. Myofibroblasts contract the collagen matrix by rearranging or compacting the framework of collagen fibers. Cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with recently ruptured aneurysms significantly accelerated lattice contraction, especially when the patient developed symptomatic vasospasm. This study suggests that myofibroblasts in the spastic artery can produce a contractile force that contributes to chronic vasospasm, tightening the proliferated collagen. Some unknown agent present in bloody cerebrospinal fluid accelerates the rearrangement of the collagen lattice by myofibroblasts, both of which have, until now, been considered non-contractile components. 
Ablation of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy using a new electrode catheter. Percutaneous catheter ablation using radiofrequency energy can be used to interrupt atrioventricular (AV) conduction in patients with supraventricular tachycardia refractory to drugs. Results of radiofrequency ablation of the AV junction using a custom-designed catheter with a large, 3-mm-long distal electrode, 2-mm interelectrode spacing, and a shaft with increased torsional rigidity were compared with those using a standard quadripolar electrode catheter (Bard EP). An electrocoagulator (Microvasive Bicap 4005) supplied unmodulated radiofrequency current at 550 kHz, which was applied between the distal electrode of the ablation catheter and a large skin electrode. With use of the modified catheter, 12 of 13 patients (92%) had persistent complete AV block induced with 7 +/- 5 applications of 18 +/- 6 W of radiofrequency power. In contrast, complete AV block was produced in only 9 of 18 (50%) historical control patients treated with the standard catheter, despite a similar number of applications (7 +/- 5) and power output (16 +/- 4 W). A rise in impedance, due to desiccation of tissue and coagulum formation, occurred earlier (28 +/- 18 vs 52 +/- 24 seconds, p less than 0.001) and more frequently (54 vs 40% of applications, p = 0.047) in patients treated with the standard catheter than in patients treated with the modified catheter. The use of a catheter designed to increase the surface area of electrode-tissue contact allows more radiofrequency energy to be delivered before a rise in impedance occurs and appears to increase the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation of the AV junction. 
Emboli in infective endocarditis: the prognostic value of echocardiography. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether vegetations visualized on two-dimensional echocardiography are an independent risk factor for the development of subsequent emboli in patients with infective endocarditis and to assess the timing of emboli relative to the initiation of antimicrobial therapy. DESIGN: Investigator-blinded, retrospective incidence cohort study. SETTING: Tertiary referral center. PATIENTS: Patients with left-sided native valve infective endocarditis who had two-dimensional echocardiography within 72 hours of beginning antimicrobial therapy. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The crude incidence rate of first embolic events in patients receiving antimicrobial therapy was 6.2 per 1000 patient-days (95% CI, 4.2 to 9.2). The rates in patients with and without vegetations were 7.1 and 4.9 per 1000 patient-days, respectively (incidence rate ratio, 1.4; 95% CI, 0.6 to 3.3). The relation between vegetations and risk for emboli was microorganism-dependent: Stratified incidence rate ratios were 6.9 (95% CI, 1.1 to 42.5; P less than 0.05) and 1.0 (95% CI, 0.2 to 3.9) for viridans streptococcal and Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis, respectively. The rate of first embolic events diminished over time (P less than 0.001), falling from 13 per 1000 patient-days during the first week of therapy to less than 1.2 per 1000 patient-days after completion of the second week of therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the presence of vegetations on echocardiography was not associated with a significantly higher risk for embolus in patients with left-sided native valve infective endocarditis. The relative risk for embolic events associated with echocardiographically visualized vegetations may be microorganism-dependent, with a significantly increased risk seen only in patients with viridans streptococcal infection. The rate of embolic events declines with time after initiation of antimicrobial treatment. 
Regurgitation of fat and marrow emboli into coronary veins during resuscitation. Three groups of patients were examined at autopsy for the presence of fat and marrow emboli in the lungs, heart, and other organs. Group 1 was composed of patients with massive pulmonary thromboembolism and attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation; group 2, patients with pulmonary thromboembolism and without attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation; and group 3, patients without pulmonary thromboembolism and with attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The results confirm that pulmonary fat and marrow emboli are frequent in those patients who are resuscitated. A novel observation is the finding of multiple coexistent cardiac venous emboli in those resuscitated patients who have pulmonary artery obstruction with pulmonary thromboemboli. These findings suggest that these emboli regurgitate from the right side of the heart to the coronary sinus and cardiac veins in cases of pulmonary artery hypertension. 
Sustained reduction in valvular regurgitation and atrial volumes with tailored vasodilator therapy in advanced congestive heart failure secondary to dilated (ischemic or idiopathic) cardiomyopathy. Afterload reduction therapy can acutely improve hemodynamic function in patients with advanced heart failure; however, it is unknown if initial reductions in mitral and tricuspid regurgitation and atrial volumes can be sustained with oral therapy. Atrial volumes and atrioventricular valve regurgitation were measured using 2-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography with color-flow imaging in 14 patients with dilated heart failure (ejection fraction 17 +/- 4%) before and after 3 +/- 1 days of intensive vasodilator and diuretic therapy tailored to hemodynamic goals. Echocardiography was repeated again after 6 +/- 2 months on oral vasodilators and a flexible diuretic regimen. Acute therapy reduced systemic vascular resistance from 1,760 +/- 460 to 1,010 +/- 310 dynes.s.cm-5, pulmonary artery wedge pressure from 30 +/- 5 to 17 +/- 4 mm Hg, and right atrial pressure from 13 +/- 5 to 7 +/- 3 mm Hg, and led to a 61% increase in stroke volume (from 36 +/- 10 to 58 +/- 14 ml) (p less than 0.01). Mitral and tricuspid regurgitation, determined by color-flow fraction, initially decreased from 0.34 +/- 0.17 to 0.20 +/- 0.20 and from 0.33 +/- 0.15 to 0.13 +/- 0.13, respectively (p less than 0.001). This reduction was sustained at 6 months. Significant decreases occurred with acute therapy, with further reductions at 6 months in both mean left atrial volume (from 100 +/- 25 to 80 +/- 19 to 65 +/- 15 cm3) and right atrial volume (from 85 +/- 23 to 64 +/- 23 to 52 +/- 14 cm3) (p less than 0.001). 
Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm: the Harborview experience. During the last decade (1980 to 1989) 186 patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm were admitted to a single urban hospital. Ninety-six percent of these patients had a prehospital systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg. Management included paramedic field resuscitation and transport, an emergency department diagnostic protocol completed in an average of 12 minutes, rapid transport to a dedicated emergency operating room, aneurysmorrhaphy by general surgery chief residents under the supervision of specialist vascular surgeons, and skilled postoperative intensive care unit care. Nevertheless, 130 (70%) patients died in the first 30 postoperative days--3% in the emergency department, 13% in the operating room, 51% in the intensive care unit, and 3% on the ward or at home. Certain features--age greater than 80 years, female gender, persistent preoperative hypotension despite aggressive crystalloid and blood replacement, admission hematocrit less than 25, transfusion requirements exceeding 15 units--were associated with a greater than 90% likelihood of death. No patient with preoperative cardiac arrest survived more than 24 hours. From this experience we conclude that, although "optimal" prehospital, emergency department, operating room, and postoperative care can improve the outcome of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms in shock, most such patients will die. Certain clinical features predict such excessive mortality rates after ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms that withholding operation may be reasonable. Screening of patients at high risk for abdominal aortic aneurysm, followed by elective aneurysmorrhaphy, is clearly indicated. 
Dilated and contracted forms of primary endocardial fibroelastosis: a single fetal disease with two stages of development. Left ventricular endocardial fibroelastosis was diagnosed by echocardiographic scanning in a fetus at 20 weeks' gestation. Repeated prenatal examination over the next 20 weeks' gestation showed the development of the left ventricle from a chamber with a dilated cavity to a small cavity with a very thick wall. These findings were confirmed at necropsy and by the absence of other morphological anomalies. The contracted form of primary fibroelastosis in the fetus must have followed an insult that prevented any further increase in the size of the left ventricular cavity. 
Comparison of pre- and postoperative conduction patterns in patients surgically cured of atrioventricular node reentrant tachycardia. Patients with atrioventricular (AV) node reentrant tachycardia characteristically have short and constant retrograde His-atrium conduction times (H2A2 intervals) during the introduction of ventricular extrastimuli. It has therefore been suggested that the tachycardia circuit involves retrograde conduction up an accessory pathway located in perinodal tissue. If the mechanism of surgical cure of AV node reentrant tachycardia is interruption of this accessory pathway, postoperative changes in retrograde conduction would be expected. Thirteen patients with drug-refractory AV node reentrant tachycardia underwent surgery. Preoperatively, H2A2 intervals were short and constant. During AV node reentrant tachycardia, earliest atrial activation was seen near the His bundle and was 0 to 25 ms before ventricular activation in all patients except one. Surgery consisted of dissection of right atrial septal and anterior inputs to the AV node and central fibrous body. Postoperatively, the H2A2 interval remained short and constant compared with preoperative values although it was slightly prolonged (74 +/- 18 versus 61 +/- 21 ms, p less than 0.005). Twelve of the 13 patients are free of tachycardia after 28 +/- 13 months and no patient has had evidence of AV node block. Thus, surgical cure of AV node reentrant tachycardia is highly successful; however, there is no reason to postulate an accessory pathway or use of perinodal tissue as part of the tachycardia circuit and the mechanism of surgical success remains obscure. 
On the inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm. To determine the mode of inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm, data on first-degree relatives of 91 probands were collected. Results of segregation analysis performed on these data are reported. Many models, including nongenetic and genetic models, were compared using likelihood methods. The nongenetic model was rejected; statistically significant evidence in favor of a genetic model was found. Among the many genetic models compared, the most parsimonious genetic model was that susceptibility to abdominal aortic aneurysm is determined by a recessive gene at an autosomal diallelic major locus. A multifactorial component in addition to the major locus does not increase the likelihood of the data significantly. 
Experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage: regional mitochondrial function during the acute and late phase. Patients treated for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage show, in the long-term follow up, an elevated rate of cognitive disturbances that are mainly related to the impact of the initial bleeding: the neurotoxic effects of blood deposition in subarachnoidal spaces may result in a diffuse encephalopathy, but the intrinsic mechanism and the biochemical correlates are not known. In the present study we have evaluated mitochondrial function after experimental induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Mitochondrial function was evaluated in four different rat brain areas (frontal cortex, occipital cortex, hippocampus, and brain stem) after experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats. Subarachnoid hemorrhage was induced by injecting 0.07 mL of arterial autologous blood into the cisterna magna. Intracranial pressure did not significantly increase. The nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was isolated from different rat brain areas, and the maximal rate of enzymatic reactions of some key enzymatic activities related to the Krebs cycle [nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (oxidized form) (NAD+)-isocitrate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, and succinate dehydrogenase] and of the electron transfer chain (cytochrome oxidase) were evaluated. The nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was utilized also to check parameters related to the mitochondrial respiration: state 3, state 4, uncoupled state, respiratory control ratio, and adenosine 5'-diphosphate/oxygen ratio. The biochemical parameters were measured at 1 and 72 hours after the subarachnoidal injection of blood. Subarachnoid hemorrhage did not affect the mitochondrial enzymatic activities both at 1 and 72 hours, while the mitochondrial enzymatic activities parameters were significantly affected: in particular, a significant decrease of respiratory control ratio in all tested brain areas was demonstrated. The increased mitochondrial vulnerability in the delayed phases could be one of the biochemical correlates of post-hemorrhagic encephalopathy. 
Cerebral venous thrombosis due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. A patient with polycythemia vera who was treated with heparin for superficial septic thrombophlebitis developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and cerebral venous thrombosis with superior sagittal sinus occlusion 11 days after the institution of heparin therapy. We suggest that the severe thrombotic response to the heparin-induced platelet disorder in this patient occurred because the polycythemia vera and the purulent infection enhanced the thrombophilia caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. This condition can be avoided in most instances if heparin is used for no longer than 5 days. 
Evidence of hibernating myocardium by a new transesophageal echocardiographic technique. Reversal of resting wall motion abnormalities after successful coronary angioplasty were documented in a patient with the use of a novel approach to stress testing. Transesophageal stress echocardiography utilizes transesophageal atrial pacing to provoke myocardial ischemia while the left ventricular contractility is being monitored by means of transesophageal echocardiography. The potential use of this technique is illustrated in this report. 
Essential hypertension: a sign in search of a disease. The concept of disease is of cardinal importance in medical practice. The current definition has developed over more than 200 years. It includes a distinctive natural history and identifiable cellular changes. Pickering proposed a fundamental alteration to the definition when he suggested that essential hypertension is a quantitative disease without causative cellular change distinguishing normal from abnormal. The nature of essential hypertension has been confused from the beginning because of a category error. Injury is conceptually distinguished from disease. Essential hypertension, defined as elevated blood pressure together with its cardiovascular consequences, is found to be neither an injury nor a disease according to current definitions. Instead, essential hypertension refers to a treatment group just as "the fevers" did in an earlier century. One effect on patients of the failure to resolve this diagnostic paradox is the burden of suffering from the label of "disease" rather than from a state that may be substantially due to their own behavior. A theoretical consequence of importance for psychiatric theory is that the disease status of functional disorders can no longer be defended by an appeal to the existence of a quantitative disease of blood pressure. 
Peripheral vascular disorders. Assessment and intervention. Peripheral vascular diseases are being seen with increased frequency in the health care setting today. It is imperative that nurses have a clear understanding of arterial, venous, and lymphatic circulatory mechanisms as well as the pathophysiologic changes that accompany common diseases of these systems. Providing the ongoing assessment to obtain a diagnosis, establish the acute versus chronic nature of findings, monitor progression, plan care, and assess the response to treatment is an important role for the nurse in order to preserve function, life, and limb in these patients. 
Fibrocellular tissue response after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. An immunocytochemical analysis of the cellular composition. BACKGROUND. Restenosis after initial, successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is due to fibrocellular proliferation. METHODS AND RESULTS. The present study focused on the nature of fibrocellular tissue in humans by use of immunocytochemical techniques. Four hearts (five coronary arteries) were investigated; time lapse between PTCA and death varied between 20 days (two arteries) and 1 year 7 months. Proliferating cells stained positive with smooth muscle cell-specific monoclonal antibodies. Cells from early proliferative lesions (20 days) have a phenotypic expression different from cells in "old" lesions. Proliferating cells stained positive with vimentin but were negative with desmin, irrespective of the lesion's age. CONCLUSIONS. The findings indicate a change in actin isoform expression of smooth muscle cells while adapting to a pathological state. 
Acute reduction of mitral valve area after percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty: assessment with Doppler continuity equation method. Mitral valve areas before and after balloon mitral valvuloplasty were serially determined by the Doppler continuity equation method in 16 patients. Ultrasound examinations were performed before and immediately after balloon inflation and 24 hours, 1 week, and 1 month after valvuloplasty. Mitral valve area determined by the Doppler continuity equation method correlated well with that determined at catheterization by the Gorlin formula, not only before but also immediately after balloon inflation (y = 0.87 x + 0.05, standard error of estimate = 0.22 cm2, r = 0.90). Serial calculation of mitral valve area by the Doppler continuity equation method showed a slight but significant decrease in the valve area at 24 hours after balloon mitral valvuloplasty but no change after that. We conclude that the Doppler continuity equation method provides an accurate estimation of mitral valve area before and even after balloon valvuloplasty. Mitral valve area dilated by balloon inflation is decreased slightly within 24 hours after the procedure, which corroborates valve stretch as one mechanism for increasing mitral valve area with balloon valvuloplasty. Estimation of mitral valve area immediately after balloon mitral valvuloplasty may overestimate the long-term efficacy of the procedure. 
New technique for the arterial switch operation in difficult situations. The technique described here, a modification of the Aubert operation, avoids coronary reimplantation and also eliminates the need to use artificial material to transfer coronary circulation. 
Exacerbation of acute platelet thrombus formation in stenosed dog coronary arteries with smoke from a non-tobacco-burning cigarette. The tobacco industry proposes to release a "new" cigarette with a burning charcoal tip, which heats the tobacco as air is drawn through it and into the lungs of the smoker. It is claimed to be safer because the tobacco does not burn. Using our established canine model of coronary artery stenosis with moderate intimal damage, we compared this new cigarette (0.4 mg nicotine) with a regular cigarette by ventilating dogs (n = 10) with room air and then either new or regular smoke (two cigarettes over about 10 minutes). In our dog model, periodic acute platelet thrombus formation followed by embolization produced cyclical flow reductions in coronary blood flow where the rate of flow decline was proportional to the degree of in vivo platelet-vessel wall interaction. The rate of flow decline increased from -4.81 +/- 1.29 ml/min2 to -9.60 +/- 2.29 ml/min2 after ventilation with the new-type smoke (p less than 0.01). Similarly, the rate of flow decline increased from -5.43 +/- 1.28 ml/min2 to -9.28 +/- 2.31 ml/min2 after ventilation with regular cigarette smoke (p less than 0.01). Despite the lack of a clear causal link between cigarette smoking and the acute manifestations of cardiovascular disease, the data presented here indicate that the new cigarette is just as potent as regular cigarettes at increasing in vivo platelet activity and exacerbating acute platelet thrombus formation in the dog. We conclude that the new proposed non-tobacco-burning cigarette has deleterious effects similar to those of conventional cigarettes, and thus does not eliminate smoking as a risk factor in cardiovascular disease in human beings. 
Severity of single-vessel coronary arterial stenosis and duration of angina as determinants of recruitable collateral vessels during balloon angioplasty occlusion. To determine the factors that influence the presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion, we performed standardized contrast injection of the contralateral coronary artery in 58 consecutive patients, without previous myocardial infarction, undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for 1-vessel disease (left anterior descending artery in 45, right coronary artery: in 10 and left circumflex artery in 3). The presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion, defined as partial or complete epicardial opacification by collateral vessels of the vessel dilated, was related to clinical, angiographic and electrocardiographic parameters. The angiographic appearance of collateral vessels during balloon inflation showed a weak, although statistically significant, correlation to the percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty (r = 0.28; p = 0.03) and the duration of angina (r = 0.37; p = 0.004). By combining lesion severity with the duration of angina, collateral vessels during coronary occlusion were particularly related to a lesion severity greater than or equal to 70% and duration of angina greater than or equal to 3 months (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, the presence of collateral vessels was associated with an absence of ST-segment shift (greater than or equal to 1 mm) during 1 minute of coronary occlusion (p less than 0.001). 
Power of oesophageal peristalsis can be controlled voluntarily. The hypothesis that oesophageal peristalsis can be modified voluntarily was explored. Six healthy male volunteers and eight female patients with angina like chest pain underwent oesophageal manometry. Each was asked to take a series of swallows, and to vary their size, in random order, by taking either a big gulp or a little swallow. None of the subjects experienced difficulty in doing so. In both groups the amplitude of oesophageal contractions were significantly greater after big gulps than little swallows (p less than 0.01) and this was true for wet (82.0 v 68.9 mmHg) and dry swallows (52.3 v 43.3 mmHg). For the patients' wet swallows the mean values were 73.0 and 56.0 mmHg. Thus, the amplitude of oesophageal peristalsis can be controlled voluntarily. This effect may account for some of the within subject variation in the amplitude of oesophageal contractions. During oesophageal manometry subjects should be encouraged to standardise the size of their swallows whenever possible. Patients with symptoms related to abnormal oesophageal peristalsis such as dysphagia, heartburn, and chest pain may benefit from biofeedback training. 
Intractable complex partial seizures associated with occult temporal lobe encephalocele and meningoangiomatosis: a case report. Occult congenital temporal lobe encephalocele has rarely been reported in association with medically intractable complex partial seizures. The four previously reported cases were unsuspected preoperatively. We present the case of an 18-year-old woman with intractable complex partial seizures since age 13. Seizure onset was electrically localized to the right temporal lobe. Preoperative neuroimaging studies revealed a middle fossa defect and inferior herniation of the right temporal lobe. Pathologic examination of the resected encephalocele revealed prominent features of meningoangiomatosis. We believe this to be the first case of temporal lobe encephalocele and epilepsy to be diagnosed preoperatively, and the first case also to be associated with meningoangiomatosis. The relevant literature on meningoangiomatosis and on temporal lobe encephalocele as a cause of epilepsy is reviewed. 
Weight reduction in obese hypertensive patients. This study tested the feasibility of a low-technology office-based approach to weight reduction in obese hypertensive patients. Family practice residents were randomly assigned to either an experimental or a control group. Physicians in the experimental group were instructed in methods of weight reduction, which they then passed on to their patients. Patients of experimental physicians were seen monthly, their diets were discussed, and improvements were suggested. The control group patients received their usual care. After six months the experimental patients had lost significantly more weight than the controls and had significantly reduced the number of antihypertensive drugs while maintaining blood pressure control. After 12 months there was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to weight loss, blood pressure, or number of antihypertensive drugs. Experimental and control patients who lost weight had visited their physicians more frequently than those who did not and had reduced the number of antihypertensive medications they were taking. This educationally oriented intervention trial is an example of the type of research that is practical to perform in a family practice center and is applicable in family physicians' offices. 
Comparison of medical and surgical therapy for uncomplicated descending aortic dissection. To guide the choice of medical versus surgical therapy for patients with descending (type B) aortic dissection (tear in the descending aorta without involvement of the ascending aorta), multivariate survival analysis was applied to 136 patients admitted to two medical centers between 1975 and 1988 with acute (n = 89) or chronic (n = 47) descending dissection: group 1, all 136 patients; group 2, 106 patients without rupture, pulse loss, or visceral organ compromise; and group 3, 56 patients from group 2 without major cardiac or renal disease (23 surgical and 33 medical). Group 3 medical and surgical subgroups were well matched for baseline characteristics and were potential candidates for either mode of therapy. By Cox model analysis, significant predictors of mortality were pleural rupture, other dissection complications, increasing age, and cardiac disease (all p less than 0.01). Surgical versus medical therapy was not an independent determinant of survival in any of the three groups for acute or chronic dissection. Survival probabilities for all group 3 patients at 1, 5, and 10 years were 0.94, 0.87, and 0.32 (medical) and 0.90, 0.80, and 0.50 (surgical). Despite the limitations of this retrospective study (including the possibility of undefined treatment selection biases), these data suggest that medical or early surgical therapy is associated with equivalent outcome in selected patients with uncomplicated acute or chronic descending aortic dissection. 
Tricuspid valve disease with significant tricuspid insufficiency in the fetus: diagnosis and outcome. The echocardiographic studies and clinical course of 27 fetuses (mean gestational age 26.9 weeks) diagnosed in utero with tricuspid valve disease and significant tricuspid regurgitation were reviewed. The diagnosis of Ebstein's anomaly was made in 17 of the fetuses, 7 had tricuspid valve dysplasia with poorly developed but normally attached leaflets and 2 had an unguarded tricuspid valve orifice with little or no identifiable tricuspid tissue. One fetus was excluded from data analysis because a more complex heart lesion was documented at autopsy. All fetuses had massive right atrial dilation and most who were serially studied had progressive right-sided cardiomegaly. Hydrops fetalis was found in six cases and atrial flutter in five. Associated cardiac lesions included pulmonary stenosis in five cases and pulmonary atresia in six. Four fetuses with normal forward pulmonary artery flow at the initial examination were found at subsequent study to have retrograde pulmonary artery and ductal flow in association with the development of pulmonary stenosis (n = 1) and pulmonary atresia (n = 3). On review of the clinical course of the 23 fetuses (excluding 3 with elective abortion), 48% of the fetuses died in utero and 35% who were liveborn died despite vigorous medical and, when necessary, surgical management, many of whom had severe congestive heart failure. Of the four infants who survived the neonatal period, three had a benign neonatal course, all of whom were diagnosed with mild to moderate Ebstein's anomaly; only one had pulmonary outflow obstruction. An additional finding at autopsy was significant lung hypoplasia documented in 10 of 19 autopsy reports. 
Liver transplantation with atrioatrial anastomosis for Budd-Chiari syndrome. We report the case of a young woman with Budd-Chiari syndrome in whom mesentericoval shunt was first performed, followed by transcaval liver resection and hepatoatrial anatomosis 3 years later. Liver transplantation became necessary 5 years later because of deterioarating liver function with portal hypertension and bleeding. Successful transplantation was performed with atrioatrial anastomosis with help of cardiopulmonary bypass, simplifying considerably the technical procedure and reducing dramatically blood loss. 
The validity of health risk appraisals for coronary heart disease: results from a randomized field trial. BACKGROUND: While health risk appraisals (HRAs) are becoming increasingly popular as tools for health assessment and health education, comparatively little is known about the accuracy of these risk estimates. METHODS: A field trial among 732 randomly selected adults ages 25 to 65 years was conducted to assess the validity of the risk scores produced by four widely used HRAs. RESULTS: Self-reported HRA risk scores for cigarette smoking and relative weight were generally accurate, but correlations between physiological measurements and scores for blood pressure, cholesterol, and physical activity were always lower than .51. Correlations between epidemiologic estimates of the probability of CHD death and HRA total risk scores ranged from .13 to .75; partial correlations adjusting for age, race, and gender ranged from .12 to .47. CONCLUSIONS: The HRAs chosen for the field trial exhibited modest correlations with the CHD mortality risk predicted by the epidemiologic model. Mathematical errors made by respondents completing self-scored instruments and lack of knowledge regarding physiologic status decrease the accuracy of HRA risk estimates. 
Salt blocks the renal benefits of ramipril in diabetic hypertensive rats. To establish if the benefit of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in retarding progressive diabetic renal injury is due to a specific intrarenal effect of the systemic hypotensive effect, we studied the effect of long-term ramipril treatment on blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate, and urinary protein excretion in streptozotocin-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. The hypotensive effect of ramipril was prevented by a high salt diet, which did not alter the degree of renal angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. Three weeks after uninephrectomy and induction of diabetes, rats were allocated to three groups. Groups 1 and 2 were given 1% NaCl, whereas group 3 was given water as drinking solution. One week later, groups 2 and 3 received 0.4 mg/kg/day ramipril in their drinking solution, which was continued over a 2-month period. Ramipril produced a blood pressure fall only in water-drinking rats (group 3) despite a similar reduction in plasma and renal angiotensin converting enzyme activity in groups 2 and 3. Salt-loaded rats had a progressive increase in urinary protein excretion over the duration of study. Ramipril treatment prevented an increase in protein excretion only in animals given water and with a reduced systolic blood pressure. Glomerular filtration rate was similar in all three groups. Ramipril treatment improved animal survival independently of a reduction in blood pressure or an effect on proteinuria. Although it is possible that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have specific intrarenal effects reducing progression of diabetic proteinuria, concomitant control of systemic blood pressure appears to be necessary to demonstrate a benefit. 
Lower extremity venography with iohexol: results and complications. The frequency of side effects of a nonionic contrast agent (iohexol) was studied in 463 consecutive patients who underwent venography for clinically suspected deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) and compared with the frequency of adverse reactions of another series in which patients received either the same contrast material or a high-osmolar ionic compound. Minor side effects, including local pain and discomfort, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, skin reactions, superficial phlebitis, and edema, occurred in 83 patients (17.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15%-22%). The only serious adverse reaction (bronchospasm) was seen in two patients (0.4%; 95% CI, 0.1%-1.4%). Postvenographic thrombosis confirmed by means of repeat venography occurred in one of 41 consecutive patients with a previous normal venogram (incidence, 2%; 95% CI, 0%-13%). The frequency of side effects appears to be significantly less than when conventional high-osmolar contrast agents are used. Use of iohexol for venography is associated with minor side effects in approximately one-fifth of patients, and serious adverse reactions necessitating therapy are rare. 
Bradyarrhythmia after heart transplantation. Incidence, time course, and outcome. From June 1980 to April 1989, 72 of 401 (18%) adult recipients of orthotopic heart transplantation developed prolonged (greater than 24 hours) bradyarrhythmias (less than 60 beats/min) within 5 days after transplantation. Junctional bradycardia occurred in 50 (69%) recipients, sinus bradycardia in 18 (25%), and slow ventricular response during atrial fibrillation in four (6%). Fifty-five of 72 (76%) patients had bradyarrhythmias of less than 20 days' duration (less than 7 days, 50 patients; 7-20 days, five patients). Fifty patients returned to sinus rhythm (greater than 60 beats/min) by the time of discharge. Five patients expired within 20 days. Seventeen of 72 (24%) patients had bradyarrhythmia for more than 20 days, which was symptomatic in 11. All 17 patients (junctional bradycardia, 13 patients; sinus bradycardia, four patients) received a permanent pacemaker within 40 days after transplantation. Between 1 and 12 months (mean, 4 +/- 3 months) after pacemaker implantation, 12 patients recovered sinus rhythm (greater than 70 beats/min). The other five patients had intrinsic rates of 32-57 beats/min (mean, 48 +/- 10 beats/min) during 1-9 months (mean, 4 +/- 3 months) of follow-up. The donor ischemic time in bradyarrhythmia patients was 202 +/- 34 minutes, which was significantly longer (p less than 0.01) than the 173 +/- 43 minutes for those patients without bradyarrhythmia. Conclusively, the incidence of posttransplantation bradyarrhythmia is relatively high. It is usually temporary, however, even in patients with a prolonged duration of bradyarrhythmia. A relation appears to exist between donor ischemic time and the incidence of bradyarrhythmia. 
Electrocardiographic markers of ischemia during mental stress testing in postinfarction patients. Role of body surface mapping. In patients with coronary artery disease, radionuclide investigations have documented a high incidence of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia in the absence of significant electrocardiographic changes and/or angina. To investigate the causes of the low electrocardiographic sensitivity, we recorded body surface maps during mental arithmetic in 22 normal volunteers and 37 postinfarction patients with residual exercise ischemia. Myocardial perfusion was studied with thallium-201 or technetium-99 (SESTAMIBI) planar scans. In 14 patients, body surface maps were also recorded during atrial pacing at the heart rate values achieved during mental stress. While taking the body surface maps, the area from J point to 80 msec after this point (ST-80) was analyzed by integral maps, difference maps, and departure maps (the difference between each patient's difference map and the mean difference map for normal subjects). The body surface mapping criteria for ischemia were a new negative area on the integral maps, a negative potential of more than 2 SD from mean normal values on the difference maps, and a negative departure index of more than 2. Scintigraphy showed asymptomatic myocardial hypoperfusion in 33 patients. Eight patients had significant ST segment depression. The ST-80 integral and difference maps identified 17 ischemic patients. Twenty-four patients presented abnormal departure maps. One patient presented ST depression and abnormal body surface maps without reversible tracer defect. In 14 of 14 patients, atrial pacing did not reproduce the body surface map abnormalities. The analyses of the other electrocardiographic variables showed that in patients with mental stress-induced perfusion defects, only changes of T apex-T offset (aT-eT) interval in Frank leads and changes of maximum negative potential value of aT-eT integral maps significantly differed from those of normal subjects. Our results confirm the low electrocardiographic sensitivity for detecting mental stress-induced myocardial hypoperfusion in postinfarction patients. ST analysis in the body surface map increases the information content of the electrocardiographic signal. T wave analysis appears to offer fewer diagnostic advantages. 
Effects of dietary calcium on nimodipine-sensitive calcium channel function in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. We studied the effects of dietary Ca2+ on blood pressure, survival, and calcium channel function to investigate cardiovascular disease mechanisms in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. Beginning at 3 weeks of age, rats were fed high sodium chloride diets (8.0%) in combination with either high (2.0%) or low (0.2%) Ca2+ diets for 8 weeks. At 12 weeks of age, survival was 90% in the high Ca2+ group and 30% in the low Ca2+ group. The higher blood pressure and lower survival in the low Ca2+ group suggest an intensification of altered vascular muscle cell mechanisms by a dietary Ca2+ deficit. Nimodipine (1-10 nM) effectively blocked L-type Ca2+ currents in isolated vascular muscle cells from both groups. Contraction of isolated cells that were not patch clamped to high potassium solutions were also blocked by 1 nM nimodipine. Disappearance of the L-type Ca2+ channel current was accelerated by holding at depolarizing potentials (positive to -50 mV) and by depolarizing steps to 0 mV. Nimodipine block of the L-type Ca2+ currents in vascular muscle is believed to contribute substantially to antihypertensive properties and stroke prevention, actions that may develop fully only in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a diet of at least normal Ca2+. 
In vitro colony culture and chromosomal studies in hepatic and portal vein thrombosis--possible evidence of an occult myeloproliferative state. We have studied the prevalence of an underlying myeloproliferative state in 20 patients with either hepatic or portal vein thrombosis. Using conventional clinical and laboratory criteria, an underlying myeloproliferative state was identified as the cause of the thrombosis in five patients (25%). A further 10 of the remaining 15 cases were found to have characteristic in vitro bone marrow culture studies and cytogenetic abnormalities suggestive of an underlying myeloproliferative disorder. Although none of these 10 cases have developed overt clinical and laboratory features of such a myeloproliferative disorder after a median observation period of two years, the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities in three cases, increased megakaryocyte colony growth in three cases and endogenous erythropoietin independent colony growth of the marrow erythroid progenitors in seven cases, argues strongly in favour of a primary haematological disorder. This has important therapeutic implications, particularly in cases being considered for orthotopic liver transplantation. 
Impact of field-transmitted electrocardiography on time to in-hospital thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. To assess the impact of a field-transmitted electrocardiogram (ECG) on patients with possible acute myocardial infarction, randomized and open trials were performed with a portable electrocardiographic system coupled with a cellular phone programmed to automatically transmit ECGs to the base hospital. Consecutive patients served by the 6 units of the Salt Lake City Emergency Rescue System were studied; 71 patients were randomized to in-field ECG (n = 34) versus no ECG (n = 37). Time on scene was 16.4 +/- 9.7 minutes for the ECG group versus 16.1 +/- 7.0 minutes for the non ECG group (difference not significant). Time of transport averaged 18.2 +/- 9.9 and 17.6 +/- 13.1 minutes, respectively (difference not significant). Six of 34 patients with in-field ECG showed acute myocardial infarction, qualified for and received thrombolytic therapy at 48 +/- 12 minutes after hospital arrival (range 30 to 60) compared with 103 +/- 44 minutes (p less than 0.01) for 51 historical control patients and 68 +/- 29 minutes for 6 concurrent control patients without in-field ECG. Thus, in-field ECG causes negligible delays in paramedic time, leads to significant decreases in time to in-hospital thrombolysis and may make in-field therapy feasible. In-field ECG may be an important addition to reperfusion strategies. 
Simplified method for estimating true aortic valve mean gradient from simultaneous left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressure recordings. Estimation of the aortic valve gradient by simultaneous recording of left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressures is subject to error due to delay and modulation of the arterial pressure contour as it propagates from the ascending aorta. This error can be corrected by averaging the mean gradients derived from unaltered and temporally aligned simultaneous left ventricular-peripheral arterial pressure tracings. In 26 patients with aortic stenosis and simultaneous recordings of ascending aortic and femoral arterial pressure we compared this method with a simplified approach in which the peripheral arterial pressure is partially aligned by advancing it against the left ventricular pressure by 50% of the time delay of the simultaneously recorded upstrokes. Gradients measured this way predicted the true aortic valve gradients (left ventricular-ascending aortic) with a mean difference of +1.1 mm Hg (range = +10 to -5 mm Hg). We recommend use of this simplified method of correction because it predicts true aortic valve gradient equally well as the averaging technique (r = 0.977 vs. 0.979) and requires half the time and effort. 
Sedation for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy: results of a nationwide survey. A postal questionnaire inquiring about routine sedation and premedication practice for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was sent to 1048 doctors. Of 665 appropriate returns, 81% were from consultant physicians and surgeons. Most endoscopists (90%) reported using an intravenous benzodiazepine for at least three quarters of endoscopies and 54% of physicians and 69% of surgeons always did so. Midazolam was the intravenous sedative used by a third of all respondents and 13% also used an additional intravenous agent, usually pethidine. Over the previous two years a total of 119 respiratory arrests, 37 cardiac arrests, and 52 deaths were identified. Adverse outcomes were reported more frequently by consultant physicians, by those who 'titrated' the intravenous sedative, and by those who used an additional intravenous agent, but were reported equally frequently by endoscopists using midazolam and endoscopists using diazepam. There is an urgent need for a prospective study to identify the circumstances and risk factors associated with adverse outcomes related to endoscopy. 
Intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy with excimer laser. Compared with continuous-wave lasers, excimer lasers exhibit several in vitro advantages: nonthermal ablation process and linear relation between the number of pulses and the depth of the crater. A 308 nm, 20 nsec pulse duration, 1 to 5 repetition rate laser was specifically designed for clinical application. At the time of cardiopulmonary bypass in 10 symptomatic patients, before bypass grafting, a 1 mm diameter core specifically ultraviolet-tipped fiberoptic scope was introduced via the coronary arteriotomy and placed upstream (seven patients) and downstream (three patients) in contact with the stenosis. Laser power was increasingly delivered up to the clearing of the stenosis or occlusion. Quality of angioplasty was controlled by calibration of the neolumen, cardioplegic solution output through the laser-treated segment, and an eighth day or sixth month coronary arteriogram. In the first three patients studied on the eighth day, all laser-treated coronary artery segments showed an early parallel-linked patent neolumen despite competitive bypass graft flow. In the patients studied after 6 months, all recanalized segments were patent except one; in one patient the venous graft was occluded, but the upstream laser angioplasty was patent. The main limitation of the method lies in the fact that laser coronary recanalization is confined to the fiber core diameter. We conclude that (1) excimer laser angioplasty may be safe and efficient during surgical procedure and (2) as catheter flexibility remains the most critical problem, we are now assuming an appropriate tool with a multifiber system that is suitable for intraoperative as well as percutaneous routes. 
Calcium entry blockade and adrenergic vascular reactivity in hypertensives: differences between nicardipine and diltiazem. The interference of nicardipine and diltiazem infused into the brachial artery at systemically ineffective rates, with the forearm vascular response to graded exogenous norepinephrine, was evaluated in hypertensive patients. Nicardipine (1 and 3 micrograms/dl forearm tissue/min in both absence and presence of propranolol) increased forearm blood flow (venous plethysmography) and antagonized dose dependently the vasoconstrictor effect of norepinephrine, suggesting that functional alpha-antagonism may participate in the vasodilating and possibly the antihypertensive effect of the drug. On the contrary, no antagonism but rather potentiation of the responses to norepinephrine occurred after diltiazem (0.5 and 1 microgram/dl forearm tissue/min). Because intra-arterial propranolol abolished that potentiating action of the drug, whereas the local vasodilation to isoproterenol was clearly reduced, diltiazem probably interfered with beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated vasorelaxing mechanisms in human forearm arterioles. The data further stress the heterogeneity of calcium entry blockers in humans. 
Clustering of atherogenic behaviors in coffee drinkers. We studied the clustering of coffee consumption and selected atherogenic behaviors in older adults living in a southern California community. Men were somewhat more likely to drink caffeinated coffee while women were more likely to drink decaffeinated coffee. In men, but not women, caffeinated coffee drinking decreased with age and decaffeinated coffee drinking increased. Caffeinated coffee drinkers drank more alcohol, consumed more dietary saturated fats and cholesterol, were more likely to be current smokers and less likely to be current exercisers than were non-coffee drinkers. Smoking and exercise also showed a dose-response relationship to the amount of caffeinated coffee consumed. Risk factor levels among drinkers of decaffeinated coffee were more like those of caffeinated coffee than non-drinkers. These data illustrate the clustering of atherogenic behaviors with coffee drinking and highlight their potential importance in interpreting the growing body of literature about coffee and health. 
Vascular renin and hypertension. Uptake versus synthesis. Conventional radioimmunoassay techniques demonstrated in the aortic wall a renin-like activity which is derived from plasma but has a longer half-life than plasma renin. Blood pressure elevation after renin injection into nephrectomized rats correlates better with aortic renin than with plasma renin. Vascular and other extrarenal tissue can also synthesize renin. Using a ribonuclease protection technique for the detection of renin messenger RNA we have been able to demonstrate that a wide variety of extrarenal tissues contain the renin message. In at least two of these, the brain and the liver, renin messenger RNA levels are unaffected by changes in dietary salt or by changes in systemic blood pressure. Functional studies using isolated human resistance vessels also demonstrate the presence of renin-like activity by a contractile response to added renin substrate. It is suggested that extrarenal tissues therefore contain renin-like activity derived both from uptake and from local synthesis. These systems may be regulated in different ways and may carry out different functions. 
Do we need another antihypertensive agent? The factors to be considered in selecting antihypertensive agents have traditionally centered around balancing efficacy against adverse side effects. The former can be achieved by a variety of agents alone or in combination. The latter not only involves safety but is also concerned with whether an otherwise safe agent is tolerated by the patient so compliance with the treatment regimen can be achieved. A relatively new consideration is how antihypertensive agents affect other disease states that may or may not be associated with hypertension. For example, how a drug may affect diabetes, gout, myocardial hypertrophy, atherosclerosis, and coronary events must be evaluated. These concerns taken together answer the question of why yet another antihypertensive agent may be needed in the pharmacologic armamentarium. 
Surgical treatment of active native valve endocarditis. A report is presented of 24 patients (23 male), mean age 38 years, who underwent surgery for active native valve endocarditis of the left heart in 1975-1988. The aortic valve was affected in all patients, and also the mitral valve in five. Pre-existing aortic valve disorder was present in 17 cases (13 congenitally bicuspid 4 rheumatic affection). There were five hospital deaths (20.8%). Staphylococci as causal organism and extensive infection predicted the highest mortality and morbidity. The mean follow-up time was 39.7 (range 2-114) months. Two reoperations because of prosthetic valve dehiscence revealed endocarditis of the implanted valve. Strong correlation was found between favourable postoperative course and rapid normalization of C-reactive protein levels, which did not fall in patients with persistent infection. Early surgery is recommended if the course of bacterial endocarditis is severely complicated. 
Changes in left ventricular diastolic performance after aortic balloon valvuloplasty: acute and late effects To evaluate acute and follow-up changes in left ventricular diastolic performance, simultaneous digital left ventriculography and micromanometry were performed in 49 patients undergoing aortic balloon valvuloplasty. All patients improved symptomatically after valvuloplasty, and 26 returned 6.3 +/- 1.5 months later for follow-up catheterization. Immediately after valvuloplasty, aortic valve area increased (before 0.5 +/- 0.2 versus after 0.8 +/- 0.2 cm2, p less than 0.01), cardiac output (before 4.3 +/- 1.2 versus after 4.4 +/- 1.3 liters/min) and ejection fraction (before 51 +/- 18% versus after 52 +/- 17%) did not change and diastolic indexes worsened, signified by a decrease in peak filling rate (before 247 +/- 80 versus after 226 +/- 78 ml/s, p less than 0.01) and increase in the time constant of isovolumetric relaxation (tau) (before 78 +/- 29 versus after 96 +/- 40 ms, p less than 0.01) and the modulus of chamber stiffness (before 0.107 +/- 0.071 versus after 0.141 +/- 0.083, p less than 0.01). At follow-up catheterization, 16 patients continued to have symptomatic improvement (group 1) and 10 had recurrence of symptoms (group 2). Aortic valve area, cardiac output and ejection fraction at follow-up catheterization in both groups were similar and unchanged from values before valvuloplasty. 
Coronary lesion morphology in acute myocardial infarction: demonstration of early remodeling after streptokinase treatment Coronary lesion morphology was analyzed in 72 patients 1 to 8 days after streptokinase treatment for acute myocardial infarction and compared with lesion morphology in a control group of 24 patients with stable angina. In the streptokinase group the infarct-related artery was patent in 55 patients (76%). Compared with stenoses in the stable angina group, there were no differences in the stenosis length, severity, calcification or in the proportion located at an acute bend or at a branch point. However, lesions in the streptokinase group were more often irregular (p less than 0.005) and eccentric (p less than 0.01), had a shoulder (p less than 0.0001), globular filling defects (p less than 0.01), linear filling defects (p less than 0.00005) and contrast staining (p less than 0.05). Plaque ulceration index was higher in the streptokinase than in the stable angina group (6.2 +/- 7.9 versus 3.5 +/- 3.4, p less than 0.001). Of the 72 streptokinase-treated patients, 35 were maintained on heparin infusion until angioplasty 2 to 10 days later. At repeat angiography before angioplasty, globular lesion filling defects seen in eight patients had disappeared, whereas linear filling defects persisted in 7 of 14 cases. Fewer lesions were irregular (p less than 0.0001) and the ulceration index decreased from 7.4 +/- 10.4 to 3.0 +/- 1.6 (p less than 0.001). These data show that the lesion in the infarct-related artery after streptokinase treatment is irregular and often associated with filling defects, perhaps corresponding to plaque fissuring and intraluminal thrombosis. 
Simultaneous measurement of myocardial perfusion and ventricular function during exercise from a single injection of technetium-99m sestamibi in coronary artery disease. New radiopharmaceuticals permit simultaneous assessment of myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function using a single tracer injection. The purpose of this study was to quantitate the relation between myocardial perfusion and function at rest and during exercise in patients with documented coronary artery disease (CAD). A rest first-pass radionuclide angiocardiogram (RNA) was recorded in 51 patients with CAD during injection of 10 mCi of technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi, and tomographic perfusion images were obtained 60 minutes later. A treadmill test was then performed, and on attainment of an exercise end point a second first-pass RNA was recorded with 30 mCi of Tc-99m sestamibi. Tomographic images reflecting myocardial perfusion during exercise were obtained 1 hour later. Tomographic perfusion defect size, quantified using modifications of the Cedars-Sinai program, correlated directly with end-systolic volume and inversely with ejection fraction at rest and during exercise. However, perfusion defect size often varied widely in patients with similar left ventricular function. This independence between measurements of perfusion and function suggests that simultaneous assessment of the 2 physiologic variables could improve the diagnostic and prognostic information of radionuclide tests. 
Recognition of hypertension and abnormal blood pressure burden with ambulatory blood pressure recordings in type I diabetes mellitus. Ambulatory blood pressure (AMBP) measurements were obtained at 20-min intervals for 24 h in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent (type I) diabetes mellitus and 21 control subjects. The diabetic patients had normal kidney function (glomerular filtration rate 112.1 +/- 7.2 ml.min-1.1.73 m-2, renal plasma flow 459.0 +/- 23.4 ml.min-1.1.73 m-2) and were normotensive according to standard sphygmomanometer examinations. Mean +/- SE AMBP (systolic/diastolic in mmHg) measurements in diabetic patients (24 h, 131.7/77.2 +/- 2.9/1.8; 0600-2200, 132.3/78.4 +/- 2.9/3.4; 2200-0600, 125.1/75.7 +/- 3.9/3.4) significantly exceeded control values during all times (24 h, 121.8/70.3 +/- 2.9/1.9; 0600-2200, 120.7/71.8 +/- 2.6/2.0; 2200-0600, 108.2/61.5 +/- 6.6/2.7). Mean 24-h AMBP exceeded 135/85 mmHg in 49% of diabetic patients. The same threshold of 135/85 mmHg was used to determine the prevalence of abnormal measurements per time period (pressure burden). Pressure burden was increased twofold in diabetic patients compared with control subjects. Mean AMBP was significantly reduced at night in control subjects but not in diabetic patients. Changes in blood pressure were not related to kidney function in diabetic patients. AMBP recordings uncovered an increased prevalence of abnormal mean blood pressure, increased pressure burden, and a lack of diurnal variation of blood pressure in subjects with type I diabetes mellitus. These findings have important implications for early intervention strategies in diabetes mellitus because AMBP recordings correlate well with end-organ damage. 
Improved cannulation method for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation has been shown to be useful for patients in reversible cardiogenic shock. Effective arterial cannulation techniques for infants have been developed that are simple to use and require minimal subsequent vascular repair or reconstruction after removal. Groin cannulation in adults frequently requires bidirectional arterial cannulation to ensure adequate distal perfusion as well as frequent complex arterial repairs after discontinuation. We describe a simple arterial cannulation technique using a single right-angle, high-flow arterial cannula. With this technique adequate bidirectional arterial perfusion is maintained with a single arterial cannula while the need for vascular repairs or reconstruction is minimized. 
Interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress in young adults. The interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress-induced cardiovascular reactivity was studied in white and black young adults aged 18-23 years. The cardiovascular response to difficult mental arithmetic was measured before and after 14 days of oral sodium loading (10 g NaCl/day added to the usual diet). A sodium-sensitive blood pressure response occurred in 18.4% of whites and 37.3% of blacks. A significant correlation between blood pressure change and sodium excretion occurred in the sodium-sensitive group (r = - 0.28, p less than 0.01). High sodium intake did not augment blood pressure or heart rate response to the beta-adrenergic-mediated stimulus of mental arithmetic in the population, which was grouped by blood pressure, race, or sodium sensitivity. 
Angiographic morphology in unstable angina and its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome. Complex stenosis morphology frequently occurs in patients with unstable angina pectoris. However, its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome has not been ascertained. To address this issue, 88 patients with significant (greater than or equal to 50%) coronary artery disease presenting with angina--new onset (n = 38), worsening (n = 20) or at rest (n = 30)-were studied. Patients with left main artery disease, normal coronary arteries or occlusion of the ischemia-related arteries were not included in the study. Continuous electrocardiographic recordings were obtained during the first 24 hours. Angiography was performed within 1 week from admission. Complex morphology was defined as any stenosis with irregular borders, overhanging edges or intracoronary thrombus. Only data referring to the in-hospital outcome were considered in this study. Adverse end points were sudden death, myocardial infarction and emergency revascularization. Analysis of the angiograms revealed a complex morphology in 58 patients (group 1). The remaining 30 patients served as control subjects (group 2). Thirty-two of the 58 group 1 patients had an unfavorable clinical outcome (positive predictive value, 55%). A similar outcome occurred in only 2 of the 30 group 2 patients (negative predictive value, 93%). Of the 32 group 1 patients who had an unfavorable clinical outcome, 29 had a cumulative duration of transient myocardial ischemia of greater than or equal to 60 minutes per 24 hours. A similar duration of ischemia, however, was observed in another 6 group 1 and in 8 group 2 patients. 
Effects of doxazosin on blood pressure, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone and urinary kallikrein. Doxazosin, a new quinazoline-derivative postsynaptic alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, was studied in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. Its effects on blood pressure (BP), heart rate, metabolic functions and renal hormones were analyzed after administration of a single oral morning dose in a 3-phase fashion when administered to 17 patients (11 women, 6 men, 21 to 59 years) with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension. After titrating the antihypertensive effective dose biweekly from 1 to 8 mg/day and a mean end titration-point dose of 4.14 +/- 0.1 mg (mean +/- standard error of the mean) at week 8 of treatment, it was adjusted to maintain diastolic BP at levels less than or equal to 90 mm Hg for up to 12 weeks of treatment when, at a final mean dose of 4.35 +/- 0.2 mg/day, BP decreased in all patients by a mean 31 +/- 3/17 +/- 2 (supine) and 39 +/- 3/15 +/- 3 (standing) mm Hg (p less than 0.005) with no increase in heart rate and no "first-dose phenomenon." Neither the renin-aldosterone system nor electrolyte excretion was significantly affected. Renal function and metabolic parameters also remained unchanged. Urinary kallikrein excretion was augmented 2.47-fold (p less than 0.002). There was good tolerance; 1 patient discontinued the study because of dry nose. These results suggest that long-term monotherapy with doxazosin is an effective and safe antihypertensive agent for mild to moderate essential hypertension that stimulates urinary kallikrein excretion. 
Myocardial sulfhydryl pool alterations occur during reperfusion after brief and prolonged myocardial ischemia in vivo. Myocardial sulfhydryl (SH)-containing compounds, including reduced glutathione (GSH), are both defenses against and potential markers of reactive oxygen metabolite injury during ischemia and reperfusion. We examined the alterations in GSH and other myocardial SH pools during reperfusion in anesthetized dogs exposed to brief (15 minutes, n = 7) or prolonged (90 minutes, n = 6) regional ischemia caused by occlusion of the left anterior descending artery. Ninety minutes of ischemia followed by 5 hours of reperfusion, which resulted in myocardial necrosis of 43.9 +/- 4.0% of the area at risk, caused a 22% reduction in total myocardial SH groups (p less than 0.01), a 57% decrease in nonprotein myocardial SH groups (p less than 0.01), a 56% decrease in GSH (p less than 0.01), and a 62% decrease in non-GSH, nonprotein SH groups (p less than 0.02). However, protein SH groups were not significantly reduced (12% decrease, p = NS). Also, myocardial release of GSH and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) into the coronary venous effluent occurred during early reperfusion. In contrast, 15 minutes of ischemia, followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion, did not alter myocardial total SH groups, protein SH groups, or GSH (9% decrease, p = NS); nor was there reperfusion release of GSH or GSSG. However, even with brief ischemia, nonprotein SH groups decreased 23% (p less than 0.05), due mainly to a 59% decrease in the non-GSH, nonprotein SH pool (p less than 0.05). These changes after brief ischemia occurred without alterations in myocardial GSSG or the GSH/GSSG ratio. 
Effects of renin inhibition in systemic hypertension. The effect of the direct renin inhibitor enalkiren (Abbott Laboratories) was examined in 8 healthy patients with essential hypertension. With an unrestricted sodium diet, plasma renin concentration was inhibited within 10 minutes by intravenous enalkiren and remained essentially undetectable for greater than or equal to 6 hours (11.9 +/- 4 to 1.0 +/- 0.6 ng angiotensin I/ml/hour, p less than 0.05). Mean arterial blood pressure declined gradually (108 +/- 5 to 84 +/- 4 mm Hg, p = 0.02), as did plasma aldosterone concentration (14.4 +/- 3.8 to 4.4 +/- 0.8 ng/dl, p = 0.03), whereas plasma immunoreactive active renin concentration increased progressively (35 +/- 14 to 160 +/- 60 pg/ml, p greater than 0.05). Urinary excretion of the stable metabolite of prostacyclin (6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha) decreased slightly, but not significantly (42 +/- 10 to 33 +/- 11 ng/g creatinine, p = 0.13). The addition of a diuretic decreased baseline blood pressure and increased baseline plasma renin and aldosterone values. Blood pressure responses to enalkiren were slightly (though not significantly) greater than those observed before diuretic administration. We conclude that enalkiren is effective in decreasing blood pressure and in inhibiting the renin system, without significantly altering urinary prostacyclin excretion, in patients with essential hypertension. These results suggest that the renin system contributes to the maintenance of elevated blood pressure in some patients with essential hypertension. 
Comparison of epicardial coronary artery tone and reactivity in Prinzmetal's variant angina and chronic stable angina pectoris It has been suggested that a generalized coronary vasomotion disorder is present in variant angina and that evaluation of baseline coronary artery tone may be useful for predicting the occurrence of coronary artery spasm. The vasomotor response of angiographically normal proximal and distal coronary artery segments was studied in 9 patients with atypical chest pain and normal coronary arteriograms (control group), 13 patients with active variant angina and 41 patients with chronic stable angina. Ergonovine (intravenous, 100 to 300 micrograms, or intracoronary, 8 to 20 micrograms, was administered to all 22 patients in the control and variant angina groups and to 11 of the 41 patients with chronic stable angina. All patients also received intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate (1 to 2 mg). Computerized coronary artery diameter measurement of angiographically normal segments was carried out before and after ergonovine and nitrate administration. Mean baseline intraluminal diameter of proximal and distal coronary segments was not significantly different in control patients and those with variant angina (nonspastic segments only) or coronary artery disease (proximal 2.89 +/- 0.15, 2.83 +/- 0.14 and 2.82 +/- 0.09 mm; distal 1.60 +/- 0.08, 1.63 +/- 0.07 and 1.62 +/- 0.06 mm, respectively). After ergonovine, proximal segments constricted by 10 +/- 2%, 15 +/- 3% and 11 +/- 4% and distal segments by 11 +/- 3%, 11 +/- 2% and 14 +/- 3% in control, variant angina and coronary artery disease groups, respectively (p = NS). 
Choice of drug treatment for elderly hypertensive patients. It is generally agreed that moderate and severe hypertension in the elderly should be treated, but it is not clear which drug or drugs are most appropriate. Thiazide diuretics are inexpensive and effective, but they are associated with metabolic side effects that are becoming less acceptable as newer agents become available. Beta blockers are effective, but can be associated with central nervous system side effects and are often contraindicated by coexisting disease. Recently, attention has been focused on the newer agents, including calcium antagonists and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. The advantage of calcium antagonists is that they do not produce metabolic side effects. However, they are expensive and may cause vasodilatory side effects. The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are effective and relatively free of side effects and may be particularly useful for elderly hypertensive patients with congestive heart failure. 
Balloon rupture due to lesion morphology during coronary angioplasty. We report a case of coronary angioplasty of a left anterior descending artery lesion that was complicated by the rupture of three successive balloon catheters. Each rupture occurred as a pinhole jet of contrast into a diagonal side branch, causing subintimal staining. This case demonstrates that balloon rupture may result from lesion morphology. 
Maternal and fetal effects of labetalol in pregnant ewes. Labetalol has been advocated to rapidly decrease blood pressure in preeclamptic women and to blunt the hemodynamic response to tracheal intubation. To assess labetalol's actions in a setting of uterine vasoconstriction, saline or labetalol (1 mg/kg) was infused into maternal venous catheters in 12 pregnant ewes receiving continuous maternal intravenous infusions of norepinephrine. Norepinephrine increased maternal mean arterial pressure (MAP) to 120 +/- 4% of control and decreased uterine blood flow to 45 +/- 6% of control. Labetalol, but not saline, altered these parameters: it decreased MAP to 101 +/- 3% and increased uterine blood flow to 70 +/- 7% of prenorepinephrine values. In the second protocol, to assess the degree of labetalol-induced fetal adrenergic blockade, 7 pregnant ewes received, on separate days, saline or labetalol (0.3, 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg) via a maternal venous catheter. Maternally administered labetalol produced minor (less than 12%) decreases in maternal and fetal MAP, without significantly altering heart rate (HR). At each labetalol dose, the degree of alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockade, determined by phenylephrine and isoproterenol challenge, was greater in the ewe than in the fetus. In the near-term pregnant ewe, intravenous (iv) bolus administration of labetalol ameliorated the effects of increased circulating norepinephrine on maternal MAP, uterine blood flow, and fetal pH and arterial O2 tension (PaO2), and produced less adrenergic blockade in the fetus than in the mother. 
Ventricular tachycardia and accelerated ventricular rhythm presenting in the first month of life. Fourteen infants aged less than 1 month presented to our institution during the last 22 years with ventricular tachycardia (VT) or accelerated ventricular rhythm and a structurally normal heart. In 2, VT was associated with long QT syndrome. Both are alive on beta-blocker therapy, 1 with an implanted pacemaker. Twelve infants had accelerated ventricular rhythm, and 2 of these died in the first 2 months of life of unrelated conditions. The other 10 are alive at a median age of 4 years (range 2 months to 11 years), and none were lost to follow-up. Hemodynamic compromise did not occur with accelerated ventricular rhythm. The ventricular rate was very close to the sinus rate in all 12, less than 12% above the sinus rate. The mean QRS duration during accelerated ventricular rhythm was 92.5 ms, and averaged twice the QRS duration during sinus rhythm. Fusion beats were seen in all 12, and there was atrioventricular dissociation with capture beats in 10. In 2, ventriculoatrial conduction was present. Treatment was attempted in 5 of the 10 survivors with accelerated ventricular rhythm, and was thought to be successful in 4. Treatment was later successfully withdrawn in all 5, so that all 10 survivors were free of accelerated ventricular rhythm and were not receiving antiarrhythmic medications at last follow-up. Because of the excellent long-term outcome and the lack of hemodynamic compromise during the rhythm, it seems reasonable to withhold antiarrhythmic therapy in infants with accelerated ventricular rhythm and await resolution of the rhythm. 
Enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improves cardiac function in hypoxic rabbit ventricle without increasing total glycolytic flux. The effects of elevated glucose on cardiac function during hypoxia were investigated in isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septa. Rest tension, developed tension, intracellular potential, 42K+ efflux, lactate production, exogenous glucose utilization, and tissue high-energy phosphate levels were measured during a 50-min period of hypoxia with 4, 5, or 50 mM glucose present (isosmotically balanced with sucrose) and during reoxygenation for 60 min with perfusate containing 5 mM glucose/45 mM sucrose. At physiologic (4 or 5 mM) and supraphysiologic glucose (50 mM), lactate production and high-energy phosphate levels during hypoxia were equally well maintained, yet cardiac dysfunction was markedly attenuated by 50 mM glucose. Despite identical rates of total glycolytic flux, exogenous glucose utilization was enhanced by 50 mM glucose so that tissue glycogen levels remained normal during hypoxia, whereas glycogen became depleted with 4 or 5 mM glucose present during hypoxia. Most of the beneficial effects of 50 mM glucose occurred during the first 25 min of hypoxia. Prior glycogen depletion had no deleterious effects during hypoxia with 50 mM glucose present, but exacerbated cardiac dysfunction during hypoxia with 5 mM glucose present. These findings indicate that enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improved cardiac function during hypoxia without increasing total glycolytic flux or tissue high-energy phosphate levels, suggesting a novel cardioprotective mechanism. 
Diagnosing pulmonary embolism: new facts and strategies PURPOSE: To provide a clinical approach to the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. DATA IDENTIFICATION: An English-language literature search using MEDLINE (1982 to 1990) and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and review articles. STUDY SELECTION: In addition to several reviews, studies that evaluated the diagnostic technology of pulmonary embolism were selected. Preference was given to studies with a prospective design, particularly those done within the past decade. DATA EXTRACTION: Studies were assessed independently by three unblinded observers. Data were chosen to describe the efficacy of diagnostic technology on the basis of disease prevalence, sensitivity and specificity, and predictive value. RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: A normal lung scan or pulmonary angiogram rules out the diagnosis of clinically important pulmonary embolism with at least 95% certainty. Lung scan interpretations indicating high or low probability have approximately a 15% error in diagnosing or ruling out pulmonary embolism. The accuracy of either scan result improves when the clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism matches the lung scan result. Serial impedance plethysmography of the lower extremities may exclude thromboembolism with 95% certainty in patients without high-probability lung scan results or cardiopulmonary disease. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of clinical suspicion and the results of the lung scan and impedance plethysmography appear to offer acceptable diagnostic accuracy in evaluating many patients suspected of having pulmonary embolism. The usefulness of this approach for patients with cardiopulmonary disease is still unknown. 
Oral contraceptives in women with diabetes. We evaluated the association of oral contraceptive use with the presence and severity of diabetic retinopathy, hypertension, and glycosylated hemoglobin in women of childbearing age who have diabetes. Neither current or past use nor number of years of use of oral contraceptives was associated with severity of retinopathy, hypertension, or current glycosylated hemoglobin. In conclusion, further study of various birth control methods in young women of childbearing age should be considered. 
UK-68,798: a novel, potent and highly selective class III antiarrhythmic agent which blocks potassium channels in cardiac cells. UK-68,798 increased the duration and effective refractory period of cardiac action potentials recorded in vitro from canine ventricular muscle and Purkinje fibers in a concentration dependent manner from 5 nM to 1 microM. The resting membrane potential, amplitude and maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials were unaffected by UK-68,798, indicating the selective class III antiarrhythmic properties of this agent. UK-68,798 (5 nM-1 microM) increased the effective refractory period of isolated guinea pig papillary muscles at stimulation frequencies of 1 Hz and 5 Hz without influencing the conduction velocity, further confirming that UK-68,798 is devoid of class I antiarrhythmic activity including block of the sodium channel. Studies using single voltage clamped guinea pig ventricular myocytes indicated that UK-68,798 at concentrations of 50 nM and 2 microM blocks a time-dependent K+ current, with no appreciable effects on the time-independent K+ current or the inward calcium current. UK-68,798 is therefore a highly selective K+ channel blocking agent with class III antiarrhythmic properties, a profile that holds considerable promise for the therapy of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. 
Potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. Minimizing the danger. Patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias are at an increased risk of sudden death. Antiarrhythmic drugs, with the exception of beta blockers and possibly amiodarone, have not been particularly effective in reducing mortality. Beta blockers have been used successfully to treat survivors of myocardial infarction, including patients with significant impairment of ventricular function. Evidence to date suggests that use of low-dose amiodarone may be appropriate for selected patients with chronic heart failure and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. 
Wives of coronary high-risk men--are they also at higher risk? The Tromso Heart Study. Blood lipids, blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), smoking, dietary and exercise habits were studied in 911 wives of men with high risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). Following the 1979/80 Tromso Survey, 1373 men, aged 30-54 years, were identified as having high risk for CHD (HDL-cholesterol/total cholesterol less than or equal to 17.6% and/or total cholesterol greater than or equal to 7.86 mmol l-1). Of the 1373 men, 911 individuals had wives who also attended the screening. These wives were compared to age-matched, married women in the general population. A significantly higher total cholesterol level (5.98 mmol l-1 vs. 5.78 mmol l-1), lower HDL-cholesterol/total cholesterol (30.01% vs. 31.58%), higher BMI and higher coronary risk score (4.55 vs. 3.82) was found among the wives of the high-risk men. Furthermore, a higher proportion of these individuals were daily cigarette smokers (47.3% vs. 42.1%), and had received fewer years of education. They also had more dietary habits associated with increased risk of CHD than other married women in the general population. Our findings support the hypothesis that members of the same household as a person with increased risk for CHD also have increased risk. This is most probably due to shared lifestyle. 
Optimizing heparin utilization in angiographic flush solutions. Various concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are employed during angiography. In an effort to determine whether differences in outcome are seen when either high or low concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are utilized, two groups of patients were evaluated. There was no difference in outcome and a small systemic effect from heparin was seen in both groups. Use of a low concentration of heparin is suggested for routine angiography. 
The clinical utility of carotid duplex scanning. We retrospectively compared the results of duplex scanning (DS) with contrast angiography (CAN) in the evaluation of 119 patients whose 238 carotid arteries were evaluated by both methods within a four-week period. The results of all patients were then categorized by two different definitions of severity of stenosis. Category A classified 1-29% stenosis as mild, 30-69% stenosis as moderate, and 70-99% diameter reduction as severe stenosis. Category B defined mild stenosis as 1-19% lumen diameter reduction, moderate as 20-49% stenosis, and severe as 50-99% stenosis. The findings by each classification were compared in 60 patients with hemispheric symptoms and in 59 patients with nonspecific symptoms. CAN was our "gold standard", and exhibited greater sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and predictive values than DS. Carotid arteries with 70% stenosis were identified by DS with greater specificity, accuracy, and predictive values than were arteries with 50% stenoses. Only the sensitivity was comparable in categorizations A and B (80% and 83%). All parameters of measurement were superior in patients with hemispheric symptoms. DS alone cannot substitute for CAN in selecting patients for carotid endarterectomy because its error rate exceeded acceptable rates of complications for carotid artery surgery. The false positive rate of DS was 4%. DS failed to diagnose 7 of 19 carotid artery occlusions, 9 of 11 ulcerated plaques, 7 of 119 instances of aortic arch disease, and 13 cases of severe intracranial artery stenosis. 
Aortico-left ventricular tunnel: long-term outcome after surgical repair. Over a 14 year period, four children (three male, one female) underwent surgical correction of an aortico-left ventricular tunnel. All presented in infancy (age range 5 days to 9 months). The presenting feature was a systolic and diastolic murmur in all, one of whom developed heart failure within 2 weeks of presentation. In the first two patients, the echocardiographic findings were inconclusive and the diagnosis was confirmed at cardiac catheterization (at 10 and 23 months of age, respectively); the other two were diagnosed echocardiographically by two-dimensional and Doppler color flow imaging. All four patients underwent surgery by patch closure of the aortic end of the tunnel (three patients) or direct suture closure (one patient) and there were no deaths. The mean age at operation was 11 months. During a mean follow-up period of 71 months (range 2 to 157), three patients have clinical and echocardiographic evidence of trivial aortic valve regurgitation, which was noted in the immediate postoperative period in one and at early (less than 6 months) follow-up study in the other two. All are symptom-free, are taking no medications and are growing and developing normally. Aortico-left ventricular tunnel can be accurately diagnosed by echocardiography. In patients presenting in infancy, echocardiography also provides the necessary morphologic information to enable surgical correction without angiography. Early operation is associated with an excellent outcome, whereas repair at a later age is associated with a high incidence of residual aortic regurgitation requiring further surgery. 
Increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers. There is controversy over the effect of hypertension in pregnancy on the incidence of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. We investigated the association between maternal hypertension and the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in 268 very low birthweight babies of less than 34 weeks' gestation. A lower incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was associated with growth retardation and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours. Maternal hypertension was associated with an increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome. We used the multiple logistic regression model to control for confounding variables, as the maternal and neonatal factors associated with respiratory distress syndrome were not evenly distributed between the two groups. After adjustment for birth weight, gestational age, growth retardation, and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours, the risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome was significantly greater in babies of hypertensive mothers. Significance was lost when labour before delivery and mode of delivery were taken into account. The increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers may be due to the absence of labour before delivery because of the greater likelihood of caesarean section. 
Coronary bypass grafting with totally calcified or acutely dissected ascending aorta. From August 1984 through November 1988, 10 of 2,658 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting had ascending aortic disease that was not amenable to proximal anastomoses for coronary bypass grafting. This was due to a calcified aorta in 6 and acute aortic dissection in 4. There were 5 male and 5 female patients with a mean age of 71 years. Cannulation site was the femoral artery in 5, ascending aorta in 3, and aortic arch in 2. Profound hypothermia and ventricular fibrillation, with no cross-clamp or cardioplegia, was used in 9 patients, and circulatory arrest in 1. In 8 patients a single internal mammary artery was used as the total inflow with a saphenous vein graft brought off the internal mammary artery to one or more distal left-sided coronary vessels. Bilateral internal mammary arteries were used in 2 other patients. Operative mortality was zero. There was one perioperative myocardial infarction and one transient stroke without sequelae. All patients have done well from 1 to 6 years postoperatively. These data support the use of internal mammary arteries as single or bilateral proximal conduits for other venoarterial bypass grafts when the aorta is extensively diseased either by calcification or dissection. 
Popliteal vascular trauma. A community experience. Preventing amputation continues to be a significant challenge when popliteal vascular injuries occur. A retrospective review of cases from the San Diego County (California) Trauma System identified 108 patients with 76 blunt and 32 penetrating arterial injuries. The limb preservation rate was 88%; there were 13 amputations. The fracture-dislocated knee injury and close-range shotgun blasts were particularly limb threatening. In general, the trauma system achieved rapid evaluation of injuries and early operative intervention. All 13 patients who underwent amputations presented with signs of severe ischemia. Concomitant injuries to the popliteal vein, tibial nerves, and soft tissue were significantly more frequent in patients who underwent amputations. The importance of complete fasciotomy for compartment hypertension, early reconstructive management of soft-tissue injuries, and expeditious arterial repair, frequently without preoperative roentgenographic suite arteriography, is emphasized. An aggressive, multidisciplinary approach is required to achieve a functional extremity when popliteal vascular trauma occurs. 
Surgical resection of intrinsic brain stem lesions: an overview. A major limitation to the effective treatment of intrinsic mass lesions of the brain stem has been the inability to clearly define the pathological anatomy radiographically. The improved soft tissue resolution offered by magnetic resonance imaging, as compared with axial computed tomography, now makes it possible not only to accurately distinguish anatomical relationships, but also to predict the pathological nature of the lesion. Accordingly, we have been encouraged to pursue a more aggressive approach to intrinsic lesions of the brain stem that appear well circumscribed on magnetic resonance imaging scan. The object of this paper is to report the successful treatment of four intrinsic lesions of the brain stem and to present an overview of the relevant published experience. 
Interventricular coronary steal induced by stenosis of left anterior descending coronary artery in exercising pigs. BACKGROUND. In pigs and humans, the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) supplies the left ventricular anterior wall (LVAW), anterior septum, and paraseptal band of the right ventricular anterior wall (RVAW). The purposes of our study were 1) to study the LAD flow distribution in these walls during preexercise, exercise, and exercise with LAD stenosis and 2) to analyze regional wall motion under these conditions. METHODS AND RESULTS. Nine pigs were instrumented with sonomicrometers for measuring percent wall thickening (%WTh) in LVAW, RVAW, and lateral (control) walls of both ventricles, a hydraulic occluder at the LAD origin, an LV pressure transducer, and catheters for radioactive microsphere injection (left atrium) and blood withdrawal (aorta). One month later, regional %WTh and flows were measured during preexercise, exercise, and continuing exercise with LAD stenosis resulting in more than 50% reduction in systolic LVAW %WTh with regard to exercise. LAD stenosis caused a dramatic decrease in total mean +/- SD LVAW subendocardial flow with regard to exercise (28.7 +/- 8 to 9.1 +/- 3.2 ml.min-1, p less than 0.0001) but not significant changes in either LVAW subepicardial flow or RVAW flow. The transmural distribution of flows within the LAD bed (as percentages of the total LAD flow in each experimental condition) showed that LAD stenosis redistributed flows with regard to exercise such that the LVAW subendocardial flow decreased from 26.4 +/- 4.2% of the total LAD flow to 11.8 +/- 4.3% (p less than 0.0001), whereas LVAW subepicardial flow increased from 32.9 +/- 2.3% of the total LAD flow to 45.5 +/- 7.9% (p less than 0.0001) and RVAW increased from 12 +/- 4.9% of the total LAD flow to 18.7 +/- 7.2% (p less than 0.0005). With exercise plus LAD stenosis, LVAW %WTh decreased from 43.2 +/- 8.4% to 17.2 +/- 9.7% (p less than 0.0001), but RVAW %WTh did not change. CONCLUSIONS. In the LAD bed of exercising pigs, LAD stenosis induces, in addition to transmural steal, an interventricular steal favoring the RVAW at the expense of the LVAW subendocardium. This steal results in preserved RVAW thickening despite severe LVAW hypokinesia. 
Late results of 200 repeat coronary artery bypass operations. To determine the clinical outcome and the long-term results of a second coronary artery bypass operation, we studied preoperative clinical status and catheterization data in 200 consecutive patients over a 9-year period (1979 to 1987) (mean follow up time 34 months, maximum 120). The study group included 169 men and 31 women (mean age 58.4 years [7% greater than 70 years]). Sixty-four percent of patients had severe angina (New York Heart Association class IV), 70% had 3-vessel coronary artery disease and 21% had poor left ventricular function. Reoperation was performed after a mean interval of 58 months after the first procedure. A mean of 3.3 distal anastomoses was placed. The operative mortality rate (30 days) was 7.5%, with additional cardiac morbidity (myocardial infarction, heart failure) in 11.5% of patients. Multivariate analysis showed an increased risk in women (risk ratio 3.6) and in patients with poor left ventricular function (risk ratio 3.1). The cumulative 5-year survival rate was estimated at 84%, with a rate of 77% for patients with poor left ventricular function (difference not significant). The probability of remaining free of a cardiac-related event (myocardial infarction, angioplasty, third operation, cardiac death) was 64% for 5 years. At the end of follow-up, 79% of the surviving patients were in New York Heart Association class I or II and nearly 50% of patients in the fifth year after the reoperation had good functional status. It is concluded that a reoperation is effective but carries an increased, immediate, operative risk. 
Diagnosis and management of familial dyslipoproteinemia in children and adolescents. CAD results from atherosclerosis, a chronic disease process that has its origin in childhood. Children and adolescents can be at higher risk for CAD by virtue of being from families with premature CAD or familial dyslipoproteinemias. The plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels result from a number of complex metabolic processes that are under the control of genetic and environmental (e.g., diet) influences. The normal ranges of plasma lipids and lipoproteins in children are known, and children and adolescents with dyslipoproteinemia are ordinarily defined as those having levels of plasma total, LDL, or triglyceride above the 95th percentile or with a low HDL cholesterol below the 5th percentile. Children of a parent with documented dyslipoproteinemia or with family history of premature CAD may be screened in the fasting state any time after 2 years of age. Following the exclusion of secondary causes of dyslipoproteinemia, the diagnosis of primary dyslipoproteinemia can be made. Lipoprotein patterns are not diagnostic for a given genotype. Efforts to determine further the biochemical defects responsible for a given phenotype have led to the investigation of gene coding for the apolipoproteins, the key enzymes in the lipoproteins pathways (LPL, HDL, and LCAT) and the receptors that process lipoproteins, such as the LDL receptor and the chylomicron remnant receptor. From a practical standpoint, the diagnosis of the kind of dyslipoproteinemia in a child will depend upon the nature and severity of the dyslipoproteinemia, both in the child (or adolescent) and in parents and siblings. Marked increases in plasma total and LDL cholesterol in the child and in at least one of the parents often reflect the presence of familial hypercholesterolemia, an inherited dominant condition due to a defect in the LDL receptor gene. The triglyceride levels are often normal. If the child has a different dyslipoproteinemia pattern from siblings and parents, then the diagnosis of familial combined hyperlipidemia or hyperapobetalipoproteinemia should be considered. Most children with mild or borderline elevations in total and LDL cholesterol will have polygenic hypercholesterolemia. Triglyceride problems in children and adolescents are relatively uncommon, particularly the more severe hypertriglyceridemia such as that found in lipoprotein lipase and apoC-II deficiency, dysbetalipoproteinemia, and type V hyperlipoproteinemia. High levels of Lp(a) lipoprotein, in isolation or in combination with other dyslipoproteinemia, accelerate risk for CAD. Low levels of HDL cholesterol in the absence of other abnormalities suggest the diagnosis of hypoalphalipoproteinemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Unusual aspects of aortovenous fistulas associated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Three unusual cases of an abdominal aortic aneurysm spontaneously rupturing into the retroperitoneum and an adherent posterior vein are reported. No patient demonstrated signs or symptoms of an aortovenous fistula before surgery. Emergent surgery prevented extensive preoperative diagnostic testing. The three abdominal aortic aneurysms were very large and averaged 13 cm in diameter. One fistula involved an inflammatory aneurysm, which is the fifth such case reported. The aortic fistulas were to the inferior vena cava (158 other cases reported in the English-language literature), a left renal vein (16 other cases reported), and an iliac vein (7 other cases reported). Routine use of the cell-saver, oversewing of the fistula from within the aneurysm, and a heightened awareness that this unusual complication is more common in the presence of a very large, ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm should improve survival. 
Isolated pulmonary valvular regurgitation: current perspectives. IPVR is a rare clinical entity that was first diagnosed during life in 1955. In the past 35 years, only 69 patients have been reported. With increasing clinical awareness, as well as use of PDE, the confirmation of its clinical diagnosis has become easier and more accurate without having to take recourse to invasive cardiac studies as in the past. For this reason, it is becoming increasingly apparent that IPVR is not so rare as has been suggested in the past. IPVR is more common in men than in women, in whites than blacks, and in the young than the elderly. The mean age of IPVR patients is 27 years (range, 4 to 85). The majority of the patients are asymptomatic and the diagnosis is usually suspected upon the discovery of a crescendo-decrescendo, low-pitched, early to mid diastolic murmur in the second and third left intercostal space, which increases during inspiration, particularly in the presence of a hyperdynamic right ventricle and in the absence of peripheral circulatory phenomenon of aortic regurgitation. The ECG often shows right axis deviation, incomplete right bundle branch block, and rarely, right ventricular hypertrophy and strain. However, a normal ECG does not preclude its diagnosis. Approximately 30% of the IPVR patients have normal 12-lead ECGs. The diagnosis may be further suggested by the posteroanterior chest roentgenogram when dilated and large central pulmonary arteries are noted to pulsate vigorously (hilar dance) on chest fluoroscopy. 
Effects of mental exercise in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. An echocardiographic Doppler study. To assess the effects of mental stress on left ventricular diastolic function in patients with congestive heart failure, nine patients aged 57 +/- 12 years with dilated cardiomyopathy (end-diastolic volume, more than 110 ml/m2; ejection fraction, less than 40%; mean, 28 +/- 8%) and congestive heart failure in New York Heart Association functional class II or III and 14 normal volunteers (mean age, 49 +/- 8 years) were studied during mental arithmetic lasting 10 minutes with echocardiographic Doppler monitoring of transmitral flow velocity. During mental arithmetic, the ratio of peak flow velocity in early versus late diastole (E/A) and deceleration time of early diastole did not change in normal controls. However, E/A increased significantly (from 1.6 +/- 1.5 to 1.9 +/- 1.7; p less than 0.01) and deceleration time markedly decreased (from 156 +/- 49 to 108 +/- 31 msec; p less than 0.001) in patients with congestive heart failure. In 16 postinfarct patients with ejection fraction of less than 40% studied during mental arithmetic with simultaneous hemodynamics and Doppler recordings, good correlations were found between pulmonary wedge pressure and Doppler parameters (wedge pressure versus E/A, r = 0.89; wedge pressure versus deceleration time, r = -0.87). During mental arithmetic, the pulmonary wedge pressure-E/A correlation was weaker (r = 0.67), whereas the correlation between pulmonary wedge pressure and deceleration time was stronger (r = 0.91). The value of 153 msec in deceleration time was the best cutoff point in predicting 12 mm Hg pulmonary wedge pressure, both at rest and during mental arithmetic: the higher the deceleration time, the lower the pulmonary wedge pressure, and vice versa. Among patients with congestive heart failure, five showed normal baseline deceleration time (195 +/- 21 msec; pattern 1), and the remaining four showed a short (less than 153 msec) deceleration time (108 +/- 13 msec; pattern 2). During mental arithmetic, deceleration time markedly decreased to as short as 119 +/- 20 msec in all patients except one with baseline pattern 1. Deceleration time further decreased to 75 +/- 6 msec in all patients with baseline pattern 2. Mental arithmetic induces changes in left ventricular diastolic function in patients with congestive heart failure. Transmitral echocardiographic Doppler provides a simple noninvasive method of estimating and monitoring pulmonary wedge pressure in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. 
Parental history is an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease: the Framingham Study. Family history of CAD, defined as parental death by CAD, was found to be a significant independent predictor of CAD in a logistic regression model controlling for standard risk factors and length of follow-up among the 5209 participants in the Framingham Study. Persons with a positive parental history have a 29% increased risk of CAD, and the strength of the association between parental history and CAD is similar to that found for other standard risk factors such as systolic blood pressure, cholesterol level, and cigarette smoking. No evidence was found that persons with a family history of CAD have a decreased capacity to cope with the deleterious effects of known risk factors; that is, no significant interaction was found between any of the risk factors and parental history of CAD. Among men with low risk for CAD by risk-factor profile (i.e., nonsmoking, thin, nonhypertensive persons), more than two thirds of those who experience CAD have a positive parental history. This study suggests that CAD among persons who are predicted to be at low risk by standard risk factors may have a substantial genetic component and that the risk associated with parental history may not be reduced by modification of these factors. Nevertheless, among persons with a positive family history, those with a favorable risk profile are at substantially less risk for CAD than those with an unfavorable risk profile. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysm: results of a family study. Data pertaining to abdominal aortic aneurysm among first-degree relatives of 91 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm are presented. The percentage of families with at least one affected first-degree relative of the proband (multiplex families) was 15.4%. In 21.4% of multiplex families parent-offspring transmission of abdominal aortic aneurysm was noted; in the remaining families only siblings were affected. The mean age at onset among probands was 67.3 years; that among all affected was 67.4 years. No statistically significant difference in the mean ages at onset between genders was noted. Among affected siblings of probands, the sex ratio, male:female, was 1.33:1, which is not significantly different from 1:1. The relative risk of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm was 3.97 for fathers, 4.03 for mothers, 9.92 for brothers, and 22.93 for sisters. 
Auto-PEEP during CPR. An "occult" cause of electromechanical dissociation? A 64-year-old man with severe COPD developed refractory nonperfusing sinus rhythm after intubation and positive-pressure ventilation. Fifteen minutes after resuscitative efforts were halted, the patient was noted to have spontaneous respirations and blood pressure, suggesting that dynamic hyperinflation was responsible for the observed electromechanical dissociation (EMD). We recommend a brief trial of apnea for patients with COPD and EMD when conventional measures are unsuccessful. 
The surprising kidney-fluid mechanism for pressure control--its infinite gain! In this short paper, I have tried to explain the elation that we felt when we first realized that the kidney-fluid mechanism for controlling the arterial pressure has an infinite feedback gain property. Because of this, all the other pressure control mechanisms, none of which has ever been shown to have a similar infinite gain property, must themselves alter the kidney-fluid mechanism if they are to succeed in causing long-term changes in the arterial pressure. We have not been able to refute this principle despite many experiments over the last 2 decades. For this reason, our first understanding of the infinite gain property of the kidney-fluid mechanism was like a light at the end of the tunnel. I hope that I can explain to the reader the excitement of those few seconds when we first recognized the principle in 1966. 
Infant survival following delayed postmortem cesarean delivery. A 19-year-old multipara was delivered of a living infant by postmortem cesarean 22 minutes after documented maternal cardiac arrest and 47 minutes from the fatal injury. Neonatal follow-up at 18 months of age demonstrated no evidence of neurologic damage. 
Efficacy of acebutolol after acute myocardial infarction (the APSI trial). The APSI Investigators. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial was carried out to determine the effectiveness of acebutolol in preventing late death in high-risk patients surviving an acute myocardial infarction (MI). The average 1-year mortality rate in placebo groups of 9 trials of beta blockers in post-MI patients was 7.2% compared with 17% in a nonselected cohort of patients who had survived at least 7 days after an MI. The mandate for this trial was based on the fact that high-risk patients whose mortality rate exceeds 20% have not been enrolled in significant numbers in previous trials. It remains to be proved whether beta-blocking therapy in this patient population is beneficial. Selection of high-risk patients for inclusion in the trial was based on an algorithm set up from the Essai de Prevention Secondaire de l'Infarctus du Myocarde Registry. At the time of the second interim analysis, the mortality rate in the placebo group was 12%, lower than expected (greater than or equal to 20%). The trial was stopped; at that time, 309 patients had been allocated to placebo and 298 patients to acebutolol therapy. After 318 days, there were 17 deaths in the acebutolol-treated group and 34 in the placebo group, a reduction in total mortality of 48% (p = 0.019). There were 30 vascular deaths in the placebo group and 12 in the acebutolol group. Thus, cardiovascular mortality with acebutolol was reduced by 58% (p = 0.006). The incidence of all cardiovascular-related deaths was lower in the acebutolol-treated group. The total reduction in mortality did not appear to be correlated with secondary risk factors. 
Hemodynamic and neurohormonal effects of quinidine in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Quinidine causes vasodilation directly and by inhibition of adrenergic vasoconstriction, but it also exerts negative inotropic activity. Although this drug is often administered to patients with severe congestive heart failure, the net consequences of these opposing actions have not been evaluated in such patients. The hemodynamic and neurohormonal response to oral quinidine (600 mg) in 19 patients with severe chronic heart failure was therefore determined. Vasodilation was the predominant effect of quinidine, with reductions in mean arterial, left ventricular filling and right atrial pressures of -9% (confidence interval [CI] -5 to -13), -8% (CI -19 to 3), -15% (CI -26 to -4), respectively. The quinidine-induced vasodilation increased plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations by 44% (CI +17 to +72) and 47% (CI +2 to +91), respectively. No change in cardiac performance was noted, with the cardiac index slightly increased (+10%, CI +2 to +17) and stroke work index unchanged (0%, CI -11 to +11) after quinidine. Although the mean serum quinidine concentration was within the therapeutic range or lower in all patients, the serum quinidine concentration and the change in mean arterial pressure did correlate (r2 = 0.64). In conclusion, vasodilation is the predominant hemodynamic effect of oral quinidine in patients with congestive heart failure. However, potential adverse effects may be caused by consequent neurohormonal activation. 
The relationship of intraluminal shunting to technical results after carotid endarterectomy. This study evaluates the incidence of defects on the intraoperative angiograms of 160 carotid endarterectomies performed in 146 patients, 81 of 160 (50.6%) with a shunt and 79 of 160 operations (49.4%) performed without a shunt. Angiographic defects were identified in 34 of 160 carotid endarterectomies (21%), of which 21 of 34 (65%) resulted in a greater than 20% stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA). There were defects in 6 of 81 (7.4%) shunted vessels compared to 16 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). Thirty-one vessels were reexplored 11 of 81 (13.5%) of those shunted and 20 of 79 (20%) of those not shunted (p less than 0.05). There were four strokes (2.5%) (2 in each group) and one death due to myocardial infarction (0.6%) in the postoperative period. Duplex follow-up from 1-60 months (median 22 months) was available in 114 of 160 (71%) endarterectomies. A stenosis of greater than 50% was detected in 7 of 114 (6%) carotid arteries; 5 of the 7 (71%) were shunted and 2 (29%) were nonshunted. Unrepaired defects were present in 3 of 7 (43%) and no defects in the remaining 4 of 7 (57%) arteries. We conclude that the use of a shunt significantly decreases the number of ICA defects detected angiographically and that immediate revision of demonstrable defects can be undertaken with low morbidity and does not predispose the patient to recurrent stenosis. 
Quantitative angiographic comparison of the immediate success of coronary angioplasty, coronary atherectomy and endoluminal stenting. Coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting effectively reduce the severity of coronary artery stenoses, but direct comparisons of these interventions with conventional balloon angioplasty have not been performed. To compare the immediate efficacy of these 3 interventions, the angiographic morphology and the severity of the residual coronary stenosis were quantitatively evaluated in 18 patients undergoing coronary atherectomy and in 21 patients treated by endoluminal coronary stenting. Each of these groups of patients was compared with a matched group of coronary angioplasty patients selected from a large, computerized data-base. The variables matched included patient age and sex, lesions site and severity, and lesion complexity. Both coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting more effectively reduced the severity of the coronary stenosis when compared with balloon angioplasty. The luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 69 +/- 10 to 22 +/- 20% in the atherectomy group compared with a reduction from 74 +/- 11 to 44 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty population (p = 0.008). Similarly, the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 77 +/- 11 to 26 +/- 12% in the stented group compared with a reduction from 81 +/- 10 to 42 +/- 14% in the matched coronary angioplasty group (p = 0.014). In addition, moderate or severe coronary dissections were noted more frequently in the coronary angioplasty groups than in their respective atherectomy and stent groups (0 vs 33%, p = 0.008, and 5 vs 19%, p = 0.15, respectively). 
Managing the whole patient with hypertension: practical applications in a clinical setting. Physicians are aware of the value of treating hypertension. Complications such as stroke and congestive heart failure are less likely to occur in the well-controlled patient. In our quest to add coronary heart disease to this list, we must go beyond simple reduction of blood pressure. We must consider other risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, and family history. The presence of one or more of these may indicate a more aggressive treatment approach. Similarly the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy, coronary disease, or renal disease may indicate specific pharmacotherapy. On the other hand, the low-risk patient with no other problems or conditions may be treated with only nonpharmacologic therapy such as weight loss, dietary sodium reduction, and/or alcohol restriction. Every patient has a different constellation of findings. Every patient should be treated individually. It is no longer sufficient just to lower blood pressure; we need to manage the whole patient with hypertension; keeping in mind that most antihypertensive agents are equally effective, the side effect profile is often the decisive factor in choosing an antihypertensive agent. 
Primary orchiectomy versus estrogen therapy in advanced prostatic cancer--a randomized study: results after 7 to 10 years of followup. Of 163 new consecutively diagnosed cases of advanced (T3-4 M0 or T04M1) prostatic cancer 13 had contraindications for estrogen treatment, and the remainder were randomized to orchiectomy (76) or to estrogen treatment (74), consisting of 150 micrograms ethinyl estradiol daily and 80 mg. polyestradiol monthly. During the followup period of 7 to 10 years disease progression was noted in 27 patients (36%) treated with estrogen and 39 (51%) orchiectomized patients. The free of progression survival rate was significantly better (less than 0.05) among the estrogen treated patients but the over-all survival rates after orchiectomy and estrogen treatment were almost identical. A significantly higher frequency of cardiovascular side effects was noted in the estrogen group (23 cases) compared to the orchiectomy group (4 cases). Therefore, estrogen treatment in this form cannot be recommended for the palliative treatment of prostate cancer. 
Retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia: a new concept in myocardial protection This report presents the results in our first clinical series of patients receiving continuous warm blood cardioplegia through the coronary sinus. Warm oxygenated blood cardioplegia has certain theoretical advantages, such as continuously supplying oxygen and substrates to the arrested heart while avoiding the side effects of hypothermia. Retrograde infusion of cardioplegia also offers certain advantages (eg, in valve operations and in patients with severe coronary artery disease) that are complementary to warm blood cardioplegia. Retrograde warm blood cardioplegia was used in 113 consecutive patients (85 men and 28 women with a mean age of 61 years) undergoing various procedures. Three percent of the patients died, 7% needed transient intraaortic balloon pump support, 6% had evidence of perioperative myocardial infarction, and 96% had spontaneous return of rhythm. There were no coronary sinus injuries. This new technique of retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia is a simple, safe, and reliable method of myocardial protection that may change the way we currently protect the heart intraoperatively. 
Effect of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in patients with angina pectoris and heart failure The effects of captopril and placebo were compared in 18 patients with chronic heart failure and angina pectoris with use of a double-blind crossover trial design. Symptoms were assessed by patient treatment preference, visual analogue scores and nitroglycerin consumption. Exercise performance was assessed using two different treadmill protocols of different work intensity with simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption and by supine bicycle exercise and simultaneous radionuclide ventriculography. Arrhythmias were assessed by 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. Patients generally preferred placebo to captopril, and this appeared to be due to an increase in symptoms of angina with captopril. Treadmill exercise time on a high intensity protocol was shorter with captopril than with placebo; on a low intensity protocol, angina became a more frequent limiting symptom even though overall exercise performance was not changed. The heart rate-blood pressure product was reduced, but largely because of a reduction in blood pressure rather than in heart rate. During supine bicycle exercise, no differences in symptoms, exercise performance, ejection fraction or changes in blood pressure were noted and ventricular arrhythmias were reduced. Captopril does not appear to be clinically useful in alleviating angina pectoris in patients with heart failure, and this effect may be related to a decrease in coronary perfusion pressure. Nonetheless, desirable metabolic effects, a reduction in arrhythmias and potential effects on survival require further study of captopril in patients with both angina and heart failure. 
A new method of haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis in atrial fibrillation: construction of a nomogram. Accurate haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis by hydraulic formulas requires measurement of the mean valve gradient and the cardiac output. The calculation is laborious, particularly in the presence of atrial fibrillation when averaged values obtained from multiple beat-to-beat determinations must be used. The relations between valve area, end diastolic gradient, and heart rate in 20 patients with mitral stenosis and atrial fibrillation were examined. In each patient the end diastolic pressure gradient for each cardiac cycle was related linearly to the RR interval of that cycle, and this relation was unchanged on exercise. The slope (S) and intercept (I) of this relation correlated with the degree of mitral stenosis as measured by the Gorlin valve area. The regression equations describing these relations were then used to construct a nomogram relating end diastolic pressure gradient to mitral valve area at different heart rates. When the nomogram was applied to catheterisation data from a further 30 patients the results correlated well with direct calculation of valve area by the Gorlin formula. The nomogram is simple to use, does not require measurement of cardiac output, and is independent of heart rate so that it is unnecessary for the patient to exercise during catheterisation. 
Prognostic significance of exercise versus resting blood pressure in hypertensive men. The outcome of 143 male hypertensive patients, investigated in the period 1972-1982, was ascertained in 1989 to determine if brachial artery pressure measured during a progressive graded exercise test on the bicycle ergometer is a better predictor of mortality and cardiovascular events than pressure at rest. During the total follow-up time of 1,573 patient years, 27 patients suffered at least one fatal or nonfatal cardiovascular event and 13 patients died. Using the Cox regression model, the age-adjusted relative hazard rates of systolic pressure at supine rest, at 50 W, at peak work load, and at 50% of peak exercise capacity were significant for total mortality (p less than or equal to 0.01) and for cardiovascular events (p less than or equal to 0.03). Pressure during exercise, however, did not significantly (p = 0.11-0.97) predict the outcome of the patients when age and pressure at rest were taken into account. The results were similar for diastolic pressure. In conclusion, intra-arterial pressures at rest and during submaximal and peak exercise significantly predict mortality and the incidence of cardiovascular events in hypertensive men, independent of age. However, there is no additional prognostic precision of the exercise pressures when age and the rest pressure are taken into account. 
Dispatcher-assisted telephone CPR: common delays and time standards for delivery. STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the rate of bystander CPR before and after implementation of a telephone CPR program in King County; to determine the reasons for dispatcher delays in identifying patients in cardiac arrest in delivering CPR instructions over the telephone; and to suggest time standards for delivery of the telephone CPR message. DESIGN: An ongoing cardiac arrest surveillance system to calculate the annual bystander CPR rates from 1976 through 1988. Two hundred sixty-seven taped recordings of calls reporting cardiac arrests to nine emergency dispatch centers during 1988 were reviewed and timed. SETTING: King County, Washington, excluding the city of Seattle. PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred sixty-seven persons with out-of-hospital cardiac arrests receiving emergency medical services. Arrests in doctors' offices, clinics, or nursing homes were excluded. INTERVENTIONS: Dispatcher-assisted telephone CPR. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The rate of bystander CPR increased from 32% (1976 through 1981) to 54% (1982 through 1988) after implementation of the dispatcher-assisted telephone CPR program, although an increase in survival could not be demonstrated. The median time for dispatchers to identify the problem was 75 seconds; to deliver the early protocols, 19 seconds; to deliver the ventilation instructions, 25 seconds; and to deliver compression instructions, 30 seconds. The total time to deliver the entire CPR message was 2.3 minutes. The most frequent cause for delay was unnecessary questions (57%) with questions about patient age asked most frequently (32%). Other causes included the caller not being near the patient (29%) and deviations from protocol (22%). CONCLUSION: In a metropolitan emergency medical services system, a dispatcher-assisted telephone CPR program was associated with an increase in bystander CPR. Delays in proper delivery of telephone CPR can be minimized through training. 
Assessment of experimental pericardial effusion using nuclear magnetic resonance imaging techniques. An experimental canine model of pericardial effusion was designed to validate previous clinical nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMR) studies. Saline (n = 7), serum (n = 4), blood (10% hematocrit [n = 5]; 20% hematocrit [n = 5]), and lipid (n = 4) effusions were chosen to resemble: (1) transudative/exudative, (2) nonhemorrhagic/hemorrhagic, and (3) chylous effusions, respectively. There was a linear correlation between the infused volume and the pericardial/epicardial distance measurements on the nuclear magnetic resonance images. Hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic exudative effusions were distinguished from transudative effusions by the low signal intensity of transudative effusions images obtained at a TR (repetition time) of 400 and 800 msec. Nonhemorrhagic effusions had significantly lower effusion-to-myocardial signal intensity ratio at TR of 400 msec than did hemorrhagic effusions. Differences in hematocrit were not appreciated qualitatively or quantitatively. Compared with other effusion types, only chylous effusions were hyperintense to myocardium at a TR of 400 msec. Chylous effusions were further uniquely characterized by a decreasing effusion-to-myocardial signal intensity ratio with increasing TR. These experimental findings corroborate the findings of earlier clinical reports and suggest that NMR can provide important assistance in the evaluation of pericardial effusions. 
Recent changes in the treatment of aortoiliac occlusive disease by the Oxford Regional Vascular Service. Over the four years from 1 January 1985 to 31 December 1988, 192 patients were treated for aortoiliac occlusive disease by the Oxford Regional Vascular Service. The number of patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty increased from two in the first year of the study to 34 in the third year of the study. This increase was accompanied by a decrease in the proportion of patients treated by aortobifemoral bypass but the proportion of patients treated by extra-anatomic bypass remained constant at around 30 per cent. Twice as many patients were treated in the fourth year as in the first year of the study so that the number of surgical operations increased despite many patients being treated exclusively by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. The number of patients requiring mandatory treatment for limb salvage increased by 109 per cent and optional treatment for intermittent claudication by 85 per cent. The introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in Oxford has coincided with an increase in the number of patients presenting with symptomatic aortoiliac occlusive disease and has allowed twice as many people to be treated while the number of aortobifemoral bypass operations has remained unchanged. It is concluded that the introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has not only generated its own workload but has also led to an increased demand for surgical reconstruction for aortoiliac occlusive disease. 
Drug therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias: how many electropharmacologic trials are appropriate? To determine how many electropharmacologic drug trials should be performed to select therapy for patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias, the outcome of 150 consecutive patients with inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias undergoing serial electropharmacologic testing was examined. The probability of identifying predicted effective therapy (inductive of fewer than five ventricular responses with three ventricular extrastimuli at three pacing cycle lengths) and the probability of that therapy preventing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia recurrences were determined as a function of the number of preceding trials. The probability ( +/- SE) of identifying predicted effective therapy by the first trial (0.23 +/- 0.03) was significantly higher than that of the second (0.09 +/- 0.04), third (0.08 +/- 0.04) and fourth (0.05 +/- 0.04) trials (p = 0.001). No patient had predicted effective therapy identified by subsequent trials. The 2 year actuarial probability of freedom from sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias on predicted effective therapy was higher for the first (0.79 +/- 0.08), second (0.73 +/- 0.13) and third (0.86 +/- 0.13) trials than for the fourth (0.33 +/- 0.27) trial (p = 0.02). Thus, the probability of selecting therapy with long-term efficacy was highest for the first trial (0.18), intermediate for the second (0.07) and third (0.07) trials and lowest for the fourth (0.02) and subsequent (0.00) trials. Accordingly, the electropharmacologic approach to therapy selection should be abandoned after three unsuccessful trials. 
Protective effect of increased glycolytic substrate against systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased coronary resistance from prolonged global underperfusion and reperfusion in isolated rabbit hearts perfused with erythrocyte suspensions. Current therapy of myocardial infarction may include early reperfusion. We simulated myocardial perfusion conditions during evolving myocardial infarction in isolated, normothermic, isovolumic rabbit hearts perfused with buffer containing bovine red blood cells (hematocrit of 40%), and we assessed the effects of high levels of glucose and insulin as "therapy" during prolonged (150-minute) severe underperfusion and reperfusion. Protocol 1 consisted of underperfusion at a constant coronary perfusion pressure of 8 mm Hg. The control group (n = 8) received 5.5 mmol/l glucose and 15 microunits/ml insulin; the group treated with high levels of glucose and insulin (G + I) (n = 8) received 19.5 mmol/l glucose and 250 microunits/ml insulin during both underperfusion and reperfusion. Relative to the control group, the G + I group experienced 1) greater developed pressure during underperfusion and increased recovery during reperfusion, 2) preserved diastolic function during underperfusion and reperfusion, 3) lower coronary resistance and greater coronary flow during the underperfusion period, 4) increased glycolytic flux and preserved glycogen stores and high energy phosphate levels, and 5) less loss of myocyte enzymes (creatine kinase and alanine aminotransferase). In protocol 2, coronary flow was kept identical in control (n = 8) and G + I hearts (n = 8) during the underperfusion period, and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was kept below 10 mm Hg in both groups to minimize subendocardial damage and vascular compression. In this protocol, the effect of the G + I intervention in the prevention of an increase in coronary resistance during the underperfusion period was distinguished from its myocellular metabolic effects; the high G + I substrate had protective effects on mechanical and metabolic function that were less marked than, but similar to, those in protocol 1, indicating that its mechanisms of protection during underperfusion affected both cardiac function and coronary resistance. We conclude that the G + I intervention, in clinically relevant concentrations, markedly protected severely underperfused myocardium for 150 minutes and may be a beneficial intervention in combination with reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial infarction. 
Effect of cyclosporin on generalized Shwartzman reaction in diabetic rats. The effect of cyclosporin (CsA) on the endotoxin-induced generalized Shwartzman reaction (GSR) was studied in diabetic and nondiabetic rats. After 4.5 wk of diabetes, CsA (20 mg/kg) or intralipid as a control substance was given intraperitoneally daily for 10 days. Next, diabetic rats were given either high-dose (2 mg/kg or low-dose (0.1 mg/kg) endotoxin (Escherichia coli 026:B6 lipopolysaccharide B) as a single injection. The rats were killed at intervals of 1, 4, 8, and 24 h. No significant glomerular thrombi were seen in the nondiabetic control animals, whereas the severity of glomerular thrombi in the diabetic animals was dependent on the presence or absence of CsA, endotoxin dose, and degree of glycemic control. In the diabetic rats, glomerular thrombi occurred maximally at 4 h but were no longer present at 24 h. The CsA/high-dose-endotoxin rats had fewer glomerular thrombi than rats receiving the intralipid/high-dose endotoxin, but this difference was not statistically significant. The CsA/low-dose-endotoxin rats had increased glomerular thrombi compared with the intralipid/low-dose-endotoxin rats (P less than 0.01). Insulin treatment reduced the glomerular capillary thrombi in the CsA/low-dose-endotoxin diabetic animals. Thus, CsA aggravates the GSR with low-dose endotoxin but has no significant effect when high-dose endotoxin is given. Improved glycemic control reduces the GSR in CsA-treated rats. Thus, the interrelationships of diabetes, endotoxin, and CsA on the GSR are complex, and the pathogenesis of these events is unclear. 
Ultrastructural changes in impotent penile tissue: a comparison of 65 patients. To determine whether impotence is caused by specific and consistent changes in erectile tissue, we compared the ultrastructure of the corpora cavernosa in 6 controls with that in 59 patients undergoing implantation of a penile prosthesis. The impotent patients were divided into groups based on a medical history of hypertension (10), pelvic surgery (9), alcoholic smokers (8), hypertensive alcoholics (3), hypertensive alcoholic smokers (3), smokers (3), diabetics (8), diabetic smokers (3), Peyronie's disease (3), spinal cord injury (3) and isolated causes (6). Our data demonstrate that different behavioral and/or medical conditions produce similar degenerative tissue responses. There is no single or specific cause of impotence that is manifest by consistent changes in erectile tissue. 
Dental extraction for patients on oral anticoagulant therapy. Dental extraction in patients receiving long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is a controversial issue. Continuation of anticoagulation exposes the patient to serious hemorrhage, whereas cessation of therapy increases the risk of thromboembolism. Forty patients treated by coumarin underwent 63 tooth extractions, without a change in the therapeutic protocol of anticoagulation. The biologic adhesive Beriplast was used successfully to achieve local hemostasis at the site of the surgical wound. Apart from one patient who had mild oozing, there were no incidences of postsurgical hemorrhage. 
Hypertension, endothelium, and cardiovascular risk factors. The functions of the endothelium and the effects of hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes on the endothelium are reviewed. The endothelium affects vascular tone by releasing vasodilators and modulating the effects of vasoactive substances such as catecholamines, bradykinin, serotonin, and angiotensin II. Relaxation of vascular smooth muscle depends upon a functionally intact endothelium and the release of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide. Endothelial cells also appear to release a hyperpolarizing factor that relaxes smooth muscle through activation of the sodium-potassium pump, and of the endothelium-dependent contracting factors. Similarities are found in the vascular injury resulting from hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes. When these risk factors coexist, they can act synergistically and magnify the vascular injury. The endothelium appears to be one of the major targets for these forms of injury. Future therapeutic strategies will focus on ways to prevent, arrest, or reverse endothelial injury. 
Systemic atropine administration during cardiac arrest does not cause fixed and dilated pupils. OBJECTIVES: Systemic administration of atropine during CPR may postpone brain death determination because of its reputed ability to produce fixed and dilated pupils. We studied the effect of atropine administered in the usual doses as an adjunct to endotracheal intubation and for cardiac arrest to determine if it would interfere with neurological assessment. DESIGN: Two groups of children were studied. Group 1 consisted of 28 patients who received atropine (0.03 +/- 0.003 mg/kg) prior to endotracheal intubation. Group 2 consisted of 21 patients previously without evidence of brainstem disease who suffered a witnessed arrest and had prompt return of spontaneous circulation and received an atropine dose of 0.03 +/- 0.01 mg/kg. RESULTS: In group 1, pupillary size averaged 4.02 +/- 0.78 mm before and 4.75 mm +/- .84 mm after atropine (P less than .001). In group 2, the pupillary examination was conducted 30 minutes after return of spontaneous circulation. The pupillary diameter was 4.80 +/- 0.91 mm. All pupils were reactive to light in both groups. CONCLUSION: Atropine administration in conventional dose causes slight pupillary dilation but does not abolish pupillary light reactivity. 
Current status of duplex Doppler ultrasound in the examination of the abdominal vasculature. Duplex Doppler ultrasound has come to play a central role in the diagnosis of a broad spectrum of vascular diseases such as carotid artery occlusive disease and deep vein thrombosis. The role of duplex Doppler in the evaluation of intra-abdominal vascular disease remains unclear. This article summarizes the current status of duplex scanning in the investigation of the mesenteric arteries, the renal arteries, and the portal venous system. The examination is technically demanding, operator-dependent, time-consuming, and frequently unsatisfactory due to bowel gas, obesity, complex anatomy, or postoperative alterations in the normal anatomic patterns. Its advantages reside primarily in the absence of toxicity and in the generation of physiologic as well as anatomic information. In centers with the proper instrumentation and a skilled technician, duplex examination can be useful in the diagnosis and management of abdominal vascular disease and avoids the inherent dangers of contrast angiography. 
Cardiac fluoroscopy for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease: a meta analytic review. To evaluate variability in the reported accuracy of fluoroscopically detected coronary calcific deposits for predicting angiographic coronary disease, we applied meta analysis to 13 consecutively published reports comparing the results of cardiac fluoroscopy with coronary angiography. Population characteristics and technical and methodologic factors were analyzed. Sensitivity and specificity for predicting serious coronary disease compare quite well with those from the literature on the exercise ECG and the exercise thallium scintigram. Sensitivity increases and specificity decreases more significantly with patient age, and sensitivity is paradoxically lower in laboratories testing patients with more severe disease, as well as when 70% rather than 50% diameter narrowing is used to define angiographic disease. Work-up and test review bias were also significantly related to reported accuracy. 
Detection and evaluation of intrapulmonary vascular shunt with "contrast Doppler" transesophageal echocardiography. Contrast echocardiography is useful for detecting intrapulmonary right-to-left shunt lesions. In a patient with suspected pulmonary arteriovenous fistula, contrast transesophageal echocardiography was used to demonstrate the presence of a right-to-left shunt. By use of a combination of two-dimensional echocardiography, contrast injection, and pulsed Doppler echocardiography, each pulmonary vein was successfully interrogated for evidence of contrast shunting. This case demonstrates that contrast transesophageal echocardiography is useful for the detection of intrapulmonary fistulas and that it has the potential for localization of the shunt lesion. 
Torsades de pointes therapy with phenytoin. We present the case of a woman with myocardial infarction complicated by malignant ventricular arrhythmia and torsades de pointes. The torsades de pointes was refractory to conventional therapy but responsive to phenytoin. This case suggests the clinical usefulness of phenytoin for adjunct therapy of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias when standard treatment modalities fail. 
Correlation between amino acid release and neuropathologic outcome in rat brain following middle cerebral artery occlusion. Using in vivo brain microdialysis, we studied amino acid release in the striatum and cortex of eight rats following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. We then processed all brains for histopathologic assessment of the volume of ischemic damage 4 hours after occlusion. Ischemic damage was varied by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery at a point either proximal (n = 4) or distal (n = 4) to the lenticulostriate vessels. Proximal occlusion elevated the dialysate contents of all amino acids. The largest increases occurred for the potentially neurotoxic amino acids aspartate and glutamate and for taurine (800-2,800% of basal efflux). We observed smaller increases for the "metabolic" amino acids (280-580% of basal efflux). Distal occlusion did not affect amino acid efflux in the striatum, and release in the cortex was significantly lower than that following proximal occlusion. We compared release data with acute histopathologic outcome. Proximal occlusion resulted in a large volume of ischemic damage in the cortex and striatum (25-48% of hemispheric volume). A smaller volume of ischemic damage was noted following distal occlusion (0-21% of hemispheric volume). The volume of ischemic damage and the amount of amino acid release were significantly correlated (p less than 0.05). 
Left ventricular filling impairment in asymptomatic chronic alcoholics. Systolic left ventricular dysfunction is relatively common in even asymptomatic alcoholics, but whether diastolic function is also altered is much less well-studied. We used M-mode and Doppler echocardiography to study left ventricular size, mass, systolic function and diastolic filling in 32 alcoholics free of clinically detectable heart disease and in 15 healthy control subjects. Left ventricular mass index and posterior wall thickness were higher in alcoholics than in controls, but there was no statistically significant difference either in end-diastolic size or in systolic ventricular function. More abnormalities were found in the Doppler indexes of diastolic function, however. The alcoholics had a prolonged relaxation time (200 +/- 6 vs 184 +/- 5 ms [mean +/- standard error], p less than 0.05), a decreased peak early diastolic velocity (52 +/- 2 vs 60 +/- 3 cm/s, p less than 0.05), a slower acceleration of the early flow (410 +/- 18 vs 552 +/- 43 cm/s2, p less than 0.01), and a higher atrial-to-early peak velocity ratio (0.74 +/- 0.04 vs 0.60 +/- 0.05, p less than 0.05). This pattern of changes suggests a primary abnormality in the relaxation of the left ventricle. In multivariate analyses, the abnormalities in the Doppler indexes were independent of the duration of alcoholism, the quantity of the most recent ethanol exposure and the increased mass of the left ventricle. Impaired early filling of the left ventricle due to delayed relaxation is common in asymptomatic alcoholics and may in fact be the earliest functional sign of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy. 
Effect of verapamil on mortality and major events after acute myocardial infarction (the Danish Verapamil Infarction Trial II--DAVIT II) The effect of verapamil on death and major events (i.e., death or reinfarction) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicenter trial. Eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil, 360 mg/day, and 897 patients with placebo. Treatment started in the second week after admission and continued for up to 18 months (mean 16 months). Ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group. The 18-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8% (p = 0.11, hazard ratio, 0.80; 95% confidence limits, 0.61 to 1.05), and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6% (p = 0.03, hazard ratio, 0.80; 95% confidence limits, 0.64 to 0.99) in the verapamil and placebo groups, respectively. In patients without heart failure in the coronary care unit the mortality rates were 7.7% in the verapamil group and 11.8% in the placebo group (p = 0.02, hazard ratio, 0.64; 95% confidence limits, 0.44 to 0.94), and major event rates 14.6 and 19.7% (p = 0.01, hazard ratio 0.70; 95% confidence limits (0.52 to 0.93). In patients with heart failure the mortality rates were 17.9 and 17.5% (p = 0.79, hazard ratio, 1.05; 95% confidence limits, 0.72 to 1.54), and major event rates 24.9 and 24.9% (p = 1.0, hazard ratio 0.98; 95% confidence limits 0.72 to 1.39). Long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction caused a significant reduction in major events, and the positive effect was found in patients without heart failure. 
Lung beta-adrenoceptors in pulmonary hypertension. A study of biopsy specimens in children with congenital heart disease. Characteristics of beta-adrenoceptors were analyzed using radioligand-binding techniques with 3H-dihydroalprenolol in lung specimens from 11 children with pulmonary hypertension (median age, three years) undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects and four pediatric control subjects (median age, five years) undergoing thoracotomy for removal of neoplasms or cysts. Scatchard analysis of 3H-DHA binding to lung membranes showed similar values of the dissociation constant in both groups (Kd = 0.72 +/- 0.22 nM in patients vs 1.22 +/- 0.22 nM in controls; p = NS). The receptor density was significantly increased in patients in comparison with controls, with respective values of 164 +/- 19 and 95 +/- 13 fmol/mg of protein (p less than 0.025), and correlated directly with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (r = 0.82; p less than 0.0005). No significant relationship was observed between receptor number and pulmonary arterial medial thickness. Thus, the increase in receptor density in these patients may be related to adaptative changes in cells other than vascular smooth muscle. 
Vasodilatory beta-blockers: systemic and regional hemodynamic effects. The systemic and regional hemodynamic alterations in hypertension and of the beta-adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents are reviewed. Hemodynamically, hypertension may be regarded as persistent elevation of arterial pressure associated with increased total peripheral resistance. In early or mild essential hypertension, however, increased total peripheral resistance may not readily be recognized because of the overriding effect of increased cardiac output. Clearly, the hemodynamics of blood pressure control are complex, and the mechanisms of antihypertensive agents must be used appropriately. The early beta-blockers reduced heart rate and cardiac output immediately after intravenous administration without immediately reducing arterial pressure, and calculated total peripheral resistance was increased. With prolonged oral treatment, arterial pressure decreased while maintaining a reduced heart rate and cardiac output. Total peripheral resistance, however, remained elevated. Recent beta-blockers, such as celiprolol, provide an improved physiologic response by instantly reducing arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance without reducing heart rate or cardiac output or expanding intravascular volume. 
Rapid expression of heat shock protein in the rabbit after brief cardiac ischemia. The effect of brief myocardial ischemia on the expression of heat shock protein (HSP 70) was examined in an in vivo rabbit model of myocardial ischemia using Northern blotting. Functional studies were carried out in the open-chested anesthetized rabbit. The large marginal branch of the left circumflex was occluded four times for 5 min. Using piezoelectric crystals implanted midwall in the ischemic zone, end-diastolic length, end-systolic length, and percent segmental shortening were assessed. Expression of HSP 70 was measured by Northern blotting. A single 5-min coronary occlusion doubled the expression of HSP 70 whereas four cycles of 5 min of ischemia/5 min of reperfusion resulted in a threefold increase in HSP 70 mRNA (P less than 0.001). Measurements with the piezoelectric crystals showed mild myocardial dysfunction concomitant with the increase in HSP 70. This increase in HSP 70 mRNA after repetitive brief ischemia was transient, occurring as early as 1 h and returning to baseline by 24 h after ischemia. Western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody to HSP 70 was used to compare sham and postischemic myocardial HSP 70 levels. Changes in the amount of HSP 70 were evident as early as 2 h and were even more striking at 24 h. 
Prevalence of aortic regurgitation by color flow Doppler in relation to aortic root size. To determine whether there is a correlation between aortic root size and the prevalence of aortic regurgitation, we performed color flow Doppler echocardiographic studies on 1015 consecutive patients during a 3-month period. Patients were grouped according to their M-mode aortic root diameter as measured in the left parasternal position. The measured groups ranged from 2.0 to 4.5 cm, grouped at 0.1 cm intervals. As the aortic root size enlarged, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly (p less than 0.001; correlation coefficient, r = 0.75). At an aortic root size in the "small normal" range of 2.0 to 2.4 cm, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation was 0% to 15%. In the "intermediate" and "top normal" ranges of 2.9 to 3.7 cm, the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly from 15% to 47%. With aortic root dilation, the prevalence of aortic root regurgitation was generally more than 50%. The severity of aortic regurgitation was semiquantified. Aortic root size was not a good indicator for the severity of aortic regurgitation. Patients with moderate and severe aortic regurgitation had variable aortic root sizes. Throughout the range of aortic root sizes, mild aortic regurgitation predominated. We conclude that aortic regurgitation is a common finding in patients with aortic roots that are dilated or are in the "top normal" size range, that the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increases linearly with aortic root size, and that aortic root size does not correlate with the severity of aortic regurgitation. 
Effect of direct intracoronary administration of methylergonovine in patients with and without variant angina. The effects of intracoronary administration of methylergonovine were studied in 21 patients with variant angina and 22 patients with atypical chest pain and in others without angina pectoris (control group). Methylergonovine was administered continuously at a rate of 10 micrograms/min up to 50 micrograms. In all patients with variant angina, coronary spasm was provoked at a mean dose of 28 +/- 13 micrograms (mean +/- SD). In the control group neither ischemic ST change nor localized spasm occurred. The basal tone of the right coronary artery was significantly lower than that of the left coronary artery. The percentage of vasoconstriction of the right coronary artery was significantly higher than that of the left coronary artery. These results suggest that spasm provocation tests, which use an intracoronary injection of a relatively low dose of methylergonovine, have a high sensitivity in variant angina and the vasoreactivity of the right coronary artery may be greater than that of the other coronary arteries. 
Physical fitness and cardiovascular regulation: mechanisms of orthostatic intolerance. We studied three groups of eight men each--high, mid, and low fit (peak O2 consumption 60.0 +/- 0.8, 48.9 +/- 1.0, and 35.7 +/- 0.9 ml.min-1.kg-1)--to determine the mechanism of orthostatic intolerance in endurance athletes. Tolerance was defined by progressive lower body negative pressure (LBNP) to presyncope. Maximal calf vascular conductance (Gmax) was measured. The carotid baroreflex was characterized using both stepwise R-wave-triggered and sustained (2 min) changes in neck chamber pressure. High-fit subjects tended to have lower LBNP tolerance than mid- and low-fit subjects but similar baroreflex responses. Subjects with poor LBNP tolerance had larger stroke volumes (SV) (120 +/- 6 vs. 103 +/- 3 ml) and greater decline in SV with LBNP to -40 mmHg (40 +/- 2 vs. 26 +/- 4%). Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis revealed that Gmax and steady-state gain of the carotid baroreflex contributed significantly toward explaining interindividual variations in LBNP tolerance. Thus endurance athletes may have decreased LBNP tolerance, but apparently not as a simple linear function of aerobic fitness. Orthostatic tolerance depends on complex interactions among functional characteristics that appear both related (Gmax and SV) and unrelated (baroreflex function) to fitness or exercise training. 
What is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction? BACKGROUND. Death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (VT) or fibrillation (VF). The purpose of this study was to compare, in a single cohort of patients, the values of inducible VT, delayed ventricular activation, low left ventricular ejection fraction, high-grade ventricular ectopy, and ST segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events (witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous VT or VF) during the first year after myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. Three hundred sixty one patients aged less than 71 years underwent electrophysiological study, signal-averaged electrocardiogram, gated blood-pool scan, 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring, and exercise testing 1-2 weeks after myocardial infarction and were then followed up for at least 1 year. There were 34 deaths (eight witnessed instantaneous, 26 other), and nine patients survived one or more episodes of spontaneous VF or VT. Patients with inducible VT were 15.2 times more likely to suffer electrical events than patients without inducible VT. No proportional-hazards model excluding inducible VT was as good a predictor of electrical events as was inducible VT alone. CONCLUSIONS. Inducible VT at electrophysiological study was the single best predictor of spontaneous VT and sudden death after myocardial infarction. 
An overview of randomized trials of sodium reduction and blood pressure To test for effects on systolic and diastolic blood pressure and to provide precise estimates of their magnitude, we conducted an overview of randomized clinical trials that aimed to reduce the intake of sodium in human subjects. We excluded from pooled analyses trials with confounded designs, those that compared intake levels beyond the usual range in the population, and those without published reports. Two reviewers abstracted information in duplicate and differences were reconciled. Twenty-three trials with outcome data from an aggregate of 1,536 subjects were included. Data were pooled both separately for hypertensive and normotensive subjects and for all trials combined. With the use of sample size weighting, blood pressure reductions (net of controls) were 4.9 +/- 1.3/2.6 +/- 0.8 mm Hg (systolic and diastolic, respectively, with 95% confidence limits) in hypertensive subjects and 1.7 +/- 1.0/1.0 +/- 0.7 mm Hg in normotensive subjects. The combined blood pressure reductions were 2.9 +/- 0.8/1.6 +/- 0.5 mm Hg. These changes were associated with mean reduction of urinary sodium excretion ranging from 16 to 171 mmol/24 hr for individual trials. A dose-response relation across trials was found, both in normotensive and in hypertensive subjects. These results indicate that sodium reduction lowers mean blood pressure in both hypertensive and normotensive individuals for periods of at least several months. The findings are highly consistent with results of observational epidemiological studies and have implications for preventive strategies of blood pressure control. 
Proton magnetic resonance of exercise-induced water changes in gastrocnemius muscle. Exercise-induced water concentration changes have been determined in the medial gastrocnemius muscle noninvasively with image-guided in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). These measurements were performed on seven normal male volunteers during and after isometric and ischemic-isometric exercise at 5, 10, and 20% maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). The observed water flux changes during different phases of exercise have been interpreted in terms of fluid transfer between the vasculature and exercising muscle. Good correlation between individual MVC and changes in water fluxes and the decay of water content was observed after 20% MVC exercise level. MRS results have been found to be consistent with those reported in the literature based on invasive biopsy techniques. 
Morphological findings contributing to a failed Fontan procedure. Twelve-year experience. A group of 37 patients (age range, 3 months to 29 years) who died after the modified Fontan procedure (within 2 months), representing 15% of the 245 patients undergoing this procedure from 1976 through 1988, was reviewed to determine the causes of death. The three morphological groups were 1) univentricular atrioventricular connection (n = 19), 2) tricuspid atresia (n = 9), and 3) other complex malformations (n = 9). Subaortic stenosis was present in 15 patients (40%) in this group compared with 31 of 208 early survivors (15%) (p = 0.008). Pulmonary artery banding, identified as a risk factor in our previous experience, was performed in 14 patients, nine of whom had subaortic stenosis. Nine palliative procedures for subaortic stenosis were performed in eight patients--before the Fontan procedure in three patients and concurrently with the Fontan procedure in five patients. Myocardial hypertrophy and signs of acute ischemic injury were common findings at autopsy (n = 25) and were particularly prominent in all patients with univentricular heart of left ventricular morphology associated with subaortic stenosis and previous pulmonary artery banding (n = 7). We conclude that the present majority of deaths occurring after the modified Fontan procedure are myocardial in nature and attributable to advanced myocardial hypertrophy that is potentiated by previous pulmonary artery banding and subaortic stenosis. 
Management of asymptomatic chronic aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction: a decision analysis STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal strategy for the timing of aortic valve replacement in patients with chronic, severe aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction. DESIGN: Decision analysis comparing early surgery (timed at the onset of left ventricular dysfunction) with delayed surgery (timed at the onset of symptoms) using data from the literature and expert opinion for variables in a representative case scenario (40-year-old man with bicuspid aortic valve disease). SETTING: Tertiary care center doing valve replacement surgery. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The early-surgery approach was preferred based on quality-adjusted life years. Sensitivity analysis showed that the result was not affected by the following variables within their derived ranges: rate of symptom development after onset of left ventricular dysfunction for the delayed-surgery approach, perioperative mortality for both approaches, and occurrence of major nonfatal stroke or congestive heart failure for both approaches. Although the decision was sensitive to the yearly postoperative mortality rates, the delayed-surgery operative mortality rate had to be almost as low as the early-surgery rate to change the preference to the delayed-surgery approach. The preference could also change if survival were much more important to the patient in the first five years than after five years or if the patient disliked living on anticoagulants enough to value a year on anticoagulants as worth only 80% of a year not on anticoagulants. CONCLUSION: This decision analysis provides quantitative support for the impression that patients similar to the case scenario do better with surgery timed at the onset of ventricular dysfunction than with surgery delayed until symptoms develop. It thus supports the practice of following these patients noninvasively in order to time surgery. 
Psychophysiological stress testing in postinfarction patients. Psychological correlates of cardiovascular arousal and abnormal cardiac responses. The psychophysiological responses to two mental stress tests (mental arithmetic and an interactive concentration task) were assessed in 168 unmedicated, male, postinfarction patients 36-69 years old. Patients also completed a standard battery of psychological tests. Psychophysiological responses were generally unrelated to age and education. Comparison of patients scoring high (more than 75%) and low (less than 25%) relative to the normal population on psychological measures indicated that heart rate and blood pressure responses to mental stress tests were significantly greater in those reporting low than in those reporting high neuroticism. The study population was subsequently divided into high, medium, and low cardiovascular responders on the basis of rate-pressure product reactions to the two stress tests. The three cardiovascular response groups did not differ in age, interval between myocardial infarction and stress testing, ejection fraction, incidence of exercise-induced ischemia, or ischemic signs during Holter monitoring. However, the high cardiovascular responders were more likely to manifest possible or definite electrocardiographic signs of ischemia or significant arrhythmia during mental stress testing than were the medium or low cardiovascular responders (50% versus 19.6% and 7%, respectively). High cardiovascular responders also reported lower levels of trait anxiety, neuroticism, psychophysiological symptoms, and depression. 
Combined internal mammary artery graft for coronary artery revascularization. Five patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting with a technique involving both internal mammary arteries and a small piece of interposed saphenous vein. The combined internal mammary artery grafts were used for sequential grafting. A total of 20 anastomoses were performed (average number, 4 anastomoses per patient). There were no operative deaths. Postoperative complications included reoperation for bleeding in 1 patient and diaphragmatic dysfunction in another. Postoperative coronary angiography 2 days before discharge (mean time, 10 days postoperatively) revealed that all the sequential anastomoses with the combined IMA graft were patent. Exercise tolerance tests performed 3 and 11 months postoperatively indicated excellent results and no ischemia. Based on this experience, we conclude that this method appears promising for multivessel coronary artery bypass grafting. 
Active drainage of cardiac lymph in relation to reduction in size of myocardial infarction: an experimental study. Active drainage of cardiac lymph using hyaluronidase was attempted in dogs. The results were satisfactory and the ischemic myocardium was salvaged. The infarct risk area (I/R) ratio decreased after drainage. Regional myocardial ischemia and infarction were provided by means of ligature of the left coronary artery for 120 and 240 minutes respectively. Cardiac lymph was collected by conventional procedures. Enzymes released from the myocardium increased significantly in the cardiac lymph. The volume of cardiac lymph gradually increased after ligature of the coronary artery. Administration of hyaluronidase further increased the cardiac lymph flow and significantly decreased the I/R ratio as determined by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) and methylene blue staining. Drainage of the cardiac lymph salvaged the ischemic myocardium. Reduction of interstitial edema and augmentation of cardiac lymph flow with the hyaluronidase prevented the development of the infarction. This is the first documentation of the effect of active drainage of cardiac lymph on the development of infarction through observation of the I/R ratio. 
Preliminary experience with 5 and 6 French diagnostic catheters as guiding catheters for coronary angioplasty. With the reduction in profile of balloon dilation catheters, until recently, it has been the internal dimensions and performance of the guiding catheter that has mandated the use of 7, 8 or 9 French (F) systems for the performance of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). A new 5F catheter design (Sherwood Medical Co., St. Louis, MO) provided a large inner lumen (0.4") permitting use of 0.20-0.22" fixed-wire PTCA balloon catheters with good coronary visualization. Potential advantages include reduced coronary artery ostial trauma and catheter induced damping and enhanced patient comfort. We report our initial experience in 14 patients undergoing PTCA with a 5 and 6F guide/fixed-wire system. Mean age was 63 +/- 10 (43-78 years). PTCA indications: Cardiogenic shock (1), post-myocardial infarction angina pectoris (2), grade III angina (5) and unstable angina pectoris (6). Vessel attempted: Left anterior descending (3), circumflex (4), obtuse marginal (2), diagonal (1), right coronary artery (3), and internal thoracic artery (1). Twelve patients had femoral approach; two brachial approach. The USCI Probe (USCI Division, Billerica, MA) was used in 8 lesions and SCIMED ACE (SCIMED Life Systems, Maplegrove, MN) catheter in 7 lesions. Successful 5 or 6F guide/fixed-wire dilations reduced the stenosis (77 +/- 14 to 37 +/- 30%) and were successfully performed in 79% (11/14). One 5F patient required 8F guiding catheter and was dilated with 2.0 fixed-wire balloon. A second failed 5F PTCA could not be dilated with any larger conventional system. A third total occlusion could not be crossed with a guidewire or fixed wire balloon. No patient had a complication. 
Role of enhanced glomerular synthesis of thromboxane A2 in progressive kidney disease. Normotensive rats of the Milan strain (MNS) spontaneously develop focal glomerulosclerosis. In order to explore the contribution of glomerular thromboxane (TX) A2 synthesis to the development of the disease, we have characterized the time course of renal functional and biochemical changes, and their modification by long-term treatment with a TX-synthase inhibitor. Oral administration (150 mg.kg-1 from 1 to 14 months of age) of FCE 22178 suppressed enhanced glomerular TXB2 production at all experimental times (mean inhibition 80%) and proteinuria (varying between 27.1 and 73.0%) while preserving renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. These effects of TX-synthase inhibition were seen in the absence of any statistically significant changes in systemic blood pressure. Moreover, FCE 22178 had no antihypertensive effects in hypertensive rats of the Milan strain (MHS) nor in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Treatment also prevented the age-related hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia observed in control MNS and significantly (P less than 0.01) reduced glomerular histologic damage, as demonstrated by light microscopy studies and measurement of sclerotic area. We conclude that: 1) MNS rats provide an animal model of long-lasting proteinuria characterized by an age-related increase in glomerular TXB2 production paralleled by progressive loss of renal structural integrity and function and by a secondary dyslipidemia; 2) pharmacological inhibition of glomerular TX-synthase attenuates the structural as well as the functional expression of kidney disease, without a primary effect on systemic blood pressure. These data are suggestive of an important modulating role of TXA2 in the progression of MNS renal disease. 
Overview: renal physiology and pathophysiology of aging. Cross-sectional studies in humans have suggested that there is a progressive decline of renal function with age after 40 years. The decline in various functions (eg, tubular maximums, concentrating and diluting abilities, and acidification) tend to parallel the decreases in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood (plasma) flow (RPF). Recent observations from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging suggest that not all individuals follow this pattern, and that, indeed, many show no decline and some even an increase in their renal function over time. Whether the observed decreases in renal function with aging are the results of intervening pathologic processes, eg, immunologic, infectious, and toxic injury and ischemia, or can be related to hyperperfusion and hyperfiltration with resultant glomerulosclerosis, or to some other relentless involutional process, remains unclear. The purpose of this report is to review the descriptive studies documenting the changes in renal morphology and physiology with age and to discuss what is known about mechanisms involved in these losses of renal substance and function. 
Value of peak exercise oxygen consumption for optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with heart failure. BACKGROUND. Optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction is often difficult. To determine whether measurement of peak oxygen consumption (VO2) during maximal exercise testing can be used to identify patients in whom transplantation can be safely deferred, we prospectively performed exercise testing on all ambulatory patients referred for transplant between October 1986 and December 1989. METHODS AND RESULTS. Patients were assigned into one of three groups on the basis of exercise data: Group 1 (n = 35) comprised patients accepted for transplant (VO2 less than or equal to 14 ml/kg/min); group 2 (n = 52) comprised patients considered too well for transplant (VO2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min); and group 3 (n = 27) comprised patients with low VO2 rejected for transplant due to noncardiac problems. All three groups were comparable in New York Heart Association functional class, ejection fraction, and cardiac index (p = NS). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was significantly lower in group 2 than in either group 1 or 3 (p less than 0.05), although there was wide overlap. Patients with preserved exercise capacity (group 2) had cumulative 1- and 2-year survival rates of 94% and 84%, which are equal to survival levels after transplantation. In contrast, patients rejected for transplant (group 3) had survival rates of only 47% at 1 year and 32% at 2 years, whereas patients awaiting transplantation (group 1) had a survival rate of 70% at 1 year (both p less than 0.005 versus patients with VO2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min). All deaths in group 2 were sudden. By univariate and multivariate analyses, peak VO2 was the best predictor of survival, with only pulmonary capillary wedge pressure providing additional prognostic information. CONCLUSIONS. These data suggest that cardiac transplantation can be safely deferred in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction and peak exercise VO2 of more than 14 ml/min/kg. 
Synergistic effects of psyllium in the dietary treatment of hypercholesterolemia. We investigated psyllium fiber supplementation as a means of enhancing the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase I American Heart Association diet. Fifty-nine subjects with total serum cholesterol (TC) levels ranging from 5.56 to 10.24 mmol/L (215 to 396 mg/dL) were given a 2-month dietary lead-in followed by 3 months of diet only (29 subjects) or diet supplemented with 20.4 g of psyllium daily (30 subjects). Unlike women, men had a significant decrease in levels of both TC (-8.0%) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (-10.1%) during the dietary lead-in. Psyllium supplementation resulted in an additional 5.5% reduction in the TC levels as compared to diet alone. Psyllium supplementation combined with dietary lead-in resulted in an overall 17.3% decrease in the TC and a 20.0% decrease in LDL-C for men, with decreases of 7.7% and 11.6%, respectively, for women. Psyllium effectively enhances the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase I diet. 
Baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure. Modification of the Fontan operation for patients at increased risk Ventricular dysfunction, elevated pulmonary vascular resistance, and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a Fontan operation; they may be transient or reversible. A baffle fenestration, allowing right-to-left shunting, maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure. A baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified Fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients. Risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm Hg or more, end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm Hg or more, valvar regurgitation, pulmonary artery distortion, pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 Woods' units or more, ventricular outflow obstruction, and complex anatomy. Nineteen of 20 patients survived. After the operation, mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86%, mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm Hg, and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days. Twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure. Four patients failed early test occlusion, with a significant decrease in venous O2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure, due to ventricular dysfunction, pulmonary artery distortion, or aortopulmonary collaterals. Three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities. 
Subarachnoid hemorrhage from a dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery. Case report. A case of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a dissecting aneurysm of the inferior limb of the middle cerebral artery is reported. The patient's clinical status and the initial and follow-up angiographic appearance of the aneurysm are presented. Diagnosis and treatment are briefly discussed. It is suggested that, if angiography demonstrates luminal narrowing or vascular occlusion in a patient with unexplained SAH, a dissecting aneurysm of the carotid system should be considered as a cause of the hemorrhage. 
Immediate reproducibility of electrically induced sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia before and during antiarrhythmic therapy The immediate reproducibility of sustained ventricular tachycardia induction was evaluated prospectively during 106 studies performed in 53 patients with clinical sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. Programmed electrical stimulation was performed twice, using the same protocol during 53 drug-free studies and 53 subsequent studies on antiarrhythmic therapy. Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in 104 (98%) of the 106 studies. There was no significant difference in the incidence of reproducible tachycardia in the drug-free state compared with that observed during treatment with different classes of antiarrhythmic drugs. An increase in the number of extrastimuli was required to reinitiate the tachycardia in 9 (11%) of 83 studies in which single or double extrastimuli were initially required to induce the tachycardia. In 39 (37%) of 104 studies with reproducible tachycardia induction, the two tachycardias significantly differed in electrocardiographic (ECG) configuration and cycle length. These observations suggest that the overall reproducibility of ventricular tachycardia induction is sufficiently high to provide a reliable marker for evaluating the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. However, specific tachycardia characteristics such as cycle length and ECG configuration are more variable even within the same study and may be less useful in assessing the effects of subsequent interventions. 
Use of the fistula assessment monitor to detect stenoses in access fistulae. Twenty-three unselected hemodialysis patients with functioning access arteriovenous fistulae were studied prospectively to determine the best technique for detecting stenoses within the fistulae. Combined clinical assessment and fistula assessment monitoring were compared with transbrachial angiography. Fistula assessment monitoring was more accurate (96%) than combined clinical assessment (accuracy, 52%) in stenosis detection. Complications of angiography occurred in 17% of patients; there were no complications of fistula assessment monitoring. Fistula assessment monitoring was better than combined clinical assessment in predicting clinical outcome for arteriovenous fistulae over 6 months and was as good as angiography. Routine fistula assessment monitoring could reduce inappropriate angiography and detect clinically significant silent stenoses. It is an ideal method for monitoring arteriovenous access fistulae. 
Pressor systems in hypertension and congestive heart failure. Role of vasopressin [clinical conference] Elevated peripheral vascular resistance, which characterizes hypertension and congestive heart failure (the latter regardless of absolute blood pressure level) is maintained to a large extent by the combined effects of three major neurohormonal pressor mechanisms: the renin-angiotensin system, the sympathoadrenal system, and arginine vasopressin. Blockade of one of these mechanisms may lead to compensatory stimulation of the others, thus offsetting in part the hemodynamic benefits of a specific intervention. Combination therapy, designed to attack all three systems (with use of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, a sympathetic blocker such as clonidine, and an antagonist of the vasopressor action of vasopressin), may help in the treatment of such cases. To illustrate this strategy, two experimental studies, one case of malignant hypertension, and one case of congestive heart failure are presented. 
Plasma epinephrine levels in resuscitation with cardiopulmonary bypass. Since the highest plasma epinephrine levels have been recorded during resuscitation, we evaluated the isolated effect of cardiac arrest upon adrenomedullary secretion. We determined plasma epinephrine in dogs resuscitated with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) after cardiac arrest periods of 12 (CPB-12; n = 4) or 16 min (CPB-16; n = 5). Through 2 h of CPB and the following 6 h of critical care, there was no difference between CPB-12 and CPB-16 regarding most cardiopulmonary functional variables. Plasma epinephrine was markedly elevated immediately after initiation of CPB (p less than .01 at 1 min CPB vs. basal) and returned rapidly to basal concentrations. Comparison of plasma epinephrine levels between CPB and standard CPR groups showed that responses to cardiac arrest were similar (p greater than .05 at 1 min CPB vs. 11.5 min CPR). We conclude that cardiac arrest is the main or sole determinant of the plasma epinephrine elevation of resuscitation. 
In vitro and in vivo testing of a new valved intravascular catheter design. Long-term intravascular catheterization carries a finite risk of catheter occlusion. A catheter tip valve design is presented (Buchwald-Wigness, Strato Medical Corporation, Beverly, MA) which incorporates features designed to decrease the risk of thromboembolism and reduce the need for maintenance procedures. Aspiration and infusion are controlled by separate valves, making it possible to engineer optimized inlet and outlet parameters. The outlet valve is an elastic sleeve expanded around the sidewall outlet ports which opens under injection pressure. The inlet valve is a tubular elastic element compressed against the inlet port from within the lumen, opening under aspiration pressure. A series of valves were prototyped with outlet pressures ranging from 2 to 100" H2O, and inlet pressures ranging from -40-70" H2O, and flowrates at 36" H2O of greater than 1,400 ml/hr. Dog implants of two prototypes with outlet valve pressures of 10" H2O, and inlet pressures of -40" H2O, demonstrated that dormant periods of up to 7.5 weeks could be achieved without detectable blood cell entry into the lumen. No significant hemolysis was observed in blood samples aspirated with a 6 cc syringe (8% scored "slightly hemolyzed" vs. 44% with the nonvalved controls) indicating that a hemodialysis application is likely. 
Lipoprotein-related coronary risk factors in patients with angiographically defined coronary artery disease: relation to number of stenosed arteries. To determine whether an index estimating antagonism between low density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) would improve separation between groups with and without coronary artherosclerosis, patients undergoing coronary catheterization (35 women and 99 men) were analysed for total cholesterol (TC), HDL cholesterol (HDLc), apolipoprotein A (apo A) and apolipoprotein B (apo B). The subjects were categorized as groups 0, 1, 2 or 3 according to the number of stenosed arteries (greater than 75% areal stenosis). Thirty of the patients showed no significant coronary atherosclerosis (group 0). Serum apo B and TC concentrations were directly related to the number of stenosed vessels, whereas the concentrations of apo A and HDLc were negatively correlated with the number of stenosed arteries. An 'atherogenic Index' (ATH index) calculated as the product of serum concentrations of apo B, and TC minus HDLc divided by the product of apo A and HDLc, proved more satisfactory than individual lipoprotein components for discrimination between subjects with and without stenosis. Accordingly, identification of coronary groups may be improved by using the ATH index. 
Coronary ostial reconstruction: technical issues. Coronary ostial reconstruction may be the preferred alternative to reestablish antegrade myocardial revascularization in patients with isolated ostial stenosis. The technical steps of reconstruction are described. The ultrasonic aspirator is a helpful implement in the dissection of the left main and the proximal right coronary arteries. Satisfactory results of coronary ostial reconstruction in the current era seem to fulfill its promise. 
Caliber-persistent artery of the stomach (Dieulafoy's vascular malformation). Caliber-persistent artery of the stomach (also known as cirsoid aneurysm, Dieulafoy's lesion, and submucosal arterial malformation) is clinically manifested as recurrent, massive, often fatal hematemesis. The lesion often is not seen endoscopically. Left gastric angiography in one patient with hematemesis showed a convoluted and ectatic artery in the gastric fundus, which proved to be caliber-persistent artery of the stomach on pathological examination. The tortuosity of the abnormal vessel in this condition has been attributed to artefactual contraction of the stomach following excision and formalin fixation. This is the first reported case in which a pathologically proven lesion has been clearly visualized by angiography. This demonstrates that the submucosal vessel is truly and not artifactually sinuous. It is proposed that angiographic demonstration of a nontapering, convoluted artery in the territory of the left gastric artery is highly suggestive of caliber-persistent artery of the stomach. 
Evaluation of the pharmacokinetics and electrocardiographic effects of intravenous verapamil with intravenous calcium chloride pretreatment in normal subjects. To evaluate the effects of calcium pretreatment on the disposition and electrocardiographic effects of verapamil, 8 healthy male volunteers received treatment in each of 3 phases in a randomized, double-blind, crossover manner. Phase I denoted 10 ml of 0.9% intravenous sodium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil; phase II denoted 10 ml of 10% intravenous calcium chloride followed by 4 ml of 0.9% intravenous sodium chloride; and phase III denoted 10 ml of 10% intravenous calcium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil. Blood samples for the determination of verapamil concentrations were drawn at 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60 and 90 minutes, and at 2, 4, 6, 10 and 24 hours. Blood pressure, heart rate and PR intervals were also measured at these times. Pretreatment of verapamil with intravenous calcium did not alter the disposition of intravenous verapamil. Blood pressure was not significantly altered in any treatment phase, although calcium tended to increase mean arterial pressure and verapamil abolished this effect. Calcium had no significant affect on verapamil-induced PR prolongation (maximum percent change in PR interval: phase I = 19 +/- 11%, phase III = 18 +/- 7%; time to maximal prolongation: phase I = 0.38 +/- 0.21 hours, phase III = 0.37 +/- 0.26 hours; and area under the percent change in PR vs time curve: phase I = 15.5 +/- 10, phase III = 21 +/- 9). Verapamil caused a reflex increase in heart rate of similar magnitude in both phases I and III (24 +/- 10% and 21 +/- 7%, respectively). 
Transforming growth factor-beta activity in sheep lung lymph during the development of pulmonary hypertension. Chronic pulmonary hypertension is associated with extensive structural remodeling of the pulmonary arterial bed. The structural changes in the arterial walls include increased production of extracellular matrix components and smooth muscle cell hypertrophy, changes that have been similarly induced by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in culture. In the present study, experiments were performed to determine whether TGF-beta is present in sheep lung lymph, and whether TGF-beta levels were altered in an animal model of chronic pulmonary hypertension induced by continuous air embolization. Several standard biological assays for TGF-beta activity were used for these determinations including soft agar assays, inhibition of epithelial cell proliferation, and a TGF-beta-specific radioreceptor assay. In each case, control lung lymph contained high concentrations of TGF-beta (100 ng/ml) which required transient acidification for detection. Samples of lung lymph from hypertensive sheep showed a transient and early two- to threefold increase in concentrations of latent TGF-beta. This activity could be partially blocked by TGF-beta antibodies. These studies indicate that sheep lung lymph contains TGF-beta and that the level of TGF-beta increases early during the development of pulmonary hypertension. Thus, TGF-beta may contribute to the development of the structural changes in the pulmonary arteries that occur during the onset of chronic pulmonary hypertension. 
Serum sialic acid concentration and cardiovascular mortality OBJECTIVE--To determine whether serum sialic acid concentration may be used to predict short and long term cardiovascular mortality. DESIGN--Prospective study on all men and women who had their serum sialic acid concentration measured as part of a general health survey in 1964 or in 1965. All were followed up for an average of 20.5 years. SETTING--Geographical part of the county of Varmland, Sweden. SUBJECTS--Residents in the area participating in a health check up in 1964-5 (27,065 men and 28,037 women), of whom 372 men (169 with incomplete data and 203 lost to follow up) and 345 women (143 and 202 respectively) were excluded; thus 26,693 men and 27,692 women entered the study. The study sample was restricted to subjects aged 40-74 during any of the 20 years' follow up. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Serum sialic acid concentration, serum cholesterol concentration, diastolic blood pressure, body mass index at the general health survey visit; cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular deaths during three periods of follow up (0-6 years, 7-13 years, and 14-20 years), according to the Swedish mortality register, in subjects aged 45-74. RESULTS--Mean serum sialic acid concentration (mg/100 ml) was 68.8 (SD 8.0) for men and 69.2 (8.0) for women; the average concentration increasing with age in both sexes. A total of 5639 (21%) men and 3307 (12%) women died during the follow up period, in whom death in 3052 (54%) men and 1368 (41%) women was from cardiovascular causes. During short (0-6 years), medium (7-13 years), and long (14-20 years) term follow up the relative risk of death from cardiovascular disease increased with increasing serum sialic acid concentration. The relative risk (95% confidence interval) associated with the highest quartile of sialic acid concentration compared with the lowest quartile was 2.38 (2.01 to 2.83) in men and 2.62 (1.93 to 3.57) in women. Similar results were found for deaths from non-cardiovascular disease with relative risks of 1.50 (1.34 to 2.68) in men and 1.89 (1.57 to 2.28) in women, but these relative risks were significantly lower than those for deaths from cardiovascular disease (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.005 respectively). In multivariate analysis of total mortality and of cardiovascular mortality with sialic acid concentration, serum cholesterol concentration, diastolic blood pressure, and body mass index as independent variables the impact of sialic acid concentration was virtually the same as in univariate analysis. CONCLUSION--Serum sialic acid concentration is a strong predictor of cardiovascular mortality. A possible explanation of these findings is that the serum sialic acid concentration may reflect the existence or the activity of an atherosclerotic process, and this may warrant further investigation. 
Frequency and significance of occult late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in sustained ventricular tachycardia after healing of acute myocardial infarction. The quantitative and morphologic characteristics and significance of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiographic QRS complex remain unknown. To assess this, the signal-averaged electrocardiogram of 48 patients (mean age +/- standard deviation 62 +/- 9 years) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) after healing of acute myocardial infarction and late potentials were analyzed. Late potentials could be classified into 3 morphologic subtypes: type I late potentials (19 patients, 40%) occurred in the terminal 40 ms of the QRS complex; type II late potentials (16 patients, 33%) started before the end of the QRS complex and extended 30 +/- 17 ms into the ST segment; type III late potentials (13 patients, 27%) started after the end of the QRS complex in the ST segment and ended 67 +/- 27 ms after the end of the QRS complex. The amplitude of the late potentials in type III, when compared with types I and II, was significantly lower, whereas the QRS duration on the electrocardiogram in type I, when compared with types II and III, was significantly longer. Computer algorithm based on noise failed to identify most type III late potentials. No difference was noted in age, sex, site of the myocardial infarction, and rate of induced VT among the 3 types. 
Postinfarction ventricular septal defect repair: retrospective thoughts and historical perspectives. Evolution of surgical techniques for repair of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture initially involved differentiation of these lesions from prior experience with surgical approaches to congenital ventricular septal defects, which were in the main not applicable. Second, understanding of the differing anatomical locations of postinfarction ventricular septal defects required innovation in terms of the location of the cardiotomy and type of repair necessary to achieve a successful result in any given patient. The gradual appreciation of different clinical courses pursued by patients after postinfarction ventricular septal rupture both in terms of location of the defect and the degree of right ventricular functional impairment has led to increased urgency relative to the timing of surgical repair. The incorporation of specific anatomical concepts of surgical repair and better understanding of the time course of physiological deterioration of patients can ultimately lead to an integrated approach aimed toward improved salvage of patients suffering this catastrophic complication of acute myocardial infarction. 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of anomalous right coronary artery. Coronary angioplasty of tortuous anomalous coronary arteries can be technically challenging. We describe a successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of an anomalous right coronary artery after a failed previous attempt. The anatomic limitations of anomalous right coronary arteries and technical considerations for PTCA are discussed. 
The effect of thromboxane synthetase inhibition on cardiopulmonary function during endotoxemia in sheep. The early pulmonary hypertension seen with endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) has been reported as resulting from the release of thromboxane A2. We studied the cardiopulmonary response to endotoxin in sheep with and without treatment with a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor, OKY-046. The animals were implanted with instruments for crystallographic dimension analysis of the left ventricle and measurement of left ventricular, aortic, left atrial, and pulmonary arterial pressures and cardiac index. Thirteen sheep received 1.0 micrograms/kg of Escherichia coli endotoxin with (n = 6) and without (n = 7) OKY-046 (10 mg/kg bolus, then 10 micrograms/kg/min). OKY-046 prevented the increase in pulmonary arterial pressure and decrease in cardiac index usually seen during the early phase of endotoxemia. Between 8 and 12 hours after the administration of endotoxin, cardiac index increased from 6.4 +/- 0.8 to 8.4 +/- 0.8 L/min/m2. Concomitantly, the end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship (a sensitive myocardial contractility index) significantly decreased from 14.7 +/- 0.6 to 7.7 +/- 0.7 mm Hg/mm. Another index of the left ventricular contractility, the maximum rate of pressure rise was also reduced. OKY-046 prevented decreases in end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship and maximum rate of pressure rise. 
Collagen phenotypes during development and regression of myocardial hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The myocardium contains collagen matrix that is a major determinant of its architecture, structural integrity, and mechanical properties. This fibrillar matrix consists primarily of type I and type III collagens having epimysial, perimysial, and endomysial components. The present study shows the alteration of collagen phenotypes during the evolution of hypertensive hypertrophy. Therapy with captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor that regresses cardiac hypertrophy, not only reduces the total amount of collagen but reverses the altered distribution of type I and type III collagen. In normotensive rats, captopril did not significantly reduce collagen content or alter the ratio of type I to type III collagen. 
Ultrasound demonstration of a superior mesenteric artery aneurysm in a patient with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. A large aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery was the presumed cause of abdominal pain in an 11-year-old girl with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. This aneurysm was readily identified by ultrasonography, suggesting that this method could be the diagnostic technique of choice in this disorder. 
Eustachian valve endocarditis. M mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass(3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i.5 cm) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis. 
High resolution real-time ultrasound for the diagnosis of venous thrombosis in the rehabilitation setting. Accurate, noninvasive testing for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) by conventional methods is often not possible in the rehabilitation patient. Lower extremity amputation, a cast or bandage, or skin problems present obstacles to standard diagnostic methods. This report describes the use of duplex ultrasound (US) scanning for noninvasive diagnosis of DVT in a seventy-year-old man with a below-knee amputation, on whom Doppler and plethysmography examinations could not be performed. As experience is gained with this technique, the use of venography for diagnosis of DVT becomes more difficult to rationalize. 
Coronary angioplasty of anomalous coronary arteries: notes on technical aspects. Five patients with significant atherosclerotic lesions of anomalous coronary arteries underwent coronary angioplasty of the anomalous vessel. Four patients had anomalous circumflex artery and 1 had an anomalous right coronary artery. Angiographic and clinical success was achieved in all 5 patients. To ensure adequate equipment selection special consideration should be given to angiographic characteristics of these vessels, such as the orifice configuration, exit angulation, the route the artery traverses and the location of the stenotic lesions. Major determinants for successful angioplasty in these patients are guiding catheter selection and advancement of the balloon catheter to the very proximal portion of the anomalous vessel to subsequently facilitate guide wire advancement. This data indicates that balloon angioplasty can be successfully utilized in patients with significant atherosclerotic disease of anomalous coronary arteries. 
Vascular entrapment of intra-aortic balloon after short-term balloon counterpulsation. Prolonged, continuous intra-aortic balloon (IAB) counterpulsation for several weeks can result in balloon entrapment secondary to thrombus formation in the balloon lumen. In this report, we describe a patient who developed IAB entrapment, early (1 wk) after initiation of counterpulsation. A trace amount of blood was noted in the tubing connecting the balloon catheter to the console for 3 days prior to IAB malfunction and vascular entrapment. We suggest that the balloon catheter be removed immediately when blood is detected in the external connecting tubing even if the IAB is functioning satisfactorily. 
Ten-year follow-up of survival and myocardial infarction in the randomized Coronary Artery Surgery Study The Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized 780 patients to an initial strategy of coronary surgery or medical therapy. Of medically randomized patients, 6% had surgery within 6 months and a total of 40% had surgery by 10 years. At 10 years, there was no difference in cumulative survival (medical, 79% vs. surgical, 82%; NS) and no difference in percentage free of death and nonfatal myocardial infarction (medical, 69% vs. surgical, 66%; NS). Patients with an ejection fraction of less than 0.50 exhibited a better survival with initial surgery treatment (medical, 61% vs. surgical, 79%; p = 0.01). Conversely, patients with an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 exhibited a higher proportion free of death and myocardial infarction with initial medical therapy (medical, 75% vs. surgical, 68%; p = 0.04) although long-term survival remained unaffected (medical, 84% vs. surgical, 83%; p = 0.75). There were no significant differences either in survival and freedom from nonfatal myocardial infarction, whether stratified on presence of heart failure, age, hypertension, or number of vessels diseased. Thus, 10-year follow-up results confirm earlier reports from CASS that patients with left ventricular dysfunction exhibit long-term benefit from an initial strategy of surgical treatment. Patients with mild stable angina and normal left ventricular function randomized to initial medical treatment (with an option for later surgery if symptoms progress) have survival equivalent to those patients randomized to initial surgery. 
Magnetic resonance imaging white matter lesions and cognitive impairment in hypertensive individuals. To search for a morphologic basis of cognitive impairment possibly associated with essential hypertension, we studied 35 otherwise asymptomatic hypertensive individuals (mean age, 38.7 years; range, 22 to 49 years) and 20 normotensive control subjects (mean age, 37.9 years; range, 26 to 49 years) using neuropsychologic tests and magnetic resonance imaging. Irrespective of drug treatment, hypertensive individuals performed significantly worse than did control subjects when assessed for verbal memory and total learning and memory capacity, while there were no differences in test results of visual memory, attention, vigilance, and reaction time. The hypertensive individuals also described themselves as less active but ranked similar on five other mood subscales. Punctate high-signal intensities of the white matter were found almost twice as often in the hypertensive group (38%) as in the control group (20%). There was no difference in test performance between hypertensive individuals with and those without white matter lesions, however. Our results confirm the presence of subtle neuropsychologic deficits and indicate a higher frequency of white matter signal abnormalities in essential hypertension, as shown on magnetic resonance imaging, but do not indicate a correlation of these findings with each other. 
Human coronary transplantation-associated arteriosclerosis. Evidence for a chronic immune reaction to activated graft endothelial cells. Occlusive disease of coronary arteries of engrafted hearts is the major obstacle to long-term survival of human cardiac allografts. The pathogenesis of this process remains uncertain. The identity and localization of cells found in transplantation-associated arteriosclerosis lesions from human cardiac allografts were evaluated, and their expression of class II major histocompatibility complex (human leukocyte antigen-DR [HLA-DR]), surface molecules required for recognition of foreign cells by CD4+ T lymphocytes, was noted. Expanded intimas of transplanted coronary arteries contain T lymphocytes (both CD4+ and CD8+ in approximately equal number) and HLA-DR+ macrophages, both localized primarily in a ring immediately below the luminal endothelium, a distribution strikingly different from that in typical atherosclerosis. Coronary arterial endothelium from six of six transplanted hearts studied bore high levels of HLA-DR. Normal human arteries or usual atherosclerotic lesions have few if any HLA-DR+ endothelial cells. The significance of these findings was tested by evaluating the ability of HLA-DR+ arterial cells to interact with allogeneic T cells in vitro. Endothelial cells (but not smooth muscle cells) cultured from human arteries stimulated foreign CD4+ T cells to proliferate and augmented their secretion of interleukin-2. These findings suggest that ongoing stimulation of recipient T lymphocytes by HLA-DR+ endothelium of donor coronary arteries contributes to a sustained regional immune response. Consequent local release of cytokines may regulate smooth muscle cell proliferation and matrix accumulation within the coronary arteries of allografted hearts. 
Carnitine palmitoyltransferase in cardiac ischemia. A potential site for altered fatty acid metabolism. The sensitivity of carnitine palmitoyl coenzyme A (CoA) transferase I to inhibition of its activity by malonyl-CoA is progressively reduced in mitochondria isolated from ischemic cardiac cells as blood flow decreases to 30% or less of the preocclusion flow. The activity of carnitine palmitoyl-CoA transferase I in mitochondria isolated from nonischemic cardiac cells demonstrates incomplete inhibition, even at high concentrations of malonyl-CoA. Kinetic analyses of these data gave results most consistent with the expression of two overt enzyme activities: one activity that is sensitive to inhibition by malonyl-CoA and one activity that demonstrates little or no sensitivity to such inhibition. The decrease in malonyl-CoA-sensitive activity associated with ischemia results from a 13% decrease in the activity of the sensitive component and a corresponding 13% increase in the activity of the insensitive component. Decreased sensitivity of ischemic carnitine palmitoyl-CoA transferase I to inhibition by malonyl-CoA, together with potential fluctuations in the content of malonyl-CoA in tissue, would increase the synthesis of palmitoylcarnitine during ischemia and facilitate return to the use of fatty acid as a preferred metabolic fuel on reperfusion. This apparent conversion occurs concomitantly with a decrease in the free protein thiol content of the mitochondrial membranes isolated from ischemic cardiac cells. Treatment of the mitochondria from ischemic cardiac cells with dithiothreitol in vitro partially reverses the loss in sensitivity to malonyl-CoA, suggesting the possible role of thiol oxidation in the altered metabolism of ischemic mitochondria. Western blot analysis of these mitochondria using an antibody against carnitine palmitoyltransferase II purified from beef heart demonstrates a 68-kDa protein, which under ischemic conditions apparently is decreased by 2 kDa. These results are more indicative of a modification in protein folding of carnitine palmitoyltransferase than proteolytic changes during ischemia. 
Natural history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the elderly. The prognosis of patients diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at advanced age has not been well defined. This study details follow-up information obtained for 95 patients initially diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at age greater than or equal to 65 years. Seventy-five percent of patients were symptomatic, as defined by the presence of chest pain, dyspnea or syncope, and the mean ventricular septal thickness was 20 mm. The median duration of follow-up study was 4.2 years. The survival rate at 1 and 5 years was 95% and 76%, respectively, which was not significantly different from that an age- and gender-matched control group. Of patients presenting with New York Heart Association functional class I or II dyspnea, only 18% progressed to class III or IV during the follow-up period. However, patients presenting with class III dyspnea had a 1 year mortality rate of 36%, significantly higher than that of control subjects (p less than 0.003). Of the echocardiographic variables, indexed left atrial size was most strongly associated with reduced survival (p less than 0.008). These results suggest that the prognosis of elderly patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is generally favorable. Certain clinical and echocardiographic variables appear to be of use in identifying patients with a less favorable prognosis. 
Cholesterol screening in 5,719 self-referred elderly subjects. To assess the frequency of hypercholesterolemia as a potential major public health problem in the elderly, we studied 5,719 self-referred subjects greater than age 60 and 11,890 less than or equal to 60 years, whose nonfasting capillary blood cholesterol levels were measured during an 18-month screening in Cincinnati area grocery stores. We followed National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines for serum cholesterol (less than 200 mg/dl "desirable," 200-239 "borderline-high," and greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl "high"). Of 4,011 61-70 year-olds, only 19% had capillary blood total cholesterol less than 200, 38% were 200-239, and 43% greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. Of 1,493 aged 71-80 years, only 20% had total cholesterol less than 200, 36% had levels 200-239, and 44% were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. In 215 subjects, 81 and over, 29% had total cholesterol less than 200, 36% were 200-239, and 35% were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl. Application of the non-age, non-race, non-sex specific National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines to the elderly may necessitate followup and perhaps therapy in 71-81% of subjects, suggesting that the appropriate intervention approach be general population-oriented, rather than the individual detection, diagnosis, and treatment approach which presents a huge, expensive load for a relatively unprepared health care community. 
Ataxia-telangiectasia: an interdisciplinary approach to pathogenesis. Ataxia-telangiectasia is a syndrome with many facets, involving a progressive cerebellar ataxia, immunodeficiency, cancer susceptibility, radiosensitivity, defects in DNA repair/processing, chromosomal breakage and rearrangements, elevated serum alphafetoprotein, and premature aging. Ataxia-telangiectasia is an autosomal recessive disorder, rare in outbred populations; carriers of the ataxia-telangiectasia gene may be as common as 1 in 60 and have subclinical radiosensitivity and cancer susceptibility. One estimate suggests that 8.8% of patients with breast cancer could be carriers of ataxia-telangiectasia. These carriers may be responsible for underestimating normal tolerance doses for radiation therapy by 15% to 20%; thus by preselecting and excluding carriers of ataxia-telangiectasia from cohorts of patients with cancer, conventional radiation doses might be increased so as to improve greatly the efficacy of radiotherapy. The genes for the 3 most common ataxia-telangiectasia complementation groups, which include 97% of tested families, have recently been localized to the long arm of chromosome 11. 
Strain differences in baroreflex inhibition by centrally infused enalapril in old rats. To determine whether inhibition of the brain renin-angiotensin system would affect baroreflexes similarly in old rats of different strains, we compared 24-month-old male Fischer 344 and Sprague-Dawley rats. Baroreflex sensitivity was tested while the rats were awake by recording reflex heart rate responses elicited as blood pressure was elevated with phenylephrine or lowered with sodium nitroprusside. Sprague-Dawley rats had higher blood pressures and lower heart rates initially. Chronic infusion of enalapril, a converting enzyme inhibitor, into a lateral cerebral ventricle (ICV) for two weeks lowered blood pressure in Sprague-Dawley but not in Fischer 344 rats. Furthermore, reflex bradycardia was unaffected in either rat strain, but reflex tachycardia was selectively suppressed in Fischer 344 rats. Thus, although time controls were not done to rule out spontaneous changes during the 14-day infusion period, these results suggest that central cardiovascular regulation does not change similarly with age in these two rat strains. As removal of the brain renin-angiotensin system lowered blood pressure in one strain and inhibited reflex tachycardia in the other, the divergence could mean that the brain renin-angiotensin system acts differently to keep blood pressure elevated in Sprague-Dawley rats and modulate reflex tachycardia in Fischer 344 rats. 
Triiodothyronine in the recovery of stunned myocardium in dogs Two groups of dogs were subjected to a 15-minute period of regional myocardial ischemia by snaring the left anterior descending coronary artery proximal to its first diagonal branch. After release of the snare, the dogs were given either placebo (group 1: n = 7) or triiodothyronine (T3) therapy (group 2: n = 6). The dose of T3 given was 0.2 microgram/kg at 30-minute intervals to a total of six doses. Plasma free T3 level fell significantly during the ischemic period in both groups and continued to fall after reperfusion in group 1. In both groups, cardiac function deteriorated significantly during the period of ischemia and rapidly returned to control level after reperfusion. After 90 minutes of reperfusion, however, deterioration of left ventricular function was observed in group 1 and was significantly worse than in group 2, in which hemodynamic function was maintained and, in fact, improved to levels superior to control. It is suggested that T3 therapy may be worthy of trial in patients in whom reperfusion of the myocardium takes place after a relatively short ischemic period (the "stunned myocardium"). 
Blood pressure lowering in elderly subjects: a double-blind crossover study of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. In 46 elderly (aged greater than or equal to 60 y) hypertensive subjects with entry systolic blood pressure (SBP) greater than or equal to 160 or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg, our specific aim in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study (two 8-wk treatment periods separated by a 3-wk washout) was to compare blood pressure-lowering effects of 9 g fish oil/d [omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid] vs 9 g corn oil/d [omega-6 (n-6) fatty acid]. After a 4-wk baseline period, 22 subjects were randomly assigned to receive fish oil and 24 to receive corn oil. For both 8-wk treatments there were no between-group differences in the change in blood pressure. There was a treatment difference for standing DBP when baseline values were compared with those after treatment 2; DBP decreased by 5.1 mm Hg in the fish-oil group vs 0.72 mm Hg in the corn-oil group (P = 0.024). Within groups during the first treatment, both fish oil and corn oil lowered all four blood pressure measures (P less than 0.05); blood pressures were not further lowered during the second treatment compared with the washout period. There were no significant between-group differences in laboratory safety tests or categorical side effects. Fish oil lowered triglycerides by 0.47 mmol/L (P less than 0.001). In elderly subjects, diet plus both omega-3 and omega-6 supplements (9 g/d) safely and effectively lower SBP and DBP. 
Laser angioplasty: results of a prospective, multicenter study at 3-year follow-up. A prospective multicenter trial was initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laser angioplasty. Laser recanalization was performed in 338 patients with arteriosclerotic femoropopliteal artery occlusions (average length, 8.5 cm). Neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet lasers were used in combination with sapphire probe catheters. The initial recanalization rate was 85%. Complications were observed in 14% of the patients. Emergency surgery was required in 1.5%. The cumulative long-term patency rate of the successfully recanalized arteries was 80%, 70%, 62%, and 57% at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 and 3 years, respectively. The patency rates were not affected by the length of the occlusion and the long-term medication (platelet inhibition vs anticoagulation), but patients with a normal runoff had significantly better patency rates than those with reduced runoff (63% vs 52%, P less than .01). The study has shown that laser-assisted angioplasty is safe and at least as effective as conventional angioplasty. 
Mechanisms in heart failure and the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition. The four major diagnostic criteria for the syndrome of congestive heart failure are left ventricular dysfunction, exercise intolerance, pulmonary congestion or edema and ventricular arrhythmias. Activation of norepinephrine, angiotensin II, vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide may be a key factor in the vasoconstriction and increased impedance to left ventricular ejection in heart failure. Interventions that interfere with these vasoconstrictor mechanisms should have a salutary effect on left ventricular performance. Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, alpha-adrenoceptor blockers and vasopressin antagonists has resulted in hemodynamic benefits, but it has been more difficult to demonstrate long-term clinical effectiveness. Reductions in mortality have been demonstrated in patients with heart failure treated with vasodilators and ACE inhibitors. Improvement in the quality of life and prolongation of life are the only two appropriate goals in the management of heart failure. Further understanding of the role of angiotensin II and its interference by ACE inhibition in the tissue processes of heart failure is needed. 
Neisseria mucosa endocarditis. A case of Neisseria mucosa tricuspid valve endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser is described. The patient was treated initially with intravenous penicillin G followed by oral penicillin VK but relapsed. He was cured after 4 weeks of combined therapy with penicillin G and gentamicin. In vitro synergy studies performed on the patient's and two other isolates revealed synergy in all three. Thus, combination therapy is recommended for treatment of recalcitrant cases of bacterial endocarditis caused by N. mucosa. 
Percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty following treated endocarditis in a patient with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis. A 36-year-old woman with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis developed the rare complication of endocarditis of the valve. After successful sterilization of the valve, the patient underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty at a later date. The procedure successfully reduced the peak pulmonary valve gradient from 94 to 45 mm Hg. Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for treatment of congenital pulmonary valvular stenosis, even in the unusual patient who has healed endocarditis of the pulmonary valve. 
Clinical safety and efficacy of celiprolol. The management of essential hypertension requires therapeutic selections that are not only effective in reducing diastolic blood pressure but are also tailored to the individual patient, with minimal effect on patient demographics, concurrent illnesses, and cardiovascular risk factors. Celiprolol hydrochloride is a new highly cardioselective vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor antagonist that has been proven effective and safe for the treatment of essential hypertension. It is comparable to other therapies in blood pressure control while demonstrating an excellent safety profile, favorable hemodynamic activity, and minimal effects on other cardiovascular risk factors. Celiprolol may offer the physician a unique therapeutic alternative. 
The estimation of post-test probability of coronary disease following exercise testing using the sequential application of two Bayesian methods. Recent studies have revealed that Bayesian methods to estimate post-test probability following exercise testing differ in their sensitivity and specificity across the range of post-test probability. To take advantage of the relative strengths of each method, we combined two of these methods into a single method (DUAL BAYES) and compared it with the two original methods in 436 patients who underwent stress testing followed within 2 months by coronary arteriography. All patients had post-test probabilities determined using CADENZA (better sensitivity). Those CADENZA-derived probabilities greater than or equal to 50% were substituted with post-test probabilities determined by Diamond and Forrester's original TABULAR method (better specificity). Mean post-test probabilities were as follows: TABULAR 34, CADENZA 48, DUAL BAYES 37 (actual incidence 38%). Comparison of sensitivity and specificity at every fifth percentile of post-test probability revealed that the sensitivity of DUAL BAYES was better than that of TABULAR and equal to that of CADENZA at thresholds less than or equal to 10 and that the specificity was better than that of CADENZA and equal to that of TABULAR at thresholds greater than or equal to 60. Therefore using both methods as indicated above was better than using either method alone. 
Early 24-hour blood pressure elevation in normotensive subjects with parental hypertension Subjects with a family history of parental hypertension are reported to have a slightly higher office blood pressure in the prehypertensive stage. Whether this reflects a hyperreactivity to blood pressure measurement or a more permanent blood pressure elevation, however, is not known. In the present study, blood pressure was measured in 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are both hypertensive (FH++), 15 normotensive subjects with one hypertensive parent (FH(+)-), and 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are not hypertensive (FH--); among the three groups, subjects were matched for age, sex, and body mass index. The measurements were made in the office during a variety of laboratory stressors and during a prolonged resting period, and for a 24-hour period (ambulatory blood pressure monitoring). Office blood pressure was higher in the FH++ group than in the FH-- group (p less than 0.05). The pressor responses to laboratory stressors were similar in the two groups, but the FH++ group had higher prolonged resting and 24-hour blood pressure than the FH-- group; the difference was always significant (p less than 0.05) for systolic blood pressure. The FH++ group also had a greater left ventricular mass index (on echocardiographic examination) than the FH-- group (p less than 0.01). The blood pressure values and echocardiographic values of the FH(+)- group tended to be between those of the other two groups. Thus, the higher blood pressure shown by individuals in the prehypertensive stage with a family history of parental hypertension does not reflect a hyperreactivity to stress but an early permanent blood pressure elevation. 
Noninvasive discrimination of right atrial ectopic tachycardia from sinus tachycardia in "dilated cardiomyopathy". Right atrial ectopic tachycardia (RAET) with secondary cardiac dysfunction can be difficult to differentiate from primary dilated cardiomyopathy (CMP) with sinus tachycardia. In an attempt to separate RAET from CMP by noninvasive testing, routine surface electrocardiograms (EGGs), 24-hour ambulatory ECGs (Holter monitors), and echocardiograms of patients with RAET (n = 34) and CMP (n = 33) were reviewed. RAET atrial rates were significantly faster than CMP rates on the resting ECG and on Holter monitoring; 12 of 33 patients with RAET had resting ECG rates greater than 150% of predicted normal values for age but none of 32 patients with CMPs had resting ECG rates in this range. Mean P wave axis in the horizontal plane was more posterior in patients with RAET and was less than 0 degrees (negative in lead V2) in 8 of 29 patients with RAET but in 1 of 33 patients with CMP. Second-degree atrioventricular (AV) block was observed in 12 of 33 patients with RAET but in none of 33 with CMP. Shortening fraction less than 10% was found in 13 of 33 individuals with CMP but in only 1 of 27 with RAET. We conclude that noninvasive studies can help identify RAET among patients with poor functioning hearts and right atrial tachycardia. 
The clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease. Over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave Doppler. The perioperative stroke rate was 1.5%. Patients were screened with duplex scans immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions, and followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent lesion or a change in a residual one. Five hundred thirty-nine arteries (84%) had no postoperative abnormalities. The incidence of recurrent carotid lesions in this groups was 1.5%, 3.4%, and 5.2% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. The incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2%, 0.7%, and 1.4% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. The earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from operation. One hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle. Sixty-one patients who had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were followed an average of 21 months. There were no changes in plaque morphology and no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion. Fifty-six patients with both plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were followed an average of 18 months. Seven of these patients (12.5%) had either a significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it. Each event occurred within 6 months of operation. Thirty patients had significant flow abnormalities but no visible plaque. None of these lesions deteriorated. Although common, residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant stenosis. These lesions should be further investigated and treated when discovered. 
Percutaneous balloon versus surgical closed commissurotomy for mitral stenosis. A prospective, randomized trial BACKGROUND. We performed a prospective, randomized trial comparing percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with surgical closed commissurotomy in 40 patients with severe rheumatic mitral stenosis. METHODS AND RESULTS. Data were analyzed by investigators who were masked to treatment assignment or phase of study. Patients randomized to balloon (n = 20) or surgical (n = 20) commissurotomy had severe mitral stenosis without significant baseline differences (left atrial pressure, 26.1 +/- 4.2 versus 27.6 +/- 6.2 mm Hg; mitral valve gradient, 18.0 +/- 4.2 versus 19.7 +/- 6.3 mm Hg; mitral valve area, 1.0 +/- 0.2 versus 1.0 +/- 0.4 cm2, respectively). At 1-week follow-up after balloon commissurotomy, pulmonary wedge pressure was 14.3 +/- 7.2 mm Hg; mitral valve gradient was 9.6 +/- 5.1 mm Hg; and mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 (all p less than 0.0001). At 1-week follow-up after surgical closed commissurotomy, wedge pressure was 13.7 +/- 5.4 mm Hg; mitral valve gradient was 9.4 +/- 4.2 mm Hg (both p less than 0.0001); and mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.7 cm2 (p less than 0.003). At 8-month follow-up, improvement occurred in both groups: Mitral valve area was 1.6 +/- 0.6 cm2 in the balloon commissurotomy group (p less than 0.002) and was 1.8 +/- 0.6 cm2 in the surgical closed commissurotomy group (p less than 0.0001). There was no difference between the groups at 1-week or 8-month follow-up (all p greater than 0.4). One case of severe mitral regurgitation occurred in each group; complications were otherwise related to transseptal catheterization. There was no death, stroke, or myocardial infarction. Cost analysis revealed that balloon commissurotomy may substantially exceed the cost of surgical commissurotomy in developing countries, whereas it may represent a significant savings in industrialized nations. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that percutaneous balloon commissurotomy and surgical closed commissurotomy result in comparable hemodynamic improvement that is sustained through 8 months of follow-up. 
Ten-year incidence of myocardial infarction and prognosis after infarction. Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study of Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery BACKGROUND. The 10-year incidence of myocardial infarction (fatal and nonfatal) and the prognosis after infarction were evaluated in 686 patients with stable angina who were randomly assigned to medical or surgical treatment in the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery. METHODS AND RESULTS. Myocardial infarction was defined by either new Q wave findings or clinical symptoms compatible with myocardial infarction accompanied by serum enzyme elevations with or without electrocardiographic findings. Treatment comparisons were made according to original treatment assignment; 35% of the medical cohort had bypass surgery during the 10-year follow-up period. The overall cumulative infarction rate was somewhat higher in patients assigned to surgery (36%) than in medical patients (31%) (p = 0.13) due to perioperative infarctions (13%) and an accelerated infarction rate after the fifth year of follow-up (average, 2.4%/yr in the surgical group versus 1.4%/yr in the medical group). The 10-year cumulative incidence of death or myocardial infarction was also higher in surgical (54%) than in medical (49%) patients (p = 0.20). According to the Cox model, the estimated risk of death after infarction was 59% lower in surgical than in medical patients (p less than 0.0001). The reduction in postinfarction mortality with surgery was most striking in the first month after the event: 99% in the first month (p less than 0.0001) and 49% subsequently (p less than 0.0001). The estimated risk of death in the absence of infarction was nearly identical regardless of treatment (p = 0.75). Exclusion of perioperative infarctions did not alter the findings. CONCLUSIONS. Although surgery does not reduce the incidence of myocardial infarction overall, it does reduce the risk of mortality after infarction, particularly in the first 30 days after the event (fatal infarctions). 
Effect of thiazide on rates of bone mineral loss: a longitudinal study [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Jan 26;302(6770):18] OBJECTIVE--To determine the effect of thiazide diuretic drugs on rates of bone mineral loss. DESIGN--Longitudinal, observational study with a mean follow up of five years. SETTING--Hawaii Osteoporosis Center, Honolulu. SUBJECTS--1017 Japanese-American men born between 1900 and 1920, of whom 378 were treated for hypertension (study group) and 639 did not have hypertension (control group). INTERVENTION--Thiazide diuretics were taken by 325 men for a mean of 11.9 years; 53 men took antihypertensive drugs other than thiazides. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Rate of bone loss estimated from serial photon absorptiometric scanning at three skeletal sites (calcaneus, distal radius, and proximal radius). RESULTS--Rates of bone loss at all three sites were significantly reduced among thiazide users when compared with controls. The reductions in loss rate ranged from 28.8% (p = 0.02) (distal radius) to 49.2% (p = 0.0005) (calcaneus) relative to the controls. At all three sites the men taking other antihypertensive drugs had faster loss rates (22.6-43.1%) than those of the controls but the difference was significant only for the distal radius. CONCLUSION--Thiazide diuretics slow the rate of bone loss in elderly men. 
Polytetrafluoroethylene graft for spontaneous coronary dissection: 7-year follow-up. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection remains an exceedingly rare cause of myocardial ischemia. The patients are usually young and female, and the dissection is frequently fatal. The use of polytetrafluoroethylene as an aortocoronary conduit is generally followed by early occlusion. We report a case of spontaneous right coronary dissection in which a polytetrafluoroethylene graft was placed that was observed to remain patent by angiography at least 72 months after operation. 
Quantification of rate of coronary artery disease progression by a new method of angiographic analysis. To assess the rate and variability of atherostenosis progression in patients with coronary artery disease at baseline angiography, we used a simplified quantitative method of analysis to study single angiograms in 54 patients and paired angiograms in 29 patients. All discrete lesions were identified, then traced and digitized to determine lumen diameter (LD), and summed to give the total LD; the differences in LD for paired angiograms were summed to give total stenosis change (TSC). The following results were obtained: Correlation between LD measured by our method and LD determined by the Brown/Dodge method was excellent (r = 0.99, N = 54). There also was a high correlation between interobserver (r = 0.98, N = 54) and intraobserver (r = 0.99, N = 54) findings. Short-term TSC (N = 9, angiograms paired at less than 1 week) was negligible (0.03 +/- 0.38 mm). Long-term (N = 20, angiograms paired at 0.6 to 4.3 years) total LD differed significantly from baseline total LD (4.1 +/- 2.5 mm vs 6.0 +/- 3 mm; p less than 0.001), and TSC (2.0 +/- 1.3 mm) in long-term patients differed significantly from TSC in short-term patients (p less than 0.001). These results show that true coronary disease progression occurring over 1 to 4 years can be distinguished from intraobserver, interobserver, and interstudy variability by means of a simplified method and provide approximate rates and variability of progression. These results will be useful for power calculations in therapeutic trials aimed at slowing progression. Further prospective studies with the use of this method appear indicated. 
Development and prospective application of quantitative 2-day stress-rest Tc-99m methoxy isobutyl isonitrile SPECT for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. The clinical diagnostic accuracy of 2-day stress/rest quantitative Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (Tc-sestamibi) single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) was assessed in a validation population of 61 patients from two different sites using two different camera/computer systems. The study population was made up of 53 catheterized patients, 29 from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (CSMC) and 24 from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UTSMC), and eight UTSMC patients with a less than 5% pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease. Interpretation employed gender-specific normal limits developed in an additional 15 men and 8 women at CSMC with less than a 5% likelihood of significant coronary artery disease. The results from CSMC compared with those from UTSMC were not different from each other. The overall sensitivity for detection of patients with coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% stenosis) was 94% (CSMC: 92%, UTSMC: 95%). Overall specificity in the five patients with normal coronary arteriograms was 80% (CSMC: 67%, UTSMC: 100%). The normalcy rate in patients with a low likelihood of coronary artery disease was 88%. Vessel sensitivity was 85% (CSMC: 84%, UTSMC: 85%), while vessel specificity was 71% (CSMC: 72%, UTSMC: 69%). There was also no significant difference in the sensitivities and specificities between male and female populations. In addition, the agreement with coronary angiography for assessment of disease extent (normal coronary arteriogram, single or multivessel disease) was 75% (kappa = 0.6 +/- 0.1). This study demonstrated that Tc-sestamibi SPECT by quantitative analysis is accurate for the detection and localization of coronary artery disease. Furthermore, the CSMC quantitative method was shown to provide similar diagnostic accuracy when applied to data acquired at a different site using a different camera/computer system. 
Assessment of stable ischemic heart disease. Which tests are best for which patients? An understanding of the importance of various risk factors, the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia, and the appropriate use of various noninvasive and invasive tests is essential for management of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Although coronary angiography remains the "gold standard" for diagnosis of CAD, much of the data obtained from risk factor assessment, medical history, and various noninvasive tests provides information that may be even more important than cardiac catheterization data alone for defining prognosis and directing management. 
Hypertension in Hispanics, Asians and Pacific-Islanders, and Native Americans. There is a paucity of information about hypertension and its risk factors, prevalence, morbidity, and mortality in many racial minorities in the United States. Most of the population groups discussed in this section are composed of several subgroups that differ culturally, socioeconomically, educationally, and ethnically. This fact, however, does not lessen the need for more information about the extent of hypertension and risk factors in these groups. Moreover, a bonus from expanded research in these areas will be new information useful to the general population. 
Multiple orbital tumors were cavernous hemangiomas. Two distinct masses in the left orbit were incidentally found in a 48-year-old woman during a computed tomographic scan done to evaluate neurologic complaints. Initial diagnostic considerations focused on a lymphoproliferative disorder or other systemic disease. Orbitotomy revealed two discrete tumors, both cavernous hemangiomas. Although uncommon, cavernous hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the patient with multiple orbital lesions. 
Electrocardiographic body surface potential mapping in the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Noninvasive determination of the ventricular insertion sites of accessory atrioventricular connections. BACKGROUND. A reliable, noninvasive procedure to determine the location of accessory atrioventricular connections in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome would add an important diagnostic tool to the clinical armamentarium. METHODS AND RESULTS. Body surface potential mapping (BSPM) using 180 electrodes in various-sized vests and displayed as a calibrated color map was used to determine the ventricular insertion site of the accessory atrioventricular (AV) connections in 34 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Attempts were made to determine the 17 ventricular insertion sites described by Guiraudon et al. All 34 patients had an electrophysiologic study (EPS) at cardiac catheterization, and 18 had surgery so the ventricular insertion sites could be accurately located using EPS at surgery. A number of physiologic observations were also made with BSPM. CONCLUSIONS. The following conclusions were drawn: 1) BSPM using QRS analysis accurately predicts the ventricular insertion site of accessory AV connections in the presence of a delta wave in the electrocardiogram; 2) the ventricular insertion sites of accessory AV connections determined by BSPM and by EPS at surgery were identical or within one mapping site (1.5 cm or less) in all but four of 18 cases; three of the four exceptions had more than one accessory AV connection, and the other had a very broad ventricular insertion; 3) BSPM and EPS locations of the accessory AV connections correlated very well in the 34 cases despite the fact that BSPM determines the ventricular insertion site and EPS determines the atrial insertion site of the accessory AV connection; 4) as suggested by the three cases of multiple accessory AV connections, EPS and BSPM may be complementary since BSPM identified one pathway and EPS identified the other (in the case with a broad ventricular insertion, BSPM and EPS demonstrated different proportions of that insertion); 5) BSPM using ST-T analysis is very much less accurate in predicting the ventricular insertion site of accessory AV connections unless there is marked preexcitation; 6) standard electrocardiography using the Gallagher grid methodology (but with no attempt at stimulating maximal preexcitation) was not as accurate as QRS analysis of BSPM in predicting the ventricular insertion site of the accessory AV connection; however, exact comparison is hampered by the different number and size of the Gallagher and Guiraudon insertion sites; 7) BSPM using QRS analysis appears to be very accurate in predicting right ventricular versus left ventricular posteroseptal accessory AV connections; 8) typical epicardial right ventricular breakthrough, indicative of conduction via the specialized AV conduction system, occurs in all patients with left ventricular free wall accessory AV connections; 9) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough was not observed in cases with right ventricular free wall or anteroseptal accessory AV connections; 10) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough can occur in the presence of posteroseptal accessory AV connections, whether right or left ventricular; and 11) the delay in epicardial right ventricular breakthrough in cases with left ventricular insertion may provide a marker to estimate the degree of ventricular preexcitation. 
Prostacyclin and acetylcholine as screening agents for acute pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension. Epoprostenol sodium (prostacyclin) administered intravenously is considered the standard for assessing the ability of the pulmonary circulation to vasodilate. At present, epoprostenol sodium is an investigational drug that has limited availability. In contrast, acetylcholine, also a pulmonary vasodilator, is readily available. Therefore, we assessed the feasibility of using acetylcholine as an alternative to prostacyclin in testing for the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature to vasodilate. Twenty-three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary arterial pressure, 58.5 +/- 13.4 mm Hg) received incremental infusions of prostacyclin and acetylcholine to predetermined maximal infusion rates as part of a battery of vasodilator agents administered according to standard protocols (mean, 5.4 +/- 1.2 agents/patient; range, 3-8 agents/patient); the administration of the different agents was timed to avoid synergistic effects. Of all the agents tested, prostacyclin and acetylcholine were most consistently effective in evoking acute pulmonary vasodilation, and both seemed to distinguish patients capable of manifesting acute pulmonary vasodilation from those who were not. However, at maximal doses set by protocol, prostacyclin generally elicited a greater vasodilator response than acetylcholine. The difference in magnitude of response may have been due to use of prescribed dosages of acetylcholine that were submaximal. In other respects, the two agents were similar; both were equally well-tolerated, and side effects were mild and resolved rapidly when the vasodilator infusions were stopped. We conclude that in the majority of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, acetylcholine appears to be an effective and available substitute for prostacyclin in screening for pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness. 
Influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in postinfarction patients. An invasive hemodynamic investigation. To assess the influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in coronary patients, 88 postinfarction patients (mean age, 53 +/- 10 years) performed mental arithmetic during Swan-Ganz catheterization monitoring a mean of 44 +/- 16 days after myocardial infarction. The test lasted 3 minutes in 66 patients and 10 minutes in 22 patients. Two patients suffered acute pulmonary edema a few minutes after mental arithmetic, but no others complained of symptoms. Mean heart rate increased from 76 +/- 14 to 92 +/- 17 beats/min, mean systolic blood pressure increased from 138 +/- 22 to 160 +/- 27 mm Hg, mean diastolic blood pressure increased from 89 +/- 10 to 101 +/- 15 mm Hg, mean pulmonary wedge pressure increased from 13 +/- 6 to 19 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and mean stroke volume decreased from 72 +/- 18 to 65 +/- 18 ml (p less than 0.001) during mental arithmetic. The changes in central hemodynamics during mental arithmetic were not predictable from noninvasive parameters. In the 22 patients who performed 10-minute mental arithmetic, the changes persisted throughout mental exercise. Eighty-one patients underwent supine bicycle ergometry after mental arithmetic: Absolute mental arithmetic-pulmonary wedge pressure values correlated with those during exercise at the first stage (25 W) (r = 0.63, p less than 0.001) and at maximal load (77 +/- 29 W) (r = 0.49, p less than 0.001), and pulmonary wedge pressure change between stress values and baseline during mental arithmetic did not correlate with those during the first stage of exercise (r = 0.09, p = NS) or during maximal load (r = 0.11, p = NS). Twenty-nine patients repeated the study 1 year after myocardial infarction, and the same hemodynamic changes were observed during mental arithmetic. In conclusion, it appears that mental stress can cause deteriorations of central hemodynamics that can be independent of changes in heart rate and blood pressure and are not predictable from exercise-induced changes; stress-induced cardiovascular activation can last for at least 10 minutes and is stable over long time periods. 
Cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy resulting in renal allograft loss and its successful reuse: a report of two cases. Cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy is a rare complication of renal transplantation. It commonly leads to graft loss. The mechanism of this entity is unknown. Factors intrinsic to the donor kidney appear to play an important role. We describe two cases of renal transplant patients who lost their first grafts secondary to cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy. These patients were successfully retransplanted with an immunosuppressive protocol that included long-term cyclosporine. We conclude that graft loss from this entity is not a contraindication to subsequent successful transplantation with cyclosporine. 
Prevalence of unsuspected mitral regurgitation and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema associated with normal or depressed left ventricular systolic function. To define the prevalence and role of left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction, LV diastolic dysfunction and mitral regurgitation (MR) in patients with acute pulmonary edema, 40 patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema were prospectively evaluated within 36 hours of presentation. LV ejection fraction and 3 parameters of LV diastolic function were measured with radionuclide ventriculography, whereas MR was assessed with Doppler echocardiography. LV ejection fraction was normal in 11 (27%) and depressed in 29 (73%) patients. Moderate or severe MR without LV diastolic dysfunction was common and equally prevalent in patients with and without LV systolic dysfunction (33 vs 38%; difference not significant). Diastolic dysfunction without MR was less frequent but equally prevalent in patients with and without systolic dysfunction (17 vs 27%; difference not significant). Two (18%) of 11 patients without and 12 (33%) of 36 patients with LV systolic dysfunction had both MR and LV diastolic dysfunction. Furthermore, MR was clinically silent and unsuspected in two-thirds of all patients with MR, regardless of a normal or depressed systolic function. These data show that there is a high prevalence of unrecognized moderate to severe MR in patients with acute pulmonary edema, regardless of the presence or absence of LV systolic dysfunction. Furthermore, the prevalence of LV diastolic dysfunction without MR is relatively low even in patients with normal LV systolic function and pulmonary edema. Thus, unrecognized MR may be an important contributor to the syndrome of acute pulmonary edema in patients with normal or depressed LV systolic function. 
The influence of extracorporeal circulation on erythrocytes and flow properties of blood. The influence of extracorporeal circulation on red blood cells and flow properties of blood was studied in 10 patients undergoing aorta-coronary bypass grafting. Blood samples were drawn on admission, under general anesthesia before the operation, during extracorporeal circulation, immediately after extracorporeal circulation, and 24 hours after extracorporeal circulation. Echinocytes were found during and shortly after extracorporeal circulation, but disappeared within 24 hours. Washing the cells in buffer restored the normal discocytic shape, which indicated that a plasma factor was responsible. Red cell membrane lipids were not affected. Analysis of the membrane proteins revealed a decrease of ankyrin after extracorporeal circulation, which was prevented by protease inhibitors during preparation. This suggests an increased proteolytic activity of the plasma after extracorporeal circulation. Red cell deformability was not altered. Plasma viscosity and hematocrit were markedly reduced by hemodilution with the priming solution. Their low levels resulted in a low blood viscosity during extracorporeal circulation, which was even lower at 26 degrees C than before or after the operation at 37 degrees C. We conclude that the red cell is affected by extracorporeal circulation. The flow properties of blood, however, are not impaired, but are improved by hemodilution. 
Elevation of plasma neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and noradrenaline during myocardial ischaemia in man. Plasma levels of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) and noradrenaline were studied for 25 h in 22 patients with acute ischaemic heart disease. On admission, NPY-LI levels were above normal in 16 patients, and 20 patients had increased noradrenaline levels. The initial plasma NPY-LI did not differ between patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and angina pectoris. Initial plasma noradrenaline levels were higher in patients with AMI than in those with angina pectoris. Plasma levels of noradrenaline remained elevated in AMI patients, but decreased towards normal values in patients with angina pectoris. Levels of NPY-LI returned to normal within 25 h in all patients. Tachycardia and left ventricular failure were related to high NPY-LI and noradrenaline levels. A positive correlation was found between noradrenaline and NPY-LI in plasma. It is suggested that neuropeptide Y (NPY), an endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide, should be considered as one of the mediators involved in the cardiovascular response to sympathetic activation induced by myocardial ischaemia. 
Late streptokinase infusion and antithrombotic treatment in myocardial infarction reduce subsequent myocardial ischemia. Of 255 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction, 111 were eligible for attempted late thrombolysis. They were randomly assigned to either thrombolytic and antithrombotic treatment (treatment group) or routine treatment (control group). Patients in the treatment group received streptokinase initiated late (mean 32 hours; range 12 to 49) after the onset of symptoms, followed by heparin infusion for at least 5 days and warfarin and dipyridamole for at least 3 months. Patients were examined clinically and by bicycle ergometry on discharge from the hospital and after 3 and 12 months. The two groups did not differ with respect to deaths or reinfarctions. There was a trend toward a lower incidence of angina pectoris in the treatment group. Exercise tolerance in this group was significantly higher than in the control group (at 3 months 124 +/- 39 W vs 107 +/- 41 W; p less than 0.05). The difference was entirely accounted for by patients with no previous history of infarction or angina pectoris (at 3 months 142 +/- 37 W vs 112 +/- 45 W; p = 0.01). ECG signs of myocardial ischemia, silent or symptomatic, occurred at significantly lower levels of exercise among patients in the control group compared with patients in the treatment group. The results support the notion that thrombolytic therapy given as late as 12 to 49 hours after the onset of symptoms may reduce the incidence of residual ischemia during the postinfarction period. 
Use of single internal mammary artery grafts in older patients. The indications for use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass conduit in older patients are not clearly established. Between January 1985 and December 1988, 786 patients received single internal mammary artery grafts alone (717) or in conjunction with other procedures (69). Of these patients, 341 were 65 years of age or older (mean, 69.3 years). This group was compared with those patients less than 65 years of age (mean, 56.2 years). There were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of diabetes mellitus; the number of distal coronary anastomoses; left ventricular wall motion score; the frequency of isolated bypass procedures, reoperations, or emergent operations; or the durations of aortic clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass. The older group contained more women (34.9% versus 20.7%) and more patients with left main coronary artery disease (15.5% versus 9.4%) (p less than 0.01). No significant differences in the frequency of reoperation for hemorrhage, perioperative infarction, neurological deficits, requirements for intra-aortic balloon pumping, sternal wound infections, necessity for prolonged ventilatory support, or 30-day mortality (2.7% versus 3.2%) were observed. The length of postoperative hospitalization was greater in the older group (11.8 versus 10.2 days) (p = 0.02). Blinded histological examination of biopsies from 61 internal mammary artery grafts (34 patients less than 65 years, 27 patients greater than or equal to 65 years) showed no significant differences in luminal area or wall thickness. No significant degenerative changes were observed in either group. We conclude that the use of the internal mammary artery for bypass grafting in older patients is safe and may provide long-term benefit. 
Percutaneous balloon valvotomy for patients with mitral stenosis: initial and follow-up results. Percutaneous double balloon mitral valvotomy (PMV) was performed in 25 patients with severe mitral stenosis who were followed for at least 6 months after the procedure. There were 22 women and 3 men, with a mean age of 51 +/- 14 years (range, 27 to 74). Hemodynamic and angiographic findings were evaluated before and after PMV and clinical status was assessed at follow-up. There was a significant decrease in mitral gradient following PMV, from 15.4 +/- 5.1 to 5.0 +/- 2.6 mm Hg (p less than .0001); an increase in cardiac output, from 4.6 +/- 1.1 to 5.2 +/- 1.1 L/min (p less than .01); and an increase in calculated mitral valve area, from 0.9 +/- 0.2 to 2.2 +/- 0.6 cm2 (p less than 0.0001). Mitral regurgitation developed or increased in severity in six patients (24%). At the time of follow-up (mean, 12 +/- 5 months), three patients required elective mitral valve replacement for symptomatic mitral regurgitation and 91% (20 of 22) of the remaining patients had continued improvement in functional class. PMV can safely be performed in properly selected patients with symptomatic mitral stenosis with good immediate and follow-up results. 
Diurnal cardiovascular patterns in spontaneously hypertensive and Wistar-Kyoto rats. This study was designed to determine whether diurnal patterns of blood pressure, heart rate, or locomotor activity differed among two substrains of Wistar-Kyoto rats, derived originally from Charles River or Taconic Farms stock, or the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Cardiovascular parameters were continuously monitored over 24 hours. Resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure values were statistically different among the three groups both during the lights-on (rest) and lights-off (active) phases of the cycle with blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats greater than that of Wistar-Kyoto rats from Taconic Farms, which was greater than that of Wistar-Kyoto rats from Charles River. The largest difference in arterial pressure between Wistar-Kyoto/Taconic Farms and Wistar-Kyoto/Charles River was during the lights-on period. Heart rates of all rats decreased during the lights-on period; Wistar-Kyoto/Charles River had the largest decrease (-70 +/- 5 beats/min), Wistar-Kyoto/Taconic Farms had the least (-17 +/- 2 beats/min), and in spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease was intermediate (-29 +/- 3 beats/min). The pronounced diurnal variation in pressure and heart rate exhibited by Wistar-Kyoto/Charles River was not present in either Wistar-Kyoto/Taconic Farms or spontaneously hypertensive rats. Blood pressure magnitude correlated with locomotor activity during both periods, although all groups showed minimal activity during the rest period. Observed differences between Wistar-Kyoto/Charles River and Wistar-Kyoto/Taconic Farms were not due to a lack of or an abnormality in baroreceptor reflex function. 
Diagnosis of Budd-Chiari syndrome by pulsed Doppler ultrasound. Computed tomography and real-time ultrasonography may not be conclusive for the diagnosis of the Budd-Chiari syndrome; in many cases more information may be needed, especially on vascular alterations. Doppler ultrasonography provides qualitative data on flow direction and pattern, thereby contributing significantly to diagnosis. Eight cases in which hepatic vein patency was unclear and presence of intrahepatic vessels resembling hepatic veins raised problems of interpretation in real-time ultrasonography are described. In some cases, patency or occlusion of the upper portion of the inferior vena cava were difficult to identify with real-time ultrasonography. Doppler ultrasonographic investigation showed flow in the hepatic veins to be completely absent in two cases and reversed in another two. In the remaining four cases, a flat waveform was evident. Flow in the inferior vena cava was reversed in four cases and showed a flat waveform in three other cases. Portal vein thrombosis was detected in only one case, whereas the remaining seven patients showed slow hepatopetal flow. These findings demonstrate that absent or reversed flow in the hepatic veins and/or flat flow in the hepatic veins associated with reversed flow in the inferior vena cava may be considered diagnostic for the Budd-Chiari syndrome. For this series the sensitivity of Doppler ultrasonography was 87.5%. 
Complement activation and use of a cell saver in cardiopulmonary bypass. Complement activation was evaluated in ten patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and intraoperative blood salvage with a cell saver (CS) to assess the inflammatory response related to the CS. The washed red blood cell concentrate was reinfused after protamine injection. Plasma C3a was measured by radioimmunoassay preoperatively, 5 min before CPB, at 5, 60, and 90 min during CPB, 5 min after protamine infusion, at the end of surgery, and after 24 hr. In addition, a clinical score based on renal, pulmonary, neurologic, and myocardial postoperative evolution was given (0-8) to every patient. Results were compared with the C3a changes and clinical scores obtained from 26 routine (no CS) cardiac surgical patients. Results showed maximal C3a generation after protamine and no further activation in cases of CS concentrate reinfusion, which ranged from 400 ml to 2,000 ml. No difference in clinical score was observed between the CS (1 +/- 1) and control (0.85 +/- 0.6) groups. The authors conclude that the CS does not enhance complement activation resulting from extracorporeal circulation and can be safely used as a blood saving strategy in cardiac surgery. 
Clues to the electrocardiographic diagnosis of subtle Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome in children. The electrocardiographic diagnosis of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) may be missed because delta waves can be subtle in children, so we examined 66 electrocardiograms from patients with proven WPW, 24 from those with questionable WPW ("subtle WPW"), and 369 consecutive electrocardiograms from control patients to identify additional clues that WPW might be present. Three features were notable in WPW: no Q wave in left chest leads (88%), PR interval less than 100 milliseconds (80%), and left axis deviation (33%). In subtle WPW these findings were similar: 79%, 67%, and 46%, respectively. By comparison, 5% of control subjects had no Q wave, 16% had a PR interval of less than 100 milliseconds, and 4% had left axis deviation (all p less than 0.001). The coexistence of two of these features was common (74%) in WPW and subtle WPW (63%) but rare (2%) in control subjects (p less than 0.001). A PR interval of less than 100 milliseconds was less specific before 1 year of age, but 89% of patients with WPW had a QRS duration of greater than 80 milliseconds versus 2% of control subjects (p less than 0.001). Obvious WPW disappeared later in 11 patients; however, left axis deviation or lack of a Q wave persisted in eight (p less than 0.01). We conclude that the diagnosis of WPW in children, even when subtle, is suggested by the presence of these four changes. Preexcitation may persist in some patients in whom overt delta waves are no longer present. 
Whither electronic fetal monitoring? Largely based on promising animal studies, continuous electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) was introduced into clinical practice in the early 1970s. After almost 20 years of experience, it is now apparent that the anticipated benefits of this technology have not materialized. Undesirable side effects of EFM include inappropriate operative intervention for some patients and increased liability for physicians and hospitals, resulting in an increase in the costs of obstetric services. After reviewing several research studies, The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists concluded that EFM and intermittent auscultation are equivalent methods for intrapartum assessment. We have developed a protocol for the performance of intermittent auscultation, including indicated responses to different levels of bradycardia. This protocol has allowed us to substitute auscultation for EFM in a high percentage of patients using existing nursing personnel. Laboring patients should, at a minimum, receive information on both intermittent auscultation and EFM to enable them to make an informed choice of method for intrapartum fetal assessment. 
Evidence for abnormal Na+/H+ antiport activity detected by phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in exercising skeletal muscle of patients with essential hypertension. 1. Exercise-induced pH changes in skeletal muscle were studied in a group of eight subjects with essential hypertension by using 31P n.m.r. spectroscopy. 2. Leucocyte Na+/H+ antiport activity was measured in vitro in the same subjects using a pH-sensitive fluorescent dye. 3. Resting skeletal muscle pH and unstimulated leucocyte pH values were similar to those in control subjects, but increased Na+/H+ antiport activity was demonstrated in the leucocytes from hypertensive subjects by acid loading in vitro. Decreased skeletal muscle acidification and an increased rate of pH recovery was also demonstrated in vivo in these same patients during an acid load induced by isotonic exercise. 4. These findings suggest that the increased cellular Na+/H+ antiport activity, which has been demonstrated in vitro in essential hypertension, also affects the biochemical response of skeletal muscle to physiological levels of exercise. This strengthens the argument that increased Na+/H+ antiport activity in hypertension is a generalized and physiologically relevant cellular abnormality. 
Digoxin for atrial fibrillation: a drug whose time has gone? For over 200 years digitalis compounds have been used to treat atrial fibrillation. The rapid ventricular response to atrial fibrillation is frequently treated with digoxin to produce a controlled heart rate. Digoxin has also been proposed as a treatment for terminating recent-onset atrial fibrillation, for maintaining sinus rhythm after an episode of atrial fibrillation, and as prophylactic therapy in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to prevent excessive tachycardia during a paroxysm. Perhaps because it has been used for so long, few of these indications have been studied scientifically until recently. Studies now suggest that in patients with atrial fibrillation, digoxin is a poor drug for controlling heart rate during exertion, has little or no effect in terminating the arrhythmia, and may occasionally aggravate paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Despite adequate digitalization, the heart rate at the onset of a paroxysm of fibrillation in patients receiving the drug does not differ from the heart rate in patients not receiving it. This article discusses the current role of digoxin in the management of patients with chronic, recent-onset, or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. 
Renal hemodynamics in normal and hypertensive pregnancy: lessons from micropuncture. Rats are an excellent animal model in which to study the changes in renal hemodynamics associated with normal pregnancy. Midterm pregnant rats exhibit a maximal renal vasodilation leading to increases in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF). Micropuncture studies in midterm pregnant Munich-Wistar rats have shown that single-nephron GFR (SNGFR) increases, due entirely to increases in plasma flow and, importantly, glomerular capillary blood pressure (PGC) remains unchanged in normotensive pregnancy, due to parallel and proportionally similar reductions in preglomerular (RA) and efferent (RE) arteriolar resistance. Despite the chronic gestational renal vasodilation, pregnancy in normotensive rats with either normal kidneys or a variety of underlying diseases, causes no adverse changes in renal function, perhaps because the glomeruli are protected from damaging high PGC. In the presence of systemic hypertension, the renal vasodilation of pregnancy could put the maternal kidney at risk of injury due to increases in PGC. There are few renal functional studies in preexisting, essential hypertension, but micropuncture studies in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) have shown that repetitive pregnancies in SHRs cause no functional impairment. Surprisingly, SHRs demonstrated no gestational renal vasodilation, although gestational decreases in peripheral resistance certainly occur in the SHR. This absence of gestational renal vasodilation may be a protective mechanism; it remains to be determined whether hypertensive states in which renal vasodilation does occur are associated with increased risk to the maternal kidney. 
The flail mitral valve: echocardiographic findings by precordial and transesophageal imaging and Doppler color flow mapping. To determine the echocardiographic and Doppler characteristics of mitral regurgitation associated with a flail mitral valve, precordial and transesophageal echocardiography with pulsed wave and Doppler color flow mapping was performed in 17 patients with a flail mitral valve leaflet due to ruptured chordae tendineae (Group I) and 22 patients with moderate or severe mitral regurgitation due to other causes (Group II). Echocardiograms were performed before or during cardiac surgery; cardiac catheterization was also performed in 28 patients (72%). Mitral valve disease was confirmed at cardiac surgery in all patients. By echocardiography, the presence of a flail mitral valve leaflet was defined by the presence of abnormal mitral leaflet coaptation or ruptured chordae. Using these criteria, transesophageal imaging showed a trend toward greater sensitivity and specificity than precordial imaging in the diagnosis of flail mitral valve leaflet. By Doppler color flow mapping, a flail mitral valve leaflet was also characterized by an eccentric, peripheral, circular mitral regurgitant jet that closely adhered to the walls of the left atrium. The direction of flow of the eccentric jet in the left atrium distinguished a flail anterior from a flail posterior leaflet. By transesophageal echocardiography with Doppler color flow mapping, the ratio of mitral regurgitant jet arc length to radius of curvature was significantly higher in Group I than Group II patients (5.0 +/- 2.3 versus 0.7 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.001); all of the Group I patients and none of the Group II patients had a ratio greater than 2.5. 
Effect of captopril on renal function in hypertensive dogs with unilateral renal artery stenosis, studied with radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy. The kidneys of five hypertensive dogs with experimental unilateral renal artery stenosis were examined by 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) and 131I-hippuran radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy at 10 and 40 min (respectively) following the administration of intravenous bolus injections of captopril. Doses of 0.2, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg captopril reduced mean arterial pressure by 33 +/- 4, 31 +/- 7, and 51 +/- 4 mm Hg and increased plasma renin activity by 40.1 +/- 9.8, 57.6 +/- 3.2, and 34.4 +/- 15.2 ng A1/mL/h, respectively. The time-activity curves of both 99mTc-DTPA and 131I-hippuran indicated that renal excretory function in the stenotic kidney was compromised with all three doses of captopril. However, if nitroprusside was used to reduce the mean arterial pressure to a level comparable to that with captopril, there was no appreciable increase in plasma renin activity and renal excretory function was only partially affected in the stenotic kidney. One hour after the administration of 0.5 mg/kg captopril, the function of the stenotic kidneys was partially restored and, by two hours, the time-activity curves were comparable to control scans. These data demonstrate a reversible, time-limited suppression of stenotic kidney function by captopril in renovascular hypertension and provide support for the use of captopril in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension by radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy. 
The J-curve phenomenon and the treatment of hypertension. Is there a point beyond which pressure reduction is dangerous? We critically appraised the medical literature to evaluate whether there is a point beyond which blood pressure reduction in hypertensive subjects is no longer beneficial and possibly even deleterious. Thirteen studies that stratified cardiovascular outcomes by level of achieved blood pressure in treated hypertensive subjects who had been followed up for at least 1 year were critiqued by four independent reviewers. Data addressing population, protocol, and methodological characteristics were evaluated. Studies did not show a consistent J-shaped relationship between treated blood pressure and stroke, but they did demonstrate a consistent J-shaped relationship for cardiac events and diastolic blood pressure. The beneficial therapeutic threshold point was 85 mm Hg. We conclude that low treated diastolic blood pressure levels, ie, below 85 mm Hg, are associated with increased risk of cardiac events. 
Myocardial perfusion imaging with technetium-99m sestamibi SPECT in the evaluation of coronary artery disease. Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi is a new myocardial perfusion imaging agent that offers significant advantages over thallium-201 (Tl-201) for myocardial perfusion imaging. The results of the current clinical trials using acquisition and processing parameters similar to those for Tl-201 and a separate (2-day) injection protocol suggest that Tc-99m sestamibi and Tl-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provide similar information with respect to detection of myocardial perfusion defects, assessment of the pattern of defect reversibility, overall detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) and detection of disease in individual coronary arteries. Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT appears to be superior to Tc-99m sestamibi planar imaging because the former provides a higher defect contrast and is more accurate for detection of disease in individual coronary arteries. Research is currently under way addressing optimization of acquisition and processing of Tc-99m sestamibi studies and development of quantitative algorithms for detection and localization of CAD and sizing of transmural and nontransmural myocardial perfusion defects. It is expected that with the implementation of the final results of these new developments, further significant improvement in image quality will be attained, which in turn will further increase the confidence in image interpretation. Development of algorithms for analysis of end-diastolic myocardial images may allow better evaluation of small and nontransmural myocardial defects. Furthermore, gated studies may provide valuable information with respect to regional myocardial wall motion and wall thickening. With the implementation of algorithms for attenuation and scatter correction, the overall specificity of Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT should improve significantly because of a substantial decrease in the occurrence of attenuation-related image artifacts. 
Comparison between perindopril and nifedipine in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. Melbourne Diabetic Nephropathy Study Group OBJECTIVE--To compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. DESIGN--Randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive. Patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive. SETTING--Diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals. PATIENTS--50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria. In all, 43 completed the study: 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive; 19 had type I diabetes and 24 had type II diabetes. INTERVENTIONS--For 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Albumin excretion rate, blood pressure, and glomerular filtration rate. RESULTS--Both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure. During treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure. Stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure. There was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs. In hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria. In normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen. CONCLUSIONS--In diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion. Perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion, both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients. 
Medical management of chronic heart failure: inotropic, vasodilator, or inodilator drugs? On the basis of pathophysiologic mechanisms, the medical therapy of today for chronic heart failure is reviewed. The advantages and disadvantages of the vasodilator drugs and the inotropic drugs are presented. Finally, the therapeutic value of the inodilator drugs, which combine the central myocardial effects of positive inotropic agents with those of peripheral vasodilators, is discussed. In particular, the orally available dopaminergic agents, such as ibopamine, which interact with beta-receptors in the heart (mediating a positive inotropic effect) as well as with dopaminergic receptors in the peripheral vessels (mediating a systemic vasodilator effect) and in the kidneys (potentiating the natriuretic effect of diuresis), seem to be an advancement in the modern medical therapy of chronic heart failure. Data are shown during long-term treatment with ibopamine, in which the sustained clinical benefit in heart failure was not diminished, despite a decrease of the adrenergic receptors in blood cells. Dopamine plasma concentration was permanently normalized during long-term treatment. The discrepancy between clinical improvement and the measured adrenergic downregulation may be due to the interference of the inodilator with neurohormonal systems at multiple sites and is probably independent of receptor activation. It is suggested that the biosynthesis of noradrenaline is improved by increasing intracellular dopamine transport. 
Verapamil increases serum alkaline phosphatase in hypertensive patients. In rats, verapamil decreases intestinal absorption of calcium, increases serum parathyroid hormone (PTH), and induces osteopenia. In this prospective study, verapamil 80-120 mg three times daily was given for 2 months to 20 patients with hypertension, and the effects on calcium homeostasis were recorded. This dose of verapamil significantly reduced supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure (+/- SD) from 158/100 +/- 9/8 mmHg to 146/89 +/- 14/8 mmHg (P = 0.001). Serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) increased significantly from 2.77 +/- 1.06 mu kat l-1 to 3.19 +/- 1.22 mu kat l-1 (P = 0.004), and isoenzymes of ALP of skeletal origin appeared after verapamil treatment. The excretion of sodium in the urine increased (Na/creatinine ratio 8.95 +/- 6.01 before and 13.16 +/- 8.26 after verapamil; P = 0.04), while the excretion of calcium, phosphate and potassium was not changed. PTH was slightly increased at the end of verapamil treatment (1.09 +/- 0.54 vs. 0.98 +/- 0.74 microgram l-1; P = 0.07), and s-1,25(OH)2D3 was also somewhat increased (22.3 +/- 14.4 vs. 17.6 +/- 4.9 ng l-1; P = 0.26). Serum Ca was not affected by verapamil (before verapamil 2.43 +/- 0.11 mmol l-1, after verapamil 2.40 +/- 0.12 mmol l-1; P = 0.28). The increase in serum ALP demonstrates that verapamil affects bone cell metabolism in man. This effect could be secondary to the enhancement of PTH secretion. 
Diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Hypertension and diabetes mellitus are chronic medical conditions that frequently coexist. In the United States, it is estimated that 10 million persons suffer from diabetes mellitus, 60 million from hypertension, and 3 million from the combination of the two. There may be a causal relationship between hypertension and diabetes. Obesity may be a precipitating factor for both hypertension and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Those with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus generally become hypertensive only with the onset of nephropathy. Glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and hyperinsulinemia frequently occur with essential hypertension and may be aggravated by hypertension therapy, especially with diuretics and beta-blockers. Hyperinsulinemia may be an important common factor promoting sodium retention, sympathetic nervous system stimulation, and inhibition of the sodium pump. The Working Group on Hypertension in Diabetes has outlined a flexible modified version of the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension in diabetes. Management is complex because diabetes is associated with autonomic neuropathy, sexual dysfunction, hyperlipidemia, and fluid and electrolyte disorders. All these problems can be exacerbated by antihypertensive treatment. Nonpharmacologic measures, which address weight reduction and sodium restriction, are logical, but aggressive antihypertensive medication is invariably necessary. Diuretics and/or beta-blockers were the mainstay of treatment until the introduction of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. These newer agents have no deleterious effects on carbohydrate metabolism and are generally better tolerated. Antihypertensive therapy may slow the rate of deterioration in diabetic nephropathy. This was first shown with diuretics, beta-blockers, and hydralazine and more recently with ACE inhibitors, which provide effective blood pressure control and a significant drop in albuminuria without affecting the glomerular filtration rate adversely. ACE inhibition may also lead to increased insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal rate. Long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of these new agents on the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic population. 
Renal function in the elderly: results from the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly trial. Effects of antihypertensive treatment on renal function were analyzed in data from a prospective, double-blind investigation of 840 patients randomly assigned to placebo or to active treatment with a combination of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Baseline serum creatinine levels were significantly and positively correlated to age, gender (higher in men), systolic blood pressure, and history of cardiovascular complications. During a five-year follow-up period, serum creatinine levels increased significantly in treated patients but not in placebo patients. Five patients died of renal causes (one in the placebo group, four in the treated group), and five patients dropped out of the study because of an increase in serum creatinine of more than 100% (four received active treatment). The incidence of renal complications in the hypertensive elderly is small. The current data do not support the hypothesis that renal deterioration can be prevented by antihypertensive treatment. 
Prospective evaluation of a protocol for induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in patients referred to a tertiary centre. All eight stages of a stimulation protocol that used one then two extrastimuli from the right ventricular apex in sinus rhythm and three ventricular drive rates (100, 120, and 140 beats/min) were performed in 24 patients with recurrent spontaneous sustained ventricular tachycardia despite drug treatment. Twenty two of the patients had sustained a previous myocardial infarct and 18 were on long term treatment with amiodarone. Sustained (greater than 30 s) ventricular tachycardia was induced in all patients. Two extrastimuli were significantly more likely to induce sustained ventricular tachycardia than one extrastimulus, both overall and individually for the three ventricular drive rates. A ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min was significantly more likely to induce ventricular tachycardia than ventricular drive rates of 100 and 120 beats/min which were significantly more effective than sinus rhythm. A ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli induced ventricular tachycardia in 23/24 (95%) of the patients in this study. The full eight stage protocol was progressive separately for both extrastimuli and ventricular drive rate but the last two stages (ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli) were as effective as the entire protocol in inducing ventricular tachycardia. 
Left ventricular hypertrophy in elderly hypertensive patients: a report from the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly trial. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 840 elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to treatment with a combination of hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene or placebo; methyldopa or matching placebo was added to the treatment regimen if blood pressures remained high. After adjustment for age, gender, and body mass index, initial electrocardiographic (ECG) voltage measures of RaVL and SV1 + RV5 were significantly related to systolic blood pressure; RaVL was also related to diastolic blood pressure. After one year of treatment, the decrease in RaVL and SV1 + RV5 in the treated patients, adjusted for age and body mass index, were not correlated with the changes in systolic blood pressure, but the decreases in SV1 + RV5 were positively related to the decrease in diastolic blood pressure. After four years of treatment, the decreases in RaVL and SV1 + RV5 were significantly and positively related to the decrease in systolic blood pressure after adjustment for age and changes in body mass index. In a four-year cohort of 222 patients, most of the decreases in ECG voltages in the treated patients and the increases in the placebo patients were found to have occurred during the first year of treatment. The type of treatment (diuretics alone or diuretics plus methyldopa) did not affect ECG voltages during the first year of follow-up. Total and cardiovascular mortality were related to initial amplitude of RaVL, but the significant correlation disappeared after adjustment for age. 
Residual atrial septal perforation after percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy with Inoue balloon catheter. To estimate the incidence of residual atrial septal perforation (ASP) following percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy (PTMC) with the Inoue balloon catheter and to examine the factors contributing to ASP, we studied 46 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing PTMC. Residual ASP was evaluated by Doppler color flow imaging 1 day after PTMC, and was detected in 7 out of 46 patients (15.2%). We examined the relationship between the development of ASP (ASP+) and the age of the patient, the left atrial dimension before PTMC, the mean pressure difference between left and right atrium after PTMC, and the duration of the procedure from atrial septal puncture by the Brockenbrough method to balloon inflation. There was a good correlation between the development of residual ASP and the duration of the procedure (ASP+, 51.0 +/- 34.0 minutes; without ASP, 24.6 +/- 16.2 minutes; p less than 0.01). However, there was no significant correlation between the development of ASP and other factors. In the follow-up study, ASP disappeared in four patients within 3 months. ASP persisted in two patients for 1 year after PTMC. However, the shunt in these two patients was clinically insignificant. These data suggest that residual ASP may depend on the duration of the procedure, and that most cases of ASP disappear within 1 year after PTMC. 
Misplaced caval filter and subsequent pericardial tamponade. Use of the Greenfield filter for partial caval interruption is generally accepted as the most reliable mechanical method of pulmonary embolus prophylaxis. However, there have been reports of a variety of (usually nonfatal) complications. We report here the near-fatal complication of acute pericardial tamponade after misplacement of a Greenfield filter. Because of the filter's unusual location, retrieval required cardiopulmonary bypass, profound hyperthermia, and circulatory arrest. 
Pulmonary embolism presenting as exercise-induced hypotension. A 68-year-old man with remote history of previous myocardial infarction presented with a four-week history of intermittent dyspnea. After developing hypotension during an exercise tolerance test, he underwent cardiac catheterization, revealing significant pulmonary hypertension and two-vessel coronary artery disease. Pulmonary angiography confirmed the presence of pulmonary emboli which partially resolved after thrombolytic therapy. Subsequent treadmill testing confirmed the absence of exercise-induced hypotension two months following treatment. This case underscores the importance of considering pulmonary embolism as a potential cause of exercise-induced hypotension, since it can be successfully treated with thrombolytic agents weeks after the initial onset of symptoms. 
A standard heparin nomogram for the management of heparin therapy. A nomogram for the adjustment of heparin dosage was developed to standardize heparin therapy and to reduce delays in achieving and maintaining a therapeutic activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) result. Fifty consecutive patients with acute venous thromboembolism had their continuous intravenous heparin therapy adjusted according to this heparin nomogram. The effect of the nomogram on heparin therapy in these patients was compared with data from 53 historical control patients. The proportion of patients in the nomogram group who reached a therapeutic APTT at 24 hours after the start of heparin therapy was 66%, which increased to 81% at 48 hours. In contrast, 37% and 58% of the control patients reached a therapeutic APTT at 24 and 48 hours, respectively. The percentage of therapeutic APTT results of the total number of APTT determinations was greater in the nomogram patients than controls. The use of this heparin nomogram resulted in (1) achieving a therapeutic APTT at 24 and 48 hours in a large proportion of patients and (2) reduced periods of inadequate anticoagulation and overanticoagulation during heparin therapy. 
Alternative technique for repair of sinus venosus atrial septal defect. A technique is described for closure of a sinus venosus atrial septal defect using a single patch held in place by sutures placed from outside the right atrium and underneath the superior vena cava. The superior vena cava does not require enlargement and potential damage to the artery to the sinoatrial node is avoided. 
Effects of calcium channel blockers on coronary vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 in closed chest pigs. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of endothelin-1 on the coronary vascular bed of closed chest pigs. Endothelin-1 (3 to 30 pmol/kg body weight) was selectively administered into the left anterior descending coronary artery. Coronary blood flow and epicardial vessel diameter were measured by quantitative arteriography. Arterial pressure increased after a 30 pmol/kg dose and heart rate was not changed. Coronary blood flow and vessel diameter of the left anterior descending artery significantly decreased by 74% and 32%, respectively (p less than 0.01 versus control) after the 30 pmol/kg dose, whereas these variables modestly decreased in the left circumflex artery. Endothelin-1 in doses of 10 to 30 pmol/kg produced electrocardiographic ST segment elevation associated with decreased oxygen saturation of coronary sinus venous blood. Endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction was significantly inhibited after treatment with intravenous diltiazem (0.2 mg/kg, n = 6) or nifedipine (0.1 mg/kg, n = 5), but not after vehicle administration (n = 4). This study demonstrates that intracoronary administration of endothelin-1 causes significant myocardial ischemia through coronary vasoconstriction, which is inhibited by a calcium channel blocker. The data suggest that calcium influx into the smooth muscle cells appears to be involved at least in part in the mechanism of endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction in vivo. 
Effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia during exercise and during daily activity. The antiischemic properties of nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were assessed in a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial by repeated exercise testing and 72-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in 82 patients with coronary artery disease. Patients with positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes per 24 hours were included in this study. Administration of all chronic antiischemic medications except beta blockers were discontinued. During the first week all patients received placebo twice daily. During the second and third weeks, 41 patients received nisoldipine 10 mg and 41 patients received placebo twice daily. In the placebo group there were no changes in exercise parameters or in ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters. In the nisoldipine group, exercise duration increased from 403 to 448 seconds (p = 0.0035), time to 1 mm of ST depression increased from 224 to 298 seconds (p = 0.002), time to pain increased from 241 to 321 seconds (p = 0.01), and maximal ST depression was reduced from 2.6 to 2.3 mm (p = 0.002). Among the ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters in the nisoldipine group, only the number of episodes was reduced, from 14.4 to 11.6 (p = 0.0013) per patient. There was no significant reduction in total ischemic time (132 vs 120 minutes per patient). No significant side effects were observed. This is the largest clinical trial to date on the effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia. The results indicate that nisoldipine was effective in improving all exercise parameters and only partially effective in suppressing ischemia during daily activity. 
Preclinical pharmacology of celiprolol: a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist and mild vasodilator. Celiprolol is a new antihypertensive agent that represents a new generation of beta-blockers. It combines cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonism (beta 1) with a mild vasodilation via vasoselective beta-adrenergic agonism (beta 2). Results of animal studies show that celiprolol has beta 1-antagonist potency similar to that of propranolol and atenolol, and cardioselectivity slightly greater than that of atenolol. Celiprolol does not produce bronchoconstriction but has mild propranolol-resistant bronchodilatory properties in cats. The compound also relaxes vascular smooth muscle in a propranolol-sensitive fashion, suggesting a mechanism of beta 2-agonism. The beta 2-agonism results in a selective downregulation in beta 2-receptor number and response in tissue culture, as well as in peripheral tissue from celiprolol-treated volunteers. The decreases in beta 2-receptors are blocked by concomitant treatment with propranolol. Celiprolol is devoid of cardiac depressant activity and in fact has mild cardiostimulatory actions. The cardiostimulation is not via beta 1-stimulation, since it is not abolished by beta-blocking doses of propranolol. In a model of severe myocardial ischemia, celiprolol attenuates the ischemia-induced myocardial acidosis and improves the regional segment function. These results are suggestive of myocardial protection. In summary, celiprolol distinguishes itself from other beta-blockers by virtue of its cardioselectivity, vasorelaxation via beta 2-agonism, and the lack of bronchoconstriction and cardiodepression. These properties observed in animal studies have also been documented in clinical trials. 
Endovascular management of arterial intimal defects: an experimental comparison by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasonography. To determine the feasibility of the endovascular management of intimal defects while comparing the accuracy of arteriography with angioscopy and intravascular ultrasonography, we developed an in vivo model of arterial intimal flaps. In 10 superficial femoral arteries of five anesthetized mongrel dogs, intimal flaps were constructed and then imaged by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. A flexible microbiopsy forceps was used to remove each intimal flap under angioscopic guidance. Arteriographic lumen diameters were measured and cross-sectional areas calculated. Corresponding measurements by angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound with reduction in luminal area at the flap were obtained by use of computerized planimetry. Uniplanar arteriography identified 60% (6/10) of the intimal flaps, whereas angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound demonstrated 100%. Lumen diameter (in millimeters) measured by arteriography (3.4 +/- 0.6) correlated significantly with measurements by angioscopy (3.5 +/- 0.5, r = 0.77) and intravascular ultrasound (3.5 +/- 0.6, r = 0.96). Similarly, lumen area (square millimeters) by arteriography (9.2 +/- 2.9) correlated with measurements by angioscopy (8.9 +/- 2.2, r = 0.82) and intravascular ultrasound (8.6 +/- 2.7, r = 0.91). Reduction in lumen area by the flap by angioscopy (37 +/- 7%) and intravascular ultrasound (33 +/- 8%) also correlated significantly (r = 0.72). The intimal flaps were removed successfully in all 10 arteries as confirmed by arteriography, angioscopy, and intravascular ultrasound. We conclude that the endovascular management of intimal defects is possible. Additionally, angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound accurately evaluate lumen diameter and area while providing direct assessment of intimal defects. 
How ancient is temporal arteritis? Realism is one of the characteristics of Amarnian art; some details of The Harpist represented in the tomb of Pa-Aton-Em-Heb (1350 BC, 18th Dynasty) might gives clues to a diagnosis: the eyes are closed with swollen lids, and the harpist appears to stare into space; he is round shouldered with a very wasted face, his temporal ara is heightened and hollowed by a broken line joining the extremity of the eyebrow with the corner of the eye. These details are not found elsewhere. Did the harpist's blindness result from temporal arteritis associated to polymyalgia rheumatica?. 
Regulation of fibrillar collagen types I and III and basement membrane type IV collagen gene expression in pressure overloaded rat myocardium. Left ventricular hypertrophy is based on cardiac myocyte growth. The hypertrophic process can be considered heterogeneous based on whether it also includes a remodeling and accumulation of fibrillar types I and III collagens that are responsible for impaired myocardial stiffness. In the heart, the messenger RNA (mRNA) for fibrillar collagen types I and III has been detected only in cardiac fibroblasts, whereas mRNA for basement membrane collagen type IV is present in both fibroblasts and myocytes. We studied the early and long-term expression of these collagenous proteins in rat myocardium after abdominal aortic banding with renal ischemia. Complementary DNA probes for rat pro-alpha 2 (I), mouse type III and mouse type IV collagens, and chicken beta-actin were used. Northern and dot blot analysis on total RNA extracted from left ventricular tissue indicated a sixfold increase in steady-state levels of mRNA for collagen type I on day 3 of abdominal aortic banding, which had declined to control levels by day 7 where it remained rather constant at 4 and 8 weeks. Type III collagen showed a similar pattern of gene expression after banding. mRNA levels for type IV collagen, on the other hand, were elevated on day 1 after banding, returning to control at day 7 and remaining constant. Actin mRNA levels also increased on day 1 of banding, followed by a rapid return to control levels. Monospecific antibody to types I and III collagens and immunofluorescent light microscopy on frozen sections of the myocardium revealed that at 1 week after banding, the distribution and density of these collagens were similar to those of control animals. 
Influence of low osmolality contrast media on electrophysiology and hemodynamics in coronary angiography: differences between an ionic (ioxaglate) and a nonionic (iohexol) agent. It has recently been suggested that the addition of sodium to low osmolality contrast media may reduce the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and conduction disturbances during coronary angiography. In a randomized, double blind study of 30 patients undergoing coronary angiography we therefore examined the electrophysiological and hemodynamic effects of the two low osmolality contrast media-ioxaglate (with sodium) and iohexol (without sodium). Standard ECG, aortic blood pressure, and His bundle electrocardiogram were recorded. The contrast media were well tolerated and no serious arrhythmias were observed. Both induced a transient decrement in systolic blood pressure and reduction in heart rate 10 s following contrast injection (all P less than 0.01). Ioxaglate prolonged the QT interval at 10 s (P less than 0.01) and also when analysed for the whole observation period (120 s) (P less than 0.05), whereas iohexol did not cause any significant changes in the QT-interval. The AH-interval was prolonged by ioxaglate at 10 s (P less than 0.01), but not altered by iohexol. Thus, other factors than osmolality and sodium content might contribute to QT prolongation, since only the contrast agents with sodium (ioxaglate) induced QT prolongation in this study. 
Life events and difficulties preceding stroke. Life events and difficulties were recorded for the year before stroke, using a standardised semi-structured interview, in 113 surviving patients seen after their first ever in a lifetime stroke. An age and sex-matched control group (n = 109) was also interviewed about the preceding year. The stroke patients reported fewer non-threatening events and events with only a short-term threat, while difficulties were reported with equal frequency by the two groups. However, events which were severely threatening in the long-term were significantly more common in the stroke patients (in the 52 weeks before stroke 26% versus 13%, odds ratio 2.3, 95% confidence interval 1.1-4.9). The increased rate was apparent throughout the year and not just in the weeks immediately before stroke onset. The number of stroke patients experiencing severe events in the follow up year fell to the level found in the control group. Recognised risk factors for stroke were found equally in those patients with and without severe events before onset, except that hypertension was rather less common in the patients who had experienced a severe event. It therefore appears that severe life events may be one of the determinants of stroke onset. 
A perspective on reducing salt intake. Epidemiological, clinical, and experimental evidence links excessive salt consumption to hypertension; there appears to be no evidence that it is beneficial. I conclude that it should be public policy to advise and help Americans to reduce their salt intake. Because even mild hypertension increases risk, the overall problem does not appear to be amenable to treatment, although treatment for those with clinical hypertension will always be needed. There appears to be little likelihood that identification of those "at risk" will be successful, nor does it appear that we have the capacity at this time to conduct successful preventive field trials. It is difficult for the individual to modify his diet alone. The successful strategy is to modify the food supply by changing public demand. The public responds to dietary advice if acceptable and identifiable products are available. Because most of the salt is in commercially prepared foods and because their consumption will increase in the future, the major responsibility for lowering salt consumption will fall on the food manufacturers. They are beginning to respond, and there appears to be ample opportunity for them to reduce the salt content of foods markedly. Our temporary objectives, however, should be modest, because unrealistic objectives only discourage those who attempt to follow them. 
Immediate preoperative phlebotomy with autologous blood donation for aortic replacement. The preferential use of autologous blood provided by phlebotomy can reduce the need for homologous blood transfusion in patients undergoing extensive elective operations. This blood is usually provided either by intraoperative isovolemic hemodilution or phlebotomy one to two weeks preoperatively. To minimize the intraoperative time delay or preoperative period between phlebotomy and operation required in these patients, we performed preoperative isovolemic hemodilution in 69 patients one to two days prior to elective aortic replacement for infrarenal aneurysmal disease. Patients underwent phlebotomy a mean of 0.57 +/- 0.01 liter of whole blood; volume was replaced with lactated Ringer's solution. Hematocrit levels decreased from a mean value of 42.9 +/- 0.4 per cent to 33.7 +/- 0.3 per cent. Mean intraoperative blood loss was 1.2 +/- 0.05 liters. Hemodynamic parameters (blood pressure, cardiac output, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, central venous pressure, oxygen delivery and systemic vascular resistance) remained stable throughout the perioperative and intraoperative time periods. In addition, we evaluated the technical modification of exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy (n = 50) versus open aneurysmorraphy (n = 19) on reduction of intraoperative homologous blood transfusion in these patients. Seventy-two per cent (36 of 50) of patients whose aneurysms were excluded received no homologous blood intraoperatively. Blood loss was decreased in the excluded versus open aneurysmorraphy group, 920 +/- 90 milliliters versus 2,030 +/- 250 milliliters, as were homologous blood transfusion requirements, 175 +/- 35 milliliters versus 570 +/- 119 milliliters. Two patients died (2.9 per cent mortality rate), and there was no increase in morbidity. Surgical treatment of large aortic aneurysms is frequently performed on an urgent basis; thus, provision of autologous blood for this operation in a short period of time may be beneficial. Isovolemic hemodilution performed during the immediate preoperative period can reduce homologous blood requirements and be safely performed without adverse effects on mortality, morbidity and myocardial performance. Exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy may further reduce dependence on homologous blood. 
HIV-associated myocarditis. Pathology and immunopathology. Autopsy studies of AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) patients showed a high incidence of myocarditis. To attain a better understanding of the pathogenesis, the pathology and immunopathology of nine endomyocardial biopsies with active myocarditis from 18 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients were systematically characterized. These were compared with 17 biopsies with active myocarditis from patients without AIDS risk factors. In both groups, the myocarditis consisted of either multifocal or interstitial infiltrates of small lymphocytes and isolated myocyte necrosis. The lymphocytes consisted of T cells (CD2+, CD3+) and cells not identified by the usual markers. B cells, monocytes, CD4+ cells, and natural killer (NK) cells were only rarely observed. All of the HIV-positive patients but only 7 of 17 non-HIV patients had CD8+ lymphocytes in the infiltrates (P less than 0.01). The arteriolar endothelium demonstrated induced class I (HLA-A, B, C) and II (HLA-DR) antigens in both groups. In situ hybridization for HIV-1 failed to identify the virus in the specimens. The immunopathology is consistent with a cell-mediated injury to the myocytes in HIV-positive patients and is similar to a subgroup of myocarditis in the non-HIV group. 
Aspirin reduces the growth of medial and neointimal thickenings in balloon-injured rat carotid arteries. We analyzed the effect of Aspirin on the growth of experimentally induced vascular thickenings in rat carotid arteries. Vascular thickenings were induced by denudation of the endothelium in the left carotid artery with a balloon catheter. Administration of Aspirin-rich food (17.4 g/kg body wt/day) was started 1 week before and continued 2 weeks after injury. Nine rats were used. A control group of equal size received normal food. Sizes of the tunica media, the neointima, and the open vessel lumen were measured on cross sections of carotid segments with the aid of a videomorphometry system. The results show that in the Aspirin group, neointimal lesions are significantly smaller than in the control group (0.14 mm2 versus 0.23 mm2; p less than 0.5). Thickenings of the tunica media are also reduced (0.11 mm2 versus 0.12 mm2; p less than 0.5). It is suggested that Aspirin reduces both medial hypertrophy and neointimal outgrowth in injury-induced atherosclerosis. 
Buerger's colour. Cyanosis of the hands and feet in Buerger's disease is known as 'Buerger's colour'. This characteristic skin colour is produced by the subpapillary venous plexus. The reactions of the subpapillary venous plexus in patients with Buerger's disease were observed by analysing the fractional blood volume of tissue using a visible light reflective spectrophotometer. Capillary morphology was investigated using an intravital video-microscopic system. Twenty-seven subjects, comprising 13 normals and 14 patients with Buerger's disease, were studied. In the nailbeds of patients with Buerger's disease, an increase in the number of loops, cyanotic colour change and dilatation were observed. In this condition there was incompetence of venular tonus and regurgitation at venular valves. Buerger's colour is probably due to excessive congestion of venous blood in the subpapillary venous plexus which is produced by these mechanisms. 
Thromboxane A2 and development of genetic hypertension in the Lyon rat strain. To determine whether the increased renal biosynthesis of thromboxane A2 observed in young genetically hypertensive rats of the Lyon strain could be involved in the development of their hypertension, Lyon hypertensive female rats received either thromboxane synthetase inhibitors (Dazmegrel or OKY 046) or a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist (AH 23848) during their prehypertensive stage. Treatment from 5 to 9 weeks of age with Dazmegrel failed to reduce systolic blood pressure. When given from 3 to 9 weeks of age, Dazmegrel and OKY 046 induced a similar progressive and specific reduction (60%) in the urinary excretion of thromboxane B2 that was associated with a transient decrease in blood pressure level with Dazmegrel and a longer lasting blood pressure-lowering effect with OKY 046. AH 23848, given according to the same schedule, normalized the blood pressure level. This effect persisted 1 week after the cessation of the treatment. Interestingly, active doses of thromboxane synthetase inhibitors or of thromboxane A2 receptor blocker required a 3-week delay to exhibit their antihypertensive properties. It is concluded that 1) the elevated production of thromboxane A2 observed in young Lyon hypertensive rats is likely to participate actively in their blood pressure regulation and 2) this effect may be independent of its direct vasoconstrictor properties. 
Logistic discriminant analysis improves diagnostic accuracy of exercise testing for coronary artery disease in women. BACKGROUND. Diagnostic accuracy of the exercise electrocardiogram in women has been shown to be limited for the detection of coronary artery disease. New diagnostic methods based on computer analysis of the exercise electrocardiogram and multivariate analysis have improved the diagnostic value of exercise testing in male subjects. The aim of the present study was to assess whether the diagnostic value of exercise testing can be enhanced in women by using multivariate analysis of exercise data. METHODS AND RESULTS. Between 1978 and 1984, 135 infarct-free women underwent exercise testing and coronary angiography. Significant coronary artery disease was present in 41% of the patients. In this first group, maximal exercise variables were submitted to a stepwise logistic analysis. Work load, heart rate, and ST60X were selected to build a diagnostic model. The model was tested in a second group of 115 catheterized women (significant coronary artery disease in 47%) and of 76 volunteers. We compared the present model with conventional analysis of the exercise electrocardiogram, with ST changes adjusted for heart rate, and with a previously described analysis. In both groups, sensitivity was better with the present model (66% and 70%) than by conventional (68% and 59%) and by the previously described analysis (57% and 44%) without a loss of specificity (85% and 93%). Receiver-operator characteristic curves showed also a better diagnostic accuracy with the present model. CONCLUSIONS. In women, logistic analysis of exercise variables improves the diagnostic value of exercise testing. It yields a significantly better sensitivity without a loss of specificity. 
Myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations in patients undergoing cardiac transplantation. Myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations were measured at multiple sites in the explanted heart in four patients who underwent cardiac transplantation. Patients were taking amiodarone, 200 to 400 mg/day (mean 300 +/- 115), for 88 to 428 days (mean 229 +/- 148). The mean cumulative dose was 58 +/- 21.3 g. Plasma amiodarone concentration in three subjects was 204, 312 and 419 ng/ml and desethylamiodarone concentration was 268, 513 and 880 ng/ml, respectively. Significant interindividual variability in myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone was observed (p less than 0.05). Mean myocardial amiodarone concentration ranged from 4 +/- 1.0 to 29 +/- 17.2 micrograms/g (p less than 0.05); mean desethylamiodarone concentration ranged from 22 +/- 8.8 to 141 +/- 102.5 micrograms/g (p less than 0.05). At each site, save for fat, myocardial desethylamiodarone concentration was higher than amiodarone concentration. Greater intraindividual variability was observed in myocardial desethylamiodarone compared with amiodarone concentration particularly in septal and scar tissue (p = NS). No significant relation was found between myocardial concentration and duration of treatment. In patients with significant ventricular disease, usefulness of plasma amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentration to estimate myocardial concentration is limited by intra- and interindividual variability. 
From the parallel group design to the crossover design, and from the group approach to the individual approach. The consequences of heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs for the clinical development programs of new antihypertensive drugs and for the care of the individual hypertensive patient have not previously been sufficiently recognized. They play a role in the inappropriate choice of too-high daily doses of some antihypertensive drugs at the end of extensive international development programs. They are also implicated in the insufficient control of blood pressure observed in the long-term multicenter trials in hypertension, where some patients have been treated for several years with drugs that were not the most appropriate for their disease and which did not adequately control their blood pressure. In addition to the parallel group studies, the use of double-blind two-period or multiple period crossover designs can provide valid data for the dose-finding of new antihypertensive drugs and their comparative evaluation. At the end of the trial, these designs also offer each patient the opportunity to be treated with the right dose of the drug most appropriate for his or her disease. 
Relation between sodium intake, renal function, and the regulation of arterial pressure. The long-term regulation of arterial pressure requires the maintenance of a balance between sodium and water intake and sodium and water excretion. Normal salt and water balance leads to stable body fluid volumes and the maintenance of normal renal function is critical to establishing extracellular fluid volume homeostasis. This review focuses on the role of the kidney in the long-term control of salt and water balance with particular emphasis on the relations between sodium intake, the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, renal sympathetic nerve activity, and the regulation of arterial pressure via renal sodium and water excretion. The accumulation of evidence in recent years demonstrates that low level elevation of renin release, circulating angiotensin II or aldosterone, or activation of renal sympathetic outflow may alter renal function such that normal natriuretic and diuretic responses to arterial pressure are significantly impeded. Under these circumstances, the maintenance of normal sodium and water excretion requires a significant elevation of arterial pressure. Thus, compromised renal function leads to elevation of arterial pressure to maintain adequate sodium and water balance during periods of increased sodium intake. The resultant chronic elevation of arterial pressure then becomes a compromise that is used by the kidneys to maintain normal extracellular body fluid volumes. 
Bronchial hyperreactivity in patients with mitral valve disease. To elicit the mechanism of bronchial hyperreactivity (BHR) in chronic heart failure (CHF), a methacholine inhalation test, pulmonary function test, and cardiac catheterization were performed in 19 patients with mitral valve disease (MVD), and the change of severity of BHR before and after mitral valve replacement (MVR) was also examined in seven of 19 patients with MVD. Sixteen of 19 patients with MVD showed significant increase in respiratory resistance in methacholine inhalation test, while all normal subjects did not. The maximal expiratory flow at 25 percent of vital capacity (Vmax25), a parameter of small airway disease, correlated significantly with log cumulative dose producing a 35 percent decrease in respiratory conductance (PD35Grs) (r = 0.536) and the duration of symptoms (r = -0.682). There was a significant correlation between log PD35Grs and mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure (r = -0.466). After MVR, log PD35Grs was significantly improved in all seven operated-on patients, although six patients retained BHR. We conclude that patients with long-term MVD have marked BHR and that BHR in long-term MVD is related to peripheral airway narrowing with organic remodeling, which was not ameliorated with MVR procedure, in addition to pulmonary congestion. 
Renal angioplasty for renovascular disease: a reappraisal. The exact role of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for the treatment of renal artery stenoses (RAS) remains unclear. Therefore we analysed the outcome of unselected renal artery PTA in 30 subjects with angiographically proven unilateral RAS (Group I) compared with that of 19 who had RAS but were treated medically (Group II) and 21 who had essential hypertension but who underwent angiography (Group III). Good blood pressure control was achieved in all three groups but those who underwent PTA had a small but significant fall in their requirement for antihypertensive medications (p less than 0.05). However, no patient was "cured" of hypertension and blood pressure was able to be controlled in both Group II and Group III subjects without an increase in their number of antihypertensives. Serum creatinine did not improve significantly during follow-up in those who underwent PTA and was not different from that of Group II subjects at follow-up. Although unselected renal artery PTA for RAS may make blood pressure control easier it does not delay or prevent further deterioration in renal function and should not be used for this purpose. 
Lovastatin decreases coenzyme Q levels in humans. Lovastatin is clinically used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia and successfully lowers cholesterol levels. The mechanism of action of lovastatin is inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol from acetyl-CoA. Inhibition of this enzyme could also inhibit the intrinsic biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), but there have not been definitive data on whether lovastatin reduces levels of CoQ10 as it does cholesterol. The clinical use of lovastatin is to reduce a risk of cardiac disease, and if lovastatin were to reduce levels of CoQ10, this reduction would constitute a new risk of cardiac disease, since it is established that CoQ10 is indispensable for cardiac function. We have conducted three related protocols to determine whether lovastatin does indeed inhibit the biosynthesis of CoQ10. One protocol was done on rats, and is reported in the preceding paper [Willis, R. A., Folkers, K., Tucker, J. L., Ye, C.-Q., Xia, L.-J. & Tamagawa, H. (1990) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87, 8928-8930]. The other two protocols are reported here. One involved patients in a hospital, and the other involved a volunteer who permitted extraordinary monitoring of CoQ10 and cholesterol levels and cardiac function. All data from the three protocols revealed that lovastatin does indeed lower levels of CoQ10. The five hospitalized patients, 43-72 years old, revealed increased cardiac disease from lovastatin, which was life-threatening for patients having class IV cardiomyopathy before lovastatin or after taking lovastatin. Oral administration of CoQ10 increased blood levels of CoQ10 and was generally accompanied by an improvement in cardiac function. Although a successful drug, lovastatin does have side effects, particularly including liver dysfunction, which presumably can be caused by the lovastatin-induced deficiency of CoQ10. 
A randomized controlled trial of allopurinol in coronary bypass surgery. A plethora of experimental evidence indicates that allopurinol reduces the formation of cytotoxic free radicals during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of allopurinol on cardiac performance and early mortality after coronary bypass surgery. Allopurinol (n = 89) or placebo (n = 80) was administered to 169 patients before surgery. Randomization produced groups evenly matched for surgical risk factors. Hospital mortality rate in the placebo group was 14 of 80 (18%) in the allopurinol group 4 of 89 (4%), p = 0.014. Cardiac performance, scored by cardiac index and the need for ionotropic or mechanical support, was significantly better in the allopurinol group. More nonfatal complications occurred in the allopurinol group. When either a complication or death is termed an event, the proportion of events was equal in the two groups. No side effects were identified. We now administer allopurinol to all patients who are undergoing bypass surgery unless specifically contraindicated. 
Left ventricular diastolic function in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction due to coronary artery disease and effect of nicardipine. To assess the effect of nicardipine on left ventricular (LV) diastolic function independent of concurrent effects on loading conditions in patients with LV systolic dysfunction due to coronary artery disease, equihypotensive doses of intravenous nitroprusside and nicardipine were administered to 12 patients with congestive heart failure due to previous myocardial infarction (LV ejection fraction less than 0.40). LV micromanometer pressure and simultaneous radionuclide volume were obtained during a baseline period, during nitroprusside infusion, during a second baseline period and during nicardipine infusion. Mean systemic arterial pressure decreased an average of 21 mm Hg with nitroprusside and 19 mm Hg with nicardipine. A greater decrease in LV end-diastolic pressure was observed with nitroprusside (29 +/- 2 to 15 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) than with nicardipine (29 +/- 2 to 25 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). There was a decrease in the time constant of relaxation during nitroprusside but not during nicardipine infusion. There was enough overlap in LV volumes in the baseline and nitroprusside periods to compare diastolic pressure-volume relations over a common range of volumes in 4 patients, and enough overlap in the baseline and nicardipine periods in 11 patients. The relation was shifted downward in 3 of 4 patients taking nitroprusside and in 6 of 11 patients taking nicardipine. The relation between end-diastolic pressure and volume was not shifted with nicardipine. 
Progress of patients with pulmonary atresia after systemic to pulmonary arterial shunts. Between February 1980 and June 1987, 42 shunts were placed in 39 infants with pulmonary atresia: 33 were modified Blalock-Taussig shunts with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and 9 were classic Blalock-Taussig shunts. There were four hospital deaths not related to the shunts. The remaining 35 patients were followed up for 1.6 months to 6.3 years (mean, 24.7 +/- 18 months). Repeat cineangiocardiographic studies revealed stenosis or distortion of the pulmonary arteries related to the site of the shunt in 11/22 patients (50%) with PTFE shunts and in 1/6 (17%) with classic Blalock-Taussig shunts; the stenosis was severe in only 1 patient. Mean increase in the pulmonary arterial index in the group with classic Blalock-Taussig shunts was 117 +/- 52 mm2/m2 (not significant) and in the group with PTFE shunts, 158 +/- 21 mm2/m2 (p less than 0.001). Late shunt occlusion occurred in 1 patient 23 months postoperatively. Thereafter, shunt patency rate remained at 94% +/- 6%. At the end of 1 year 81% +/- 7% of patients were judged to have adequate palliation, but between 2 and 3 years, only 60% +/- 10%. Univariate analysis showed that after 2 years the ranking order for successful palliation was classic Blalock-Taussig, 5-mm PTFE, and 4-mm PTFE shunts, but differences did not achieve statistical significance. 
Biohistory of slavery and blood pressure differences in blacks today. A hypothesis. Genetic factors are known to play an important role in the variations in blood pressure levels. However, genetic factors that explain the higher average blood pressure levels of western hemisphere blacks when compared with African blacks have not been seriously considered. Because the genetic makeup of a population is largely determined by biological and ecological forces in the past, an examination of the biohistory of blacks, specifically the slavery era, was conducted. An overview of the salient findings of that investigation is included in this article. The published historical evidence on the transatlantic slave trade and New World slavery (from the 16th century to the 19th century) reveals that conditions existed for "natural selection," and therefore, genetic changes were virtually inevitable in the slave populations. During this period of history, mortality was extremely high, and fertility (or reproductive success) was so low among the survivors that most plantation societies in the western hemisphere depended on a constant importation of captives (over 12 million) from Africa for the viability of the plantation communities. Because the major causes of death were salt-depletive diseases such as diarrhea, fevers, and vomiting, it is argued that individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt had a distinct survival advantage over others and were, therefore, more likely to bequeath their genotype to subsequent generations of Western hemisphere blacks. Thus, it is predicted that blacks in the Americas have a greater frequency of individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt than African blacks. 
Indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap--a preliminary report. We describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction. A nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided, and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity. Arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg. This procedure resulted in a healed wound, stable coverage, and limb salvage. The patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms. A follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery. Contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these "new vessels" to the patient's native circulation. This experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed "nonreconstructible.". 
Early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in rabbit cardiac Purkinje fibers recovering from ischemic-like conditions. Role of acidosis. BACKGROUND. The mechanisms underlying repetitive activity during reperfusion of ischemic myocardium are thought to include triggered responses elicited at short pacing cycle lengths. The potential to generate repetitive responses at longer pacing cycle lengths under similar conditions, however, has not been explored. Thus, the present study examined the role of cycle length on the cellular electrical changes produced during recovery from ischemic-like conditions and identified the major component precipitating nondriven, repetitive activity. METHODS AND RESULTS. Transmembrane potentials were recorded in vitro from isolated rabbit Purkinje fibers exposed to hypoxia (defined as PO2 less than 30 mm Hg, high [K+]o, and zero glucose) plus lactic acidosis (pH 6.7) for 45 minutes and during recovery in normal Tyrode's solution (pH 7.4). Compared with control, action potential duration (90% repolarization) during recovery increased transiently by 40.9 +/- 11.8 and 241.0 +/- 51.1 msec at respective basic cycle lengths of 1,000 and 3,000 msec (both p less than 0.005). In 81% of preparations, action potential prolongation was accompanied by early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity generated from low (positive to -40 mV) or high (negative to -40 mV) membrane potentials. In 62% of experiments, brief periods of abnormal automaticity also occurred. Triggered responses were 1) unaffected by 1 microM ryanodine, 2) abolished by pacing at short basic cycle lengths or by exposing tissues to 2.5 micrograms/ml lidocaine, and 3) more easily induced at long basic cycle lengths or by superfusing 2.5 micrograms/ml quinidine. When tissues were conditioned with hypoxia alone (pH 7.4), action potential prolongation on recovery was comparatively small, and nondriven responses did not develop. Conversely, addition of 10-20 microM amiloride to the hypoxic, acidic test solution augmented recovery-induced action potential prolongation. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that acidosis, as a component of ischemia, plus slow pacing frequencies may mediate the genesis of early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in Purkinje fibers on recovery, long after extracellular pH has been restored to normal. These data may have clinical relevance to the mechanisms of reperfusion arrhythmias in the intact human heart. 
Thiazide diuretics and the risk of hip fracture. Results from the Framingham Study. Thiazide diuretics may preserve bone mass and prevent elderly women's osteopenic fractures, but studies have not distinguished between thiazide preparations or examined former users. We performed a case-control study looking at thiazide use and subsequent hip fracture in postmenopausal female members of the Framingham Study cohort. Cases who had experienced a first hip fracture (n = 176) were compared with age-matched controls (n = 672). Results showed a modest protective effect of any recent thiazide use (not significant). However, recent pure thiazide users experienced significant protection against fracture (adjusted odds ratio, 0.31; 95% confidence interval, 0.11 to 0.88), whereas recent users of combination drugs containing thiazides experienced no protection (adjusted odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 0.44 to 3.05). Combination drugs generally contained only 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide, suggesting that the small amount of thiazide was insufficient to preserve bone mass. Former thiazide users were not protected against fracture. In sum, recent pure thiazide use in women protects against hip fracture. 
Nd:YAG laser with sapphire tip combined with balloon angioplasty in peripheral arterial occlusions. Long-term results In 167 patients with complete occlusion (greater than 3 cm) of the femoropopliteal artery, percutaneous transluminal laser angioplasty (PTLA) was performed after an unsuccessful attempt at crossing with a guide wire and was immediately followed by balloon dilatation. An Nd-YAG laser and an optical fiber delivery system with a sapphire tip serving as a contact probe were used for PTLA. In 132 of 167 (79%) patients, the occluded segment was successfully reopened. Clinical symptoms improved in 126 of 167 (75%) patients. PTLA was unsuccessful in 35 patients, and in 15 of these, injury of the vessel wall occurred. In one patient, surgical drainage of a large hematoma became necessary. All patients in whom recanalization had been achieved were randomized to receive long-term treatment with either phenprocumarol or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) plus dipyridamole to prevent rethrombosis. At 36 months of follow-up, the cumulative patency rate (CPR) was 63%. A complete reobstruction in 32 patients (24%) and a partial reobstruction in 15 patients (11%) were found angiographically. The CPR after 36 months was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients younger than 60 years of age (54%) than in patients older than 60 (68%); it was also significantly lower (p less than 0.05) in patients with reduced peripheral runoff (55%) due to obstructed arteries of the lower leg than in patients with unaffected runoff (73%). The CPR was 65% in recanalized segments shorter than 7 cm and was 62% in recanalized segments longer than 7 cm. 
Predictive value of lipoprotein (a) and other serum lipoproteins in the angiographic diagnosis of coronary artery disease. To determine the relation among lipids in predicting coronary artery disease (CAD), 213 patients undergoing diagnostic angiography for suspected CAD were prospectively studied. Twenty-one patients had normal coronary arteries and 192 had CAD in 1 to 3 arteries at arteriography with measurements obtained with digital calipers. Lipoproteins were measured and lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] was also assayed in a subset of 98 patients with CAD. Statistical analysis was performed using uni- and multivariate techniques to test the association among age, gender, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, family history, total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoproteins (apo) A-I and apo B, ratio of apo A-I to apo B, and ratio of HDL cholesterol to total cholesterol, to Lp(a) and to CAD. All factors except gender, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus and cigarette smoking were univariate predictors of CAD. Multivariate predictors were, in decreasing order of significance, family history, age, HDL/total cholesterol ratio and apo B. When Lp(a) was included, multivariate predictors were age, family history, apo B and Lp(a), in that order. Lipid parameters alone showed that the HDL/total cholesterol ratio and that Lp(a) provide the best predictive tests for the detection of CAD in this referral population and may ultimately become important screening tests for CAD. 
Improved results with combined donor-specific transfusion (DST) and sequential therapy protocol. A combined DST-sequential CyA therapy protocol has been described that results in optimum graft survival for 1- and 2-haplotype mismatched living related donor-recipient combinations. In addition to the excellent graft survival obtained through 4 years, lower prednisone and CyA dosage levels are achieved with significantly decreased infection rates during the posttransplant period. 
Renal dysfunction after angiography; a risk factor analysis in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Angiography is required for a detailed anatomical investigation before reconstructive surgery or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty can be performed. Although angiography is a safe procedure, it is associated with renal dysfunction, usually transient, in about 10% of the cases. This study concentrates on the evaluation of renal dysfunction induced by "conventional" (i.e. film-screen) Seldinger angiography and a consecutive series of 396 angiographic procedures have been evaluated. Induced Renal Dysfunction was defined as an increase of more than 10% in the serum creatinine after angiography. To identify "risk factors" for Induced Renal Dysfunction we have studied whether clinical and angiographical variables were associated with the occurrence of Induced Renal Dysfunction. These variables included: age, hypertension, the use of antihypertensive drugs, diabetes mellitus, technique of angiography, site of contrast injection and type and quantity of contrast medium. Induced Renal Dysfunction was found in 21 cases (5.7%) and appeared to be associated with age above 70, hypertension, administration of more than 150 ml contrast medium and the presence of renal disease prior to angiography. More than 95% of the 21 patients with dysfunction had two or more of these "risk factors". The presence of diabetes was not clearly associated with Induced Renal Dysfunction and haemodialyses was not required in any of the patients. The incidence of Induced Renal Dysfunction after angiography was 5.7% which is low but not negligible. However, renal dysfunction was always transient and never severe. Furthermore, the identification of "risk factors" allows the prompt identification of patients at risk before angiography, which may help to reduce the incidence of Induced Renal Dysfunction. 
Edge detection versus densitometry for assessing coronary stenting quantitatively. The optimal method used to analyze quantitatively the immediate angiographic results of coronary stenting in the coronary arteries has not been studied. Accordingly, minimal luminal cross-sectional area was determined by 2 methods, edge detection and densitometry, in 19 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and then coronary stent implantation for symptomatic coronary stenoses. The correlation coefficient, 0.73 before angioplasty, decreased to 0.59 after coronary angioplasty and then increased to 0.83 after stent implantation. The mean differences between edge detection and densitometric determinations of minimal luminal cross-sectional area were 0.31 +/- 0.51 mm2 before PTCA, -0.38 +/- 1.22 mm2 after angioplasty and 0.35 +/- 0.79 mm2 after coronary stenting. It is concluded that, although the correlation and variability in the measurement of minimal luminal cross-sectional area between edge detection and densitometry deteriorate after PTCA, they are improved after stenting, probably because of smoothing of the vessel contours by the stent and remodeling of the stented segment into a more circular configuration. Therefore, in the stented coronary artery, edge detection and densitometry are equally acceptable methods of analysis. 
Deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass after failed femoropopliteal reconstructions. Deep femoral to anterior tibial artery bypass is a reconstructive technique occasionally applicable when more conventional attempts at revascularization of the distal portion of the leg have failed. Three such patients, in whom the anterior tibial was the only distal patent branch of the popliteal artery, had severe symptoms of arterial insufficiency. Deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass was done using autogenous The distal portion of the deep femoral artery was exposed through an anteromedial distal thigh approach. The three patients have been followed up for a mean of 20.3 months, and each maintains graft patency and marked symptomatic improvement. 
Successful surgical treatment of subaortic stenosis caused by an accessory mitral valve. A 22-month-old boy with subaortic stenosis was found to have relatively mature mitral valve tissue beneath the aortic valve, associated with a hypertrophic and prominent interventricular septum. This tissue caused obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract and resulted in a pressure gradient of 70 mmHg between the aorta and the left ventricle. Surgical treatment was successfully performed to excise the tissue and part of the hypertrophic ventricular septum. Results of microscopic examination of the resected specimen are shown and discussed. 
Ventricular load optimization by unloading therapy in patients with heart failure. The effects of unloading a depressed heart were assessed in terms of optimal coupling between the ventricle and arterial system. To assess the effects of preload on ventricular load coupling, preload was reduced with a lower body negative pressure of -20 mm Hg. Nitroprusside was used to evaluate the effects of afterload on the coupling under the condition that preload reduction was comparable to that with lower body negative pressure. In 13 patients with heart failure (ejection fraction 32 +/- 3%, mean +/- SE), direct arterial pressure was simultaneously recorded with the left ventricular echocardiogram as the pressure was elevated by phenylephrine. Left ventricular contractile properties were defined by the slope (Ees) of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation. The effective arterial elastance (Ea) was expressed by the slope of the end-systolic pressure-stroke volume relation. Left ventricular external work, end-systolic potential energy and work efficiency, defined as external work per pressure volume area (external work + potential energy), were determined. Baseline ventricular load coupling in these patients was characterized by an increase in the ratio of arterial elastance to ventricular elastance (Ea/Ees) (1.96 +/- 0.31). This ratio decreased significantly, to 1.45 +/- 0.22, with nitroprusside, and increased to 2.37 +/- 0.34 with lower body negative pressure. Therefore, end-systolic potential energy was decreased by nitroprusside but was unaltered by lower body negative pressure while external work was comparably decreased by both manipulations, indicating that work efficiency was significantly augmented with nitroprusside but declined with lower body negative pressure. 
Arterial vasodilator effects of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine alone and in combination with verapamil in systemic hypertension. The arterial vasodilator properties of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine were compared with the effects of vascular muscle cyclic guanosine monophosphate production by sodium nitroprusside and with the effects of a combined infusion of amlodipine and the nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist verapamil in 8 untreated patients with primary hypertension. Arterial vasodilation was assessed by measurement of changes of forearm blood flow by mercury in Silastic strain-gauge plethysmography during brachial artery drug infusions. Forearm blood flow increased during amlodipine infusions (0.4 to 45 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue) from 2.9 +/- 1.7 to a maximum of 23.6 +/- 7.6 ml/min/100 ml (687%), while sodium nitroprusside caused an increase from 3.0 +/- 1.8 to 16.2 +/- 5.4 ml/min/100 ml (449%), attesting to the importance of transmembrane calcium influx for the maintenance of vascular tone. The addition of verapamil 40 micrograms/min/100 ml to an infusion of amlodipine 44.5 micrograms/min/100 ml resulted in a further increase of forearm blood flow, from 23.6 +/- 7.6 to 34.4 +/- 9.8 ml/min/100 ml (p less than 0.05). The precise mechanisms of this finding have yet to be elucidated but may be due to interactions of the effects of the binding of these 2 chemically and pharmacologically different calcium antagonists to distinct binding sites at calcium channels. The clinical relevance of this observation for the treatment of coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension needs further study. 
Maternal and uteroplacental hemodynamic effects of chronic captopril in the hypertensive, term-pregnant rat. The chronic effects of captopril on maternal hemodynamics and organ perfusion were investigated in 10 untreated and 10 captopril-treated pregnant spontaneously hypertensive rats by means of the radioactive-labeled microsphere technique. The normal decrease in blood pressure during gestation was prevented by reduction of litter size to two conceptuses on day 7 of gestation. Captopril (approximately 10 mg/kg/day) or drug vehicle (50% ethyl alcohol) was administered intraperitoneally by an osmotic pump from day 7 to 21. At term mean arterial pressure was 23% lower in the captopril-treated group as the result of a 29% decrease in total peripheral resistance without a significant change in cardiac output. The decrease in total peripheral resistance was primarily caused by a decline in splanchnic and skin resistances. Maternal organ and uteroplacental perfusion were not significantly altered. We conclude that administration of captopril during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy in the hypertensive rat effectively lowers maternal blood pressure without adverse effects on organ and uteroplacental perfusion. 
Critical care transportation medicine: new concepts in pretransport stabilization of the critically ill patient. Regionalization of health care for trauma has become commonplace, and the same concept for critically ill medical/surgical patients is developing. Recent evidence suggests that current stabilization measures used by transport teams can be inadequate for this critically ill patient population. In trauma, speed has been considered a necessity to get the patient to a facility which cannot be carried out to the field, eg, an operating room. For acute medical illnesses, critical care transport teams can bring intensive care technology to the patient. Accumulating evidence supports the premise that speed of transport is not as important as stabilization before transport, knowledge of hemodynamics during transport, and early use of critical care monitoring systems. Other reports identify the need for initial evaluation and stabilization of critically ill patients by physicians at the critical care level of expertise. Accordingly, critical care transportation teams have evolved, creating new notions of pretransport stabilization not applicable to previous transport systems. 
Coronary artery pattern and outcome of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries. A successful outcome of an arterial switch operation (ASO) for dextro-transposition of the great arteries (D-TGA) depends in large part on the transfer of the coronary arteries to the neoaorta without distortion or narrowing. However, the origins and distribution of the coronary arteries are quite variable in D-TGA; therefore, the entire experience with ASO at the Children's Hospital in Boston was reviewed. From 1983 through November 1989, 314 patients underwent surgery for D-TGA with the intent to perform an ASO. An ASO was actually performed in 290 patients, and 20 patients died, with 12 deaths (4.2%) clearly related to problems with the coronary arteries (CA deaths). The ASO was aborted to a Senning operation in 24 patients (7.6%), primarily due to coronary anatomy. Eight coronary patterns were identified and related to the outcome of the ASO. In 182 patients with the "usual" coronary pattern for D-TGA (i.e., anterior descending and circumflex arteries from the left sinus and right coronary artery from the right sinus), five CA deaths occurred, and two patients had Senning operations. Sixty-seven patients had right coronary and circumflex arteries from the right sinus and anterior descending arteries from the left sinus. Three CA deaths occurred, and one patient had a Senning operation. Single right coronary artery was found in 14; 12 had ASOs with three CA deaths (25%); and two had Senning operations. One late death was due to diffuse narrowing of the single right coronary artery. Single left coronary artery occurred in 11 patients, and seven had ASO with no early but one late "sudden" death, whereas four had Senning operations. 
IgD immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia D and periodic fever. We describe a 27-year-old Dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia D and periodic fever syndrome. During febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities, with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Clear perivascular deposits of IgD and C3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation. Circulating IgD immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions, both during and in between clinical attacks. These findings are consistent with an IgD immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions. In 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin, minimal perivascular deposits of IgD were found in four cases. In these cases, however, IgD was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class. 
Leukocyte counts and activation in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats The etiology for the progressive organ injury in hypertension is largely speculative. Recent studies have shown that leukocytes play a key role in several cardiovascular diseases. As an initial step toward investigating the role of leukocytes in hypertension, we measured leukocyte counts and spontaneous activation of granulocytes of freshly drawn unseparated blood samples in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in their normotensive counterpart, Wistar-Kyoto rats. The animals were derived from one breeder in the United States and from two breeders in Europe. Total leukocyte counts in young, mature, and old hypertensive rats were 50-100% above the controls. The number of granulocytes in mature and old spontaneously hypertensive rats in more than 100% elevated compared with control rats. In young hypertensive rats the mean granulocyte count was only slightly elevated. The number of spontaneously activated granulocytes, as detected by the nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, increases with age in both species; in mature spontaneously hypertensive rats, it is more than 300% above the values in the controls. Furthermore, in mature hypertensive rats the number of monocytes, activated monocytes, and the lymphocyte count are also significantly elevated over the values in the normotensive controls. It is proposed that these elevated leukocyte counts may constitute an enhanced risk for organ injury in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. 
Analysis of side-effects of medium- and low-dose cyclosporin maintenance therapy in psoriasis. The side-effects of long-term cyclosporin A (CyA) treatment in 26 patients with severe psoriasis were evaluated. These patients had a mean PASI score of 30.2 and were treated with CyA for between 7 and 37 months (mean 19.5 months). There were three groups according to the dose of CyA, less than 2 mg/kg per day, 2-3 mg/kg per day and greater than 3 mg/kg per day. In all three groups, CyA was found to be equally effective. Treatment with CyA was discontinued in 12 of the 26 patients because of nephrotoxicity and/or development of hypertension. One was in the less than 2 mg/kg per day group, three were in the 2-3 mg/kg per day group and eight in the greater than 3 mg/kg per day group. There was no hepatotoxicity with CyA treatment. One patient developed two squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. 
Improved survival and reduced myocardial necrosis with cardiopulmonary bypass reperfusion in a canine model of coronary occlusion and cardiac arrest. STUDY QUESTION: Does cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) improve resuscitation rates and limit infarct size after cardiac arrest and acute myocardial infarction? DESIGN: Controlled randomized trial with all animals undergoing left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and subsequent ventricular fibrillation and resuscitation. All animals were supported for four hours after resuscitation in an intensive care setting. INTERVENTION: Group 1 (eight) was resuscitated with standard external CPR and advanced life support. Group 2 (eight) was resuscitated with CPB. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Group hemodynamic, resuscitation variables, number resuscitated, and number of four-hour survivors were compared. Ischemic and necrotic myocardial weights were determined with histochemical staining techniques in four-hour survivors. Infarct size was measured as the ratio of necrotic weight to ischemic weight. Significantly fewer dogs were resuscitated in group 1 (four of eight) than in group 2 (eight of eight) (P less than .05). Group 2 survivors required significantly less epinephrine and lidocaine than group 1 survivors (P less than .05) and higher aortic diastolic and coronary perfusion pressures after CPB (P less than .001). The ratio of myocardial necrotic weight to ischemic weight at four hours was 0.82 +/- 0.25 in group 1 and 0.22 +/- 0.25 in group 2 (P less than .05). However, collateral blood flow was not measured in this study. CONCLUSION: This pilot study further substantiates the improvement in resuscitation rates obtainable with CPB. CPB may also limit infarct size during the postresuscitation period and requires further study. 
Efficacy of potassium and magnesium in essential hypertension: a double-blind, placebo controlled, crossover study OBJECTIVE--To evaluate the antihypertensive activity of potassium given alone or in combination with magnesium in patients with mild hypertension. DESIGN--A double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, crossover trial of 32 weeks' duration. SETTINGS--Cardiology outpatient department, Sassoon General Hospitals, Pune, India. PATIENTS--37 Adults with mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure less than 110 mm Hg). INTERVENTION--Patients received either placebo or potassium 60 mmol/day alone or in combination with magnesium 20 mmol/day in a crossover design. No other drug treatment was allowed. MEASUREMENTS--Blood pressure and heart rate assessed at weekly intervals and biochemical parameters at monthly intervals. RESULTS--Potassium alone or in combination with magnesium produced a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressures (p less than 0.001) and a significant reduction in serum cholesterol concentration (p less than 0.05); other biochemical variables did not change. Magnesium did not have an additional effect. Urinary potassium excretion increased significantly in the groups who received potassium alone or in combination with magnesium. The drug was well tolerated and compliance was satisfactory. CONCLUSION--Potassium 60 mmol/day lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with mild hypertension. Giving magnesium as well has no added advantage. 
Effect of 21-aminosteroid U-74006F on lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of U-74006F on malondialdehyde (a by-product of lipid peroxidation) in subarachnoid clot. Eighteen cynomolgus monkeys were divided into three groups of six each. There were two U-74006F-treated groups, receiving doses of 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg, and a placebo-treated group. Each monkey underwent baseline cerebral angiography followed by right-sided craniectomy and placement of subarachnoid clot around the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Treatment was administered intravenously every 8 hours for 6 days. Seven days after the experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), angiography was repeated and the animals were killed. In the placebo-treated group, significant vasospasm occurred in the MCA on the side of the clot (p less than 0.01). After U-74006F treatment at both dosages, significantly less vasospasm developed in the clot-side MCA (p less than 0.01). The content of malondialdehyde was measured by both the thiobarbituric acid test and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Comparing the two methods, HPLC proved to be more accurate than the thiobarbituric acid test, especially for measurement of low concentrations of malondialdehyde. In the placebo-treated group, the malondialdehyde content was significantly increased in the Day 7 clot (p less than 0.05). In contrast, malondialdehyde content in freshly prepared clot was very low. In the 0.3-mg/kg U-74006F group, the malondialdehyde content of clot was significantly less at Day 7 compared to clot from the placebo-treated group (p less than 0.05). Although the malondialdehyde content of clot from the 1.0 mg/kg U-74006F-treated group was less than that of placebo, it was not significantly so. Malondialdehyde was not detected in the actual vessel wall of the MCA of any group. These results suggest that lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot may play a role in the pathogenesis of vasospasm and that the salutary effects of U-74006F in vasospasm may be mediated by a reduction of lipid peroxidation in SAH. 
Prognostic value of predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing after thrombolytic treatment of acute myocardial infarction. Low-level exercise thallium testing is useful in identifying the high-risk patient after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). To determine whether this use also applies to patients after thrombolytic treatment of AMI, 64 patients who underwent early thrombolytic therapy for AMI and 107 patients without acute intervention were evaluated. The ability of both the electrocardiogram and thallium tests to predict future events was compared in both groups. After a mean follow-up of 374 days, there were 25 and 32% of cardiac events in the 2 groups, respectively, with versus without acute intervention. These included death, another AMI, coronary artery bypass grafting or angioplasty with 75% of the events occurring in the 3 months after the first infarction. The only significant predictors of outcome were left ventricular cavity dilatation in the intervention group and ST-segment depression and increased lung uptake in the nonintervention group. The sensitivity of exercise thallium was 55% in the intervention group and 81% in the nonintervention group (p less than 0.05). Therefore, in patients having thrombolytic therapy for AMI, nearly half the events after discharge are not predicted by predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing. The relatively weak correlation of outcome with unmasking ischemia in the laboratory before discharge may be due to an unstable coronary lesion or rapid progression of disease after the test. Tests considered useful for prognostication after AMI may not necessarily have a similar value if there has been an acute intervention, such as thrombolytic therapy. 
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. Emery-Dreifuss syndrome is a rare form of muscular dystrophy associated with cardiac complications that lead to sudden death. The disorder and its potential anaesthetic implications in the management of a patient who presented for orthopaedic surgery is described. 
The effect of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a retrospective analysis of 108 patients. The effects of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) on vasospasm and hydrocephalus were analyzed retrospectively in 108 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) who were operated on for ruptured aneurysms within 48 hours of their onset. Ninety-two of these patients underwent a procedure for CSF drainage (cisternal drainage, ventricular drainage, lumbar drainage, or a combination of these). The duration, the total volume, and the average daily volume of CSF drainage were 10.4 +/- 7.0 days (mean +/- SD). 2034 +/- 1566 ml, and 190 +/- 65.3 ml, respectively. Patients with a greater drainage volume at a lower height of drainage in the early period after SAH developed more cerebral infarctions later (P less than 0.025). The relationship between the total volume of CSF removed and shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was determined to be statistically significant (P less than 0.005). Cerebral infarction and hydrocephalus after SAH were also found to be statistically associated (P less than 0.001). Thus, continuous cerebrospinal fluid drainage should not be performed too readily in patients with SAH, because the removal of a large amount of CSF can induce cerebral vasospasm as well as hydrocephalus. 
Hemodynamic profiles of prostaglandin E1, isoproterenol, prostacyclin, and nifedipine in experimental porcine pulmonary hypertension. BACKGROUND AND METHODS: We compared the hemodynamic effects of four vasodilators in experimental embolic pulmonary hypertension in a randomized controlled trial, using nine pigs weighing 16 to 23 kg. After anesthesia induction and cannulation with arterial, central venous, and thermodilution output pulmonary artery catheters, animals were repetitively embolized with glass beads (60 to 160 mu) in order to establish pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery pressure [PAP] doubled from baseline). Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), isoproterenol, prostacyclin (PGI2), and nifedipine were compared at doses producing equivalent reduction in systemic BP. RESULTS: Only PGE1 and PGI2 decreased both PAP and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR). PGE1 decreased PAP from 39 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 1 mm Hg; prostacyclin decreased PAP from 38 +/- 1 to 31 +/- 1 mm Hg and produced the largest increase in cardiac output (Qt). Isoproterenol did not change PAP, markedly increased heart rate (162 +/- 8 to 216 +/- 11 beats/min), and resulted in significant arrhythmias. Nifedipine increased PVR from 1044 +/- 113 to 1125 +/- 100 dyne.sec.cm-5 and decreased Qt. CONCLUSIONS: Vasodilators demonstrate unique hemodynamic drug profiles. Isoproterenol infusion is characterized by tachycardia and arrhythmias. Both PGE1 and PGI2 effectively decrease PAP and PVR. Nifedipine depressed Qt significantly in this glass-bead embolization model of acute pulmonary hypertension. 
Predicting the appropriate use of carotid endarterectomy, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, and coronary angiography BACKGROUND AND METHODS. In a nationally representative population 65 years of age or older, we have demonstrated that about one quarter of coronary angiographies and upper gastrointestinal endoscopies and two thirds of carotid endarterectomies were performed for reasons that were less than medically appropriate. In this paper we examine whether specific characteristics of patients (age, sex, and race), physicians (age, board-certification status, and experience with the procedure), or hospitals (teaching status, profit-making status, and size) predict whether a procedure will be performed appropriately. RESULTS. In general, we found that little of the variability in the appropriateness of care (4 percent or less) could be explained on the basis of standard, easily obtainable data about the patient, the physician, or the hospital. For all three procedures, however, performance in a teaching hospital increased the likelihood that the reasons would be medically appropriate (P = 0.09 for angiography, P = 0.30 for endoscopy, and P less than 0.01 for endarterectomy). In addition, angiographies were more often performed for appropriate reasons in older or more affluent patients (P less than 0.01 for both). Being treated by a surgeon who performed a high rather than a low number of procedures decreased the likelihood of an appropriate endarterectomy by one third, from 40 to 28 percent (P less than 0.01). CONCLUSIONS. Appropriateness of care cannot be closely predicted from many easily determined characteristics of patients, physicians, or hospitals. Thus, for the present, if appropriateness is to be improved it will have to be assessed directly at the level of each patient, hospital, and physician. 
Free and peptide-bound amino acids as indicators of ischemic damage of the rabbit spinal cord. The concentrations of free and peptide-bound amino acids aspartate (Asp), glutamate (Glu), glycine (Gly) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were studied following ischemia and recirculation in the ventral and dorsal gray matter of the rabbit spinal cord. No changes in the concentration of amino acids following ten minutes (min) of ischemia and four days of recovery were found. The most significant change after 20 min, and especially 40 min, of ischemia was a decrease in free Asp and GABA levels in both parts of the gray matter. The relatively greater decrease in the concentration of free amino acids in the ventral horns corresponds with the greater morphological damage to this part of spinal cord following ischemia. Following 40 min of ischemia and recirculation decrease in peptide-bound Glu in the ventral horns and Asp and Glu in the dorsal horns was found. 
Surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies. Comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy. There is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies. Subxiphoid pericardial window formation (subxiphoid pericardial drainage) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. To ensure adequate drainage, many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy. To evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy, 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed. Ten patients (Group 1) had subxiphoid window formation, whereas 18 patients (Group 2) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy. There was no statistically significant difference (P = 0.22) in the survival rates between these two groups. A median survival time of 2.67 months (range, 0.43 to 26.6 months) was observed in Group 1 versus 1.23 months (range, 0.03 to 10.83 months) in Group 2. However, a statistically significant difference (P less than or equal to 0.02) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups: 67% in Group 2 versus 10% in Group 1. Because of lower morbidity, subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy. 
Comparison of right ventricular and biventricular circulatory support in a porcine model of right heart failure. The effects of right ventricular (RVAD) and biventricular assist devices (BVAD) in an acute porcine model of right heart ischemic failure produced by occluding the right coronary artery for 2 min (RCAO) were compared. Right and left ventricular pressures were measured with Millar transducers and respective septal-to-free wall dimensions (RVSFWD, LVSFWD) with ultrasonic crystals. RCAO alone resulted in significant right heart failure, marked by a 36 +/- 5% reduction in cardiac output (pulmonary artery flow) and a 54 +/- 16% reduction in RV stroke work. Isolated RVAD significantly improved the hemodynamic conditions by restoring pulmonary blood flow and left heart filling to control levels. RVAD also resulted in reduced RVSFWD to control levels and increased LVSFWD via a rightward septal shift due to right heart unloading. Biventricular support resulted in the same hemodynamic improvement, but estimated LV peak systolic wall stress was reduced by 65 +/- 15% compared with control, due to concomitant LV unloading and reductions in LVSFWD. Therefore, either right or biventricular devices are effective in treating RV failure. The advantage of biventricular support is that the left ventricle is also unloaded, thus allowing improved circulatory support with minimal LV wall stress. 
Effects of long-term coenzyme Q10 and captopril treatment on survival and functional capacity in rats with experimentally induced heart infarction. The effects of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) and captopril on functional capacity, hemodynamics and survival were studied in 154 rats that recovered after experimental myocardial infarction. Rats were randomized into four groups receiving either CoQ, captopril, a combination of the two drugs or 1 ml of tap water once daily for 12 weeks from the day of coronary artery ligation. CoQ as well as captopril and the combined treatment significantly improved exercise capacity as evaluated by lactate production during a standardized treadmill exercise test. No significant changes in heart rate or mean blood pressure were observed during the study in the captopril-treated group. CoQ treatment increased the maximum heart rate significantly, whereas no effect on mean blood pressure was observed. Both captopril and CoQ decreased pulmonary congestion. Furthermore, the data may suggest that captopril prevents right ventricular hypertrophy seen in placebo-treated rats with large infarcts. This was not observed after CoQ treatment. Captopril treatment improved 3-month probability of survival (93%) as compared with placebo (74%) (P less than .05). CoQ and the combined treatment tended to improve survival, but this was, however, not statistically significant. 
Involvement of sodium in the protective effect of 5-(N,N-dimethyl)-amiloride on ischemia-reperfusion injury in isolated rat ventricular wall. During reperfusion in the isolated right ventricular wall of the rat after 60 min of ischemia, developed tension and resting tension were 35 +/- 4 and 221 +/- 12%, respectively, of preischemic values. Including 35 microM ouabain in the perfusate before and after ischemia resulted in more severe cardiac dysfunction during reperfusion than in drug-untreated hearts. Introduction of the Na(+)-H+ exchange inhibitor, 5-(N,N-dimethyl)-amiloride (DMA), could effectively protect the right ventricular wall against ischemia-reperfusion dysfunction in the presence or absence of ouabain. The ion content in the right ventricular wall was measured with atomic absorbance spectrophotometry. Before ischemia, Na+,Ca++ and K+ content were 53.4 +/- 6.4, 2.70 +/- 0.22 and 262 +/- 7.7 mumol/g of dry weight tissue, respectively. After 60 min of ischemia and 6 min of reperfusion, Na+,Ca++ and K+ content were 73.4 +/- 7.2, 3.79 +/- 0.31 and 180 +/- 15 mumol/g of dry weight tissue, respectively (P less than .05). Introduction of 20 microM DMA normalized ion content in the muscles which was consistent with the contractile function recovery during reperfusion. The data suggest that a rise in intracellular Na+ in the early stage of reperfusion represents a crucial or primary step for the development of cardiac contractile dysfunction. DMA, which protects against severe reperfusion-induced cardiac contractile dysfunction, appears to act via a normalization of tissue sodium levels. This action is consistent with its proposed role as a blocker of transsarcolemmal Na(+)-H+ exchange. 
Assessment of major venous anomalies by computerized tomography. Congenital anomalies of major venous structures are not common but their identification and relative position, particularly in relation to an abdominal aortic aneurysm, are of significant value in planning and conducting aortic operations. Computed tomography (CT) has become a common method of preoperative evaluation of aortic disease. Its reliability in providing accurate information regarding aneurysmal size, configuration, and extension, as well as the presence of intraluminal thrombus and involvement of the renal and iliac arteries, has been demonstrated. Simultaneous visualization of the major adjacent venous structures with the use of contrast enhancement is obtained, but anatomic variants can be overlooked because they are commonly subtle and considered incidental. The preoperative diagnosis of these venous abnormalities is significant to the vascular surgeon. Such information can be accurately and reliably acquired with the present CT techniques without the need for further diagnostic studies. 
Effects of the novel thromboxane antagonist Bay U 3405 on experimental coronary artery disease. Bay U 3405 is a novel thromboxane receptor blocker. The present investigations describe its effects on experimental canine and porcine cardiac damage. In anesthetized dogs, a coronary artery was occluded for 6 hours and reperfused for 30 minutes. Bay U 3405 was administered intravenously 15 minutes after occlusion (1 mg/kg) followed by infusion of 10 mg/kg/hr from 30 minutes after ligature. In a second study, the effects of Bay U 3405 on endoperoxide analogue U-46619-induced coronary constriction were studied in anesthetized, open-chest pigs. Bay U 3405 reduced myocardial infarct expansion by 65% (p less than 0.01) assessed with biochemical staining. Hemodynamics and collateral blood flow were unaffected. However, reperfusion arrhythmias were suppressed. In porcine experiments, 1 mg/kg Bay U 3405, given intravenously or intraduodenally, antagonized U-46619-induced coronary vasoconstriction over 5 hours. The studies demonstrate anti-ischemic and antivasoconstrictor properties of Bay U 3405 probably due to binding to platelet and smooth muscle thromboxane receptors. This may have clinical relevance in angina pectoris and myocardial infarction. 
Diagnostic value of a new myocardial perfusion agent, teboroxime (SO 30,217), utilizing a rapid planar imaging protocol: preliminary results [corrected and republished with original paging, article originally printed in J Am Coll Cardiol 1990 Oct;16(4):855-61] Technetium-99m-labeled agents have advantages over thallium-201 in terms of photon statistics, cost and clinical availability. They have been suggested as an alternative to thallium for myocardial perfusion imaging. Teboroxime is a new boronic acid adduct of technetium dioxime (BATO) compound that demonstrates favorable characteristics in preliminary studies. With use of a novel (seated) patient positioning technique and a rapid dynamic acquisition protocol, 30 patients underwent planar imaging with teboroxoime while at rest and after maximal treadmill exercise. Postexercise scans were completed in an average time (mean +/- SD) of 4.4 +/- 1.6 min, with 4.8 +/- 1.5 min for the views at rest. These results were compared with coronary arteriography or thallium scintigraphy after treadmill exercise, or both. Diagnostic agreement (abnormal versus normal) was present in 28 of the 30 patients (p less than 0.001). Regarding physiologic assessment as compared with thallium scintigraphy, the finding of infarction and ischemia was concordant in 89% and 86% of patients, respectively. This report describes the initial use of teboroxime with a rapid dynamic planar imaging technique, resulting in a high correlation with exercise thallium scintigraphy. Delayed postexercise images obtained 5 to 10 min after exercise demonstrated rapid disappearance of exercise-induced defects noted on the initial (0 to 5 min) postexercise views. The rapid differential washout with teboroxime has not been previously described and the possible clinical significance is discussed. 
Great vein and right atrial thrombosis in critically ill infants and children with central venous lines. We performed a retrospective review of echocardiographic data files of infants and children hospitalized in the Newborn and Pediatric Intensive Care Units. Echocardiograms were examined to detect the presence and evolution of great vein and right atrial thrombosis in patients with central venous lines. Thirty-seven patients were identified over a five-year period. Echocardiograms were performed, not routinely, but in response to specific indications including catheter malfunction, thrombocytopenia, persistent chylothorax, bacterial or fungal sepsis, and superior vena cava syndrome. Fifteen of 37 patients died, 13 of them during the hospitalization in which the thrombus was discovered. Thrombolytic agents and surgery were used to treat selected patients, with mixed results. Two of the 22 survivors have significant disability related to the thrombus or complications arising from it. We conclude that great vein and/or right atrial thrombosis is a common complication of central venous catheterization in small infants and children; moreover, the morbidity and mortality relating to this complication is substantial. 
Interaction of citrus juices with felodipine and nifedipine Six men with borderline hypertension took felodipine 5 mg with water, grapefruit juice, or orange juice. The mean felodipine bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 284 (range 164-469)% of that with water. The dehydrofelodipine/felodipine AUC ratio was lower, diastolic blood pressure lower, and heart rate higher with grapefruit juice than with water. Vasodilatation-related side-effects were more frequent. Orange juice had no such effects. Six healthy men took nifedipine 10 mg with water or grapefruit juice; the bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 134 (108-169)% of that with water. 
Segmental wall motion abnormalities in the absence of clinically documented myocardial infarction: clinical significance and evidence of hibernating myocardium. To determine the frequency and significance of left ventricular wall motion abnormalities in patients without clinical evidence of myocardial infarction, we reviewed the two-dimensional echocardiograms of 252 patients who had no history or electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial infarction and who subsequently underwent coronary angiography. Seventy-seven patients (31%) had one or more segmental wall motion abnormalities. Sixty-six of the 77 patients (86%) had significant coronary artery disease (greater than or equal to 50% luminal diameter stenosis). Seventy-four percent of the patients with coronary artery disease had multivessel disease. The left ventricle was divided into anterior and posterior regions. In the 66 patients, there were 77 separate regions with wall motion abnormalities (49 hypokinesis, 22 akinesis, 6 dyskinesis), including 60 regions (78%) supplied by coronary vessels with greater than or equal to 70% stenosis. Thirty-two patients underwent coronary artery bypass surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Follow-up echocardiograms were obtained in 19 patients who had wall motion abnormalities involving 22 regions. Twenty of the 22 regions were revascularized. Wall motion improved in 17 of 20 regions (85%) and returned to normal in 15 regions (75%). We conclude that segmental wall motion abnormalities may be detected by echocardiography in up to one third of patients evaluated for suspected coronary artery disease without documented myocardial infarction. These abnormalities are associated with a high likelihood of multivessel disease as well as with significant narrowing of the artery supplying the region demonstrating abnormal wall motion. Improvement in segmental wall motion abnormalities after revascularization suggests that these areas represent regions of hibernating myocardium. 
Immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different MHC associations (DQ, Dw and C4) in articular and extra-articular subsets. Genetic variants at DRB1 (Dw subtypes), DQB, and C4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of Felty's syndrome or major vasculitis. DR4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with DQB or Dw variants or with C4 null alleles. Felty's subjects showed associations with the DQB encoded DQw7 allele and with the C4B null allele but no preferential associations with any Dw subtype of DR4. By contrast DR4 +ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the Dw14 as well as with DQw7 and the C4A null allele. These different MHC associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that MHC genes outside the DRB1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process. 
Estimating the benefits of cholesterol lowering: are risk factors for coronary heart disease multiplicative? It is often stated that the major risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD)--smoking, high blood pressure and high serum cholesterol--are not merely additive but act together such that each multiplies the effects of the others. Economic analyses in which the benefits of risk factor modification are estimated often reflect this. This paper explains how predictive models based on the simplest form of the multiple logistic function inevitably predict greater benefit from cholesterol lowering in those in whom other risk factors are adverse; this results from the model itself, rather than the data. CHD death rates from the screenee population of the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial are examined: these suggest that the relationship between cholesterol and both other major risk factors is closer to additive than to multiplicative. When the benefits of cholesterol lowering are estimated, a model based on additive risk, specifying product ("interaction") terms, is to be preferred. 
Fatty infiltration: another restrictive cardiomyopathic pattern. Restrictive cardiomyopathies have been shown to occur as result of infiltrative processes from a variety of sources. The current report describes an obese male, who was found to have hemodynamic evidence of a restrictive cardiac process. His pericardium was proven to be normal and an incisional biopsy obtained of the myocardium during coronary artery bypass surgery demonstrated histologic evidence of fatty infiltration of myocardium. Review of the restrictive and pathology literature is discussed and indicates that this is the first report to demonstrate the association between fatty infiltration and hemodynamic findings consistent with a restrictive cardiomyopathy. 
The effect of lateral tilt on maternal and fetal hemodynamic variables. We measured maternal blood pressure and heart rate, fetal heart rate, and umbilical artery velocity waveforms in 25 healthy women placed in the supine and in both right and left 5 degrees and 10 degrees lateral tilt positions. Although we found no significant difference among these variables in the various maternal positions, two of 25 women became hypotensive and symptomatic in the supine and 5 degrees tilt positions. Because we could not predict which women would become symptomatic, we recommend lateral tilt of all pregnant women during operative procedures beyond 20 weeks' gestation, including those in the lithotomy position for vaginal delivery. 
Effects of bucindolol on neurohormonal activation in congestive heart failure. To examine the effects of beta-adrenergic blockade on neurohormonal activation in patients with congestive heart failure, 15 men had assessments of hemodynamics and supine peripheral renin and norepinephrine levels before and after 3 months of oral therapy with bucindolol, a nonselective beta antagonist. At baseline, plasma renin activity did not correlate with any hemodynamic parameter. However, norepinephrine levels had a weak correlation with left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01), stroke volume index (r = 0.61, p less than 0.02) and pulmonary vascular resistance (r = 0.54, p less than 0.05). Plasma renin decreased with bucindolol therapy, from 11.6 +/- 13.4 to 4.3 +/- 4.1 ng/ml/hour (mean +/- standard deviation; p less than 0.05), whereas plasma norepinephrine was unchanged, from 403 +/- 231 to 408 +/- 217 pg/ml. A wide diversity of the norepinephrine response to bucindolol was observed with reduction of levels in some patients and elevation in others. Although plasma norepinephrine did not decrease, heart rate tended to decrease (from 82 +/- 20 vs 73 +/- 11 min-1, p = 0.059) with beta-adrenergic blockade, suggesting neurohormonal antagonism at the receptor level. No changes in I-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake occurred after bucindolol therapy, suggesting unchanged adrenergic uptake of norepinephrine with beta-blocker therapy. Despite reductions in plasma renin activity and the presence of beta blockade, the response of renin or norepinephrine levels to long-term bucindolol therapy did not predict which patients had improved in hemodynamic status (chi-square = 0.37 for renin, 0.82 for norepinephrine). 
Beta-adrenergic receptors in lymphocyte subsets after exercise. Alterations in normal individuals and patients with congestive heart failure. Dynamic exercise increases the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in mixed lymphocytes by a mechanism that is incompletely understood. In a set of in vivo studies, we have investigated the effects of dynamic exercise on the subset distribution of circulating lymphocytes and on the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in each of these subsets in two groups of patients. In healthy subjects, exercise increased plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine and caused lymphocytosis. Whereas the number of Thelper cells increased only modestly, the number of Tsuppressor/cytotoxic and natural killer cells more than tripled. The number of beta-adrenergic receptors varied among subsets but was not significantly altered by dynamic exercise in any subset except natural killer cells (35% increase, p = 0.0302). In a group of patients with congestive heart failure, dynamic exercise increased plasma norepinephrine but did not alter plasma epinephrine and did not cause significant lymphocytosis. We did not detect any significant alterations of circulating leukocyte subsets or beta-adrenergic receptors in any of these subsets after exercise. A combined analysis of healthy patients and heart failure patients revealed a significant correlation between increases in plasma epinephrine and increases in circulating lymphocytes. We conclude that the exercise-induced increase in beta-adrenergic receptors of mixed lymphocytes is predominantly caused by a redistribution of circulating cell subsets that differ in their beta-adrenergic receptor number. This appears to be mediated by epinephrine rather than norepinephrine. 
Heparin as an adjunctive treatment after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The rationale for considering heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolytic treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction is to prevent rethrombosis after successful thrombolysis. The risk of reocclusion is high immediately after thrombolysis because blood flowing through the newly opened coronary artery is exposed to thrombin bound to fibrin in the residual thrombus. Clinical studies of patients with venous thrombosis and acute myocardial infarction indicate that there is a relation between the anticoagulant response to heparin and clinical efficacy and that the concept of a therapeutic heparin level is valid. Subcutaneous doses of approximately 15,000 U twice a day fail to provide an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in the majority of patients, whereas intravenous administration of a bolus of 5,000 U followed by continuous infusion of 30,000 U per 24 hours produces an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in approximately 80% of patients. Studies of patients with myocardial infarction who received streptokinase showed a significant beneficial effect on mortality when 12,500 U of heparin was administered subcutaneously 2 times per day. In contrast, the single largest study evaluating heparin 12,500 U administered subcutaneously 2 times per day as an adjunct to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) treatment did not show a beneficial effect on mortality. However, studies using full-dose intravenous heparin therapy demonstrated that heparin improves patency after coronary thrombolysis with rt-PA. 
Traumatic popliteal artery pseudoaneurysms: case report and review of the literature. Traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the popliteal artery are an uncommon late complication of arterial injury. Although reviewed extensively in wartime, they occur less frequently in civilian trauma and have accordingly been less frequently studied. A case report of a traumatic popliteal artery pseudoaneurysm and review of the literature are presented. 
Reconstructive surgery in chronic venous obstruction of the lower limbs. Forty-one patients with chronic venous insufficiency due to venous trunk obstruction of the lower limbs underwent 43 flow reconstruction procedures consisting of either free veno-venous bypass or venous transposition. The indicating symptoms for these procedures were (1) progressive chronic edema, (2) claudication while walking, or (3) trophic lesions. Doppler ultrasound and plethysmographic techniques were employed in the diagnosis while phlebography was considered the most useful and most essential technique. Iliac vein obstruction was the most common venous obstruction, followed by superficial femoral vein obstruction. Two patients were operated on for combined obstruction at both levels. Free veno-venous bypass was the most frequently used procedure. In two cases of cavo-iliac obstruction, an original technique of femoro-axillary veno-venous bypass yielded good results. Temporary arteriovenous fistulas to improve patency at sites distal to venous bypass were used in the most complex cases. Good results were obtained in 80% of the operated cases. Postoperative follow-up phlebograms were obtained in 30 of 43 operations. 
Age-related changes in membrane fluidity of erythrocytes in essential hypertension. In the present study, age- and calcium-related changes in the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes were examined in patients with essential hypertension by use of electron spin resonance method (ESR). The erythrocytes were obtained from patients with essential hypertension. We examined the ESR spectra for a fatty acid spin label agent (5-nitroxy stearate) incorporated into the erythrocyte membranes. The values of outer hyperfine splitting and order parameter (S) were significantly higher in subjects with essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects. This finding indicates that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes was lower in essential hypertension. Calcium-loading of erythrocytes with the Ca-ionophore A23187 decreased the membrane fluidity (S value was increased) more strongly in essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects. Furthermore, this Ca-induced change in membrane fluidity was significantly correlated with age in essential hypertension. These results demonstrate that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes is markedly decreased by calcium, especially in essential hypertension in older patients. This suggests an increased calcium-sensitivity of cell membranes in the aged hypertensive patient. 
Regional obesity and risk of cardiovascular disease; the Framingham Study. Risk of cardiovascular events was determined over 24 years of surveillance in relation to general adiposity reflected by relative weight and by regional obesity estimated by skinfolds and waist girth per inch of height. Upper quintile values of relative weight, subscapular skinfolds and waist girth were each associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease in both sexes. Risk of total cardiovascular events increased with the degree of regional, central or abdominal obesity. Mortality from cardiovascular disease was also increased. Increased relative weight and central obesity were both associated with increased risk factors including cholesterol, blood pressure, glucose and uric acid. Changes in weight were mirrored by changes in risk factors with linear trends over a 15 lb range of weight fluctuations. Subscapular skinfold and the ratio of subscapular-to-triceps skinfold, measures of central obesity, were in either sex also associated with an increased probability of coronary attacks in particular. The subscapular skinfold contributed to CHD risk independent of body mass index (BMI). Multivariate analyses taking all the risk factors into account indicate an independent effect of abdominal obesity on stroke, cardiac failure and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in men. In women, only the subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ratio independently contributes to CHD, cardiovascular and all cause mortality. Regional obesity appears to be an independent contributor to cardiovascular disease at a given level of general adiposity, its effect only partially mediated through promotion of other known risk factors. These data suggest that cardiovascular disease is as closely linked to abdominal as to general adiposity. 
Ultrasound-Doppler diagnosis of Budd-Chiari syndrome. We report a case of apparently idiopathic Budd-Chiari syndrome, diagnosed by ultrasound and Doppler sonography, in a patient with latent myeloproliferative disease. This case proves that Doppler sonography shows in the hepatic veins a flow pattern suggestive of partial thrombotic obstruction. Moreover, we suggest that the search for a latent myeloproliferative disorder, by means of the spontaneous erythroid colonies formation in culture of bone marrow or blood mononuclear cells, should be routinely included in the diagnostic evaluation of each case of hepatic vein thrombosis without other recognizable causes. 
Detection and location of myocardial infarction using technetium-99m sestamibi imaging at rest. Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi imaging at rest has been used to detect and localize myocardial infarction. The largest study to date is a cooperative study of 146 patients in 17 institutions. There were 24 normal subjects and 122 patients with documented myocardial infarction based on clinical, enzymatic or electrocardiographic criteria. The presence of segmental myocardial perfusion defects was compared to the presence of a Q wave on the electrocardiogram or wall motion abnormality on gated blood pool scans, performed within 48 hours of the Tc-99m sestamibi study. Of the 122 infarct patients, 118 (97%) showed perfusion abnormalities by Tc-99m sestamibi imaging. A perfusion defect was found in 110 (99%) of 111 patients with a Q wave and a wall motion abnormality, 113 (99%) of 114 patients with a wall motion abnormality and 113 (98%) of 115 patients with a Q wave. Of the 24 normal subjects, 22 (92%) had normal Tc-99m sestamibi images. In 75% of 1,986 segments, both a Tc-99m sestamibi defect and a regional wall motion abnormality on gated blood scans were present. In 11% of segments, wall motion was normal but Tc-99m sestamibi imaging was abnormal; in 14% of segments, wall motion was abnormal and Tc-99m sestamibi images were normal. In the 24 control subjects, 99% of the segments were normal. Thirty-eight patients had coronary angiography. A close relation existed between the coronary anatomy and myocardial Tc-99m sestamibi uptake. All 9 territories supplied by an occluded vessel and poor collaterals had grade 0 uptake (scale 0 to 2: 0 = markedly reduced; 2 = normal). 
Risk ratios and risk differences in estimating the effect of risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly. This article reviews the nature of the effects of hypertension, smoking and cholesterol on the incidence of cardiovascular disease and emphasizes how these effects vary by age. In the Methods section, we discuss briefly the concepts of additive and multiplicative statistical models as tools for summarizing data. In the results section, we summarize available data on the association between incident stroke and coronary heart disease in the elderly and each of these major risk factors. The traditional multiplicative model parsimoniously characterizes the individual and joint effects of age and high blood pressure in terms of risk ratios; but, for smoking and cholesterol, an additive model appears to be the most parsimonious. We discuss the consequences of these observations for the study and prevention of cardiovascular disease in the elderly. 
Surgical treatment of endomyocardial fibrosis: a new approach. Endomyocardial fibrosis has been treated surgically for many years. For complete removal of fibrosis from both ventricles by the classic technique, each atrioventricular (AV) valve was removed and replaced with a prosthesis. Relapse of endomyocardial fibrosis has not been observed after surgical correction. Reoperations have been carried out because of complications of valve prostheses. A new surgical technique for removal of ventricular fibrous tissue with preservation of the mitral and tricuspid valves was used in nine consecutive patients with endomyocardial fibrosis. Initial results show a reduction of pulmonary hypertension, mean right and left atrial pressures and end-diastolic pressures in both ventricles. Tricuspid annuloplasty was performed in seven patients and mitral annuloplasty in five. No valve prosthesis was used. There was no death and New York Heart Association functional class improved from class III or IV in the preoperative period to class I or II in the postoperative period. These data suggest that resection of endocardial fibrous tissue can be indicated early in the clinical course and performed with preservation of the AV valves. 
Comparative study of the effects of three angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors on the cough reflex. To compare the effects of three different angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors on the cough reflex, capsaicin and citric acid challenge tests were done in normal subjects and hypertensive patients before and after administration of delapril, captopril, or enalapril. Two groups of 7 normal subjects (single dose study: 15 mg delapril v 18.75 mg captopril or 2.5 mg enalapril) and a group of 6 mildly hypertensive patients (1 week study: cross-over administration of 30 mg/day delapril, 37.5 mg/day captopril, or 5 mg/day enalapril) were studied. Another group of 6 patients with essential hypertension was treated with three ACE inhibitors for 4 weeks in a randomized order, with a 2 week washout period between active therapies. Aerosols of 1 mumol/L and 3 mumol/L capsaicin and 0.68% citric acid in 0.9% NaCl were generated by an ultrasonic nebulizer, and the frequency of cough was counted during inhalation. Delapril treatment resulted in substantially fewer patients with a significant increase (greater than or equal to 4 coughs during treatment than during the control period) in the frequency of cough than did captopril treatment. In the 1 and 4 week studies, enalapril and captopril had substantially more occurrences of significantly increased capsaicin-induced cough than did delapril. These results indicate that delapril has the least cough stimulatory effect among these ACE inhibitors, which may be clinically beneficial. 
Surgical indication for aortic arch hypoplasia in infants. To determine the surgical indications for aortic arch hypoplasia, the distal arch outer diameter, distal arch index (ratio of the distal arch diameter to the normal aortic ring diameter), and postoperative pressure gradient across the aortic arch were studied in 23 patients under 6 months of age who underwent surgery for coarctation and/or aortic arch hypoplasia. The ratio of the pressure gradient across the arch to the right radial artery was used to evaluate the postoperative level of stenosis. The maximum ratio of the pressure gradient that could be tolerated after surgery was considered to be 0.15 from the operative results. Negative correlations were found between the distal arch outer diameter and postoperative pressure gradient ratio (r = 0.80), and the distal arch index and postoperative pressure gradient ratio (r = 0.80). These correlations proved that in order to obtain a postoperative pressure gradient ratio of 0.15 or less, a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or more and a distal arch index of 0.63 or more were necessary. Consequently, a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or a distal arch index of 0.63 is considered to indicate that aortic arch hypoplasia is in need of repair. 
Phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate: treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion. A 68-yr-old male with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia was given phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate intrapericardially for the treatment of malignant pericardial effusion. Technetium-99m-sulfur colloid was used to verify catheter placement and to visualize distribution within the pericardium. Estimated dosimetry for this mode of therapy is presented, and it is suggested that pericardial administration of phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate is the treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion. 
Diabetes mellitus and hypertension: a physiologic basis for a rational therapeutic approach. The basic mechanisms that initiate and sustain hypertension in the diabetic population are poorly understood. Obesity, insulin, genetic factors, and abnormalities in calcium homeostasis may contribute, and could be related to an elevated Na+/H+ antiport activity. In the first study described in this investigation, hypertensive subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) who had an elevated Na+/Li+ countertransport activity were found to have a lower whole body glucose utilization, a lower insulin-stimulated forearm carbohydrate oxidation, larger ultrasound kidney volume, and increased left ventricular mass index when compared with hypertensive IDDM subjects with a normal Na+/Li+ countertransport activity or normotensive IDDM subjects. Thus an elevated Na+/Li+ countertransport activity appears to identify a subset of IDDM patients who are more susceptible to the development of the renal and cardiac complications associated with hypertension. This underlines the importance of choosing an appropriate antihypertensive therapy that will not produce a deterioration in glucose and lipid metabolism. In the second part of the report, results are presented for the treatment of hypertensive patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with doxazosin. The selective alpha 1-inhibitor produced a significant reduction in blood pressure, together with favorable changes in the serum lipid profile. As a result, the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease was significantly reduced. Throughout the study no patients required a dose reduction or discontinuation of doxazosin because of side effects, and no clinically significant changes in laboratory tests were apparent. Thus doxazosin could be considered a useful antihypertensive agent in hypertensive patients with IDDM who are insulin-resistant and who have renal and cardiac abnormalities. 
Coronary arteries in truncus arteriosus. The origin and distribution of the coronary arteries was described in 39 autopsy specimens of truncus arteriosus (TA). The specimens were classified according to the number and the patterns of the truncal cusps. The position of the truncal cusps was defined in relation to intracardiac structures, namely, the atrioventricular orifices. Bicuspid truncal valves were observed in 8 cases (21%), tricuspid in 22 cases (56%) and quadricuspid in 9 cases (23%). All tricuspid valves had 2 anterior and 1 posterior cusp. Great variability in the origin of the coronary arteries was observed, with a tendency for the right coronary artery to arise from the anterior right quadrant and for the left coronary artery to arise from the anterior and left quadrant. Such a tendency was observed in 50% of the bicuspid, in 59% of the tricuspid and in 66% of the quadricuspid valves. The anatomic right ventricle was always observed to be vascularized by a right coronary artery, and the anatomic left ventricle by a left coronary artery, even in cases in which there was a single coronary trunk. The anterior surface of the right ventricle was crossed by a right coronary artery in 5 cases. A single coronary artery was observed in 7 cases (18%). Embryologic considerations are offered, especially regarding the relation between the observed variability in coronary artery patterns in TA and the absence of the truncal septation. 
Low-molecular-weight heparinoid compared with warfarin for prophylaxis of deep-vein thrombosis in patients who are operated on for fracture of the hip. A prospective, randomized trial. In a randomized, prospective trial, a low-molecular-weight heparinoid (Org 10172 [Lomoparan]) was compared with warfarin for efficacy and safety in preventing deep-vein thrombosis in 263 patients who had an operatively treated fracture of the hip. One group of patients received Org 10172 in a dose of 750 units subcutaneously every twelve hours until the ninth postoperative day; on the seventh postoperative day, warfarin was added to the regimen. The other group received only warfarin. Both drugs were begun preoperatively, immediately after the admission evaluation. In the patients who received warfarin, the desired prothrombin time was one and one-half times the control level. Deep-vein thrombosis was detected by 125I-fibrinogen scanning and impedance plethysmography and was confirmed by phlebography and compression ultrasonography. Deep-vein thrombosis was found in nine (7 per cent) of the 132 patients who received Org 10172 and in twenty-eight (21 per cent) of the 131 patients who received warfarin (p less than 0.001). Adverse reactions were not significantly different in the two groups. Major bleeding complications occurred in eight patients in the Org-10172 group, only four of whom were receiving the drug at the time of bleeding, and in five patients who were receiving warfarin (not significant). There was no difference in intraoperative loss of blood or in requirements for transfusion. We concluded that the low-molecular-weight heparinoid Org 10172 is a safe, convenient, effective antithrombotic agent for the prevention of venous thrombosis after an operation for fracture of the hip. 
Cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia. In a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia, related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 (22%). In 27 cases (10%) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. Hematomas, ecchymoses, petechiae, or purpura occurred in 24 (41%) of the 58 patients. Fifteen patients (26%) had erythromelalgia, in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint. Livedo reticularis, recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis, ischemic complications with gangrene, leg ulcers, or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations. Urticaria occurred in two patients, and Raynaud's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient. Platelet function may be abnormal, and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied, 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation. Knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection. Prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events. 
Daptomycin compared with teicoplanin and vancomycin for therapy of experimental Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. The efficacies of daptomycin, teicoplanin, and vancomycin were compared in the therapy of experimental Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. Rabbits infected with either of two methicillin-susceptible strains (SA-12871 or its moderately teicoplanin-resistant derivative SA-12873) or a methicillin-resistant S. aureus strain (MRSA-494) were treated with daptomycin, 8 mg/kg of body weight, every 8 h; teicoplanin, 12.5 mg/kg (low-dose teicoplanin [teicoplanin-LD], excluding MRSA-494) or 40 mg/kg (high-dose teicoplanin [teicoplanin-HD]) every 12 h; or vancomycin, 17.5 mg/kg every 6 h, for 4 days. Compared with no treatment daptomycin, teicoplamin-HD, and vancomycin significantly reduced bacterial counts of all test strains in vegetations and renal and splenic tissues (P less than 0.001). Teicoplanin-LD was equally effective against SA-12871 but failed against SA-12873, with three of six animals still being bacteremic at the end of therapy. For SA-12871, daptomycin was as effective as teicoplanin-HD and was superior to teicoplanin-LD and vancomycin (P = 0.02) in lowering vegetation bacterial counts. There were no differences between daptomycin, teicoplanin-HD, or vancomycin in the reduction of bacterial counts in tissues for any of the test strains. In rabbits infected with SA-12871, vegetations from 33% of teicoplanin-LD-treated, 6% of teicoplanin-HD-treated, and 13% of daptomycin-treated animals yielded organisms for which there were up to eightfold increases in the MICs. Resistance may have contributed to early death in one daptomycin-treated animal. No increases in the MICs for the test strain were detected in animals infected with SA-12873 or MRSA-494. 
Specific supersensitivity of the mesenteric vascular bed of Dahl salt-sensitive rats. Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) and salt-resistant (DR) rats were maintained on a diet containing normal (0.45%) or high (7%) salt for 5 days. The DS rats had slightly higher systolic blood pressures than DR rats, although a high salt diet failed to significantly elevate pressure in either group when compared with their appropriate (low salt diet) controls. The sensitivity of the isolated, perfused mesenteric vasculature from DS rats fed a high salt diet to nerve stimulation was greater when compared with all other groups in the presence or absence of cocaine (1 microM). A similar difference in sensitivity between high salt DS rats and high salt DR rats to bolus injections of norepinephrine was observed only in the presence of cocaine. The change in sensitivity was characterized by a leftward shift of the dose-response curve without a change in maximum response. No difference in sensitivity between the high salt DS group and any other treatment group was observed in response to the pressor agents KCl, angiotensin II, 5-hydroxytryptamine or the depressor agent acetylcholine. These data indicate that DS rats on a short-term, high salt diet possess a significant and specific elevation in sensitivity to nerve stimulation and norepinephrine in the absence of an increase in blood pressure. Differences in the effectiveness of cocaine among the groups suggest that differences may exist in neuronal uptake (uptake 1). 
Positron emission tomography and interventional cardiology. Current noninvasive diagnostic techniques have limited accuracy for detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in symptomatic and (particularly) asymptomatic patients with silent disease. Furthermore, no standard noninvasive method provides reliable diagnostic information on the location of the coronary arteries involved, the severity of stenosis, the presence of collaterals and myocardial viability. Based on greater than 1,000 cardiac studies at the University of Texas, cardiac positron emission tomography (PET) with either generator-produced rubidium-82, cyclotron-produced N-13 ammonia, or F-18 deoxyglucose is suitable for 4 routine diagnostic purposes: (1) noninvasive diagnosis of CAD in either symptomatic or asymptomatic subjects with a sensitivity of 95 to 98% and specificity of 95 to 100%. This accuracy is now sufficient to schedule diagnostic catheterization and multivessel angioplasty with surgical backup on the basis of the PET scan. At the University of Texas we carry out PET in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients to direct those with mild disease to cholesterol-lowering reversal therapy and those with severe disease to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA); (2) assessment of physiologic severity of coronary artery stenosis as compared to automated quantitative coronary arteriographic analysis. Changes in stenosis severity are followed before and after interventions including PTCA, bypass surgery, vasodilator drugs and cholesterol control regimens for reversal of coronary atherosclerosis; (3) imaging myocardial infarction, ischemia, viability, zone at risk and sizing of these pathophysiologic processes. 
Stress and hypertension In susceptible persons emotional stress results in immediate sympathetic stimulation, with a vasomotor response that results in a high-output state and elevated blood pressure; the vasopressor response seems to be transient. There seems to be no longitudinal epidemiologic validation of the attractive hypothesis that transiently elevated blood pressures are the prelude to fixed hypertension, however. The acquisition of hypertension by populations abandoning their traditional mode of living has been attributed to the sociocultural stress inherent in westernization, but these studies usually have not taken into account concomitants of this type of acculturation, such as dietary changes and increased body weight. The inverse relationship of blood pressure levels to education could explain the development of hypertension when aspiration to upward mobility is thwarted. The severity of perceived occupational stress relates inversely to blood pressure, suggesting that familiarity with a job renders the demands made by the work environment more predictable and less threatening in terms of vasopressor response. 
Impaired insulin action on skeletal muscle metabolism in essential hypertension. Previous studies have shown that essential hypertension is frequently associated with insulin resistance. The tissues responsible for this metabolic alteration have not been defined. We tested the hypothesis that skeletal muscle is the site of insulin resistance of essential hypertension with the use of the perfused forearm technique. Eight hypertensive (age 42 +/- 3 years, body mass index 27 +/- 1 kg/m2, intra-arterial mean blood pressure 126 +/- 4 mm Hg) and seven normotensive (age 48 +/- 3 years, body mass index 26 +/- 1 kg/m2, mean blood pressure 95 +/- 4 mm Hg) male volunteers were studied. After glucose ingestion (40 g/m2), normal glucose tolerance in the patients was maintained at the expense of a heightened plasma insulin response, suggesting the presence of insulin resistance. During graded, local (intra-arterial) hyperinsulinemia encompassing the physiological range (12-120 milliunits/l), glucose uptake by forearm tissues was significantly (p less than 0.03) reduced in the hypertensive subjects as compared with the controls at each of five insulin steps, by 43% on the average. In addition, forearm lactate and pyruvate release were significantly less stimulated in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group (p less than 0.01 for both), presumably as a consequence of the decreased glucose influx. Forearm exchange of oxygen, carbon dioxide, lipid substrates (free fatty acids, glycerol, and beta-hydroxybutyrate), and potassium were similar in the hypertensive and normotensive groups in the basal state. Insulin had no effect on oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, and respiratory quotient in either study group, whereas it stimulated free fatty acids, glycerol, and potassium uptake to the same extent in the hypertensive and normotensive groups. 
Lack of cutaneous hyperemia in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in IDDM. Cutaneous blood flow was measured with the laser Doppler technique and by recording cutaneous O2 tension on the forearm and forehead in nine young adult patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and nine sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects after induction of hypoglycemia. In the healthy subjects, cutaneous blood flow measured with the laser Doppler technique was increased by 120 +/- 26% in the forehead (P less than 0.01) and 196 +/- 50% in the forearm (P less than 0.01) at the glucose nadir (blood glucose 1.8 +/- 0.2 mM) compared with basal blood flow. In contrast, in diabetic patients, cutaneous blood flow was unchanged. The corresponding changes, at the glucose nadir, with cutaneous O2 tension recordings were 286 +/- 131% (P less than 0.05) in control subjects and -22 +/- 15% (NS) in diabetic patients. An impairment of sympathetic nervous function, not detectable by simple cardiovascular tests, could be responsible for the lack of cutaneous hyperemia and sweating and could contribute to unawareness of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients. 
Results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of high-risk angulated stenoses. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of angulated stenoses has been found in studies using older PTCA equipment to be associated with a heightened risk of procedure-related major ischemic events. To better understand the factors associated with procedural risk and to identify means of lessening that risk, 100 patients, treated sequentially from 1986 to 1989, who underwent PTCA of stenoses located at greater than or equal to 45 degrees bends, were characterized for 27 clinical, anatomic and procedural variables. Clinical outcome of angioplasty was related to these variables. In addition, results from 344 consecutive contemporary patients undergoing PTCA of nonangulated lesions were compared to those of the study group. Procedural success was achieved in only 70% of patients with angulated stenoses, compared with 306 of 344 (89%) nonangulated stenoses, and major ischemic complications (death, bypass surgery or myocardial infarction) occurred in 13% of patients with angulated stenoses compared with 12 of 344 (3.5%) with nonangulated stenoses (both p less than 0.001). The presence of associated thrombus, stenosis length greater than 10 mm or age greater than or equal to 65 years led to an even higher risk of major complications (9 of 44 = 20.5%), whereas highly experienced angioplasty operators and the use of polyethylene terephthalate balloons appeared to decrease risk and increase the likelihood of success. PTCA of such stenoses should be undertaken only cautiously and in carefully selected patients. 
Urticaria: current therapy. Although the ideal treatment for urticaria is identification and removal of its cause, no underlying cause can be discerned in the majority of instances. The chief clinical problem is the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria. H1-receptor antagonists are the major class of therapeutic agents used in the management of chronic idiopathic urticaria. The H1 antagonists have been divided into subgroups based on their chemical structure. The second-generation H1 antagonists now available are particularly advantageous for individuals who must remain alert while working. Terbutaline, a beta-adrenergic agonist, is of occasional benefit as an adjunct therapy in combination with an H1 antagonist. The oral administration of disodium cromoglycate is ineffective in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria, although a few individuals with urticaria caused by food allergy may respond to this drug. It is best to avoid repeated injections of epinephrine and the systemic administration of corticosteroids. Urticaria has a capricious course: it may respond to the administration of placebos or it may resolve spontaneously. About 50% of the patients with urticaria are free of lesions within 1 year, but 20% continue to have episodes for more than 20 years. 
Case finding, data quality aspects and comparability of myocardial infarction registers: results of a south German register study. The population-based Augsburg Coronary Event Register (330,000 residents, age 25-74 years) has registered a total of 1012 cases of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in 1985 and 1021 AMI in 1986 and categorized them on the basis of the current WHO diagnostic algorithm for AMI. The register is designed for longitudinal comparisons of annual AMI risk (incidence, attack rate, death rate), and the risk to the AMI patients themselves (28-day case fatality). The methodology and specific issues encountered during registration and data evaluation are described. With an estimated 95% completeness of case finding, the quality control data review which the register conducts annually shows a consistency of specific data structures which indicate stable case finding and validation procedures. However, local conditions which affect case finding and data completeness per case are responsible for the creation of subsets of AMI which are in turn distinguished by differences in diagnostic category structures. With regard to the study objectives, the differences among subsets appear to have the least effect on rate calculations if DEFINITE and POSSIBLE AMI are combined. The implications of methodological variations and subset differences within and across registers on annual rate calculations and result comparisons are discussed. 
Evaluation of methods for detecting venous reflux. Perspectives in venous insufficiency. Using 793 limbs with nonobstructive venous reflux, we evaluated a number of techniques used for the assessment of venous reflux. The venous Doppler examination was found to be a reliable screening tool with excellent sensitivity and good specificity. Photoplethysmography was 97% sensitive in patients with ambulatory venous hypertension; however, in milder forms of reflux, it was less sensitive. The major drawback of photoplethysmography was the large number of false-positive results obtained. Ambulatory venous pressure measurement and another pressure-based technique, Valsalva-induced foot venous pressure measurement, defined overlapping but different normal and abnormal limbs. Descending venography, when performed as described by Kistner et al, was found to be a reliable tool to assess reflux with more than a 90% sensitivity. The horizontal technique of performing descending venography and nucleotide descending venographies had unacceptably low sensitivity and were abandoned. Features of venous reflux as outlined by these modern technical tools are described. 
ACE inhibition improves vagal reactivity in patients with heart failure. The deranged autonomic control of heart rate was studied in 34 patients with heart failure (New York Heart Association [NYHA] functional class II to III) by examining the carotid sinus baroreflex. The carotid sinus baroreceptors were stimulated by graded suction. The slope of the regression line between increases in cycle length and the degree of neck suction was taken as an index of baroreflex sensitivity. The reflex response is mediated by a selective increase of vagal efferent activity. Baroreflex sensitivity therefore represents a measure of vagal reactivity. Using multiple regression analysis, baroreflex sensitivity (BS) correlated positively to stroke volume index (SVI) and inversely to plasma renin activity (PRA) and to age: BS = 0.47 SVI - 0.38 PRA - 0.23 age + constant (r = 0.74; p less than 0.0005). In addition to digitalis and diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (captopril or enalapril) were given to 16 patients for a mean of 17 +/- 3 days. The patients with hemodynamic improvement (group A) exhibited improved baroreflex sensitivity (1.4 +/- 0.4 to 3.6 +/- 1.2 msec/mm Hg; p less than 0.01). Baroreflex sensitivity remained unchanged (3.1 +/- 0.8 to 2.4 +/- 1.0 msec/mm Hg; n.s.) in the patients without hemodynamic improvement (group B). The increase in reflex sensitivity did not correlate with hemodynamic alterations. Baroreflex sensitivity during ACE inhibition (BSD) was only related to the baseline baroreflex sensitivity (BSB): BSD = 2.8 BSB - 0.46 (r = 0.84; p less than 0.005). In patients with heart failure, reflex bradycardia decreases with age and with PRA and increases with stroke volume. Chronic therapy with ACE inhibitors enhances vagal reactivity in patients with hemodynamic improvement. 
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease BACKGROUND. A high incidence of hypertension (50 to 75 percent) occurs early in the course of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Cyst enlargement, causing bilateral renal ischemia and subsequent release of renin, is proposed as the cause of this form of hypertension. METHODS. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations during short-term and long-term converting-enzyme inhibition in 14 patients with hypertension due to polycystic kidney disease, 9 patients with essential hypertension, 11 normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease, and 13 normal subjects. The groups were comparable with respect to age, sex, body-surface area, degree of hypertension, sodium excretion, and renal function. RESULTS. During the short-term study, the mean (+/- SE) plasma renin activity was significantly higher in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the patients with essential hypertension, in the supine (0.36 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.22 +/- 0.06 ng per liter.second, P = 0.05) and upright positions (1.03 +/- 0.14 vs. 0.61 +/- 0.08 ng per liter.second, P less than 0.03) and after converting-enzyme inhibition (1.97 +/- 0.28 vs. 0.67 +/- 0.17 ng per liter.second, P less than 0.0006). The mean arterial pressures measured in the supine and upright positions and the plasma aldosterone concentrations measured in the upright position were significantly higher in the normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the normal subjects. After six weeks of converting-enzyme inhibition, renal plasma flow increased (P less than 0.005), and both renal vascular resistance (P less than 0.007) and the filtration fraction (P less than 0.02) decreased significantly in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease but not in the patients with essential hypertension. CONCLUSIONS. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is stimulated significantly more in hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in comparable patients with essential hypertension. The increased renin release, perhaps due to renal ischemia caused by cyst expansion, probably contributes to the early development of hypertension in polycystic kidney disease. 
Regional blood flow supply and demand in heart failure. Heart failure results not only in a fall in cardiac output but also in a redistribution of blood flow favoring some regional beds (the brain and the heart) at the expense of others (the kidney and working skeletal muscle). The chronic resting hypoperfusion of striated muscle is further compromised with exercise. Maladaptive vasoconstrictor control mechanisms prevent the redirection of blood flow from nonworking muscle and liver to working muscle. This inappropriate preservation of nonworking organ perfusion further compromises the functional capacity of working muscle and is associated with evidence for metabolic deconditioning with reduced oxygen extraction and impaired oxidative phosphorylation. It is becoming increasingly clear that the clinical response to the inotropic and vasodilator therapy used in heart failure is in part dependent on the differing regional blood flow profiles of the various agents studied. The ability of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to redirect blood flow away from nonworking regional beds to exercising muscle, and thereby to reestablish an appropriate physiologic response to changing metabolic needs, may be the overriding reason for their long-term efficacy. Certainly in the future the comprehensive therapy of heart failure will have to take into consideration not only central hemodynamic but also regional blood flow/supply and demand issues. 
Closed heart cryoablation of the His bundle using an anterior septal approach. His bundle cryosurgical ablation using a closed heart anterior septal approach was used in 6 patients. There were 3 men and 3 women, aged 24 to 73 years. Three patients had atrial fibrillation and 2 patients had atrial flutter (2 with combined episodes of atrial tachycardia). One patient had atrial tachycardia. Five patients had no structural heart disease and 1 patient had left ventricular dilatation (ejection fraction, 0.35). All patients undergoing His bundle cryosurgical ablation had permanent heart block without intraoperative complications (mean follow-up, 25 months). Closed heart anteroseptal cryoablation of the His bundle is effective and is an alternative to attempted catheter ablation. 
Results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age (from the 1985 to 1986 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Coronary Angioplasty Registry). The 1985 to 1986 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) Registry series of 1,801 initial procedures included 486 patients age greater than or equal to 65 years (elderly). In comparison to younger patients, a greater proportion of elderly patients were women and had unstable angina. Elderly patients had more history of hypertension and more history of congestive heart failure. Although the elderly had more extensive vessel disease, the numbers of lesions and vessels attempted with PTCA were similar in the older and younger cohorts. Angiographic success rates were similar for all age groups. Although complication rates in the catheterization laboratory did not differ, patients greater than or equal to 65 years were much more likely to require emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) (5.4 vs 2.8%, p less than 0.05) or elective CABG (3.9 vs 1.6%, p less than 0.01). The in-hospital death rate was considerably higher among the elderly (3.1 vs 0.2%, p less than 0.01). At 2-year follow-up, symptomatic status and cumulative rates of myocardial infarction, CABG and repeat PTCA were similar for elderly and younger patients. The death rate after 2 years was higher among elderly patients (8.8% of patients greater than or equal to 65 years vs 2.9% of patients less than 65 years, p less than 0.01). When the relative risk of death for the elderly was adjusted for factors more prevalent among those greater than or equal to 65 years (history of congestive heart failure, multivessel disease, unstable angina, history of hypertension and female gender), the relative risk remained significant but was substantially reduced (from 3.3 to 2.4). 
Age-related hypotensive effect of placebo and active treatment in patients older than 60 years. European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly. Elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to active treatment (n = 365) or placebo (n = 377). The effects of treatment on blood pressure were calculated by subtracting pretreatment blood pressure from the blood pressure at 3 months. In the two treatment groups, the decrease in systolic and diastolic pressures was more pronounced in older patients. However, the slopes of blood pressure change with age were not significantly different in the two treatment groups: systolic, -0.47 and -0.37 mm Hg/year in the active-treated and placebo patients, respectively; diastolic, -0.26 and -0.15 mm Hg/year, respectively. Thus, proving that an observed age-related hypotensive effect is caused by a particular drug requires comparison with a control group on placebo. 
When is pulmonary artery catheterization worth the risks? Bedside pulmonary artery catheterization has proven to be an important addition to the clinical assessment of critically ill patients. Properly used, the procedure may provide hemodynamic information that is not apparent from physical examination or radiography. It may be safely accomplished through various venous routes, but care must be taken to avoid potential complications. 
Evaluation of ketotifen in corticosteroid-dependent idiopathic anaphylaxis. To study the possible efficacy of ketotifen (K) in the treatment of idiopathic anaphylaxis (IA), K was administered in an open-label trial to six patients with IA who required corticosteroids at doses below which their disease could not be controlled. During the study, patients continued to receive noncorticosteroid medications (eg, antihistamines, oral adrenergic agents) that had been used on a regular basis for treatment of IA before study, but periodic attempts to reduce corticosteroid doses were made. A reduction of prednisone dose with continued control of disease was judged to be evidence for a beneficial effect of K. After 7 to 16 months of K administration, three patients were judged to have had probable benefits from K (reductions in alternate day prednisone dose requirement from 40 mg to none, 35 mg to 15 mg, and 30 mg to none), and one patient had a possible benefit from K (dose reduction from 100 to 120 mg to 77 mg). Two other patients were unable to tolerate major decreases in prednisone without developing symptoms or signs of IA. Within the limitations of this study design, we conclude that K may be efficacious in the treatment of some patients with IA, and that further trials of K in the treatment of IA are indicated. 
Screening 1140 fifth graders for hypercholesterolemia: family history inadequate to predict results Cholesterol screening was performed on 1140 fifth-grade students in Scottsdale, AZ, as part of a school-affiliated, health-education program. The goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students. Among the children studied, the mean cholesterol level was 168.3 mg/dL (4.35 mmol/L), and 13 percent had cholesterol levels above 200 mg/dL (5.20 mmol/L). Fifty-four percent had a family member with high cholesterol or a heart attack before age 60 years, but 36 percent of the students with cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dL (5.20 mmol/L) had a negative family history. Family history was neither sensitive nor specific as a predictor of elevated cholesterol levels (sensitivity 0.64, specificity 0.47, and positive predictive value 0.16 for predicting cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dL [5.20 mmol/L]). Large numbers of children were screened safely and efficiently with good student and parental cooperation. Results of this study do not support the current recommendations to screen children for hypercholesterolemia based upon their family histories. 
Body mass index and prognosis in elderly hypertensive patients: a report from the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly. Obesity and hypertension are often found in the same patients, particularly in elderly women. However, few data on the joint impact of these two conditions in women and the elderly are available. In the current study of 800 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to active treatment or placebo, the initial mean body mass index (BMI) was 26.7 kg/m2 in 560 women and 25.7 kg/m2 in 240 men. During the trial, total mortality and cardiovascular and noncardiovascular terminating events were highest in the patients at the leanest BMI quintile. The association between BMI and cardiovascular end points was U-shaped, whereas noncardiovascular mortality decreased with increasing BMI. The results in the women were similar to those in the total group. The U-shaped relation was confirmed with Cox's proportional hazards model, controlling for age, gender, systolic blood pressure, hemoglobin, serum cholesterol, blood glucose, and cardiovascular complications at entry. The BMI level with the lowest risk was 28 to 29 kg/m2 for total mortality and cardiovascular terminating events, 26 to 27 kg/m2 for cardiovascular mortality, and 31 to 32 kg/m2 for noncardiovascular mortality. BMI did not modify the favorable effects of drug treatment. There was no evidence that obesity would protect elderly hypertensive men or women from cardiovascular complications. 
Propagation of deep venous thrombosis identified by duplex ultrasonography. To investigate the efficacy of anticoagulation in preventing continuing thrombosis, we prospectively evaluated 24 patients with acute deep venous thrombosis using duplex ultrasonography. All patients were hospitalized with conclusive ultrasonic evidence of deep venous thrombosis identified in one of four levels: I, calf only; II, calf-popliteal; III, calf-popliteal-femoral; or IV, calf-popliteal-femoral-iliac. Duplex scans were obtained on admission and on three subsequent occasions during therapy. Progression of thrombosis was defined as advancement of thrombus to the more proximal venous level. Demographic data, symptoms, risk factors for deep venous thrombosis, physical findings, anticoagulation regimens, and hematologic variables were ascertained. Adequacy of anticoagulation was defined as elevation of baseline activated partial thromboplastin time by 150%. Nine patients (38%) had progression of thrombosis, and 15 (62%) had stable or improving duplex scans. Progression occurred as follows: I----II (2), I----III (2), II----III (1), and III----IV (4). Of the demographic and clinical variables examined, only smoking correlated with progression of thrombus (p = 0.04). Average heparin dose in the stable group was 1214 +/- 294 units/hr and 1122 +/- 248 units/hr in the group that progressed (p = 0.8): activated partial thromboplastin time was 45.6 +/- 7 seconds in the stable group and 49.8 +/- 9 seconds in the progression group (p = 0.7). Nine patients in the stable group had consistently adequate anticoagulation, whereas six did not; six in the progression group were consistently anticoagulated, and three were not. Two patients (one with stable thrombus and one with progressive thrombus) suffered nonfatal pulmonary emboli. Clot progression as determined by duplex scanning did not predict acute complications of deep venous thrombosis. 
Cardiac myosin-induced myocarditis. Heart autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of the disease. We recently demonstrated that cardiac myosin is capable of inducing autoimmune myocarditis in genetically predisposed mice. This disease parallels coxsackievirus B3-induced autoimmune myocarditis in many respects and is associated with high-titer autoantibodies specific for cardiac myosin. The following lines of evidence suggest that these autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of autoimmune myocarditis: 1) immunoperoxidase staining of heart sections from cardiac myosin-immunized A/J and A.SW mice revealed IgG depositions only along damaged muscle fibres in infiltrated areas, but not in intact tissue; 2) myosin autoantibodies did not bind to the surface of viable cardiac myocytes isolated from mice, but only reacted with myocytes permeabilized with detergent; 3) mice treated with a single high dose of cyclophosphamide, which reduces the humoral immune response, still developed severe myocarditis, despite the fact that their autoantibody titers were reduced to the level of adjuvant-injected controls; and 4) passive transfer of high-titer myosin autoantibodies failed to induce myocarditis, although the titers in the recipients were comparable to those found in mice with cardiac myosin-induced disease. Together, the results suggest that high-titer myosin autoantibodies are secondary rather than primary to the disease. 
Dilated cardiomyopathy associated with Chlamydia trachomatis infection. A 26-year-old man was admitted to hospital with acute myocarditis complicated by congestive heart failure, and atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. Detailed investigations to determine the aetiological factors involved yielded negative results, except for serological evidence of infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. During the follow-up period, dilated cardiomyopathy developed. To the best of our knowledge a similar case has not been reported previously. 
Thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase: an inherited risk factor for coronary artery disease. Severe methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) deficiency with less than 2% of normal enzyme activity is characterized by neurological abnormalities, atherosclerotic changes, and thromboembolism. We have discovered a "new" variant of MTHFR deficiency which is characterized by the absence of neurological abnormalities, an enzyme activity of about 50% of the normal value, and distinctive thermolability under specific conditions of heat inactivation. In this study, lymphocyte MTHFR specific activities in the thermolabile variant and control groups were 5.58 +/- 0.91 and 10.33 +/- 2.89 nmol formaldehyde formed/mg protein/h, respectively. The difference was significant (P less than .01). However, there was overlap among the individual values from the two groups. On the other hand, residual MTHFR activity after heat inactivation was 11.2 +/- 1.43% in the thermolabile variant and 36.3 +/- 5.18% in the controls. There was no overlap. Enzyme studies in 10 subjects with thermolabile MTHFR and their family members support the hypothesis that thermolabile MTHFR is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. To elucidate the association of thermolabile MTHFR with the development of coronary artery disease, we determined the thermostability of lymphocyte MTHFR in 212 patients with proven coronary artery disease and in 202 controls without clinical evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Thermolabile MTHFR was found in 36 (17.0%) cardiac patients and 10 (5.0%) controls. The difference in incidence between the two groups was statistically significant (P less than .01). The average age at onset of clinical coronary artery disease in 36 patients with thermolabile MTHFR was 57.3 +/- 7.6 years (35-72 years). The mean total plasma homocysteine concentration in patients with thermolabile MTHFR was 13.19 +/- 5.32 nmol/ml and was significantly different from the normal mean of 8.50 +/- 2.80 nmol/ml (P less than .05). There was no association between thermolabile MTHFR and other major risk factors. We conclude that thermolabile MTHFR is a variant(s) of MTHFR deficiency which is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. In addition, it is positively associated with the development of coronary artery disease. Determination of in vitro thermostability of lymphocyte MTHFR is a reliable method for identifying subjects with this abnormality. 
Proximal aortic dissection with cardiac tamponade. Long-term survival without surgery. Proximal aortic dissection in a 79-year-old woman was complicated by cardiac tamponade, aortic regurgitation, and pleural leak. Following pericardiocentesis and control of her hypertension, she survived without an operation for more than four years. 
Tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitic disorders: a quantitative study of 18 biopsy cases. Tubulointerstitial alterations were studied in 18 biopsy cases of systemic vasculitis. To evaluate the changes more objectively, two indexes, the number of interstitial inflammatory cells and tubulitis percentage, were used. The group means of both of these indexes were statistically higher than those of the autopsy control group, while 14 of the cases (77.8%) showed a significant difference (P less than 0.01) between individual means and the control group means. On the other hand, tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitis seemed to be less prominent than drug-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) according to these indexes. However, comparing these indexes with those of drug-induced TIN, six cases (33.3%) of systemic angiitis could be regarded as having developed pathologic changes similar to TIN. Statistical difference was not shown in the indexes between those patients with histologic evidence of necrotizing angiitis and those without it. Clinically, urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) was abnormally high in all three examined cases, reflecting the damage of renal tubular epithelial cells. Not only the vascular and glomerular lesions, but also tubulointerstitial changes, should be evaluated in the renal biopsy specimen of systemic vasculitis. 
Ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy. Relationship to coronary artery disease, left ventricular dysfunction, and myocardial fibrosis. Ventricular arrhythmias occur with increased frequency in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). The relationships, however, between ventricular arrhythmias and coexistent coronary artery disease, left ventricular dysfunction and left ventricular fibrosis have not been examined in hypertensive LVH. We carried out coronary arteriography on fifteen hypertensive patients with LVH and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (greater than or equal to 3 consecutive ventricular complexes) of whom nine (60%) were free of significant (greater than 50% stenosis) coronary disease. To identify other possible correlates of left ventricular arrhythmias, 28 patients with LVH, comprising 17 with ventricular tachycardia and 11 without ventricular arrhythmias, underwent quantitative assessment of left ventricular function (angiographic ejection fraction), left ventricular mass (echocardiography), and left ventricular fibrosis (endomyocardial biopsy). Ejection fraction was not significantly different between the two groups (53 +/- 8% v 62 +/- 2%, P = NS). However, left ventricular mass was significantly greater (442 +/- 28 g v 339 +/- 34 g, P less than .05) and percentage fibrosis significantly higher (19 +/- 4% v 3 +/- 1%, P less than .001) in those patients with ventricular tachycardia. Thus ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive patients with LVH cannot be entirely attributed to coexistent coronary disease, nor to left ventricular dysfunction, but are related to the degree of cardiac hypertrophy and subendocardial fibrosis. 
Fish oil supplementation in patients with stable claudication. Increased blood viscosity occurs in patients with claudication. This increase in viscosity, which is mainly due to elevated fibrinogen levels and a decreased red cell deformability, adversely influences blood flow. In addition to a positive effect on blood pressure, blood lipids, and platelet responsiveness, fish oil may improve blood flow due to a favorable influence on hemorrheology. In a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, we evaluated the effect of six capsules of fish oil (1.8 g eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.2 g docosahexaenoic acid) versus six capsules of corn oil (3 g linoleic acid), administered for 4 months, on walking distances, pressure indices during rest and after exercise, blood pressure, red cell deformability, fibrinogen, and lipid levels in 32 patients with stable claudication. No significant changes in walking distances and pressure indices during rest and after exercise occurred, despite a significant increase in red cell deformability in the fish oil group. Fibrinogen levels did not change in either group. In the fish oil group, a favorable change in blood lipids was noted; high-density cholesterol increased and triglycerides decreased. Mean arterial blood pressure declined to a similar extent in both groups. Thus, short-term supplementation with fish oil does not lead to clinically significant improvement of symptoms in patients with stable claudication. This suggests that red cell deformability is of minor importance in the arterial blood flow in the legs of these patients. 
Anti-inflammatory effects of pentoxifylline in claudication. We measured neutrophil elastase/alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor complex (E/alpha) levels by ELISA in plasma samples drawn from 19 patients with claudication, before and at 1 and 2 months after initiation of pentoxifylline (PTF), 400 mg. p.o. tid. Plasma E/alpha levels declined in all eight patients whose initial values were more than 300 ng elastase per ml. Whole blood viscosity (wbv) was reduced by two months' treatment in 12 of 14 patients tested. The relative change in wbv was significantly related to the relative change in E/alpha (R2 = 0.8), for patients with elevated initial E/alpha levels, suggesting a common or related mechanism for the two effects. Plasma crosslinked fibrin D-dimer fragments (XDP) measured by ELISA as indicators of coagulation activity were lower compared to pretreatment levels in 9 of 10 samples drawn when symptoms were improved on PTF, whereas they were increased in 6 of 9 samples drawn when symptoms were worse or unchanged. Plasma viscosity, C-reactive protein and alpha 1-acid-glycoprotein did not change significantly with PTF treatment. Together these findings are consistent with the possibility that reduced microvascular neutrophil activation and coagulation play a role in the clinical efficacy of PTF in intermittent claudication. 
Hot-tip laser. Results and complications. The hot tip laser system for atheroablation has been used since mid-1984 as a device for broadening the indications for and extending the applicability of angioplasty in the management of lower-extremity atherosclerosis. It has been a controversial device. Although the system demonstrates that it can occasionally be useful for the management of occlusive as opposed to stenotic disease of the infrainguinal arteries, a close examination of the published data fails to demonstrate a consistent improvement in either the primary success or long-term patency rates for thermal energy applied to atheroma for recanalization of the lower extremity arteries. 
Abnormal blood pressure response during exercise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. To investigate the incidence of abnormal exercise blood pressure responses in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and the potential role of hemodynamic instability as a mechanism of sudden death, 129 consecutive patients with HCM underwent maximal symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with blood pressure recording. Four patterns of blood pressure response were observed. Forty-three patients had significant exercise hypotension, with either a continuous fall in systolic blood pressure (n = 5) from the start of exercise or a sudden fall in systolic blood pressure (20-100 mm Hg; mean, 40 mm Hg) from the peak value (n = 38), 23 patients had a normal response during exercise but an abnormal blood pressure response in the recovery period, and the remaining 62 patients demonstrated a normal blood pressure response. Patients with exercise hypotension were younger (33 +/- 14 versus 46 +/- 14 years) and more of them had a family history of HCM and sudden death compared with those with a normal blood pressure response (15 of 43 versus 6 of 62 patients). Similarly, the 23 patients with abnormal recovery blood pressure responses were younger (43 +/- 16 versus 46 +/- 14 years) and had a higher incidence of a family history of sudden death (10 of 24 versus 6 of 62 patients). Left ventricular cavity dimensions were smaller in those with exercise hypotension, but 11 other clinical, echocardiographic, and arrhythmic variables were similar. To assess the mechanism of exercise hypotension, 14 patients who demonstrated exercise hypotension and 14 symptomatic patients with a normal exercise blood pressure response underwent invasive hemodynamic exercise testing. 
Glucose tolerance and blood pressure: long term follow up in middle aged men [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Apr 20;302(6782):939] OBJECTIVE--to investigate the role of glucose tolerance in the development of hypertension. DESIGN--Retrospective analysis of the results of a health check up in a group of clinically healthy middle aged men in the late 1960s (median year 1968). The subjects were invited to enter into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease in 1974, when they underwent clinical examination for risk factors. The trial was completed in 1979, when the men were re-examined. Follow up was in 1986. SETTING--Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland and second department of medicine, University of Helsinki. SUBJECTS--In all, 3490 men born during 1919-34 participated in a health check up in the late 1960s. In 1974, 1815 of these men who were clinically healthy were entered into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease. On clinical examination 1222 of the men were considered at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Of these, 612 received an intervention and were excluded from the study. A total of 593 men were without risk factors. The study comprised all of the men who did not have an intervention (n = 1203). In 1979, 1120 men were re-examined, and in 1986 945 men attended follow up. There were two groups for analysis: one comprising all subjects and the other comprising only men who were normotensive in 1968 and for whom complete information was available. INTERVENTIONS--By 1979, 103 men were taking antihypertensive drugs, and by 1986, 131 were taking antihypertensive drugs and 12 were taking drugs for hyperglycaemia. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load, blood pressure, and body weight were measured in 1968, 1974, and 1979. In 1986 blood pressure and body weight were recorded. RESULTS--Men who were hypertensive in 1986 had significantly higher blood pressures (p less than 0.0001) and (after adjustment for body mass index and alcohol intake) significantly higher blood glucose concentrations one hour after a glucose load at all examinations than those who were normotensive in 1986. Regression analysis showed that the higher the blood glucose concentration after a glucose load in 1968 the higher the blood pressure during the following years. Those men between the second and third tertiles of blood glucose concentration in 1968 had a significantly higher risk of developing hypertension (odds ratio 1.71, 95% confidence interval 1.05 to 2.77) compared with those below the first tertile. CONCLUSION--In this study men who developed hypertension tended to have shown an increased intolerance to glucose up to 18 years before the clinical manifestation of their disorder. Blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load was an independent predictor of future hypertension. 
The effects of dopamine on myocardial functional recovery after reversible ischemic injury. Dopamine frequently is used to improve cardiac performance after acute myocardial ischemia. Inotropic agents, however, increase myocardial oxygen demand and could potentially delay recovery from ischemic injury. To evaluate this problem, we studied eight chronically instrumented dogs in the conscious state and performed two 15-minute coronary occlusions 48 hours apart. After one of the occlusions, either dopamine (15 micrograms/kg/min) or saline placebo was administered intravenously from 1.0 to 1.5 hours of reperfusion. The alternative infusion was given during the second study. Preload recruitable work area, the area beneath the stroke work versus end-diastolic length relationship, was used to assess intrinsic myocardial performance. Ischemia decreased preload recruitable work area to 13% of control after both occlusions. After reperfusion, a 30-minute dopamine infusion acutely increased myocardial function nearly threefold as compared with placebo. Myocardial performance after dopamine administration, however, was significantly depressed compared with placebo throughout the remaining 24 hours of reperfusion (p less than 0.01). These data indicate that dopamine may impair functional recovery after ischemic myocardial injury and suggest that inotropic interventions should be used in this setting only when absolutely indicated. 
Aortic dissection with a fistulous communication into the right atrium: a case report. A case of aortic dissection (type 1, De Bakey) with a rent into the right atrium (RA), diagnosed by echocardiography (echo) and confirmed by aortography, is reported. The patient presented with cardiac failure and a continuous murmur in the right second and third intercostal spaces. The patient has survived for two years with medial treatment. 
Nephron function in the early phase of ischemic renal failure. Significance of erythrocyte trapping. Trapping of red blood cells (RBCs) in renal medulla vasculature in postischemic acute renal failure (ARF) was found to depend upon the length of the ischemic period. Thus trapping occurred after 45 minutes but not 25 minutes of ischemia. By prior hemodilution to a hematocrit (hct) of 30%, RBC trapping after 45 minutes of ischemia could be completely prevented. Likewise hemo-concentration (hct = 60%) before 25 minutes of ischemia resulted in extensive RBC trapping. By increasing or decreasing the hct, the contribution of RBC trapping to the functional defects and decrease in renal blood flow that follows minor (25 min) and more substantial (45 min) ischemia was investigated. Renal blood flow (RBF) was measured by microspheres, and vascular and tubular pressure by the micropuncture technique. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated from inulin clearance, and tubular function from urine osmolality and sodium and potassium excretion. It was found that postischemic RBF was not correlated to RBC trapping but depended on the length of ischemia. After both 25 and 45 minutes of ischemia tubular obstructions occurred in the proximal tubules and/or loops of Henle, causing an increase in proximal tubular pressure. These obstructions were dependent on the length of ischemia but not on RBC trapping. After hemoconcentration and 25 minutes of ischemia there was an increment in distal tubular pressure, indicating that abundant RBC trapping may contribute to an increase in tubular pressure by compression of medullary tubules and thereby reduce GFR. When the damage was more severe other factors came into play and the contribution of RBC trapping to the decrease in GFR was minimal. 
A mutation in the gene for type III procollagen (COL3A1) in a family with aortic aneurysms. Experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that familial aortic aneurysms, either thoracic or abdominal, are caused by mutations in the gene for type III procollagen (COL3A1) similar to mutations in the same gene that have been shown to cause rupture of aorta and other disastrous consequences in the rare genetic disorder known as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV. A family was identified through a 37-yr-old female captain in the United States Air Force who was scrutinized only because many of her direct blood relatives had died of ruptured aortic aneurysms. The woman was heterozygous for a single-base mutation that converted the codon for glycine 619 of the alpha 1(III) chain of type III procollagen to a codon for arginine. Studies on cultured skin fibroblasts demonstrated the mutation caused synthesis of type III procollagen that had a decreased temperature for thermal unfolding of the protein. The same mutation was identified in DNA extracted from pathologic specimens from her mother who had died at the age of 34 and a maternal aunt who died at the age of 55 of aortic aneurysms. Examination of DNA from samples of saliva revealed that the woman's daughter, her son, a brother, and an aunt also had the mutation. The results demonstrated that mutations in the type III procollagen gene can cause familial aortic aneurysms and that DNA tests for such mutations can identify individuals at risk for aneurysms. 
Initial evaluation of heart murmurs: are laboratory tests necessary? Heart murmurs, most of them innocent, are the most common reason for referrals to a pediatric cardiologist. In the evaluation of murmurs, the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram are often included. The purpose of this study was to determine the utility of these examinations in the initial assessment of heart murmurs in children and adolescents. In a prospective series of 161 patients, the clinical diagnosis of heart murmurs by a pediatric cardiologist was compared with that obtained after electrocardiogram and echocardiogram (two-dimensional, M-mode, Doppler, and color-Doppler). On the basis of the clinical diagnosis the patients were classified as having "innocent murmur," "pathologic murmur," or "possible pathologic murmur." A total of 161 patients (51% males), aged 1 month to 17 years (median 3.2 years), were studied. After electrocardiogram, no diagnosis was changed. After echocardiogram, the clinical diagnosis of innocent murmur in 109 patients changed in 2 to pathologic (small ventricular septal defect 1, small atrial septal defect 1); pathologic murmur in 46 changed to innocent in 3 and possible pathologic in 2; and possible pathologic in 6 changed to innocent in 3 and to pathologic in 2. The clinical examination by an experienced pediatric cardiologist is an accurate means of assessing newly referred patients with murmurs. The clinical examination had a sensitivity of 96%, specificity of 95%, positive predictive value of 88%, and negative predictive value of 98%. The electrocardiogram, unlikely to disclose any unsuspected heart disease, may assist in reaching the lesion-specific diagnosis when there is underlying pathology. Echocardiography, although diagnostic when heart disease is suspected, is unnecessary in pediatric patients with clinically diagnosed innocent heart murmurs. 
Operative findings after percutaneous pulmonary balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract in tetralogy of Fallot. Since 1983 percutaneous balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract has been performed as an alternative to surgical palliation in selected cases of tetralogy of Fallot at the Royal Liverpool Children's Hospital. From 31 December 1984 to 31 December 1988, 27 of these patients underwent subsequent surgical correction. Age at operation ranged from 7 to 58 months (median 2.7 years). The mean interval between balloon dilatation and correction was 15.6 months (range 3-39 months). Two patients had a systemic pulmonary shunt operation performed before dilatation and a further five required one afterwards. Overall 20 (74%) patients had some anatomical alteration as the result of balloon dilatation, while in seven (26%) there was no discernible change in the right ventricular outflow tract. There was no consistent relation between the ratio of balloon size to pulmonary annulus diameter and the morphological findings. Balloon dilatation may obviate the need for systemic-pulmonary shunt at the expense of some structural damage, particularly to the posterior cusp. The present data suggest that dilatation does not bring about growth of the annulus to such an extent that transannular patch is no longer needed at intracardiac repair. 
Calcium metabolic indices, vascular retinopathy, and plasma renin activity in essential hypertension. The interplays between calcium metabolic indices, retinal vascular status, plasma renin activity and blood pressure were examined in 67 patients with untreated essential hypertension. There was an inverse relationship between plasma ionized calcium and blood pressure (P = .002), whereas albumin-modified total serum calcium was directly related to blood pressure (P = .02). The plasma cyclic AMP level (P = .05) and the 24 h urinary excretion of cyclic AMP (P = .03) were also positively associated with blood pressure. Patients with vascular retinopathy had lower plasma ionized calcium concentrations (P = .01) and higher 24 h urinary cyclic AMP excretions (P = .05) than those without such changes, even when the differences in blood pressure, age, sex and body mass index were taken into account in analyses of covariance. Plasma renin activity did not interfere with the relationships between calcium metabolic indices and blood pressure, nor were there any associations between the renin status and the calcium metabolic indices. These findings suggest that a low concentration of plasma ionized calcium is an independent risk factor for vascular disease. 
Elevation of skeletal muscle isoform of serum creatine kinase in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. Serum creatine kinase (CK) is an important adjunct in the diagnosis of myocardial infarction or in monitoring for the side-effects of drugs. We report elevation of CK in patients with untreated heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) with no evidence of myocardial infarction. Of a group of 30 patients, 60% had elevated CK values on one occasion. In 40% of patients elevated CK activity was observed on most occasions. This was not related to exercise or previous lipid-lowering therapy. These observations are of importance in view of the potential for misdiagnosis of myocardial infarction or premature withdrawal of lipid-lowering therapy. 
Successful mitral valvuloplasty using the Inoue balloon in a patient with mitral stenosis associated with subvalvular fibrosis and reduced left ventricular inflow cavity: a case report. Percutaneous transvenous mitral valvuloplasty (PTMV) was performed with two cylindric pigtail balloon catheters in a 52-year-old woman with symptomatic mitral stenosis. The subvalvular apparatus was fibrous with welded chordae and the subvalvular left ventricular space was markedly reduced. As a result of this distorted anatomy, during the inflations, the two balloons constantly slipped back into the left atrium before full inflation was obtained. After the procedure, the mitral valve area (MVA), as estimated by echo-doppler (ED), increased from 1.00 to 1.34 cm2. After 2 months of mild clinical improvement, the patient again became symptomatic and ED examination showed a MVA of 1.25 cm2. A second PTMV was performed with an Inoue balloon, the entire procedure taking less than 1 hour. A stable position of the Inoue balloon and complete dilatation were achieved. ED examination showed a mitral valve area of 2.30 cm2. There was no mitral regurgitation nor atrial septal defect. After 3 months, she has only N.Y.H.A. class I symptoms and MVA, as estimated by ED, was 2.40 cm2. 
The need for quality assurance in vascular surgery. The need for quality assurance in vascular surgery can be deduced from the variability in unruptured abdominal aneurysm operative death rates in a group of patients large enough that factors influencing mortality rates other than quality of care can be controlled. Operative mortality rate for 3570 patients undergoing unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm repair was determined for all non-Veterans Administration surgeons and hospitals in New York State from 1985 to 1987. The average annual number of aneurysm operations per surgeon was 3.6, and per hospital it was 10.2. Unruptured aneurysm repair mortality for surgeons performing 1 to 5 aneurysm operations per year was 10% whereas for surgeons performing more than 26 aneurysm operations per year it was 6% (p less than 0.0001). Unruptured aneurysm repair mortality for hospitals performing 1 to 5 aneurysm operations per year was 14% and for hospitals performing more than 38 aneurysm operations per year it was 5% (p less than 0.0001). Even when these mortality rates were adjusted for differences in patient age, severity of illness, secondary diagnoses and admission status, significant mortality rate differences persisted: 9% versus 4% for low and high volume surgeons, respectively (p less than 0.001), and 12% versus 5% for low and high volume hospitals, respectively (p less than 0.001). Surgeons who performed more than 7 aneurysm operations per year devoted more of their practice to aortic (11%) and vascular operations (52%) than did surgeons who performed 7 or fewer aneurysm operations per year (2% and 19%, respectively). 
Diabetic nephropathy: can the natural history be modified? Those diabetic patients who progress to advanced kidney disease constitute a subpopulation that is particularly vulnerable to the angiotoxic effects of the insulin-dependent disorder. Until the predisposing factors are identified, the most effective way to arrest renal deterioration is by controlling those currently recognized risk factors that accelerate the glomerulopathy. Treatments that normalize blood pressure, reduce dietary protein intake, and control hyperglycemia have been shown to retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy. 
Additional salutary hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device and intraaortic balloon pump versus a paraaortic counterpulsation device alone. The hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device (PACD) (stroke volume 65 ml) implanted on the ascending aorta, and a 20 ml intraaortic balloon pump (IABP) placed in the descending aorta, were compared with the PACD working alone in 12 dogs after the induction of heart failure. Heart failure was characterized by left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) greater than 18 mmHg and systolic aortic pressure (SAP) in stage A: 116 mmHg greater than or equal to SAP greater than 70 mmHg; in stage B: 70 mmHg greater than or equal to SAP greater than 30 mmHg; and in stage C: SAP less than or equal to 30 mmHg. Both modalities of mechanical assistance produced significant salutary hemodynamic effects in stages A and B. No difference was observed in stage C. In conclusion, the combined use of PACD and IABP is more effective than the use of either of these devices alone. This modality of mechanical assistance may easily be applied in patients that cannot be weaned from extracorporeal circulation, and in whom IABP was unsuccessfully applied. 
Giant carotid-ophthalmic artery aneurysms: direct clipping utilizing the "trapping-evacuation" technique. The authors have devised a "trapping-evacuation" technique to facilitate direct clipping of giant aneurysms in the paraophthalmic region of the internal carotid artery (ICA). The giant aneurysm is collapsed by first trapping the aneurysm by temporary occlusion of the cervical common carotid and external carotid arteries, along with temporary clipping of the intracranial ICA distal to the aneurysm. Thereafter, intra-aneurysmal blood is simultaneously aspirated through a catheter placed in the cervical ICA. Exposure of the proximal end of the aneurysm neck is mandatory for successful clipping. This is accomplished by extensive unroofing of the optic canal, removal of the anterior clinoid process, opening of the anterior part of the cavernous sinus, and exposure of the most proximal intradural (C2) and genu (C3) portions of the ICA. Four cases of giant aneurysms of the paraophthalmic ICA were successfully treated by this technique and the postoperative outcome was good in all cases. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging for evaluation of the anatomical details, balloon occlusion test of the ICA, and intraoperative measurement of cortical blood flow were important to the success of the operation. Intraoperative digital subtraction angiography via the catheter placed in the cervical ICA was useful in confirming successful clipping. 
Beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of M-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval. The effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men (aged 20 to 64 years) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation (AR), all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram. Thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined, and aortic, left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded. Once baseline recordings were completed, the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min (70, 80, 90...) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min. The optimal pacing interval, obtained from hemodynamic data, was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index. This was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the R wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the M-mode echocardiogram. Such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow. Atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min (mean: 120 +/- 8). At the optimal rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 +/- 7 to 23 +/- 12 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 +/- 8 to 16 +/- 7 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 +/- 0.46 to 2.63 +/- 0.49 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.01). The mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 +/- 21 ms. 
Ischemia and reperfusion during intermittent coronary occlusion in man. Studies of electrocardiographic changes and CPK release. The course of 357 balloon inflations performed during 38 angioplasties for single-vessel coronary artery disease was prospectively studied using continuous ECG recording. Ischemic ECG changes appeared during 91 percent of the inflations at a mean of 20 +/- 8 seconds after inflation and resolved in 97 percent of those at a mean of 11 +/- 5 seconds after deflation. Elevation of the plasma CPK level was found in six patients who had ischemic ECG changes for at least 7.8 minutes. The duration of ischemia did not exceed 5.4 minutes in any of the patients without CPK elevation. Resolution of the ischemic changes was delayed in patients with CPK elevation and in last vs initial inflations. We conclude that in patients with noninfarcted myocardium, ECG changes follow coronary occlusion and reflow very rapidly, detecting these coronary events with a high sensitivity. Lack of rapid regression predicts lack of reperfusion, and persistence of ischemia for more than 7.8 minutes is sufficient to cause myocardial necrosis. 
Developing improved observational methods for evaluating therapeutic effectiveness. Therapeutic efficacy is often studied with observational surveys of patients whose treatments were selected nonexperimentally. The results of these surveys are distrusted because of the fear that biased results occur in the absence of experimental principles, particularly randomization. The purpose of the current study was to develop and validate improved observational study designs by incorporating many of the design principles and patient assembly procedures of the randomized trial. The specific topic investigated was the prophylactic effectiveness of beta-blocker therapy after an acute myocardial infarction. To accomplish the research objective, three sets of data were compared. First, we developed a restricted cohort based on the eligibility criteria of the randomized clinical trial; second, we assembled an expanded cohort using the same design principles except for not restricting patient eligibility; and third, we used the data from the Beta Blocker Heart Attack Trial (BHAT), whose results served as the gold standard for comparison. In this research, the treatment difference in death rates for the restricted cohort and the BHAT trial was nearly identical. In contrast, the expanded cohort had a larger treatment difference than was observed in the BHAT trial. We also noted the important and largely neglected role that eligibility criteria may play in ensuring the validity of treatment comparisons and study outcomes. The new methodologic strategies we developed may improve the quality of observational studies and may be useful in assessing the efficacy of the many medical/surgical therapies that cannot be tested with randomized clinical trials. 
Review of clinical experience with digoxin immune Fab (ovine). Following the development of methods for eliciting and purifying digoxin-specific Fab fragments with high affinity and specificity for cardiac glycosides, clinical studies were undertaken as a multicenter, open-label trial to test safety and efficacy in patients with advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity that failed to respond to conventional therapeutic measures. One-hundred fifty such patients were treated with digoxin-specific antibody fragments purified from immunoglobulin G (IgG) produced in sheep. Doses of Fab were equivalent to the amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the patient's body, as estimated from the medical history or serum concentration measurements. Of 150 patients included in this trial, detailed information is available on 148. One-hundred nineteen (80%) had resolution of all signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity following specific Fab fragment infusions, 14 (10%) improved, and 15 (10%) showed no response. Among 14 patients with adverse events possibly or probably caused by Fab, the most common events were development of hypokalemia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Analysis of the available clinical data indicates that a treatment response was observed in at least 90% of patients with convincing evidence of advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity. The data from this multicenter trial have been augmented by findings from an observational surveillance study conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune Fab (ovine) following commercial availability. In this experience, 74% of patients were judged to have a complete or partial response to treatment, and 12% no response. The response for the remaining 14% was not reported or reported as uncertain. In this clinical experience, digoxin-specific Fab was generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients with potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity. 
Role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. The role of Staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats. The efficacies of cloxacillin, gentamicin, and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain, its kill-sensitive variant, or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of S. aureus. Cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains. The addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains, but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains. Isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant. These results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo. 
Relationship among level of distraction, evoked potentials, spinal cord ischemia and integrity, and clinical status in animals. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials (NMEPs) were recorded after overdistraction of the spinal cord at T5-T6, T12-L1, or L3-L4. Measures of spinal cord perfusion and clinical status were also administered. Results indicated that stiffer spinal segments allowed less distraction than more flexible segments. SEPs and NMEPs were lost quickly after overdistraction in stiff segments and slowly in more flexible segments. However, SEPs were less sensitive than NMEPs to effects from overdistraction. Spinal cord perfusion and integrity were consistent with reduced perfusion and structural damage after overdistraction in stiff segments; extremely reduced perfusion but no structural changes in more flexible segments. The application of these results to the clinical situation was provided. 
Cardiovascular response of a continuous variable rate alfentanil infusion for abdominal aortic surgery. A prospective study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular response of a continuous alfentanil infusion during abdominal aortic surgery (AAS). Each subject (n = 20) received a beta-blocking drug preoperatively, and was premedicated with oral lorazepam. Anaesthesia was induced with alfentanil 50 micrograms.kg-1 and thiopentone 3 mg.kg-1, and was maintained with a variable rate infusion of alfentanil and 66 per cent nitrous oxide in oxygen. During the infusion, boluses of alfentanil, 7.5 micrograms.kg-1, were administered to maintain heart rate and blood pressure within 20 per cent of awake baseline values. Haemodynamic stability during surgery was achieved with infusion rates varying between 0.5 and 2.5 micrograms.kg-1, which resulted in mean alfentanil serum concentrations ranging from 186 +/- 53 to 315 +/- 98 ng.ml-1. The mean cumulative alfentanil dose was 15.4 +/- 6.2 mg.patient-1 for surgery which lasted an average of 141 +/- 41 min. Throughout surgery, no patient required inhalational anaesthetic agents or vasoactive drugs. Fifteen of the 20 patients had perioperative Holter monitoring. No myocardial ischaemia was detected during the intraoperative period. However, there was a 33 per cent incidence of myocardial ischaemia on the first postoperative day. There were no myocardial infarcts and no deaths. We conclude that in beta-blocked patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery, a variable rate alfentanil infusion administered with 66 per cent nitrous oxide provides anaesthesia characterized by good haemodynamic control without the need for supplemental agents or vasoactive drugs. 
Oral contraceptives and myocardial infarction. The risk of myocardial infarction in contraceptive users is limited to women over 35 years of age who smoke. The cause of myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users is thrombotic and not atherosclerotic. Minor lipid changes have no clinical relevance to myocardial infarction in contraceptive pill users and do not appear to increase coronary plaques. 
Clinical association of autoantibodies to fibrillarin with diffuse scleroderma and disseminated telangiectasia. Circulating autoantibodies against a variety of nuclear and nucleolar antigens are characteristic serologic findings in systemic scleroderma. Some of these antibodies correlate with clinical subsets of the disease. We describe three patients with systemic scleroderma and high autoantibody titers against U3 ribonucleoprotein-associated fibrillarin, a recently identified 34 kD nucleolar protein. These patients showed a progressive course with multiple organ and diffuse skin involvement with disseminated telangiectasia. 
Preanaesthetic medication with clonidine. The purpose of this study was to evaluate oral clonidine in a dose of 0.3 mg as a routine premedicant. Sixty-nine normotensive female patients were studied in a randomized double-blind investigation in which clonidine was compared with an inert treatment. Clonidine produced a significant reduction in anxiety (P less than 0.05) and sedation and a reduction in the sleep dose of methohexitone (P less than 0.05). Tachycardia in response to intubation was attenuated by clonidine (P less than 0.05). However, the magnitude of the increase in arterial pressure after intubation was not affected. Intraoperative and postoperative hypotension were common after premedication with clonidine 0.3 mg and caution is urged in its use as a premedicant. 
Factors determining improvement in left ventricular function after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction: primacy of baseline ejection fraction. Improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction is a measure of salvage of ischemic myocardium after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The degree of improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction may be influenced by many factors. Therefore, 137 patients in whom paired radionuclide angiograms were obtained within 24 h of acute infarction and before hospital discharge were retrospectively evaluated to determine which factors most affect improvement in ejection fraction. Only baseline ejection fraction correlated significantly with improvement in ejection fraction by both univariate analysis (ejection fraction as a continuous variable; p less than 0.001; ejection fraction as a categorical variable, less than or equal to 45% versus greater than 45%, p less than 0.0001) and multivariate analysis (p less than 0.0001). Reperfusion status (patent versus occluded infarct artery) and extent of coronary artery disease (one, two or three vessel) were significant factors by multivariate but not by univariate analysis. Location of infarction, treatment modality and time to treatment did not correlate with change in ejection fraction by either statistical technique. Thus, of those factors tested, baseline left ventricular ejection fraction is the most potent predictor of improvement in ventricular function after acute infarction. Knowledge of baseline ejection fraction may be helpful in deciding whether to treat some patients with equivocal indications or contraindications for reperfusion therapy. Clinical trials of reperfusion strategies should stratify patients on the basis of baseline ejection fraction if ejection fraction is to be used as an end point for myocardial salvage. 
Role of prostaglandin E1 in reducing pulmonary vascular resistance in an experimental model of acute lung injury. To determine the role and efficacy of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on the cardiopulmonary derangements induced by glass bead embolism, two studies were performed. In the first study, a dose response of PGE1 was tested in six animals that were first embolized with sufficient glass beads to double the pulmonary artery pressure (PAP). This study demonstrated that PGE1 reduced PAP and cardiac output by a preload-mediated mechanism, as evidenced by a reduction in the right ventricular (RV) end-diastolic segment length, at doses of 15 and 30 ng/kg.min. The second study was performed in two groups of animals, the control group (n = 6), and the treated group (n = 6), which were given PGE1 at 15 ng/kg.min after the PAP had been doubled by glass bead embolism. RV preload was kept constant. This study demonstrated that there was no difference in pulmonary vascular resistance between either the treated group or the control group. There were no other significant differences between the two groups. The results of both of these studies suggest that there is little afterload reducing effect of PGE1 in this model and at these dose ranges. Part of the mechanism of PGE1 that improves pulmonary edema and gas exchange may be the reduction of filtration surface area and hydrostatic pressures in the lungs. 
Influence of obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, and NIDDM on LDL structure and composition. Possible link between hyperinsulinemia and atherosclerosis. The possible causes of the enhanced risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) were examined in morbidly obese women with normoglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) before and after gastric bypass surgery. Compared with age-matched lean women, plasma lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations of the obese women before surgery favored atherogenesis. The risk for CHD may further be exacerbated in the IGT and NIDDM groups by the prevalence of smaller and denser low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) particles. LDL size correlated negatively with plasma insulin levels independent of triglyceride levels, age, or body mass index (BMI). After surgery, BMI, plasma insulin, and triglyceride levels decreased, but LDL size increased, and LDL density decreased. Neither cholesterol nor LDL cholesterol levels were affected after surgery, but high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol was increased in all patients after surgery. Although the mechanisms underlying the changes in the properties of LDL could not be determined from this study, these changes appear to be of benefit in reducing CHD risk in these patients. 
Aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts. Three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft. All three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides. One bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm. There was a long lag, 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration. The pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages, loss of elastic lamina, and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall. While atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare, this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. Careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients. 
Evaluation of pulmonary arterial pressure by Doppler colour flow mapping in patients with a ductus arteriosus. Blood flow in the pulmonary artery was studied by Doppler colour flow mapping and cardiac catheterisation in 19 patients with a ductus arteriosus and different pulmonary artery pressures. In the four patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures colour Doppler flow mapping showed multicoloured wide and long systolic and diastolic jets in the pulmonary artery. In the 15 patients with raised pulmonary arterial pressure the systolic jets varied from multicoloured to red and were thinner: in patients with considerably raised pulmonary arterial pressure the jets became redder during diastole. The Doppler velocity tracings showed that in patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures the mean peak systolic velocity was higher than the mean end diastolic velocity--so that in all four the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was less than 2. The mean peak systolic velocity was much higher than the mean end diastolic velocity in 13 of the 15 patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure; this meant that the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was greater than 2 in 10 of 11 patients. The end diastolic velocity was significantly lower in those patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure than in those with normal artery pressure. There was an inverse linear correlation between the mean pulmonary artery pressure and end diastolic ductal jet velocity in 17 of the 19 patients. Colour flow mapping and this quantitative Doppler technique can detect pulmonary artery hypertension in patients with a ductus arteriosus. 
Studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia. XXI. Reperfusate composition: superiority of blood cardioplegia over crystalloid cardioplegia in limiting reperfusion damage--importance of endogenous oxygen free radical scavengers in red blood cells. Postischemic damage is caused partially by oxygen free radical-mediated injury. This study will show that (1) crystalloid cardioplegia with room air oxygen is deleterious because it is devoid of free radical scavengers and (2) blood cardioplegia limits damage because it contains endogenous free radical scavengers in red blood cells. METHODS: Thirty-two dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 20 minutes of regional blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass. Ten dogs received only the blood cardioplegic solution (containing its endogenous free radical scavengers); five received initial blood cardioplegia (5 minutes) with endogenous free radical scavengers (catalase and glutathione peroxidase) blocked by aminotriazole and N-ethylmaleimide, respectively; 12 received initial crystalloid cardioplegic solution oxygenated by room air (oxygen tension = 150 mm Hg); seven without and five with exogenous free radical scavengers (superoxide dismutase, catalase, coenzyme Q10); five received initial deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution (oxygen tension = 6 mm Hg); and five received deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution. RESULTS: Blood cardioplegia with endogenous free radical scavengers produced the best recovery of systolic shortening (69% systolic shortening) and resulted in the least histochemical damage (11% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining). The worst recovery and most damage occurred if blood cardioplegia was preceded by oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 48% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia) or if free radical scavengers were blocked in the initial period of blood cardioplegia (3% systolic shortening, 41% triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia). Conversely, deoxygenation or supplementation of oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution with exogenous free radical scavengers restored 60% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and 54% systolic shortening (p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia) and reduced damage to 34% and 21% (both p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia). CONCLUSION: Blood cardioplegic solutions containing their own endogenous free radical scavengers are superior to crystalloid cardioplegic solutions, because they limit oxygen-mediated perfusion damage and restore contractile function. Initial crystalloid cardioplegic washout negates the salutary effect of blood cardioplegia. Exogenous free radical scavenger supplementation or deoxygenation of the cardioplegic reperfusate is necessary only if crystalloid cardioplegia is used. 
Endocrine and renal effects of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system in patients with essential hypertension. Results of a multicenter trial. The Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension Study Group. Use of thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers in the treatment of hypertension may result in metabolic derangements and/or disturbances in the parameters of renal function, which offset the benefits of blood pressure reduction by adversely affecting other cardiovascular risk factors, particularly in special patient groups such as the elderly or those with concomitant diseases. Newer agents including calcium channel blockers, which exert potent antihypertensive effects without adversely affecting metabolic parameters unfavorably, are used with increasing frequency in hypertensive patients, but their clinical utility has been limited by the need for multiple daily dosing with attendant fluctuations in plasma levels thought to be associated with nuisance side effects and possible gaps in therapeutic protection. The Modern Approach to the Treatment of Hypertension (MATH) trial was conducted to determine the efficacy and safety of the new once-daily nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) formulation in a large cohort of mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients overall, and to identify specific effects of therapy in the presence of complicating factors such as diabetes and obesity. A total of 1155 patients from 127 centers were treated with nifedipine GITS in the MATH trial, including 157 diabetic (fasting plasma glucose greater than 120 mg/dL or on hypoglycemic therapy) and 747 nondiabetic patients. There were 458 obese patients (body mass index [BMI] greater than 30), 489 overweight patients (BMI greater than or equal to 25 less than or equal to 30), and 206 patients of normal weight (BMI less than 25). 
Muscle fatigue in McArdle's disease. Muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface EMG frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise. The origin of fatigue in McArdle's disease is still a matter of debate. Both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling have been suggested as causes. We performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions (80% maximal voluntary contraction, rate 30/min) under local ischaemia in 5 McArdle's disease patients and 26 healthy controls. Our results show that in McArdle's disease the exerted force is less, the surface EMG (SEMG) amplitude steadily increases, and that the power density spectrum (PDS) shifts to lower frequencies, the latter without significant differences when compared with normals. The most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise, establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects. As is indicated by the shift of the PDS towards lower frequencies, as well as by the increase in SEMG amplitude, it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency, fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of E-C coupling. 
Outcome of CPR in a large metropolitan area--where are the survivors? STUDY OBJECTIVES: Survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in cities with populations of more than 1 million has not been studied adequately. This study was undertaken to determine the overall survival rate for Chicago and the effect of previously reported variables on survival, and to compare the observed survival rates with those previously reported. DESIGN: Consecutive prehospital arrest patients were studied prospectively during 1987. SETTING: The study area was the city of Chicago, which has more than 3 million inhabitants in 228 square miles. The emergency medical services system, with 55 around-the-clock ambulances and 550 paramedics, is single-tiered and responds to more than 200,000 emergencies per year. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: We studied 3,221 victims of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest on whom paramedics attempted resuscitation. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Ninety-one percent of patients were pronounced dead in emergency departments, 7% died in hospitals, and 2% survived to hospital discharge. Survival was significantly greater with bystander-witnessed arrest, bystander-initiated CPR, paramedic-witnessed arrest, initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation, and shorter treatment intervals. CONCLUSIONS: The overall survival rates were significantly lower than those reported in most previous studies, all based on smaller communities; they were consistent with the rates reported in the one comparable study of a large city. The single factor that most likely contributed to the poor overall survival was the relatively long interval between collapse and defibrillation. Logistical, demographic, and other special characteristics of large cities may have affected the rates. To improve treatment of cardiac arrest in large cities and maximize the use of community resources, we recommend further study of comparable metropolitan areas using standardized terms and methodology. Detailed analysis of each component of the emergency medical services systems will aid in making improvements to maximize survival of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. 
In-hospital and 1-year mortality in 1,524 women after myocardial infarction. Comparison with 4,315 men. We determined in-hospital and 1-year prognoses after acute myocardial infarction (MI) in 5,839 consecutive patients derived from 14 of 21 coronary care units in Israel during 1981-1983. Age-adjusted in-hospital mortality was 23.1% in 1,524 women and 15.7% in 4,315 men (p less than 0.0005). One-year age-adjusted mortality rates in patients surviving hospitalization were 11.8% in women and 9.3% in men (p = 0.03). Cumulative age-adjusted 1-year mortality rates were 31.8% in women and 23.1% in men (p less than 0.0005). Relative odds of mortality, covariate-adjusted for major prognostic factors that included age, prior MI, congestive heart failure, and infarct location by electrocardiogram, indicated that female gender was independently and significantly associated with increased mortality both during hospitalization (relative odds, 1.72; 95% confidence interval, 1.45-2.04) and at 1 year after discharge (relative odds, 1.32; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-1.66). In separate multivariate analyses for each gender, a major factor that emerged as a predictor of outcome in women, but not in men, was a reported history of diabetes mellitus, both for in-hospital mortality and for 1-year mortality. However, even in the nondiabetics in this population, female gender was a significant, independent predictor of in-hospital mortality. The findings of the present study substantiate that women fare worse than men after suffering an acute MI, that increased age does not fully account for the increased mortality in women, and that diabetic women are at particularly high risk once MI has occurred. 
Comparison of cardiac catheterization and Doppler echocardiography in the decision to operate in aortic and mitral valve disease Clinical decisions utilizing either Doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data were compared in adult patients with isolated or combined aortic and mitral valve disease. A clinical decision to operate, not operate or remain uncertain was made by experienced cardiologists given either Doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data. A prospective evaluation was performed on 189 consecutive patients (mean age 67 years) with valvular heart disease who were being considered for surgical treatment on the basis of clinical information. All patients underwent cardiac catheterization and detailed Doppler echocardiographic examination. Three sets of two cardiologist decision makers who did not know patient identity were given clinical information in combination with either Doppler echocardiographic or cardiac catheterization data. The combination of Doppler echocardiographic and clinical data was considered inadequate for clinical decision making in 21% of patients with aortic and 5% of patients with mitral valve disease. The combination of cardiac catheterization and clinical data was considered inadequate in 2% of patients with aortic and 2% of patients with mitral valve disease. Among the remaining patients, the cardiologists using echocardiographic or angiographic data were in agreement on the decision to operate or not operate in 113 (76% overall). When the data were analyzed by specific valve lesion, decisions based on Doppler echocardiography or catheterization were in agreement in 92%, 90%, 83% and 69%, respectively, of patients with aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation. Differences in cardiac output determination, estimation of valvular regurgitation and information concerning coronary anatomy were the main reasons for different clinical management decisions. These results suggest that for most adult patients with aortic or mitral valve disease, alone or in combination, Doppler echocardiographic data enable the clinician to make the same decision reached with catheterization data. 
Sinus nodal dysfunction in young patients with long QT syndrome. Although sinus bradycardia and low heart rate with exercise have been found in some patients with long QT syndrome, systematic evaluation, including intracardiac electrophysiologic (EPS) tests of sinus node function, has not been reported. Records were reviewed of 14 children and adolescents (age 3 to 16 years) with long QT syndrome (mean QTc 0.51 second) who underwent noninvasive testing and intracardiac EPS because of syncope or cardiac arrest. The resting electrocardiographic (ECG) sinus heart rate was low for age in only 1 of 13 patients, while the lowest Holter-monitored sinus heart rate was abnormal in 4 of 12. The maximum exercise heart rate was abnormally low in 6 of the 12 who underwent exercise testing. For the EPS tests, the corrected sinus node recovery time (CSNRT) was long in 8 of 14 and the sinoatrial conduction time (SACT) was long in six of the nine in whom it was calculable. When both noninvasive and EPS indices are considered, 13 of the 14 patients had some type of sinus node dysfunction. 
Silent myocardial ischemia and infarction in diabetics with peripheral vascular disease: assessment by dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy. We investigated the incidence of silent myocardial ischemia and infarction as assessed by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy in 30 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease and without clinical suspicion of coronary artery disease. Seventeen patients (57%) had thallium abnormalities, with reversible thallium defects compatible with ischemia in 14 patients (47%) and evidence of prior, clinically silent myocardial infarction in 11 patients (37%). Thallium abnormalities were most frequent in patients with concomitant hypertension and cigarette smoking (p = 0.001). These results suggest that unsuspected coronary artery disease is common in this particular group of patients with diabetes mellitus. 
Regression of coronary atherosclerosis during treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia with combined drug regimens. We conducted a randomized, controlled trial in 72 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia to test whether reducing plasma low-density lipoprotein levels by diet and combined drug regimens can induce regression of coronary lesions. Four hundred fifty-seven lesions were measured before and after a 26-month interval by computer-based quantitative angiography. The primary outcome variable was within-patient mean change in percent area stenosis. Mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased from 7.32 +/- 1.5 to 4.45 +/- 1.6 mmol/L. The mean change in percent area stenosis among controls was +0.80, indicating progression, while the mean change for the treatment group was -1.53, indicating regression (P = .039 by two-tailed t test for the difference between groups). Regression among women, analyzed separately, was also significant. The change in percent area stenosis was correlated with low-density lipoprotein levels on trial. We conclude that reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels can induce regression of atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. The anticipation of benefit from treatment applies to women and men alike. 
Renovascular beta adrenergic hypersensitivity and hyperinsulinemia in rats with dietary-induced obesity. To determine whether obesity alters responsiveness to vasoactive drugs, we compared the cardiovascular effects of angiotensin, phenylephrine and isoproterenol in unanesthetized age-matched control and obese Oscai rats. Obesity was induced by programming pups to overeat immediately after birth and then feeding them a high-fat diet thereafter. Elevations in tail-cuff systolic and mean pressures from 7 through 11 months of age and in plasma insulin at 8 months of age indicated that obese rats had developed borderline hypertension and hyperinsulinemia. Cardiovascular responsiveness was then tested by recording blood pressure, heart rate and renal blood flow from chronically implanted arterial catheters and flow probes while graded doses of the three test drugs were infused intravenously. Heart rate and renal blood flow decreased during pressor responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine and were oppositely increased during depressor responses to isoproterenol. Magnitude of all cardiovascular receptors was dose-dependent. Obese rats had weaker reflex bradycardic responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine than control rats. More importantly, they also had larger renal vasoconstrictor responses to 2 ng/100 g of angiotensin or vasodilator responses to 15 ng/100 of isoproterenol. Whether or not the changes in cardiovascular responsiveness were related to hyperinsulinemia was undetermined. Our results suggest that, in addition to being overweight, slightly hypertensive and hyperinsulinemic, obese Oscai rats have impaired baroreflexes and a renal vascular bed more responsive to beta adrenergic vasodilation. 
Accuracy of prospective two-dimensional/Doppler echocardiography in the assessment of reparative surgery. Between January 1987 and January 1989, all 129 patients (aged 11 days to 25 years, median 39 months) undergoing both an echocardiographic examination and cardiac catheterization after reparative surgery were prospectively included in a study to assess the accuracy of combined two-dimensional and Doppler color flow imaging. The patient diagnoses were transposition of the great arteries (n = 20), tetralogy of Fallot (n = 38), coarctation of the aorta (n = 24), complete atrioventricular (AV) canal (n = 15), atrial septal defect (n = 8), ventricular septal defects (n = 3), pulmonary stenosis (n = 4), aortic stenosis (n = 8) and subaortic stenosis (n = 9). In arterial tract stenosis, there was high correlation between Doppler estimates and catheterization-derived measurements of residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction in patients after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries (r = 0.95) as well as in patients after corrective repair of tetralogy of Fallot (r = 0.84). In semilunar/AV valve regurgitation, graded as none, mild, moderate or severe, echocardiographic estimates correlated exactly with angiographic grading in 84% and differed by one angiographic grade in the other 16%. In residual left to right shunting, no hemodynamically significant shunt was missed by echocardiography. For residual shunts at the ventricular level (n = 32), addition of Doppler color flow imaging improved the sensitivity (from 63% to 94%) and the negative predictive value (from 88% to 98%). In elevated right ventricular pressure, Doppler-derived right ventricular-right atrial pressure estimates in 24 patients correlated well with catheterization measurements (r = 0.93). Combined two-dimensional and Doppler color flow echocardiography was highly accurate in the prospective evaluation of these four types of postoperative residual. 
Combined repair of transposed great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection. We report an unusual association of transposition of the great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection in the right atrium that was successfully repaired by a modified Mustard procedure. 
Cardiac calcific deposits in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism: preliminary results of a prospective echocardiographic study. To explain the incidence and significance of mitral and aortic valve calcification and calcific deposits in the myocardium, a prospective echocardiographic study was performed with 21 consecutive patients who had primary hyperparathyroidism (PHP) and with 21 age- and sex-matched control subjects with normocalcemia. Calcific deposits in the myocardium were seen in 13 patients (62%) with PHP, mainly in the interventicular septum, and in one control subject. Aortic valve calcification was observed in 12 patients (57%) with PHP and in one control subject. Calcification of the mitral valve was found in seven patients with PHP (33%) and three controls (14%). Calcification led to mild or moderate stenosis of the aortic valve in three patients with PHP and of the mitral valve in two patients with PHP. No stenosis was found in the subjects in the control group. Both calcification of the aortic and mitral valves and calcific deposits in the myocardium are common in patients with PHP and can be detected noninvasively by echocardiography. Because of the potential relationship of elevated calcium, calcification, and valvular heart disease, clinical evaluation of PHP should include echocardiographic studies before surgery is performed and during follow-up examination. 
Studies of salt intake in hypertension. What can epidemiology teach us? It has been suggested that small changes in population blood pressure will have a major impact upon the incidence of cardiovascular disease caused by blood pressure elevation. Early reports indicated a close correlation between intercultural differences in salt intake and blood pressure. Before such epidemiological associations can be translated into population advice, certain conditions have to be met. The association has to be validated scientifically, and persuasive evidence has to be produced that the relationship is causal and reversible by changes in salt intake. Further, risk-benefit analysis should indicate that net harm is unlikely. Finally it has to be demonstrated that the population measures being advocated will produce an adequate change in dietary salt intake. The small individual effects upon blood pressure being examined, and the prevailing changes in blood pressure and cardiovascular mortality suggest that data will always fall short of the ideal and therefore that extrapolation will always be necessary. Nevertheless, a review of the present evidence indicates the inadequacies of the available data as a basis for population advice. 
Effect of H1 receptor stimulation on coronary artery diameter in patients with variant angina: comparison with effect of acetylcholine It has been suggested that histamine is involved in the pathogenesis of coronary spasm but its exact role remains unclear. H1 receptor stimulation of the coronary artery was performed with a selective intracoronary infusion of histamine (2 micrograms/min) in 21 patients with variant angina after blockade of the H2 receptor with cimetidine (25 mg/kg) and its effect on the coronary artery diameter was examined. Intracoronary injection of acetylcholine was also performed in 19 of the 21 patients. Ergonovine (0.2 mg) was intravenously administered in one patient. The coronary artery diameter was measured with cinevideodensitometric analysis. A mean plasma histamine concentration in the coronary sinus increased from 4 x 10(-9) to 7 x 10(-8) M 5 min after histamine infusion into the left coronary artery (n = 18). Coronary spasm was induced in 6 patients (29%) with histamine, in 18 (95%) with acetylcholine and in 1 with ergonovine. The effect of histamine on the luminal diameter was analyzed at the site of spasm in the 26 coronary arteries in which spasm was induced by acetylcholine or ergonovine. Of the 20 coronary arteries with a normal arteriogram or a fixed stenosis less than or equal to 50% of luminal diameter, histamine decreased the diameter in 4, increased it in 14 (70%) and caused no change in 2; of the 6 coronary arteries with a fixed stenosis greater than or equal to 75%, histamine decreased the diameter in 5 and increased it in 1. In the coronary arteries in which spasm was not induced by either acetylcholine or ergonovine, histamine increased the diameter, especially in those without advanced atherosclerosis. 
Right ventricular function and metabolism. Right ventricular protection may be limited with current methods of cardioplegic delivery. Sensitive measurements of right and left ventricular function and metabolism were made in 30 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery with cold cardioplegic arrest. Myocardial adenine nucleotide concentrations decreased with cardioplegia and reperfusion in both the right and left ventricles despite adequate levels of precursors, suggesting perioperative mitochondrial dysfunction. Postoperatively, right and left ventricular pressures were measured with micromanometer catheters and volumes were measured by nuclear ventriculography. Right and left ventricular systolic elastance was calculated by the isochronic method and by the end-systolic method. Both methods provided sensitive indexes of end-systolic elastance. This study demonstrated that right ventricular function and metabolism can be evaluated by methods analogous to methods used in the left ventricle. These results suggest that right ventricular functional and metabolic recovery are delayed despite apparently adequate myocardial protection. Sensitive measurements may permit improved assessment of alternative methods of right ventricular protection. 
Occult inferior vena cava thrombosis: diagnosis by sonography--case reports. Ultrasound has become an effective tool for evaluating the inferior vena cava. The authors report 3 cases that illustrate the difficulty in diagnosing partially adherent clots, which may have a high propensity for pulmonary embolism. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic features of normal and dysfunctioning bioprosthetic valves. Transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography and color flow Doppler were performed in patients with 42 normal and 20 dysfunctioning bioprosthetic mitral and aortic valves. Transesophageal echocardiography was superior to the transthoracic approach in delineating bioprosthetic valve cusps and the presence of valve thickening due to valve degeneration. In 27 clinically normal bioprosthetic mitral valves, regurgitation was demonstrated in three patients by the transthoracic approach and in seven by transesophageal study. Both transesophageal and transthoracic color flow Doppler demonstrated mitral regurgitation in 17 clinically regurgitant valves. The severity of mitral regurgitation was accurately assessed by the transesophageal study in all 13 patients who underwent angiography, whereas the transthoracic imaging underestimated valvular regurgitation in 7 of the 13 cases (54%). Bioprosthetic aortic valves were normal on clinical examination in 15 patients and were regurgitant in three others. Both transthoracic and transesophageal color flow Doppler were of equal value in observing and quantifying aortic regurgitation. In five clinically normal and regurgitant mitral and aortic valves, transesophageal color flow Doppler revealed eccentric regurgitant jets suggestive of paravalvular leak. This feature was not evident by the transthoracic approach. In conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography and color flow Doppler are superior to transthoracic imaging in estimating bioprosthetic mitral, but not aortic regurgitation, in differentiating valvular from paravalvular regurgitation, and in demonstrating thickened valves due to cusp degeneration. 
Syndromes of transient amnesia: towards a classification. A study of 153 cases. Of 153 patients presenting with acute transient amnesia, 114 fulfilled the proposed strict diagnostic criteria for transient global amnesia (TGA). The prognosis of this group was excellent with the exception of a small subgroup (7%), largely identifiable because of atypically brief or recurrent attacks, who developed epilepsy of temporal lobe type on follow up. Computerised tomography (CT) scans performed on 95 patients were normal, evidence for covert alcoholism was lacking and there was a familial incidence of approximately 2%. By contrast, the group of 39 patients who did not meet the criteria for TGA had a significantly worse prognosis with a high incidence of major vascular events. The groups could not be distinguished on the basis of behavioural characteristics during the attack. The following classification was proposed: 1) pure TGA--attacks fulfilling the strict criteria, and of more than one hour in duration which do not require detailed investigation, 2) probable epileptic amnesia--attacks of less than an hour or rapidly recurrent, 3) probable transient ischaemic amnesia, a minority of cases with additional focal neurological deficits during the attack. 
Segmental vascular resistance in postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy. Chronic unilateral pulmonary arterial ligation has been touted as a model of arteriopathy resulting in a tremendous increase in anastomotic bronchial flow (Qbr) via collaterals. To investigate its effects on the pulmonary vasculature, we ligated the left main pulmonary artery of seven dogs and 120 days later pump perfused their left lower lobes (LLL) via a cannula in the pulmonary artery at pulmonary arterial flow (Qpa) of 250 ml/min. We measured Qbr (330 ml/min) and compared LLL with control contralateral right lower lobes (RLL) and three LLL from normal dogs. Pressure-flow (P-Q) curves were obtained by varying Qpa. With arterial and venous occlusion we measured total, arterial, venous, and middle segment resistances under baseline conditions, after serotonin and histamine, either with or without Qpa and with antegrade and retrograde Qbr. Light microscopy was done postmortem. The slope of the P-Q curve was 33.4 mmHg.l-1.min in the ligated lobes compared with 15.9 in the controls, attributable by the occlusion technique mainly to a rise in arterial resistance (22.4 mmHg.l-1.min compared with 7.4 in the controls) with a small rise in venous resistance. This was explained by significant arterial medial muscle thickening and some loss of LLL volume. The arterial segment was markedly hypersensitive to serotonin, and the venous segment was mildly hypersensitive to histamine compared with controls. The occlusion data also enabled us to model the point of entry of the bronchial circulation into the pulmonary circuit at the precapillary level and to calculate bronchial vascular resistance. We conclude that postobstructive vasculopathy substantially raises pulmonary vascular resistance, mainly upstream from the site of entry of the bronchial circulation. The role of the latter may be to keep it from rising excessively in the segments it perfuses, i.e., the middle and venous ones. 
Enalapril-associated anemia in renal transplant recipients treated for hypertension. We encountered a renal transplant recipient who developed an unexplained 0.09 decrease in hematocrit value while taking enalapril for hypertension, which reversed when the drug was stopped. This experience, and a previous similar case report, prompted a review of all our 27 transplant patients treated with enalapril. Of these, 10 patients (37%) had developed an otherwise unaccounted for anemia: the pre-enalapril hematocrit value was 0.42 +/- 0.01 and it decreased to the nadir value of 0.33 +/- 0.01 (P less than 0.001) within 12.3 +/- 0.9 weeks after initiation of 9 +/- 2.4 mg of enalapril daily; enalapril was stopped in seven patients and their anemia resolved within 9.1 +/- 0.7 weeks to a final hematocrit value of 0.40 +/- 0.01. The remaining three patients were maintained on enalapril at their physicians' discretion, without further decrease in hematocrit values. No appreciable changes in drug regimens, clinical course, or other laboratory parameters were noted during this period. A causal relationship between enalapril and anemia was suggested by the effect of drug withdrawal and rechallenge on hematocrit in one of the patients. There were no statistically significant differences in baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics between those patients who did (group I) and those who did not (group II) develop enalapril-associated anemia, with the exception of a normal hematocrit value of 0.42 +/- 0.01 in group I versus a lower hematocrit value of 0.36 +/- 0.02 in group II (P less than 0.05). We conclude that enalapril should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia following renal transplantation. Susceptibility to this effect might emanate from the immunosuppressed state. 
Exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy in the diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine the discriminant accuracy of exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease. DATA IDENTIFICATION: A survey of the National Library of Medicine MEDLINE database. STUDY SELECTION: The key medical subject headings used were coronary disease, myocardial infarction, radionuclide imaging, and thallium. A total of 122 retrieved studies were considered relevant and were reviewed in depth. DATA EXTRACTION: Only studies reporting both the sensitivity and specificity of thallium scintigraphy were analyzed. RESULTS: Discriminant accuracy for diagnosis and prognosis was summarized in terms of pooled sensitivity and specificity. CONCLUSIONS: Exercise thallium scintigraphy is useful in the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease, especially in patients with abnormal resting electrocardiograms, restricted exercise tolerance, and intermediate probability of having disease at the time of testing as well as of defining the prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease, especially in those with previous myocardial infarction. Because of various shortcomings in the published record, however, the marginal discriminant accuracy and cost effectiveness of thallium scintigraphy compared with conventional clinical assessment and exercise electrocardiography remain controversial. 
Recanalization of chronic, totally occluded coronary arteries by new angioplasty systems. The benefit and safety of new angioplasty equipment as compared with the conventional guidewire approach was evaluated in 154 consecutive patients. with chronic, totally occluded coronary arteries. The protocol followed a stepwise design: first, conventional guidewires and low-profile balloons were used, followed by "balloon-on-the-wire" systems (Probe, Ace) or by a shaft-enforced, tip-deflecting catheter (Omniflex). In 97 patients with occlusions of 2 to 12 weeks' duration, recanalization was achieved in 51 patients (53%) with the conventional approach and in 29 patients with the new devices (balloon-on-the-wire [n = 5], Omniflex [n = 24]), thereby raising the success rate to 82%. In 57 occlusions of greater than 12 weeks' duration, the recanalization attempt was successful in 58%, mediated in 16 patients (28%) by the Omniflex catheter and in 5 patients by balloon-on-the-wire systems. There were no life-threatening complications and only 1 (0.6%) emergency bypass operation was necessary. New angioplasty devices are therefore of considerable value in the attempt to improve the results of coronary angioplasty in chronic total occlusions. 
Free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow. Using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery. For infrapopliteal bypass, autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts. Although not resolved, in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses, especially for "far away" segments. Although the etiology is not understood, it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and, as a whole, is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities. Our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented. Simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one. Follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years. To date, two patients underwent amputations. Five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation. One patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities. In well-selected patients, this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation. However, because of the complexity of these combined procedures, we strongly urge careful patient selection. 
Inhibition of dipyridamole-induced ischemia by antianginal therapy in humans. Correlation with exercise electrocardiography. BACKGROUND. Dipyridamole echocardiography test (DET: two-dimensional echocardiographic monitoring with dipyridamole infusion up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 minutes) is a useful tool for the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Aims of the present study were to assess the effects of antianginal drugs on dipyridamole-induced ischemia and to evaluate whether drug-induced changes in DET response may predict variations in exercise tolerance. METHODS AND RESULTS. Fifty-seven patients with angiographically assessed significant coronary artery disease (greater than 70% lumen reduction in at least one major coronary vessel) performed a DET and an exercise electrocardiography test (EET) in random order both off treatment and on antianginal drugs (beta-blockers, calcium antagonists and nitrates, alone or in various combinations). The criterion for DET positivity was a transient dyssynergy of contraction absent or of a lesser degree in the baseline examination. In DET, two parameters were evaluated: the dipyridamole time (i.e., the time from onset of dipyridamole infusion to obvious dyssynergy) and the wall motion score index. DET sensitivity was 91% off therapy and fell to 65% under therapy (p less than 0.01). In the 37 patients who had a positive DET both off and on therapy, the dipyridamole time increased from 6 +/- 3 (off therapy) to 8 +/- 3 minutes (on therapy) (p less than 0.01). The wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole went from 1.38 +/- 0.14 to 1.31 +/- 0.14 (p less than 0.01). EET and DET yielded concordant (positive versus negative) results in 41 of 57 (71%) patients off and in 35 of 57 (61%) on therapy (p = NS). In the subgroup of 38 patients with both positive DET and EET without treatment, the therapy-induced variations in exercise time were significantly correlated with the variations in dipyridamole time (r = 0.5; p less than 0.01), not with variations in wall motion score index (r = 0.3; p = NS). CONCLUSIONS. 1) Antianginal therapy can protect from dipyridamole-induced ischemia and 2) the therapy-induced changes in DET response parallel variations in exercise tolerance and might be useful for the objective, exercise-independent assessment of the therapy efficacy. 
Ventricular tachycardia during routine treadmill testing. Risk and prognosis. Exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing is considered to increase risk during testing. Moreover, exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia has been considered to confer a poor prognosis although this has not been specifically studied. On a retrospective review of 3351 patients who had undergone routine clinical exercise testing between September 1984 and June 1989, we identified 55 patients with exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia. The mean follow-up was 26 months (range, 2 to 58 months). Fifty patients had nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one of these patients died due to congestive heart failure during the follow-up period. Five patients had sustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one died suddenly 7 months after the test. Ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in only two of the 29 patients who underwent repeated exercise testing. Ventricular tachycardia during routine clinical exercise testing occurred rarely (prevalence of 1.5%) and was not associated with complications during testing. The total mortality in the exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia group (3.6%) was not significantly different from the mortality in the entire population (5.1%). Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia occurring during clinical exercise testing is not an independent marker of a poor prognosis. 
Evolution of deep venous thrombosis: a prospective evaluation with US. Forty-six patients with a diagnosis of acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) established by means of duplex ultrasound (US) were prospectively followed up with serial duplex US examinations during a 6-month period to assess the persistence of venous abnormalities. All patients were asymptomatic. Isolated popliteal DVT was found to be more likely to revert to normal at duplex compression US than thrombosis involving both the femoral and popliteal systems (P less than .05). Increased venous diameter was a sign of acute clot (P less than .005). Clot echogenicity did not help to enable distinction of acute DVT and chronic DVT. At compression US, 10 of 21 patients (48%) who initially had occlusive thrombosis had persistent abnormalities that mimicked findings consistent with acute DVT. Chronic venous changes that persisted after 6 months consisted of either lumen recanalization (with resultant intimal thickening) or persistent venous occlusion. Both of these conditions can result in incomplete compression, the major US indication of acute DVT. This appearance should not be confused with that of acute DVT. Follow-up examinations to establish a baseline appearance can be obtained as early as 6 months after an acute episode of DVT. 
Secular trends in Q wave and non-Q wave acute myocardial infarction. The Minnesota Heart Survey. The Minnesota Heart Survey examined trends of Q wave and non-Q wave acute myocardial infarction (AMI) using a 50% random sample of all hospital discharges of patients with AMI or another acute coronary disease from 35 of 36 hospitals in 1970 and 30 of 31 hospitals in 1980 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. A total of 1,901 and 1,864 potential AMI cases were abstracted in 1970 and 1980, respectively. Electrocardiograms were coded according to the Minnesota code. AMIs were validated by computerized algorithm based on chest pain, enzymes, electrocardiograms, and autopsy. This study shows that with the use of a consistent, standard diagnostic algorithm, attack rates for Q wave AMI did not change significantly between 1970 and 1980 and that attack rates for non-Q wave AMI decreased significantly during the same decade. However, when the more sensitive cardiac enzymes creatine phosphokinase and creatine phosphokinase-MB were considered, attack rates of both Q wave and non-Q wave AMIs increased. This research documents four important trends for community AMI rates that are at variance with those reported by others. There was a decline in non-Q wave AMI attack rates from 1970 to 1980; women had outcomes equal to or worse than those for men for both case-fatality and 7-year survival rates; patients with non-Q wave AMIs had worse in-hospital prognoses than those with Q wave AMIs; and 7-year survival rates were worse for Q wave AMI in 1980. These findings demonstrate the need for standard diagnostic criteria for Q wave and non-Q wave AMI if trends are to be monitored. In the future, as new trials of operative and nonoperative therapies of AMI are undertaken, these considerations will increase in importance. 
Amniotic and thromboembolism. Embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment. Regardless, some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult. Optimally, such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers, but this is not always possible. 
Current results of elective aortic reconstruction for aneurysmal and occlusive disease. Decisions to resect small aortic aneurysms or employ non-operative treatment for aorto-iliac occlusive disease must depend on current rather than historical surgical results. To assess current morbidity and mortality, we reviewed 200 consecutive aortic resections in two groups of patients treated from 1981 to 1989: those undergoing elective aortofemoral bypass for occlusive disease (AFB, no. 100) or resection of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA, no. 100). Indications for AFB included claudication (54%), rest pain (32%), and gangrene (13%). AAA size ranged from 3 to 14 cm (mean 6.5 +/- 2.4 cm); 45% presented with abdominal or back pain. Patients undergoing AFB were younger (AFB 61.5 +/- 10 years vs AAA 68.7 +/- 8.9 years) with a higher incidence of some atherosclerotic risk factors, diabetes mellitus 30% vs 10%, tobacco use 77% vs 49%, hyperlipidemia 21% vs 7%; p less than 0.001). Coronary artery disease (CAD) was more prevalent in AAA patients (49% vs 34%; p less than 0.001). Postoperative mortality was not different in occlusive or aneurysmal disease (3% AFB vs 2% AAA), nor was the occurrence of serious complications such as myocardial infarction (2% vs 1%) or pulmonary embolism (2% vs 3%). Improvements in patient selection, perioperative care and surgical technique have lowered the mortality of elective aortic surgery. Given the current standard of care, an aggressive approach to AAA even in high risk patients is appropriate. The low morbidity of AFB for occlusive disease mandates a critical appraisal of less effective nonoperative therapies. 
Role of basic fibroblast growth factor in vascular lesion formation. In the present study we investigated whether basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) plays a role in the proliferative response of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) to denuding injury. Rat carotid smooth muscle was found to express the mRNA for bFGF, and bFGF protein was found to be present in rat aorta by immunoblot analysis. Systemically administered bFGF was a potent mitogen for vascular SMCs in arteries denuded with a balloon catheter, increasing replication from 11.5% in controls to 54.8%. Denudation with a device (filament loop), which causes only minimal damage to medial SMCs, showed a similar increase in replication (1.3% versus 43.3%) after bFGF infusion. In unmanipulated vessels, however, SMCs were unresponsive to infused bFGF. Infusion of a "mitotoxin" (bFGF conjugated to saporin) caused a greater than 50% decrease in the number of viable SMCs in the arterial wall after balloon injury. Prolonged administration of bFGF (12 micrograms/day for 2 weeks) after balloon injury caused an approximately twofold increase in intimal thickening. These results show that bFGF, which is synthesized by the arterial wall, could be a potent mitogen for SMCs in vivo and suggest that any release of endogenous bFGF may be capable of stimulating SMC proliferation, which may subsequently lead to intimal lesion formation. 
Nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction in patients with mitral valvular disease Using the rapid-response thermistor pulmonary artery catheter and transoesophageal echocardiography, this study examined the effects of 100 per cent oxygen, 70 per cent nitrous oxide/30 per cent oxygen, and 70 per cent nitrogen/30 per cent oxygen on the pulmonary circulation and ventricular function in ten patients with pulmonary hypertension. In comparison with baseline measurements, nitrous oxide administration resulted in small but statistically significant (P less than 0.05) changes in mean arterial pressure (76 +/- 14 to 67 +/- 12), mean pulmonary arterial pressure (37 +/- 14 to 33 +/- 13 mmHg), and cardiac output (3.7 +/- 1.4 to 3.2 +/- 1.1 L.min-1). Seventy per cent nitrogen resulted in no significant changes from baseline. The repeat 100 per cent oxygen measurements were nearly identical to the nitrous oxide measurements. It is concluded that nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction during high-dose fentanyl anaesthesia in patients with mitral valvular disease. 
Hypoxic acidemia, hyperviscosity, and maternal hypertension do not affect the umbilical arterial velocity waveform in fetal sheep. The effect of hypoxic acidemia, hyperviscosity, and maternal hypertension on the umbilical arterial velocity waveform was studied in 23 chronically catheterized fetal sheep. Fetal hypoxic acidemia induced by lowering the maternal inspired oxygen concentration (n = 7) caused no change in the ratio of systolic/diastolic blood velocity even when fetal arterial pH was as low as 6.8. Fetal blood hyperviscosity (n = 7) induced by exchange transfusion with packed maternal blood cells increased placental vascular resistance by greater than or equal to 50% but had no significant effect on the systolic/diastolic ratio. Similarly, maternal hypertension induced by intravenous infusion of angiotensin II to the ewe (n = 9) did not affect the systolic/diastolic ratio despite a 50% increase in maternal arterial blood pressure. We conclude that umbilical arterial velocity waveform abnormalities observed in growth-restricted human fetuses are probably not a direct result of fetal hypoxemia or hyperviscosity or maternal hypertension. 
The effects of generation and gender on the joint distributions of lipid and apolipoprotein phenotypes in the population at large. The generation and gender effects on the joint distributions of total plasma cholesterol (Total-C), ln triglycerides (lnTrig), HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C), LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoproteins AI (Apo AI), AII (Apo AII), and E (lnApo E) were studied in 184 male grandparents (MGP), 242 female grandparents (FGP), 237 male parents (MP), 235 female parents (FP), 202 male children (MC), and 200 female children (FC). Homogeneity of variance tests revealed that lipid variances were gender and/or generation specific while apolipoprotein variances were homogeneous across strata. In the absence of heterogeneity of variance, significant heterogeneity in LDL:lnTrig and lnTrig:Apo AII covariation was found between genders in the parental generation. In the presence of heterogeneity of variance, significant heterogeneity of correlation between genders and/or across generations was found for the HDL-C:LDL-C, Total-C:LDL-C, Total-C:lnTrig, lnTrig:LDL-C, Total-C:lnApo E and HDL-C:lnApo E bivariate distributions. Analyses of principal components revealed that the generation and gender specific cohorts have similar eigenvalues but distinct eigenvectors for the first two principal components underlying the seven dimensional lipid and apolipoprotein distribution. We conclude that the amount of variability explained by the first two principal components is the same across cohorts but how the interindividual variability is distributed among the lipid and apolipoprotein traits is generation and gender specific. This study documents the role that variance and covariance might play in determining risk of disease for special subgroups of the population at large. It also demonstrates how variances and covariances between risk factors traits characterize life processes of aging and sexual dimorphism. This study argues that future biometrical genetic and epidemiological studies of coronary artery disease must take into account age and gender effects on interindividual variability and covariability of risk factors. 
Cardiac catheterisation with 5 French catheters. From the beginning of November 1987 to the end of January 1989, 526 coronary arteriograms and left ventricular angiograms were performed with 5 French coronary catheters. In 448 (85%) patients diagnostic pictures were obtained with three standard types of 5 French catheters (No 4 Judkins): that is, left coronary, right coronary, and pigtail catheters. In 60 patients (11.4%) various other 5 French catheters were required to complete the study. In nine patients (1.7%), a 7 or 8 French catheter was used. Major complications causing cardiac arrest or requiring urgent operation developed in five patients. Sixty two patients (11.77%) had minor complications that required sublingual nitrates or a single bolus of atropine, or developed a haematoma that did not need intervention or had a mild reaction to the contrast material. Complications of moderate severity developed in 17 patients (3.2%): severe chest pain, arrhythmia requiring a temporary pacemaker, contrast reaction associated with hypotension, haematoma requiring blood transfusion, or a transient ischaemic episode. There were no deaths. 5 French catheters were used for routine coronary angiography and left ventriculography in 98.3% of patients. There were no major complications related to femoral artery puncture. The routine use of 5 French coronary catheters should increase the feasibility of safe coronary angiography in outpatients and should reduce the cost of this investigation. 
Dynamic positron tomographic imaging with nitrogen-13 glutamate in patients with coronary artery disease: comparison with nitrogen-13 ammonia and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging. This study was designed to test the usefulness of nitrogen-13 (N-13) glutamate imaging with positron emission tomography in defining myocardial ischemia in humans. Seventeen patients who had undergone coronary arteriography were studied with N-13 glutamate at peak supine exercise using a bicycle ergometer, as well as with the flow tracer N-13 ammonia at peak exercise during a second similar exercise test. Six of the patients also underwent imaging with N-13 glutamate at rest before exercise testing; in the remaining 11 patients imaging with fluorine-18 (F-18) fluorodeoxyglucose was performed to assess glucose metabolism after the second exercise test. Seven patients had classic metabolism-flow mismatches consistent with ischemia (that is, decreased N-13 ammonia uptake in a region with relatively increased F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose uptake). There was no evidence of increased N-13 glutamate uptake in the ischemic mismatched regions in any of these patients. In all 17 patients, the uptake of N-13 glutamate during exercise paralleled the uptake of N-13 ammonia during exercise, suggesting that N-13 glutamate behaves as a flow tracer rather than as a metabolic marker of ischemia in humans. 
Expected gains in life expectancy from various coronary heart disease risk factor modifications BACKGROUND. Despite much evidence that modifying risk factors for coronary heart disease can decrease morbidity and mortality, little is known about the impact of risk-factor modification on life expectancy. METHODS AND RESULTS. We used the Coronary Heart Disease Policy Model, a state-transition computer simulation of the US population, to forecast potential gains in life expectancy from risk-factor modification for the cohort of Americans turning age 35 in 1990. Among 35-year-old men, we projected that the population-wide increase in life expectancy would be about 1.1 years from strict blood pressure control, 0.8 years from smoking cessation, 0.7 years from reduction of serum cholesterol to 200 mg/dl, and about 0.6 years from weight loss to ideal body weight. For women, reducing cholesterol to 200 mg/dl would have the greatest estimated impact-a gain of 0.8 years-whereas smoking cessation, blood pressure control, or weight loss would yield population-wide gains of 0.7, 0.4, and 0.4 years, respectively. Gains for 35-year-old individuals having a given risk factor are greater. We estimate that, on average, male smokers would gain 2.3 years from quitting smoking; males with hypertension would gain 1.1-5.3 years from reducing their diastolic blood pressure to 88 mm Hg; men with serum cholesterol levels exceeding 200 mg/dl would gain 0.5-4.2 years from lowering their serum cholesterol level to 200 mg/dl; and overweight men would gain an average of 0.7-1.7 years from achieving ideal body weight. Corresponding projected gains for at-risk women are 2.8 years from quitting smoking, 0.9-5.7 years from lowering blood pressure, 0.4-6.3 years from decreasing serum cholesterol, and 0.5-1.1 years from losing weight. Eliminating coronary heart disease mortality is estimated to extend the average life expectancy of a 35-year-old man by 3.1 years and a 35-year-old woman by 3.3 years. CONCLUSIONS. Population-wide gains in life expectancy from single risk-factor modifications are modest, but gains to individuals at risk can be more substantial. 
Fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm: diagnosis by transesophageal echocardiography. The diagnosis of atrial septal defect by transthoracic echocardiography remains difficult in a small subset of patients because of either suboptimal acoustic windows or unusual anatomy, for example, fenestrated defects. We report the case of a 55-year-old woman with a fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm that was incompletely visualized by transthoracic echocardiography. Subsequent transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated three defects within the atrial septal aneurysm with left-to-right shunting across each defect. Normal pulmonary venous connections were also defined. All echocardiographic findings were confirmed at surgery. This case demonstrates the additional diagnostic accuracy of transesophageal echocardiography for detecting disease of the atrial septum. 
Hemodynamic effects of nebivolol at rest and on exertion in patients with heart failure. Nebivolol is a novel B-1-adrenoceptor-blocking drug with an unusual hemodynamic profile unlike classical B-blockers. In dogs and in healthy volunteers it decreases blood pressure and heart rate but improves left ventricular function. The authors studied 10 male patients with coronary artery disease and heart failure (ejection fraction mean = 46%). A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed into the pulmonary artery, and the mean blood pressure, the heart rate, the pulmonary artery pressure, the pulmonary wedge pressure, the right atrial pressure, the cardiac output, and the stroke volume were measured at rest and on exertion before and after seven days' treatment with oral nebivolol (5 mg/day). While the blood pressure and the heart rate decreased significantly, the pulmonary artery and wedge pressures, as well as the right atrial pressure and the cardiac output, did not change during treatment. The stroke volume increased significantly. The maintained cardiac output cannot be explained by any changes in preload or afterload; instead a positive inotropic mechanism must be assumed. Unlike other B-blockers it seems to be possible to treat patients with heart failure with nebivolol without causing the hemodynamic situation to deteriorate. 
Clinical validation of a miniature nuclear probe system for continuous on-line monitoring of cardiac function and ST-segment A new, miniature cesium iodide/photodiode nuclear probe (the "Cardioscint") has been developed for continuous on-line measurement of left ventricular function and the ST-segment. Ejection fraction (EF) measurements in 77 patients were compared with gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculograms. The probe was positioned over the left ventricle by first using a blind positioning algorithm and then by using the gamma camera. Background was measured both manually and automatically. There was good correlation between probe (positioned blind) and gamma camera EF with both manual (r = 0.80, n = 65) and automatic (r = 0.78, n = 66) backgrounds. Use of the gamma camera did not significantly alter the results. Correlation between the probe stroke counts and thermodilution-derived stroke index during atrial pacing in six subjects was also satisfactory (r = 0.69, n = 102). Thus, the Cardioscint is able to provide a reliable estimate of EF and can track rapid changes in cardiac volumes. 
Thromboxane biosynthesis in cardiovascular diseases. Sudden fissuring of an atherosclerotic plaque has been suggested as the primary trigger of transient spontaneous ischemia in both the coronary and cerebral circulation. Measurements of urinary 11-dehydro-TXB2 and 2,3-dinor-TXB2, as well as results of Aspirin trials, have suggested that episodic platelet activation at the site of this acute vascular lesion is mediated, at least partly, by enhanced thromboxane (TX) A2 biosynthesis. Thus, episodic increases in metabolite excretion have been detected in unstable angina. Aspirin (75-325 mg/day) prevents about one third of all fatal and nonfatal thrombotic events in this setting. That a similar "dynamic" thrombotic process occurs during the early phase of acute myocardial infarction is suggested by thromboxane metabolite measurements and by the results of the ISIS-2 trial showing a similar impact of short-term Aspirin therapy to that seen in unstable angina. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is associated with transiently enhanced TXA2 biosynthesis and Aspirin-suppressable periprocedural thrombotic complications. On the other hand, both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and type IIa hypercholesterolemia are associated with a relatively reproducible and persisting abnormality of TXA2-dependent platelet function. This association is likely to reflect a systemic rather than localized stimulus to platelet activation and a continuous rather than episodic alteration. Low-dose (50 mg/day) Aspirin can largely suppress thromboxane metabolite excretion in both diseases. Thus, low-dose Aspirin and/or selective prostaglandin H2/TXA2-receptor antagonists may be important tools to test the hypothesis that TXA2-dependent platelet activation represents an important transducer of the enhanced thrombotic risk associated with these metabolic abnormalities. 
Bone mineral density in spontaneous hypertension: differential effects of dietary calcium and sodium. Dietary calcium and sodium have been postulated to modify both bone mineral status and blood pressure regulation in humans and animals. The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) manifests several defects in calcium metabolism that may contribute to its hypertension. Blood pressure and bone mineral status were measured in SHR and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) as a marker of whole animal calcium metabolism. In addition, the effect of alterations in dietary calcium and sodium on bone status were examined. At 6 weeks of age, seven male SHR and seven male WKY were placed on a control diet. At the same age, 28 SHR and 28 WKY were randomized to four diets containing either 2.0% or 0.1% calcium and 1.0% or 0.25% sodium. Four markers of bone mineral status were analyzed: bone density measured by direct photon absorptiometry, and total bone calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium content measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The SHR exhibited significantly lower levels (p less than 0.001) of bone density and bone magnesium content than the WKY, whereas bone phosphorus and calcium did not differ between the two strains. The 2.0% calcium diets resulted in increased bone density and bone calcium content, and lower bone magnesium in both strains. The 1.0% sodium diets were associated with decreased bone density in the SHR, but not in the WKY. These findings identify another indicator of disturbed calcium metabolism in the SHR that may be related to impaired renal calcium handling. They are consistent with previously reported reductions in renal calcium reabsorption and decreased intestinal calcium transport in older SHR. 
Depression and recovery of right ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass. Transient left ventricular dysfunction is commonly described in association with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). We evaluated changes in right ventricular (RV) function after elective cardiac surgery in 24 patients with normal preoperative cardiac function. In all, irrespective of distribution of coronary artery disease or use of pharmacologic support, a transient depression of RV systolic function with respect to both preinduction and initial postoperative (Postop) values occurred 262 +/- 116 min post-CPB as represented by a decrease in RV stroke volume index (25.0 +/- 1.7 vs. 33.4 +/- 1.9 ml/m2 Postop) and RV ejection fraction (31.0 +/- 2.2 vs. 45.6 +/- 2.5% Postop), and an increase in RV end-systolic and end-diastolic volume indices. This depression responded readily to pharmacologic therapy within 2 h, resolved within 24 h, and had no adverse consequences in these otherwise healthy patients. Further studies are needed to identify the cause of this phenomenon and its importance in patients with preexisting cardiac dysfunction. 
Diagnosis of recent myocardial infarction with quantitative backscatter imaging: preliminary studies. Acute myocardial ischemia and chronic myocardial infarction may be recognized with ultrasound tissue characterization techniques because of myocardial acoustic changes caused by reduced perfusion and/or collagen deposition. Our purpose was to study the acoustic properties of recent myocardial infarction when the predominating pathologic finding was myocardial edema and leukocytic infiltration. We used a new quantitative backscatter imaging system to study 18 patients 9 +/- 5 days after myocardial infarction (eight patients with anteroseptal myocardial infarction and 10 with inferior myocardial infarction) and 20 normal subjects. The cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter (end-diastolic minus end-systolic) was calculated from on-line measurements. Standard parasternal long- and short-axis and apical four- and two-chamber views were obtained. In the anteroseptal myocardial infarction group, the cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter was lower in the septum (1.5 +/- 1.6 dB) than in the posteroinferior wall (3.2 +/- 1.2 dB); however, the sample size of only three patients (of eight patients imaged) in the latter group prevented statistical comparison. The cyclic variation of relative integrated backscatter in the infarcted septum was less than the measurement obtained in the septum of the control group (4.3 +/- 2.4 dB, p less than 0.05). In the inferior infarction group, the cyclic variation of integrated backscatter in the posteroinferior wall (1.8 +/- 1.7 dB) was not significantly different from the measurement obtained in the septum (3.7 +/- 3.6 dB); however, the cyclic variation in the posteroinferior wall was significantly less than that obtained in the control group posteroinferior wall (5.7 +/- 1.7 dB, p less than 0.05). 
Left main percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with the autoperfusion catheter in an animal model. Left main coronary angioplasty is associated with high risk because of interruption of blood flow to much of the left ventricle during balloon inflation. An "autoperfusion" balloon angioplasty catheter that allows blood to flow passively distal to an inflated balloon was tested in dogs and compared with inflations with standard balloon catheters. During 3 min occlusions of the left main coronary artery with the autoperfusion catheter, regional myocardial blood flow was preserved at 0.60 +/- 0.14 ml/min/g, compared with 0.07 +/- 0.03 ml/min/g during inflation with standard balloon catheters (P less than 0.01). Similarly, at the end of 3 min of inflation, left ventricular systolic pressure and dP/dt were maintained with autoperfusion catheter inflation, but they were severely depressed after standard angioplasty balloon inflation. All seven dogs survived autoperfusion balloon inflation, whereas five of seven developed sustained ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation during or after standard balloon inflation. Thus, distal blood flow, hemodynamics, and survival were preserved during autoperfusion balloon inflation in the left main coronary artery. 
Comparison of two doses of endotracheal epinephrine in a cardiac arrest model. STUDY OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to measure plasma catecholamine levels and the cardiovascular response before and after endotracheal administration of epinephrine in a swine cardiac arrest model. DESIGN: Prospective, controlled laboratory investigation. TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-one swine weighing 10 to 12 kg, anesthetized with ketamine and alpha-chloralose and ventilated with room air. INTERVENTIONS: Ventricular fibrillation was induced with 90 V of 60 Hz current delivered to the right ventricle by transvenous pacemaker. Blood samples for epinephrine were drawn before arrest and every two minutes thereafter. At five minutes, external mechanical cardiac compressions were initiated. Nine animals received no further therapy and served as controls. Two groups of six animals received either 0.01 mg/kg or 0.1 mg/kg of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube at ten and 20 minutes. Blood samples were assayed for epinephrine. MEASUREMENTS: Arterial blood pressure, lead II ECG, and plasma epinephrine. MAIN RESULTS: Swine receiving epinephrine 0.01 mg/kg had an increase in epinephrine levels after drug administration, but these were not significantly different from control levels. The 0.1-mg/kg dose group had a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels compared with controls and the 0.01-mg/kg dose group after receiving epinephrine at ten and 20 minutes. These increases were from 14 +/- 3 to 215 +/- 40 ng/mL (+/- SEM) at 12 minutes after arrest and from 151 +/- 56 to 402 +/- 80 ng/mL at 22 minutes after arrest. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that standard dosing of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube during arrest does not produce significant increases in plasma catecholamines or blood pressure. Epinephrine 0.1 mg/kg produces a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels, but it is not sufficient to produce a significant change in blood pressure. 
Liver transplantation: MR angiography with surgical validation. Thirty patients (mean age, 45 years) were evaluated with magnetic resonance (MR) angiography before liver transplantation to assess the accuracy of MR angiography. A series of breath-hold, two-dimensional images were acquired and subsequently processed to form three-dimensional projection angiograms. Graphic information on blood flow in the portal vein was acquired by using presaturation bolus tracking. Correlative duplex ultrasound (US) was performed in 28 patients, and surgical or autopsy correlation was available in all cases. MR angiography demonstrated patency of the portal vein in 26 (96%) of 27 patients, made possible the diagnosis of portal venous occlusion in three of three patients, depicted reversed portal flow in one patient, and provided clear delineation of the extent of varices and specific portosystemic collateral vessels. When duplex US was successful, there was full agreement with MR angiographic results in assessing portal vein patency and flow direction. All of the MR findings were corroborated at surgical exploration or autopsy. The authors conclude that MR angiography is very accurate in the portal system and is valuable in preoperative assessment for liver transplantation. 
Subgroups of patients with atypical circadian patterns of symptom onset in acute myocardial infarction. Circadian variation of onset of acute myocardial infarction has been noted in many studies and may carry important implications. However, only a few previous studies have attempted subgroup analysis. In 4,796 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction, the time of symptom onset was recorded. As in other studies, a peak occurred in the morning hours from 6 A.M. to noon with 28% of the population (1.16 times the average percent for the other time periods) experiencing symptom onset in that period (p less than 0.001). There was a second lower peak (25%) in the evening hours between 6:01 P.M. and midnight, also observed in some previous studies. Whether the presence of subgroups with specific clinical characteristics would exhibit different patterns and thereby contribute to these peaks in the overall population was then determined. In patients with a history of congestive heart failure (n = 606) or with non-Q-wave infarction (n = 832), a pronounced peak (29%) occurred only in the evening hours. In patients greater than 70 years of age (n = 1,422), smokers (n = 2,057), diabetics (n = 767), women (n = 1,213) and patients taking beta blocking drugs (n = 847), 2 nearly equal peaks were observed. Finally, in patients with previous myocardial infarction (n = 1,104), no peaks were observed. In a subgroup of patients (n = 1,084) free from the most important modifying factors, there was a single very pronounced late morning peak (32%), 1.39 times the average percent for the other time periods (p less than 0.001), without evidence of a second evening peak. 
Excretion of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin metabolites before and after exercise testing in patients with and without signs of ischemic heart disease. We addressed the hypothesis that platelets are not activated in association with effort-induced myocardial ischemia in stable coronary disease. Seventy-two patients undergoing a diagnostic bicycle exercise test were stratified according to the development of chest pain (yes/no, 33/39) and of exercise-induced ST-segment depression of at least 200 microV in the electrocardiogram (yes/no, 12/60). Noninvasive indexes of platelet activation and of platelet/vessel wall interaction (urinary excretion of the 2,3-dinor-metabolites of thromboxane A2 [Tx-M] and prostacyclin [PGI-M], respectively) were analyzed in samples collected in the basal state and after the test. Basal Tx-M and PGI-M did not differ in patients with (236 +/- 35 and 131 +/- 22 pg/mg creatinine, respectively) and without (185 +/- 16 and 101 +/- 13 pg/mg creatinine, respectively) chest pain, or in those with (178 +/- 45 and 162 +/- 41 pg/mg, respectively) and without (216 +/- 22 and 104 +/- 11 pg/mg, respectively) ST-segment depression during the test. Patients without chest pain or without ST-segment depression moderately increased (p less than 0.05) their urinary Tx-M (by 21% and 13%, respectively) and PGI-M (by 28% and 23%, respectively) after exercise. No significant increases were observed in those developing chest pain or ST depression during exercise. These data indicate that effort-induced myocardial ischemia is not associated with an increase in platelet activation or platelet/vessel wall interaction in patients with stable coronary disease. 
An unusual venous anomaly of the placenta. The authors present an unusual vascular anomaly of the placenta. The placenta was very large, weighing 1,490 g. On the fetal surface, numerous dilated and tortuous vessels were observed on and under the chorionic membrane, of which three branches arose from a vein that was connected to the umbilical vein. One of them had a 5 x 2.5 cm aneurysmal dilatation, where three secondary branches arose. These venous channels were dilated and tortuous. The longest secondary branch was 133 cm in length and 1.2 cm in mean diameter and led into the placenta. Multiple, severely coiled or straight small branches arising from these vessels were also observed as vascular tangles. Some of these smaller vessels also led into the placenta. All abnormal vessels were veins. The umbilical cord was also normal except for a membranous insertion, and the placenta was unremarkable except for its large size. 
Hypertension and the risk of dementia in the elderly. Vascular dementia is the second most common type of dementia in the elderly after the dementia of Alzheimer's disease. Six forms of vascular dementia have been described: multi-infarct dementia, lacunar dementia, Binswanger's subcortical encephalopathy, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, white-matter lesions associated with dementias, and single-infarct dementia. Each is described. Severe dementia is found in 5% of persons over age 65 and in 15% to 20% of persons over age 80 years. Alzheimer's disease accounts for 50% to 60% of cases of severe dementia and vascular dementia for 10% to 20%; 20% of the patients have both disorders. The incidence of vascular dementia, which seems to be declining, is about 7/1,000 persons/year. Hypertension is the most powerful risk factor for all vascular dementias. Vascular dementias can be accurately diagnosed by using clinical and mental state examinations, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders criteria, ischemic scores, and computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The most successful treatment of vascular dementia is the prevention of cerebral infarcts. Study of the incidence of vascular dementias and their treatment will be included in the European Trial on Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly (SYST-EUR) of 3,000 elderly hypertensive patients. 
Significance of U wave polarity in patients with a prior inferior myocardial infarction. Sixty consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography from six to eight weeks after the onset of definite inferior myocardial infarction were divided into three groups according to the polarity of U waves in (1) leads II, III, a VF and (2) in leads V4 to V6 (positive = Group P, flat or isoelectric = Group F, and negative = Group N). The following parameters were analyzed: (1) ECG score; (2) global ejection fraction: (3) regional area change: (4) number of asynergic, and akinetic segmental radii; (5) number of asynergic and akinetic areas: and (6) number of diseased coronary arteries and the incidence of left anterior descending artery (LAD) disease. There were no significant differences among the three groups according to the polarity of U waves in two subgroups by the site of U waves in age, gender, systemic blood pressure, and ECG scores. The polarity of U waves in leads II.III.a VF (subgroup 1) correlated with the size of myocardial infarction; regional area changes in inferior segment (Area 2) were 64.1 +/- 8.2 in group P1, 31.8 +/- 14.7 in group F1, and 21.0 +/- 15.8 in group N1 (p less than 0.01, F = 32.8). The polarity of U waves in leads V4-6 (subgroup2) correlated with anterolateral wall motion; regional area changes in anterolateral segments (Area 5) were 76.8 +/- 11.6 in group P, 66.5 +/- 18.5 in group F, and 48.9 +/- 17.1 in group N (p less than 0.01, F = 18.6). The incidence of multivessel disease increased from group P2 (36.4%), to group F2 (54.5%), to group N2 (75.0%), and the incidence of LAD disease increased from 27.3%, to 45.5%, to 68.8%, respectively. A negative U wave in either location suggested severely decreased apical wall motion, and there was a tendency for global ejection fractions to decrease in the following order: group P, group F, and group N. From these results, the authors conclude that the polarity of U waves may be one of the parameters correlating with the wall motion and left ventricular function in prior inferior myocardial infarction. 
Standards for evaluating results of interventional therapy for peripheral vascular disease. Uniform standards for evaluating and reporting the results of therapeutic interventions for peripheral vascular disease are clearly needed. They are already established for vascular surgery, as represented by several reports by SVS/ISCVS committees, but they are not always followed by vascular surgeons and have been largely ignored by other vascular interventionists. In this article, the major problematic reporting practices are discussed and illustrated, and 14 recommendations are advanced to deal with them. They are intended to provide precise definitions, objective criteria of success or failure, standardized severity gradation schemes for peripheral vascular disease and its risk factors, and proper procedures for reporting the outcome of all forms of therapeutic intervention. Until these or some other agreed upon reporting standards are accepted and followed, the literature on peripheral vascular disease and its management will continue to be a source of confusion rather than enlightenment. 
Clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in The Netherlands. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy and toleration of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure 95 to 115 mm Hg) in a general medical practice. Fifty-three patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension entered a study of 14 weeks' duration. This consisted of a baseline run-in period of 2 weeks, a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin (8 weeks), and a maintenance phase of 4 weeks. Doxazosin was initiated at 1 mg/day, and every 2 weeks the dose was doubled unless blood pressure was normalized (sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm Hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction from baseline) or significant side effects emerged. The maximum daily dose administered was 8 mg. Doxazosin produced a significant (p less than 0.05) final mean change in sitting blood pressure of -17.4/-12.2 mm Hg at a final mean daily dose of 4.1 mg. Heart rate was not significantly altered. A nonsignificant decrease in total cholesterol concentration (-2.66%, p = 0.06) and triglycerides (-8.80%, p = 0.09) was also observed. The effect of doxazosin on blood pressure and serum cholesterol resulted in a significant (p less than 0.001) reduction of 19% in calculated risk of coronary heart disease. The investigators' assessment of patient toleration of doxazosin was excellent or good in 86.8% of patients. 
Etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis. Escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis. Its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract, an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections (UTIs). The importance of P fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients, as well as in animal studies. It appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection. Vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection, but infection with P-fimbriated E coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid A on ureteral peristaltic activity. Renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide. Experimentally, this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor. The acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis, which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules. An amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage. Vaccination with P fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease. However, since vaccines are not clinically available, the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed. Acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease. 
Clinical evaluation of single versus multiple mammary artery bypass. The superior patency and clinical advantages of internal mammary artery (IMA) grafting are well established. However, the relative benefits of routine multiple IMA grafting remain uncertain. To determine whether routine multiple compared with single IMA utilization improved survival of patients undergoing coronary bypass procedures, 1,063 patients were prospectively allocated, beginning in 1984, to divergent management strategies of single (group 1, n = 420) versus multiple IMA grafting (group 2, n = 643). Subsequent analysis of anatomical extent of disease and preoperative baseline risk factors showed no differences (p = NS) between the two groups. All variables reflecting operative technique were similar (p = NS) for the two groups, except 74% of group 1 patients with multivessel disease received a single IMA graft, whereas 71% of group 2 patients with multivessel disease received multiple IMAs (p less than 0.05). By multivariate analysis, impairment of left ventricular ejection fraction, acute evolving myocardial infarction, advanced age, and unstable angina were incremental risk factors for mortality (all p less than 0.03), but group assignment (p = 0.4) and ultimate therapy were not (p = 0.6). Survival probabilities (expressed as 30-day group 1/group 2; 4-year group 1/group 2) were overall (0.97/0.98; 0.93/0.90), elective (0.98/0.99; 0.97/0.92), acute (0.95/0.97; 0.89/0.88), age of less than 65 years (0.98/0.99; 0.97/0.93), age of 65 years or older (0.93/0.97; 0.84/0.89), ejection fraction of 0.40 or more (0.97/0.99; 0.95/0.94), ejection fraction of less than 0.40 (0.95/0.96; 0.87/0.82), nondiabetic (0.98/0.98; 0.94/0.91), and diabetic (0.92/0.97; 0.88/0.87). No differences in survival were significant (p = NS). 
Dietary Ca2+ prevents NaCl-sensitive hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats by a sympatholytic mechanism. The current study tested the hypothesis that dietary Ca2+ supplementation reverses the NaCl-sensitive component of hypertension and the associated neurochemical abnormalities in the NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR-S). Male SHR-S were begun on one of four diets at 8 weeks of age: control (0.75% NaCl/0.68% Ca2+); high NaCl (8.00% NaCl/0.68% Ca2+); high Ca2+ (0.75% NaCl/2.00% Ca2+); and high NaCl/high Ca2+ (8.00% NaCl/2.00% Ca2+). High NaCl SHR-S (X2 weeks) had higher mean arterial pressure (MAP) (161 +/- 4 mm Hg) than controls (149 +/- 3 mm Hg; P less than .05). Supplementation with Ca2+ prevented the rise in MAP in high NaCl rats, but did not alter MAP in controls. The 8% NaCl diet elevated plasma norepinephrine and reduced anterior hypothalamic (AHA) norepinephrine stores and turnover; concomitant Ca2+ supplementation restored both plasma norepinephrine and AHA norepinephrine turnover to normal. Clonidine was microinjected into the AHA of rats maintained on the four diets for 2 weeks to test the hypothesis that dietary Ca2+ supplementation prevents the previously observed NaCl-induced upregulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in AHA. Clonidine caused dose-dependent decreases in MAP that were greater in high NaCl rats than in controls. The Ca2+ supplementation prevented the exaggerated depressor response to clonidine in the high NaCl group, but not in the controls. The Ca2+ supplementation had no effect on pretreatment MAP or on MAP responses to clonidine in control NaCl-resistant SHR (SHR-R) or Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Thus, dietary Ca2+ supplementation prevents the NaCl-induced exacerbation of hypertension and augmented depressor response to clonidine in SHR-S by increasing noradrenergic input to AHA, thereby preventing the upregulation of AHA alpha 2-adrenoceptors. 
Hypertension, cigarette smoking, and the decline in stroke incidence in eastern Finland. Finland has high rates of both cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease risk factors. We studied random samples of the population 30-59 years of age for risk factors in two provinces of eastern Finland in 1972 and 1977. We then followed both cohorts until 1985 through linkage with national hospital discharge and death certificate registers. The prevalence of hypertension and smoking in both provinces declined between 1972 and 1977, as did the stroke incidence in the 8-year period of follow-up of each cohort. We observed no differences in stroke incidence between the two provinces. The relative risk of stroke in the later period (1977-1985) was 0.71 and 0.58 for men and women, respectively, when compared with the earlier period (1972-1980). Overall, 28% of all stroke events could be attributed to hypertension, 17% to smoking, and 43% to these two factors jointly. The decrease in the prevalence of hypertension and smoking accounted for about 29% of the decline. 
Post-extrasystolic potentiation without a compensatory pause in normal and diseased hearts. Variables derived from left ventricular volume were used to study post-extrasystolic potentiation. Left ventriculograms were obtained from 11 healthy individuals and 49 patients with coronary heart disease (30 with a previous myocardial infarction and 19 without any signs of myocardial damage). Post-extrasystolic potentiation was induced by a regularly driven right atrial rhythm that was interrupted by one atrial extrasystole in such a way that the post-extrasystolic RR interval was kept equal to the basic RR interval. The left ventricular end diastolic volumes of the pre-extrasystolic and post-extrasystolic beats were equal. In all groups there was evidence of post-extrasystolic potentiation in one or more of the indices of left ventricular function (ejection fraction, mean normalised systolic ejection rate, and systolic volume, and stroke volume). Potentiation was especially evident in patients with left ventricular damage; this suggests that a compensating mechanism is an intrinsic property of the myocardium. The Frank-Starling mechanism does not contribute to the increased performance of the post-extrasystolic beat in normal individuals or in patients with coronary artery disease. 
The epidemiology of impaired glucose tolerance and hypertension. Epidemiologic research indicates that glucose intolerance and hypertension are interrelated phenomena, each powerfully predisposing to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Both diabetic and hypertensive patients have greater amounts of atherogenic risk factors, including dyslipidemia, hyperuricemia, elevated fibrinogen, and left ventricular hypertrophy. Diabetic persons have an increased prevalence of hypertension (50%), and glucose intolerance is more common in hypertension (15% to 18%). Both share a strong relationship to excess weight, but the excess of hypertension in diabetic persons occurs in both lean and obese subjects. Diabetes doubles the risk of hypertension associated with overweight. The risk of coronary disease, stroke, and peripheral arterial disease increases with increasing blood pressure to the same degree in diabetic persons as in nondiabetic persons, but at any level of blood pressure, diabetic persons have a doubled risk of these outcomes. Both diabetic and hypertensive patients are particularly prone to silent or unrecognized myocardial infarctions. Greater efforts at primary prevention of both hypertension and diabetes are clearly needed, including efforts at weight control, exercise, limitation of salt intake, and control of blood lipid levels. In either diabetic or hypertensive candidates for cardiovascular disease, optimization of the chances of avoiding sequelae requires a comprehensive multifactorial approach. Prevention requires more than normalization of either the blood sugar or blood pressure. Rational preventive measures must also include weight reduction, a fat-modified diet, cessation of smoking cigarettes, raising high-density lipoprotein, lowering low-density lipoprotein, and reduction of fibrinogen. Hypertension, obesity, insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol tend to coexist. 
Myocardial infarction in Mexican-Americans and non-Hispanic whites. The San Antonio Heart Study. Mexican-American men experience reduced cardiovascular mortality compared with non-Hispanic white men. There is no corresponding ethnic difference in cardiovascular mortality in women. The difference in men could result either from a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease or a lower case fatality rate among Mexican-Americans. Although the incidence of cardiovascular disease in Mexican-Americans is unknown, we have collected data on prevalence of myocardial infarction in 5,148 individuals examined in the San Antonio Heart Study, a population-based survey of cardiovascular disease conducted between 1979 and 1988 in Mexican-Americans and non-Hispanic whites aged 25-64 years. Myocardial infarction was assessed by Minnesota-coded electrocardiograms and by a self-reported history of a physician-diagnosed heart attack. For both end points, the age-adjusted prevalence of myocardial infarction was lower in Mexican-American men than in non-Hispanic white men. After adjustment for age and diabetes status (present/absent), the odds of a myocardial infarction, as defined by either criterion, was approximately one third lower in Mexican-American men than in non-Hispanic white men (p = 0.06). In women, the prevalence of both myocardial infarction end points was slightly higher in Mexican-Americans than in non-Hispanic whites, although neither of these differences was significant. Although the ethnic differences in prevalence in this study were not statistically significant, their pattern parallels the pattern in the mortality due to cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, the results support the hypothesis that the reduced cardiovascular mortality rate observed in Mexican-American men reflects a lower incidence of myocardial infarction rather than a reduced case fatality rate because the latter would result in a higher prevalence. 
Cause of death in an emergency department A retrospective review was done of 601 consecutive emergency department deaths. Nontrauma causes accounted for 77% of the deaths and this group had an average age of 64 years and a male to female ratio of 1.9:1. Trauma caused 23% of the fatalities and this group had a younger average age of 29 years and a male to female ratio of 4.6:1. The most common causes of nontrauma death were sudden death of uncertain cause (34%), coronary artery disease (34%), cancer (5%), other heart disease (4%), chronic obstructive lung disease (3%), drug overdose (3%), and sudden infant death syndrome (2%). The most common causes of trauma death were motor vehicle accidents (61%) and gunshot wounds (16%). The overall autopsy rate was 40%. Death certificates were often in error. 
Effects of alpha 1-blockade on arterial compliance in normotensive and hypertensive rats. The effects of blockade of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors on the mechanical properties of the arterial wall were studied in 10 spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) as compared with 10 matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Ascending aortic pressure and flow were recorded in open-chest anesthetized rats, and the systemic arterial compliance was calculated. Intravenous injection (1 mg/kg) of Urapidil, a selective alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist, induced a significant decrease in arterial pressure (-26%, p less than 0.01 and -37%, p less than 0.001 in WKY rats and SHR, respectively) without significant changes in cardiac output. In control conditions, systemic arterial compliance was lower in SHR (3.29 +/- 1.52 microliters/mm Hg) than in WKY rats (4.35 +/- 1.35 microliters/mm Hg, p less than 0.01). Urapidil injection induced significant increases in systemic arterial compliance values in both strains (p less than 0.001). In another set of experiments (15 WKY rats and 15 SHR), the carotid compliance (microliters/mm Hg) was determined from the arterial volume-pressure relation under control conditions, after local incubation with Urapidil, and after total abolition of the vascular smooth muscle by KCN. In WKY rats, the carotid compliance increased markedly after incubation with Urapidil at doses corresponding to 1 mg/kg (+31%, p less than 0.01). A further increase in the carotid compliance was observed after KCN poisoning (+11%, p less than 0.05). In SHR, incubation with Urapidil at doses corresponding to 2 mg/kg were necessary to induce a significant increase in compliance (+38%). At this dosage, there was no further increase in compliance after KCN poisoning. 
Association between blood pressure and serum lipids in a population. The Tromso Study. BACKGROUND. High blood pressure has been associated with elevated atherogenic blood lipid fractions, but epidemiological surveys often give inconsistent results across population subgroups. A better understanding of the relation between blood pressure and blood lipids may provide insight into the mechanism(s) whereby hypertension is associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease. METHODS AND RESULTS. We assessed the cross-sectional relations of serum total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol (total minus HDL cholesterol), and triglyceride levels with blood pressure in a population of 8,081 men 20-54 years old and 7,663 women 20-49 years old. Stratified analyses and multivariable methods were used to control for potential confounding anthropometric and lifestyle variables. Total and non-HDL cholesterol levels increased significantly with increasing systolic or diastolic blood pressure in both sexes. Men 20-29 years old had steeper regression slopes for blood pressure by total cholesterol level than did women of similar age. In men, the association between blood pressure and total cholesterol level decreased with age, whereas in women, it increased with age. Body mass index modified the relation, whereas smoking, physical activity, and alcohol consumption had little influence on the association. Triglyceride levels increased with blood pressure, but this relation was weak in lean subjects. HDL cholesterol level correlated positively with blood pressure in population subgroups having a high alcohol consumption. CONCLUSION. These results support the hypothesis that there are biological interrelations between blood pressure and blood lipids that may influence the mechanisms whereby blood pressure is associated with risk of coronary heart disease. 
Coronary blood flow in dogs with contractile dysfunction due to experimental volume overload. BACKGROUND. Abnormalities in coronary blood flow are responsible for stress-induced reductions in contractile function in pressure overload hypertrophy. Less is known about coronary blood flow in volume overload. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that coronary blood flow abnormalities were responsible for contractile abnormalities in experimental volume overload hypertrophy. METHODS AND RESULTS. We examined coronary blood flow at rest and during pacing in seven dogs with contractile dysfunction secondary to chronic experimental mitral regurgitation (average regurgitant fraction at 3 months, 0.58 +/- 0.05). After 3 months of mitral regurgitation, left ventricular mass had increased from 92 +/- 8 g at baseline to 118 +/- 10 g (p less than 0.002). The slope of the end-ejection stress-volume relation, one of our indexes used to estimate contractile function, had fallen from 5.4 +/- 0.3 at baseline to 3.0 +/- 0.3 at 3 months of mitral regurgitation (p less than 0.001). In the mitral regurgitation dogs, coronary blood flow at rest was similar to that of control dogs (endocardial blood flow: control dogs, 1.33 +/- 0.12 ml/min/g; mitral regurgitation dogs, 1.16 ml/min/g, p = NS; epicardial blood flow at rest: control dogs, 1.30 +/- 0.16 ml/min/g; mitral regurgitation dogs 1.13 +/- 0.2 ml/min/g, p = NS). With pacing-induced stress, coronary blood flow increased appropriately in control and mitral regurgitation dogs. Ultrasonic dimension gauges placed in the endocardium and epicardium demonstrated no further deterioration in ventricular function during pacing in the mitral regurgitation dogs. In a separate group of five control dogs and five dogs with mitral regurgitation and left ventricular dysfunction, coronary blood flow was examined in the conscious closed-chest state at rest, during adenosine infusion, and during rapid atrial pacing (240 beats/min). Blood flow increased similarly in both groups during pacing and adenosine infusion. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that in dogs with mitral regurgitation that have developed contractile dysfunction, abnormalities in coronary blood flow do not explain the resting contractile dysfunction. Furthermore, studies during pacing-induced stress and coronary vasodilation with adenosine demonstrate that substantial coronary blood flow reserve is present in this type of volume overload hypertrophy. 
Comparison of the antihypertensive efficiency of nitrendipine, metoprolol, mepindolol and enalapril using ambulatory 24-hour blood pressure monitoring. In a randomized 6-month study of 201 patients, the antihypertensive efficiency of the calcium antagonist nitrendipine, the beta 1-selective blocker metoprolol, mepindolol, the beta blocker with intrinsic activity and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared as monitored by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (BP) measurements. The study was designed so that a comparable decrease in casual BP values was obtained with all 4 drugs. If normotension was not achieved with monotherapy, a diuretic also was administered. Pretreatment casual BP and mean 24-hour ambulatory BP values did not differ between the 4 groups. Normotension as assessed by casual BP measurements was observed in all 4 groups after 6 months of therapy, there being no significant differences between the groups. However, significantly more diuretics were required in the mepindolol (n = 14) and in the enalapril (n = 20) groups compared to the nitrendipine (n = 5) and metoprolol (n = 7) groups. Despite comparable casual BP control, the 4 groups differed significantly in their mean 24-hour measurements. The greatest systolic and diastolic BP decreases were seen in the metoprolol group. Metoprolol was also the most effective drug in decreasing the frequency of systolic pressure peaks greater than 180 mm Hg. Both beta blockers and enalapril significantly decreased the morning BP increase compared to the values before treatment, while nitrendipine did not. These data show that casual BP measurement is not a good predictor of 24-hour BP in patients taking hypertensive therapy. Despite an equal degree of "office" BP control, different antihypertensive regimens do not confer the same degree of "nonoffice" BP control. 
Streptococcal antibody cross-reactivity with HLA-DR4+VE B-lymphocytes. Basis of the DR4 associated genetic predisposition to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease? [published erratum appears in Br J Rheumatol 1991 Jun;30(3):222] B-lymphocytes obtained from patients with either rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and from normal subjects were reacted with serum obtained from rabbits immunized with streptococcal cell wall antigen. The presence of cytotoxicity was sought using an inverted phase microscope after differential uptake of eosin dye. The serum was found to be significantly more cytotoxic to HLA-DR4 containing cells of both patients and normals compared with DR4 negative cells (P less than 0.0001). 
Characterization of LY233569 on 5-lipoxygenase and reperfusion injury of ischemic myocardium. LY233569 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of isolated guinea pig 5-lipoxygenase (5-LPO) and 5-LPO activity of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes in vitro; IC50 values were 0.4 and 0.1 microM, respectively. LY233569 also inhibited (IC50 approximately 1.8 microM) zymosan-stimulated production of leukotriene B4 in canine whole blood but had little or no concomitant effect on the production of thromboxane B2. Concentrations of LY233569 as high as 10 microM did not inhibit production or scavenge superoxide from activated human neutrophils. In normal anesthetized dogs, infusion of LY233569 (0.11 mg/kg/min, i.v.) for 6 hr produced persistent inhibition (approximately 80%) of leukotriene B4 production in blood challenged ex vivo with zymosan; the plasma concentration (approximately 4 microM) of LY233569 was consistent with in vitro data illustrating selective and maximal inhibition of 5-LPO. In subsequent experiments, myocardial infarct size was measured after 1 hr of occlusion of the circumflex coronary artery and 5 hr of reperfusion. Continuous infusion of LY233569 (0.11 mg/kg/min, i.v.) had little or no effect on base-line systolic arterial pressure, cardiac rate and the pressure rate product when compared with time-related changes observed in control dogs. LY233569 infusion also did not alter the degree of ST-segment deviation or the intensity and duration of cardiac arrhythmias associated with coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion. Resultant myocardial infarct sizes were 45 +/- 5% of the left ventricle placed at risk in control dogs and 43 +/- 4% in dogs given LY233569. Myeloperoxidase activity of infarcted myocardium did not differ between groups. 
The effects of indomethacin and a beta-sympathomimetic agent on the fetal ductus arteriosus during treatment of premature labor: a randomized double-blind study. To study the effect of maternal indomethacin or nylidrine hydrochloride treatment on the fetus ductus arteriosus and the pulmonary artery, 27 women with threatened preterm labor between 24 and 34 weeks' gestation were studied by echocardiography. Fourteen women were treated with indomethacin and 13 with nylidrin. Both systolic and diastolic velocities in the ductus increased after administration of indomethacin indicating constriction in nine fetuses, and exceeded the corresponding velocities in the fetuses of the nylidrin group (p = 0.001). However, there were no changes in pulmonary artery flow velocities (p greater than 0.5). In the indomethacin group, there was a significant linear positive relationship between the gestational age and the change in ductal flow velocity. Three of the nine patients with ductal constriction also had tricuspid regurgitation. These findings indicate that indomethacin, not nylidrin, causes transient constriction of the ductus arteriosus and the constrictive response increases with the gestational age. We recommend echocardiographic surveillance of fetal hemodynamics when prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors are used in the treatment of spontaneous preterm labor. 
Failure of long-term digitalization to prevent rapid ventricular response in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Digitalis is frequently prescribed to patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to reduce the ventricular rate during subsequent paroxysms. To verify the validity of this assumption, we determined the ventricular rate during paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in 13 patients receiving long-term digoxin therapy (mean plasma digoxin level + 1.28 +/- 0.4 ng/ml) and compared it with that of a group of 14 patients who had not taken digoxin or beta-adrenergic and calcium-blocking agents before the attack. The treated and the untreated groups were similar statistically. The mean ventricular rate of the digitalized patients was 121 +/- 15 beats per minute, while that of the patients in the control group was 118 +/- 16 beats per minute. It is concluded that long-term digoxin therapy is not effective in reducing the ventricular response in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation despite adequate therapeutic levels. 
Compensation and overcompensation in congestive heart failure. The compensatory mechanisms that develop in response to heart failure have been well defined. In this review, it is argued that each compensatory mechanism leads to overcompensation and that there is no way to distinguish between the beneficial aspects of the former and the harmful effects of the latter. Therapeutic agents that maintain rather than decrease blood pressure might perhaps be more beneficial because of the crucial role of hypotension in initiating both compensation and overcompensation. 
A manifesting carrier of Duchenne muscular dystrophy with severe myocardial symptoms. A 42-year-old so-called manifesting carrier of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), whose first complaints were severe myocardial symptoms, is described. Immunohistochemical study using anti-dystrophin anti-serum and analysis of cloned segments of X chromosome DNA were performed. Her two sons and one of her brothers appear to have had the same disease. She was admitted to the hospital complaining of dyspnoea, back pain and palpitations and was first diagnosed as having myocardial infarction. However, this diagnosis was excluded. The echocardiogram showed diffuse abnormalities of myocardial function. Serum enzymes were increased. Minimal weakness and decreased deep tendon reflexes were detected in her left lower extremity. Muscle biopsy revealed a small number of necrotic fibres. Immunohistochemical study using anti-dystrophin antiserum showed a mosaic pattern of the surface membrane. Analysis of cloned segments of X chromosome DNA from the patient and her son showed the XmnI(Asp) alleles of pERT 87-15 and the TaqI alleles of pERT 87-8 in both patients. 
Arterial switch procedure in an adult. The arterial switch procedure has been shown to offer both anatomic and physiologic correction in infants and children with transposition of the great arteries and ventricular septal defect. We believe that adults may also benefit in some circumstances, as evidenced by the case of a 22-year-old man who underwent successful operation after having initially undergone pulmonary artery banding for transposition with ventricular septal defect in 1967 when he was 5 months of age. 
Coronary atherosclerosis is associated with left ventricular dysfunction and dilatation in aortic stenosis. Patients with aortic stenosis develop widely variable patterns of left ventricular hypertrophy and dysfunction. We postulated that coronary atherosclerosis (CAD) may be associated with impaired left ventricular function and chamber dilatation in patients with aortic stenosis. Left ventricular mass and volumes were quantified from two-dimensional echocardiography and correlated with coronary angiography in 78 patients with severe aortic stenosis and no previous myocardial infarction or regional wall motion abnormalities. Eighteen patients (group 1) had smooth coronary arteries, 25 patients had irregular coronary arteries with 50% or less stenosis (group 2), and 35 patients had obstructive CAD (group 3). Even though the calculated valve area was similar in all three study groups, group 1 patients had higher values for ejection fraction (65 +/- 9%, 51 +/- 17%, and 48 +/- 13%; p = 0.0002), systolic mass-to-volume ratio (9.2 +/- 3.9, 5.6 +/- 2.8, and 5.2 +/- 2.2; p = 0.0001), and cardiac index (2.9 +/- 0.7, 2.5 +/- 0.7, and 2.3 +/- 0.6 l/min.min2; p = 0.015) than patients in groups 2 and 3, respectively (mean +/- SD). Mean circumferential wall stress was inversely related to severity of CAD. Multivariate analysis showed that CAD is an independent predictor of ejection fraction and mass-to-volume ratio in this group of patients. Thus, in an elderly population with severe aortic stenosis, patients with both obstructive and nonobstructive CAD have an increased incidence of left ventricular enlargement and systolic dysfunction. 
Multivariate analysis in the prediction of death in hospital after acute myocardial infarction. Prognostic factors in patients with acute myocardial infarction based on clinical and investigative data on admission were evaluated prospectively in 111 consecutive patients. Seventeen patients (15.3%) died during hospital stay. Age, a previous infarct, high Killip class, cardiomegaly, high serum concentrations of cardiac enzymes, a low ejection fraction, and a high wall motion score index correlated significantly with in-hospital mortality; whereas sex, risk factors, and pericardial effusion did not. Multivariate analysis showed that age and the wall motion score index were the best predictors of death in hospital. Wall motion detected by cross sectional echocardiography may reflect the extent of myocardial involvement. Age and wall motion score index predicted in-hospital mortality with a sensitivity of 76.5%, a specificity of 91.5%, and a predictive accuracy of 89.2%. Age and the wall motion score index can be determined on admission and are useful for identifying patients at high risk of cardiac death who might benefit from early intervention. 
Heart rate adjustment of exercise-induced ST segment depression. Improved risk stratification in the Framingham Offspring Study BACKGROUND. Simple heart rate adjustment of ST segment depression during exercise (delta ST/HR index) and the pattern of ST depression as a function of heart rate during exercise and recovery (the rate-recovery loop) have been shown to improve the ability of the exercise electrocardiogram to detect the presence of coronary heart disease (CHD), but the performance of these methods for the prediction of future coronary events remains to be examined. METHODS AND RESULTS. We compared the delta ST/HR index and the rate-recovery loop with standard electrocardiographic criteria for prediction of CHD events in 3,168 asymptomatic men and women in the Framingham Offspring Study who underwent treadmill exercise electrocardiography and who, at entry, were free of clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of CHD. After a mean follow-up of 4.3 years, there were 65 new CHD events: four sudden deaths, 24 new myocardial infarctions, and 37 incident cases of angina pectoris. When a Cox proportional hazards model with adjustment for age and sex was used, a positive exercise electrocardiogram by standard criteria (greater than or equal to 0.1 mV horizontal or downsloping ST segment depression) was not predictive of new CHD events (chi 2 = 0.40, p = 0.52). In contrast, stratification according to the presence or absence of a positive delta ST/HR index (greater than or equal to 1.6 microV/beat/min) and a positive (counterclockwise) rate-recovery loop was associated with CHD event risk (chi 2 = 9.45, p less than 0.01) and separated subjects into three groups with varying risks of coronary events: high risk, when both tests were positive (relative risk 3.6; 95% confidence interval, 2.4-5.4); intermediate risk, when either the delta ST/HR index or the rate-recovery loop was positive (relative risk, 1.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-2.8); and low risk, when both tests were negative. After multivariate adjustment for age, sex, smoking, total cholesterol level, fasting glucose level, diastolic blood pressure, and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, the combined delta ST/HR index and rate-recovery loop criteria remained predictive of coronary events (chi 2 = 5.45, p = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS. Heart rate adjustment of ST segment depression by the delta ST/HR index and the rate-recovery loop during exercise electrocardiography can improve prediction of future coronary events in asymptomatic men and women. 
Increased whole blood viscosity combined with decreased erythrocyte fluidity in untreated patients with essential hypertension. Erythrocyte fluidity and other haemorheological variables were studied in 22 patients with essential hypertension and compared with age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Hypertensive patients displayed a significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity (P less than 0.001). Similarly, significantly elevated values for haematocrit, plasma and whole blood viscosity, as well as aggregation tendency were observed compared to controls. Although differing in these respects from controls, there were no obvious relationships between these rheological variables and either systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity and other changes in haemorheological variables of red blood cells found in hypertensive patients may be explained by an enlarged metabolic pool of free calcium ions in these red blood cells. It is suggested that the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of essential hypertension are multifactorial rather than being based on a single molecular derangement. Primary events resulting in altered physicochemical properties of the red blood cells may work in concert in the development of essential hypertension, in addition to the increased availability of calcium ions and their potential role in smooth muscle contraction. 
Changes in diastolic cardiac function in developing and stable perinephritic hypertension in conscious dogs. The effects of developing perinephritic hypertension (2-3 weeks) and a more stable period of perinephritic hypertension (approximately 14 weeks) were examined on indexes of left ventricular (LV) diastolic function in conscious, chronically instrumented dogs. The complete period of diastole was studied using indexes of isovolumic relaxation (tau), early filling (LV +dD/dt), and stiffness (myocardial stiffness and chamber stress/diameter ratio). During developing hypertension, increased LV end-diastolic pressure, LV end-diastolic stress, peak filling rate, myocardial stiffness, and the stress/diameter ratio increased (p less than 0.05); the time constant tau was not changed. These changes were associated with preserved baseline levels of coronary blood flow (radioactive microspheres) but an impaired coronary vasodilator response to adenosine. Acute administration of phenylephrine in the normotensive dogs caused increases in systolic and diastolic stress and resulted in increases in myocardial stiffness and in the stress/diameter ratio similar to values observed in developing hypertension. During stable hypertension, LV end-diastolic stress, peak filling rate, and both parameters of late-diastolic function (myocardial stiffness and stress/diameter ratio) returned toward control values, but the isovolumic relaxation time constant was increased. Quantitative histological evaluation revealed no increase in stainable connective tissue in dogs with stable hypertension compared with control dogs, and hydroxyproline concentration was not increased in the subendomyocardium, midmyocardium, or subepimyocardium of the dogs with chronic perinephritic hypertension. Thus, in developing hypertension, major alterations in diastolic function were observed that were not structurally related, since these changes 1) could be induced in normal dogs by increasing preload and afterload acutely with phenylephrine and 2) were improved during the ensuing stable period of hypertension. 
Characteristics of black patients admitted to coronary care units in metropolitan Seattle: results from the Myocardial Infarction Triage and Intervention Registry (MITI). Since 1988, 641 black and 11,892 white patients with chest pain of presumed cardiac origin have been admitted to coronary care units in 19 hospitals in metropolitan Seattle. Black men and women were younger (58 vs 66, p less than 0.0001), more often admitted to central city hospitals (p less than 0.0001), and developed evidence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) less often (19 vs 23%, p = 0.01). In the subset of 2,870 AMI patients, blacks (n = 121) were younger (59 vs 67, p less than 0.0001) and had less prior coronary artery bypass graft surgery (2 vs 10%, p = 0.005) and more prior hypertension (67 vs 46%, p less than 0.0001). During hospitalization, whites (n = 2,749) had higher rates of coronary angioplasty (18 vs 10%, p = 0.03) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (10 vs 4%, p = 0.04), although thrombolytic therapy and cardiac catheterization were used equally in the 2 groups. Hospital mortality was 7.4% for black and 13.1% for white patients (p = 0.07). However, after adjustment for key demographic and clinical variables by logistic regression, this difference was not as apparent (p = 0.38). Questions about the premature onset of coronary artery disease, excess systemic hypertension, and the differential use of interventions in black persons have been raised by other investigators. Despite differences in age, referral patterns and the use of coronary angioplasty and bypass surgery, black and white patients with AMI in metropolitan Seattle had similar outcomes. 
Thoracic spinal fractures and aortic rupture: a significant and fatal association. We analyzed the frequency of occurrence of traumatic aortic rupture (TAR) in patients with and without thoracic spinal fractures. Among 4,676 blunt chest trauma victims admitted to the hospital between 1972 and 1988, 148 (3.2%) suffered one or more thoracic vertebral fractures. There were 73 patients with one or more fractures of the first eight thoracic vertebrae (T1 to T8); of these 73, 4 also suffered TAR (5.5%). There were 4,603 patients without fractures of T1 to T8, and 64 of these patients also suffered TAR (1.4%). This difference was significant by the chi2 and Fisher exact tests, p = 0.00378 and p = 0.021003, respectively. Additionally, all 5 patients with TAR and thoracic vertebral fractures died. We conclude that patients with one or more fractures of T1 to T8 have a statistically significant increase in the incidence of TAR. 
Mortality and treated blood pressure in patients of the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly. Elderly hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to treatment with diuretics and methyldopa (n = 352) or placebo (n = 339), and divided into three groups, each according to their blood pressures, after nine months of treatment. Subsequently, 65 placebo patients and 56 treated patients died. A U-shaped relation was seen in treated patients between mortality and systolic blood pressure, and in placebo patients between mortality and diastolic blood pressure. Whereas in treated patients, the highest mortality was seen in patients with the lowest diastolic pressure, the lowest mortality was seen in the group with the highest diastolic pressure. The increased mortality in treated patients with the lowest blood pressure may not be drug-induced, but an expression of deterioration in general health, as indicated by the decreases in body weight and hemoglobin levels found in patients with the lowest blood pressures in previous analyses of these data. 
Area-at-risk determination by technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile in experimental reperfused myocardial infarction In a canine model of reperfused myocardial infarction, we tested the hypothesis that after reperfusion, technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (Tc-MIBI) tomographic imaging still reflects occlusion blood flow when the tracer is injected before reperfusion. Nine anesthetized dogs underwent 2 hours of coronary occlusion followed by 3 hours of reperfusion ending by being killed. Reference coronary blood flow was determined by radioactive microspheres injected during occlusion and after reperfusion. Biopsies in normal and ischemic myocardium and single photon emission computed tomography were obtained during occlusion and after reperfusion. Circumferential profiles were applied to axial slices divided into 5-degree sectors. The sectors were divided into 3 groups selected on the occlusion acquisition (normal, mildly reduced, and severely reduced) and compared with the postreperfusion acquisition. Tissular Tc-MIBI kinetics was assessed both by Tc-MIBI time-activity curves of normal and ischemic tissue obtained by biopsy and by the relative gradient between normal, ischemic, and necrotic postmortem tissue samples. In biopsy samples, Tc-MIBI content remained unchanged during occlusion and after reperfusion in normal as well as in ischemic tissue (4,662 +/- 2,237 counts/min/mg vs. 4,599 +/- 1,577 counts/min/mg in normal tissue, NS; 941 +/- 903 counts/min/mg vs. 1,087 +/- 721 counts/min/mg in ischemic tissue, NS). In postmortem tissue samples, there was a good correlation between occlusion microsphere blood flow and Tc-MIBI activity (r = 0.91). In the necrotic samples, mean normalized Tc-MIBI activity (10 +/- 17%) was slightly higher than the normalized microsphere blood flow (3 +/- 3%, p less than 0.001) but markedly lower than the normalized microsphere reperfusion blood flow (63 +/- 31%, p less than 0.001). Comparing the single photon emission computed tomographic acquisitions before and after reperfusion, Tc-MIBI activity remained unchanged in normal as well as in mildly reduced or severely reduced segments. Thus, our data are consistent with the hypothesis that Tc-MIBI traces blood flow, does not redistribute significantly despite reperfusion, and can be used for imaging the area at risk. 
Secondary prevention with verapamil after myocardial infarction. The Danish Study Group on Verapamil in Myocardial Infarction. The effect of verapamil on death and major events (i.e., death or reinfarction) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial, the Danish Verapamil Infarction Trial II (DAVIT II). Eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil 360 mg/day and 897 patients with placebo. Treatment continued for up to 18 months (mean 16 months). Ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group. Eighteen-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8% (hazard ratio 0.80, 95% confidence limits 0.63 to 1.05, p = 0.108), and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6% (0.80, 0.64 to 0.99, p = 0.027) in the verapamil and placebo groups respectively. When combining the results of this trial with the results of the first Danish study on verapamil in myocardial infarction, the meta-analysis demonstrated that treatment with verapamil from the second week after an acute myocardial infarction resulted in a reduction of pooled odds ratios of 0.22 (95% confidence interval 0.01 to 0.37, p = 0.04) for death, 0.21 (0.05 to 0.35, p = 0.02) for major events, and 0.27 (0.06 to 0.43, p = 0.02) for first reinfarctions. It is concluded that long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction is associated with a significant reduction in overall mortality as well as major event and reinfarction rates. 
Right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale caused by pulmonary hypertension associated with rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren's syndrome: a case report. This case report presents a fifty-four-year-old woman with right-to-left shunt in the atrium. It seemed clinically at first that the shunt was due to atrial septal defect. However, she also had pulmonary disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren's syndrome. At autopsy atrial septal defect was not evident, but a patent foramen ovale and pulmonary artery disease were observed. This case suggests that pulmonary hypertension secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren's syndrome could lead to right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale. 
Tricuspid atresia or severe stenosis with partial common atrioventricular canal: anatomic data, clinical profile and surgical considerations. The anatomic findings in 11 cases of tricuspid atresia and in two cases of severe tricuspid stenosis, both combined with partial common atrioventricular (AV) canal, are presented in detail. Twelve cases were documented by postmortem examination and the diagnosis was confirmed by echocardiography and surgical observation in the one living patient. Clinical data available in nine cases and cardiac catheterization data obtained in eight are included in this report. In three cases (23%)--two with tricuspid atresia and one with extreme tricuspid stenosis--the tricuspid valve and right ventricle exhibited characteristics seen in Ebstein's anomaly. In all 13 cases, the great arteries were normally related. The ventricular septal defect(s) in 10 (83%) of the 12 postmortem cases rapidly became smaller and this resulted in marked diminution of the pulmonary blood flow and severe hypoxia. Only three of the eight patients with available cardiac catheterization and angiocardiographic data showed the scooped-out appearance of the left ventricular septal surface characteristic of AV canal defects. By contrast, two-dimensional echocardiography, available in the three most recent cases, accurately demonstrated all the defects present and represents the diagnostic method of choice. Early surgical intervention to establish a systemic to pulmonary artery anastomosis is essential for survival. More definitive surgical treatment can be achieved later by an atriopulmonary or cavopulmonary anastomosis with or without replacement of the cleft and often regurgitant mitral valve. The one living patient exemplifies this approach. This is the largest series of this unusual type of tricuspid atresia reported to date. 
Impaired left ventricular filling and regional diastolic asynchrony at rest in coronary artery disease and relation to exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. Impaired left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling at rest is frequently observed in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) who have normal LV systolic function and no previous infarction. To test the hypothesis that abnormal diastolic function at rest might reflect the functional severity of CAD, as estimated by exercise-induced ischemia, the relation between regional and global LV diastolic function at rest and during exercise-induced ischemia was evaluated in 49 patients with radionuclide angiography. All patients had normal systolic function at rest. Group 1 (n = 26) patients manifested a normal ejection fraction response to exercise and group 2 (n = 23) patients an abnormal response. Data obtained from 22 age-comparable normal volunteers were used for comparison. Although regional and global diastolic function were not different between normal subjects and group 1 patients, peak filling rate was lower in group 2 patients than in normal subjects (2.5 +/- 0.8 vs 3.2 +/- 0.6 end-diastolic counts/s; p less than 0.01). Moreover, regional diastolic asynchrony, as assessed from the radionuclide data by using a regional sector analysis of the LV region of interest, was greater in group 2 patients (46 +/- 44 ms) than in both normal subjects (25 +/- 16 ms; p less than 0.05) and group 1 patients (23 +/- 16 ms; p less than 0.05). Thus, among patients with CAD and with normal LV systolic function at rest, impaired LV filling and regional asynchrony predict a greater degree of exercise-induced ischemia, suggesting a greater extent of jeopardized myocardium. 
The effect of dopexamine HCl upon collateral perfusion of the acutely ischemic myocardium in anesthetized dogs. The effects of low-dose (10(-9) and 3 x 10(-9) mole/kg/min) infusions of dopexamine HCl, a new synthetic catecholamine with beta 2-adrenergic and DA1-dopaminergic agonostic actions, was tested in anesthetized dogs, with and without acute ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The infusions caused diastolic arterial blood pressure to fall by 12 +/- 4 and 23 +/- 5 mmHg, respectively. Microsphere-estimated collateral blood flow to the ischemic myocardium did not change significantly during the drug infusions. The findings suggest that low doses of dopexamine HCl do not cause coronary "steal" from acutely ischemic myocardium. 
Substance P, acetylcholinesterase, and beta-endorphin levels in the plasma and pericardial fluid of patients with and without angina pectoris. We measured substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPLI), beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (BELI), acetylcholinesterase activity, and total protein content in pericardial fluid and plasma of patients with angina pectoris and patients with no angina pectoris. SPLI and BELI levels, acetylcholinesterase activity, and total protein content were determined by radioimmunoassay, a colorimetric method, and by the method of Lowry et al. (J Biol Chem 1951; 193:265-75), respectively. In the pericardial fluid, patients with angina had SPLI, BELI, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 1.69 +/- 0.23 fmol/mg protein, 0.16 +/- 0.13 fmol/mg protein, 0.06 +/- 0.02 units, and 25.7 +/- 3.2 mg/ml, respectively. Patients with no angina had SPLI, BELI, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 0.93 +/- 0.17 fmol/mg protein, 0.19 +/- 0.10 fmol/mg protein, 0.16 +/- 0.02 units, and 44.6 +/- 5.3 mg/ml, respectively. SPLI levels were significantly higher (p less than 0.03), and acetylcholinesterase (less than 0.002) and total protein content (less than 0.004) were significantly lower in the pericardial fluid of patients with angina when compared with those of patients with no angina. BELI levels were not significantly different between the two groups. In the plasma, no significant differences were found in SPLI, BELI, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values between the two groups of patients. Patients with angina had SPLI, BELI, acetylcholinesterase, and total protein values of 0.47 +/- 0.26 fmol/mg protein, 0.06 +/- 0.06 fmol/mg protein, 0.29 +/- 0.15 units, and 68.2 +/- 8.7 mg/ml, respectively. 
Atenolol in essential hypertension during pregnancy OBJECTIVE--To determine the effect of atenolol on the outcome of pregnancy in women with essential hypertension. DESIGN--Prospective, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled study. SETTING--Hospital clinic. PATIENTS--33 Women with mild essential hypertension (systolic blood pressure 140-170 mm Hg or diastolic pressure 90-110 mm Hg on two occasions at least 24 hours apart) consecutively referred to two obstetric medical clinics. Four patients in the placebo group were withdrawn from the study: control of blood pressure was inadequate in two, one developed breathlessness, and one changed her mind about participating. The mean gestation in the 29 remaining women on entry to the study was 15.9 weeks. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Blood pressure and birth weight. INTERVENTION--14 Women received placebo. 15 Women received atenolol 50 mg daily initially, increasing until either the blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm Hg or a dose of 200 micrograms daily was reached. RESULTS--The mean blood pressure on entry was 148/86 mm Hg in the group given atenolol and 144/86 mm Hg in the group given placebo. During treatment the mean diastolic pressure was significantly reduced by atenolol compared with placebo (to 74 v 81 mm Hg; difference in means (95% confidence interval) 7.0 (2.9 to 10.0) mm Hg) but the effect on systolic pressure was marginal (132 v 136 mm Hg; 4.0 (-1.4 to 8.6) mm Hg). Babies in the atenolol group had a significantly lower birth weight than those in the placebo group (2620 g v 3530 g; 910 (440 to 1380)g). CONCLUSION--Atenolol given from the end of the first trimester in patients with mild hypertension is associated with intrauterine growth retardation. When taken in conjunction with the results of a previous study in which methyldopa was given these findings indicate that benefit is unlikely to result from treating mild essential hypertension in pregnancy. 
Infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue, iloprost, to patients with peripheral vascular disease: lack of antiplatelet effect but risk of thromboembolism. PURPOSE: Prostacyclin, a potent inhibitor of platelet function and vasodilator, has been used to treat peripheral vascular disease. The aim of this study was to monitor the thrombotic status of patients treated by infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue, iloprost. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirteen patients with peripheral vascular disease underwent iloprost infusion for 3 days (8 hours each day) in a dose ranging from 0.5 to 2 ng/kg/minute. Variable parameters of thrombosis such as platelet reactivity (shear-induced hemostatic plug formation and thrombus formation on a collagen fiber), coagulation, and spontaneous thrombolysis (dislodgment of hemostatic plugs) were measured from non-anticoagulated blood samples by hemostatometry immediately before and 1 hour after the infusion and on the last day, 4 hours after initiation of the infusion. RESULTS: Analysis of data from all patients 1 hour after the infusion showed no changes in platelet reactivity and spontaneous thrombolysis, but coagulation was significantly enhanced. In four patients, significant platelet hyperreactivity was observed after the infusion. Four of the five patients tested while undergoing iloprost infusion showed an enhanced thrombotic reaction and markedly enhanced coagulation. Iloprost employed in vitro in a concentration that corresponds to the therapeutic peak blood level caused no inhibition of platelet function but significantly enhanced coagulation. The threshold in vitro iloprost concentration at which anti-platelet effect and increased spontaneous thrombolysis were observed was twice that of the therapeutic blood level. CONCLUSIONS: These findings challenge the view that antagonism of platelet function is an important factor of iloprost therapy. Furthermore, platelet hyperreactivity in some patients and markedly enhanced coagulation during and after infusion of iloprost in general, represent a risk of thromboembolism, especially as patients are already in a prethrombotic condition. 
Antihypertensive drugs and glucose metabolism: comparison between a diuretic, a beta-blocker and felodipine, a new calcium antagonist in subjects with arterial hypertension and diabetes. Felodipine, a new antihypertensive calcium antagonist, was compared with metoprolol, a beta-blocker, and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic, with respect to glucose tolerance in a randomized double-blind cross-over study consisting of 11 patients, of age range 50-70 years, who had developed diabetes during antihypertensive treatment. Each treatment period lasted for 10 weeks. The blood pressure was similar irrespective of treatment. Serum glucose levels during the oral glucose tolerance test were significantly lower when the patients were treated with felodipine than when they were taking hydrochlorothiazide. Serum insulin levels appeared to decrease at an earlier stage of the test when the patients were treated with felodipine, the calcium antagonist, than with the other two antihypertensive substances, which suggests that glucose tolerance is impaired to a lesser extent during treatment with the calcium antagonist. Glucose tolerance was never completely normalized with any of the drugs tested. 
Evaluation of the perforating veins of the lower extremity using high resolution duplex imaging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate duplex imaging as a means of assessing perforating veins in patients with longstanding venous stasis ulceration. Thirty patients with nonhealing venous stasis ulcers and twenty normal volunteers serving as controls were evaluated with a standard 8-MHz imaging probe and integrated pulsed Doppler. The internal diameter of perforating veins was measured and perforators were grouped into one of four categories based on functional criteria: competent perforator with venous flow (C); incompetent perforator with venous flow (IC); competent perforator with arteriovenous flow (C-AVC); incompetent perforator with arteriovenous flow (IC-AVC). Sixteen of the patients with ulcers were subsequently studied by ascending venography and in 11 patients, intraoperative identification of perforating veins was made during the Rob procedure. In this subset of patients the vessel was categorized as competent or incompetent regardless of flow signal. There were significant differences in mean perforator diameter between ulcer patients and normal volunteers. Duplex imaging identified 93 perforators and venography a total of 70. In all 16 extremities, duplex imaging made the diagnosis of significant perforating vein incompetence, verified by venography. Intraoperative findings demonstrated an excellent correlation with duplex imaging. We believe duplex imaging to be a promising new modality for evaluation of the perforating veins of the lower extremity. 
Combined alpha/beta-blockade versus beta 1-selective blockade in essential hypertension in black and white patients. The purpose of this multicenter investigation was to determine the efficacy and safety of the alpha/beta-blocker labetalol versus the beta 1-selective beta-blocker atenolol in white and black patients with essential hypertension. Equal numbers of black and white patients were enlisted to form four treatment groups (white patients taking either labetalol or atenolol and black patients taking either labetalol or atenolol). Two hundred ninety-two patients (152 white and 140 black patients) with essential hypertension characterized by a standing diastolic blood pressure of 105 to 119 mm Hg (inclusive) were recruited for this trial. Patients were randomized to either labetalol (dosage titrated from 200 to 1600 mg/day) or atenolol (dosage titrated from 50 to 100 mg/day). The therapeutic goal was achievement of a standing diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or less or a fall of 15 mm Hg in diastolic pressure from baseline value at the end of the placebo run in period. At the end of the study there were no significant differences in blood pressure or heart rate changes in the supine position between the labetalol and atenolol groups. In contrast, labetalol produced greater reduction in both the standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (-12/-13 mm Hg, respectively) compared with atenolol (-7/-9 mm Hg; p less than 0.05; p less than 0.005, respectively). The greatest decrease in blood pressure was observed in white patients receiving labetalol. In black patients the decrease in blood pressure was greater in those treated with labetalol compared with atenolol, particularly with respect to the systolic blood pressure. We conclude that the alpha 1-blocking property of labetalol provides an additional lowering of the blood pressure over that seen with beta 1-blockade alone, especially in the standing position, and this enhanced efficacy is not confined to one radical group. 
Myocardial uptake of carbon-11-acetate as an indirect estimate of regional myocardial blood flow. The rate of clearance of myocardial carbon-11 (11C) activity (after the administration of 11C-acetate) has been shown to correlate closely with myocardial oxygen consumption. In the present study, we hypothesized that regional net myocardial uptake of 11C-acetate, which reflects primarily delivery and extraction of tracer, would be markedly flow-dependent and potentially useful as an indirect index of regional myocardial blood flow. In 22 patients with stable coronary artery disease, the regional distribution of early net uptake of 11C-acetate was correlated with estimates of regional myocardial blood flow assessed with oxygen-15-water. The myocardial images of 11C-acetate uptake were of high quality. The correlation between the two approaches was close (r = 0.88) and not affected by the metabolic state of the tissue. Thus, in patients with stable coronary artery disease, under resting conditions, direct estimates of myocardial oxygen consumption in relation to the level of delivery of tracer to the tissue can now be obtained by PET with use of a single radiopharmaceutical, 11C-acetate. This approach may prove particularly useful in streamlining clinical protocols designed to assess myocardial oxygen consumption. 
Disseminated histoplasmosis with embolic endovascular complications: a case report. A 57-year-old man had subacute embolic ischemia of his right foot and subsequent acute embolic ischemia of his left foot after angiography. Thrombus removed at the time of the left femoral thromboembolectomy grew Histoplasma capsulatum confirming the diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis. Surgical revascularization of the right leg and parenteral amphotericin B was followed by chronic ketoconazole therapy for 16 months. The patient has remained asymptomatic at 30 months after operation. Effective treatment of endovascular infection with ischemic complications of Histoplasmosis requires surgical revascularization and intensive chemotherapeutic intervention. Histoplasmosis is a ubiquitous infection in endemic areas that often has an asymptomatic subclinical course. Involvement of the cardiovascular system is rarely reported. Previous case reports have described infected cardiac valves and aortic aneurysms. This report describes the uncommon presentation of disseminated Histoplasma capsulatum infection as a peripheral embolic event and the successful management with revascularization combined with systemic amphotericin B followed by ketoconazole therapy. 
Hypertensive heart disease: relationship of silent ischemia to coronary artery disease and left ventricular hypertrophy. ECG evidence of silent ischemia occurs commonly in patients with systemic hypertension, but its relationship to left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), large-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD), and neurohumoral factors remains unclear. Accordingly we validated the results of the echocardiographic method used to measure left ventricular (LV) mass in the Soviet Union by comparison with necropsy measurements in 30 patients, and we examined the relationships in 46 men with essential hypertension among ST segment depression during ambulatory monitoring, exercise stress and transesophageal pacing (n = 38), and LV mass, catheterization evidence of CAD (n = 25), and neurohumoral factors (plasma catecholamines and platelet aggregability). Echocardiographic measurements of LV mass by both the Soviet and Penn methods were closely correlated with necropsy values (r = 0.78 and 90, respectively; both p less than 0.001). During ambulatory monitoring from 1 to 17 episodes of greater than or equal to 1 mm ST depression occurred in 26 of 46 (65%) patients with hypertension; ischemia was also provoked by exercise or pacing stress in most but not all of these patients (65% and 80%, respectively). Neither ST depression nor the occurrence of additional episodes of symptomatic angina was related to the presence of coronary obstruction at catheterization; patients with and without ST depression did not differ in age, blood pressure, or LV mass. 
Coronary perfusion catheter: its effectiveness in an experimental model of acute coronary occlusion. The effectiveness of a coronary perfusion catheter was studied in an animal model of acute coronary occlusion. Systemic hemodynamic variables, regional myocardial blood flow (RMBF) in the subepicardium and subendocardium, and regional systolic function (systolic segmental shortening) of the area perfused by the circumflex coronary artery (CX) were measured in eight anesthetized dogs. After baseline measurements, the CX coronary artery was occluded with a silk snare and measurements were repeated after 5 minutes of ischemia (occlusion No. 1). The snare was released and 1 hour later the snare occlusion was repeated after placement of a perfusion catheter in the CX coronary artery. After 5 minutes, measurements were repeated (occlusion No. 2). To determine the long-term effectiveness of the catheter, hemodynamic variables and regional function measurements were then obtained every 15 minutes for a total of 60 minutes. During occlusion No. 1, RMBF decreased from 1.30 +/- 0.20 to 0.41 +/- 0.13 ml.min-1.gm-1 (p less than 0.01), and subendocardial RMBF decreased from 1.44 +/- .24 to 0.34 +/- 0.15 ml.min-1.gm-1 (p less than 0.01). After insertion of the perfusion catheter (occlusion No. 2), subepicardial RMBF was maintained at 0.97 +/- 0.16 and subendocardial RMBF was maintained at 0.78 +/- 0.13 ml.min-1.gm-1; during occlusion No. 2 subepicardial RMBF was greater (p less than 0.05) than occlusion No. 1 and was not different from baseline. 
Renal artery stenosis: evaluation with color Doppler flow imaging. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is the most common correctable cause of hypertension. The current study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of color Doppler flow imaging as a screening examination in the detection of significant RAS. Fifty-five kidneys in 30 patients were examined with aortography and color Doppler flow imaging in a double-blind fashion. The peak systolic velocity (PSV) in the renal artery, the renal-aortic ratio (RAR) (ie, the ratio of the PSV in the renal artery to the PSV in the aorta), and the renal artery resistive index were determined and compared with the percentage of stenosis as determined with angiography. Ultrasound (US) criteria used to diagnose RAS were (a) an RAR of 3.5 or greater and/or (b) a renal artery PSV of greater than 100 cm/sec. Doppler tracings were obtained in 25 (69%) of 36 kidneys with a patent single renal artery. RAR and PSV each yielded a sensitivity of 0% in the diagnosis of RAS. Doppler tracings were obtained in three (50%) of six occluded renal arteries. Accessory arteries were present in 13 (24%) of 55 kidneys, but none were visualized with color Doppler flow imaging. The authors conclude that with current technical capability, color duplex US is not an adequate screening method for the detection of RAS. 
Clinical evaluation of delapril in Japan. Report from the Japan Study Group on Delapril. Delapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor discovered in the laboratory of Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., is the result of drug design based on the structure-activity relationships of ACE inhibitors. Delapril is an antihypertensive agent with a relatively long duration of action and no SH moiety in its structure. Following administration, it is converted into two active metabolites. Delapril effectively lowered blood pressure in 73% of 1,008 patients with hypertension during clinical trials in Japan. Efficacy rates were 73% for essential hypertension, 85% for renal hypertension, and 80% for renovascular hypertension. Excellent hypotensive response was observed in all age groups, from young to elderly patients. Side effects during administration of delapril, based on subjective evidence, were reported in 80 out of the 1,008 cases (7.9%). The main symptoms included orthostatic dizziness (1.7%), dizziness (1.3%), and nausea (1.1%). Dry cough, which has attracted attention in recent years as a side effect of ACE inhibitors, was reported at a low incidence of 1.1%. In a double-blind, controlled study in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension in which captopril served as a positive control, delapril showed superior hypotensive effect and greater safety. Data derived from the Japan Study Group on Delapril indicate that this ACE inhibitor has excellent hypotensive effects and a high level of safety. It is suitable as a first-line drug in both monotherapy and combined therapy. 
Design mediated thrombus reduction in the Utah-100 total artificial heart. The Utah-100 total artificial heart was initially designed and tested in 1983. General design goals, including improved fit for human application, improved reliability, and elimination of thrombus formation, were identified as improvements over the clinically used Jarvik-7 artificial heart, previously developed at the Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University of Utah. Specific design goals included 1) elimination of connector and valve-associated thrombus formation and 2) elimination of gross mineralization, thrombus formation, and creases on the blood-pumping diaphragm of the device. Explant retrieval results from 29 calves and sheep implanted with the Jarvik-7 artificial heart were compared with results from 25 calves and sheep implanted with the Utah-100 artificial heart. Macroscopic thrombus formation was found in 44% of the connectors of the Jarvik-7 artificial-hearts, compared with 2% (p less than or equal to 0.01) in animals with the Utah-100 artificial heart. Subvalvular and supravalvular thrombi were observed in 33% of the valves in the Jarvik-7 artificial heart and 10% (p less than or equal to 0.01) of the valves in the Utah-100 artificial heart. Mineralization of the pumping diaphragm was observed in 12% of the animals implanted with the Jarvik-7 artificial heart and in 4% of the animals with the Utah-100 diaphragms. Thrombus formation in the diaphragm-housing interface occurred in 2% of Jarvik-7 ventricles and in 6% of the Utah-100 ventricles. There were no identifiable diaphragm creases in the Utah-100 diaphragms, but a 10% incidence was found in Jarvik-7 devices. These results validate substantial progress toward improved design and fabrication methods in the Utah-100 total artificial heart. 
Reduction of myocardial reperfusion injury by intravenous adenosine administered during the early reperfusion period. Adenosine influences the function of several cell types thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury. We have previously demonstrated that intracoronary administration of adenosine enhances myocardial salvage 24 hours after reperfusion. To determine if these beneficial effects could be obtained during a prolonged period of reperfusion using an intravenous route of administration, 22 closed-chest dogs were subjected to 90 minutes of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and 72 hours of reperfusion. Animals randomly received either intravenous adenosine (0.15 mg/kg/min) or an equal volume of Ringer's lactate during the first 150 minutes of reperfusion. The area at risk was defined in vivo with Monastral blue, and infarct size was measured histologically with Mallory's trichrome stain. Serial global and regional ventricular function were determined with contrast ventriculography and analyzed using a computerized radial shortening method. Biopsies were obtained from the central ischemic zone to assess endothelial ultrastructure and capillary obstruction. No significant effects in heart rate or blood pressure were noted during adenosine infusion. Transmural collateral blood flow during ischemia was similar in the groups. Infarct size expressed as a percentage of the anatomical area at risk was significantly less in the adenosine-treated group (35.3 +/- 4.3% in controls versus 17.1 +/- 4.3% in treated animals, p less than 0.01). A progressive decrease in transmural blood flow was noted in control animals during reperfusion, resulting in a significant reduction at 3 hours compared with the preocclusion value (0.69 +/- 0.11 ml/min/g [at baseline versus 0.45 +/- 0.10 ml/min/g at 3 hours, p less than 0.05]). In contrast, flow in adenosine animals at 3 hours was similar to baseline values (0.91 +/- 0.15 ml/min/g at baseline versus 0.98 +/- 0.14 ml/min/g at 3 hours, p = NS) and was significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than the control group. Radial shortening in the ischemic zone was significantly improved at 3 (-2.6 +/- 2.8% in controls versus 11.6 +/- 3.3% in treated animals, p less than 0.01) and 72 hours (5.5 +/- 2.0% in controls versus 17.3 +/- 3.5% in treated animals, p less than 0.01) after reperfusion in treated animals. Electron microscopy showed reduced neutrophil and erythrocyte plugging of capillaries with relative preservation of endothelial cell structure in the adenosine group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Adverse treatment effects in the trial of the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly. Adverse treatment effects were assessed in 840 elderly hypertensive patients randomly assigned to active treatment (a combination of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide) or placebo; methyldopa was added to the regimen in one third of the treated patients. Symptoms of dry mouth, nasal stuffiness, and diarrhea were reported by significantly more treated patients than placebo control subjects. More patients receiving diuretics plus methyldopa than diuretics alone reported dry mouth and diarrhea. Significantly more treated patients than control subjects showed evidence of a high serum creatinine level, mild hypokalemia, and gout. More treated patients tended to have diabetes. The benefits of treatment outweighed these adverse treatment effects. 
Technetium-99m sestamibi in chronic coronary artery disease: the European experience. Since the introduction of technetium-99m methoxy-isobutyl isonitrile (Tc-99m sestamibi) in Europe, there has been a growing interest in its use. Several European multicenter trials have been conducted to evaluate this new agent in relation to the traditional perfusion marker thallium-201, and other studies are in progress to understand the use of this perfusion marker for the diagnosis of coronary disease, for use in conjunction with pharmacologic vasodilation, for use in the assessment of ventricular function and wall motion and for the assessment of interventions. 
The renally compromised older hypertensive: therapeutic considerations. Although the slow progression of renal insufficiency caused by aging does not usually reach the clinical disease level, nephron loss may be accelerated by the concomitant presence of hypertension and renal artery atherosclerosis. Treatment of hypertension and correction of other risk factors promoting atherosclerosis is appropriate in the elderly. Consideration should be given to a search for reversible causes of renal functional deterioration in elderly patients, particularly in those with increasingly refractory hypertension. In the uncomplicated elderly hypertensive, renal function appears to be adequately preserved if blood pressure is well controlled, although there may be a subset in whom factors other than blood pressure itself, such as glomerular hemodynamic disturbances, promote progressive renal dysfunction. 
A multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and concomitant intermittent claudication. This study assessed the efficacy and safety of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of patients (n = 19) with mild or moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 95 to 114 mm Hg) and concomitant intermittent claudication (Doppler ankle/arm ratio of less than 0.80 and walking tolerance of less than 700 m on the treadmill). After 14 weeks of treatment with doxazosin, a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in systolic blood pressure and DBP was observed. Mean blood pressures were reduced from 170/100 mm Hg at baseline to 161/93 mm Hg at the end of treatment. Minor changes in heart rate occurred, which with continued treatment were not statistically significant from baseline. In 12 of 16 (75.0%) efficacy-evaluable patients blood pressure was normalized (DBP to less than or equal to 90 mm Hg with an greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction from baseline) with a mean daily dose of 7.6 mg/day. Doxazosin improved the hypertension severity category in 13 of 16 (81.3%) patients. The blood pressure ratios between both the thighs and arms and ankles and arms showed no statistically significant changes after treatment with doxazosin. Thigh blood flow at rest and the reactive hyperemia after 3 minutes of arterial occlusion did not change statistically. There was a tendency for pain-free distance to improve. Laboratory data were not significantly changed after treatment with doxazosin. Of the 19 patients studied, 5 reported mild or moderate side effects that were either tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment. No patient had therapy withdrawn and no patient required a dose reduction. 
Ultrasonic debridement during mitral valve reconstruction for calcified mitral stenosis. An ultrasonic device in conjunction with open mitral commissurotomy was applied in 8 patients with heavily calcified, stenosed mitral valves. In 6 patients, reconstruction of the mitral valve by debridement of the leaflet calcification with the device was successful. Two patients required valve replacement because of an increase in preexistent mitral regurgitation caused by excessive decalcification. The ultrasonic device proved to be a useful and effective adjunct for salvaging the heavily calcified mitral valve, which would otherwise have to be replaced. 
Renal effects of cyclosporine. Renal dysfunction is a frequent consequence of cyclosporine administration, even when cyclosporine blood concentrations are maintained within proper therapeutic levels. As dermatologic indications for this compound expand, it is important for clinicians to understand the relevant pharmacology and physiology that underlie cyclosporine-induced renal dysfunction. This article reviews the clinical pharmacology of cyclosporine, the principles of renal function testing, and the clinical manifestations of this drug's effects on the kidney. Sudden declines in kidney function, long-term cyclosporine nephrotoxicity, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, and hypertension are discussed from a clinical and experimental standpoint. Finally, practical suggestions are provided to aid the dermatologist in managing cyclosporine-treated patients. 
Comparison of the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure, functional capacity, serum lipoproteins and glucose in systemic hypertension. In a controlled, double-blind, crossover study, the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure (BP) and selected cardiopulmonary and metabolic variables were compared in 15 physically active and moderately hypertensive subjects. Guanadrel sulfate reduced systolic and diastolic BP at rest by -16 and -15 mm Hg, and at maximal exercise by -33 and -13 mm Hg, respectively (p less than 0.005), without affecting submaximal oxygen consumption (VO2), maximal VO2, ventilatory threshold, forced vital capacity, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, or fatigue, as assessed by perceived exertion. In contrast, propranolol significantly decreased diastolic BP at rest (-16 mm Hg) and systolic BP at maximal exercise (-44 mm Hg); however, it significantly decreased submaximal VO2 (-3.9 ml.kg-1.min-1), maximal VO2 (-3.9 ml.kg-1.min-1), ventilatory threshold (-0.3 liters.min-1), minute ventilation at submaximal exercise (-7.3 liters.min-1), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (-0.27 liters), and concomitantly increased the rating of perceived exertion at maximal exercise (1.9 U). Guanadrel sulfate was also associated with significant decreases in mean fasting plasma glucose and total serum cholesterol, whereas propranolol resulted in an increase in serum triglycerides (p less than 0.05). In contrast to propranolol, guanadrel sulfate appears to decrease BP without evoking negative metabolic consequences or impairing exercise tolerance. 
Probability of rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm after an unrelated operative procedure: a prospective study. It has been assumed by some authors that patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms may be at increased risk of rupture after unrelated operations. From July 1986 to December 1989, 33 patients (29 men, 4 women) with a known abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent 45 operations. Twenty-eight patients had an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, and five patients had a thoracoabdominal aneurysm. The abdominal aortic aneurysm ranged in transverse diameter from 3.0 to 8.5 cm (average 5.6 cm). Twenty-seven patients underwent a single operation, and six patients had two or more (range of 1 to 6). Operations performed were abdominal (13); cardiothoracic (9); head/neck (2); other vascular (11); urologic (7); amputation (2); breast (1). General anesthesia was used in 29 procedures, spinal/epidural in 6, and regional/local in 10. One postoperative death occurred from cardiopulmonary failure. One patient died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm at 20 days after coronary artery bypass (1/33 patients [3%]; 1/45 operations [2%]). Fourteen patients had repair of their abdominal aortic aneurysm at a later date, an average of 18 weeks after operation. Four patients had abdominal aortic aneurysm considered too small to warrant resection (average 3.6 cm). Four patients were considered at excessive risk for elective repair. The five thoracoabdominal aneurysm were not repaired. Four patients are awaiting repair. During this same 40-month period, two other patients, not known to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm after another operative procedure, at 21 days and 77 days. All three ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms were 5.0 cm or greater in transverse diameter. 
Effect of lesion characteristics on outcome of directional coronary atherectomy. Directional coronary atherectomy, a new transluminal procedure for treatment of obstructive lesions in coronary arteries by excision and removal of tissue, was performed on 447 lesions in 382 procedures. Successful outcome, defined as a reduction of stenosis by greater than or equal to 20% with a less than 50% residual stenosis, was achieved in 89.5% of lesions and mean stenosis was reduced from 75.9 +/- 13.3% to 14.5 +/- 22.1% (p less than 0.001). Complications included vessel occlusion during the procedure, 2.4%; vessel occlusion after the procedure, 1.3%; new lesion, 0.5%; nonobstructive guiding catheter-induced dissection, 0.3%; perforation, 0.8%; distal embolization, 2.1%; Q wave myocardial infarction, 0.8% and non-Q wave myocardial infarction, 4.2%. Twelve patients (3.1%) required coronary artery bypass surgery for these complications. The atherectomy success rate was greater than 80% and the combined atherectomy and angioplasty success rate was greater than 90% for complex morphologic features such as eccentric lesions, lengthy lesions, lesions with abnormal contour, angulated lesions, ostial lesions and lesions with branch involvement. In the presence of calcific deposition, atherectomy success rate was 52% for primary lesions and 83% for restenosed lesions. Among angiographically complex lesions, calcium was the predictor for failed atherectomy (p less than 0.0001). In summary, directional coronary atherectomy is safe and effective for treatment of obstructive lesions in coronary arteries in selected cases. In particular, it achieves a high success rate in lesions with complex morphologic characteristics, such as eccentricity, abnormal contour and ostial involvement. 
Does cholesterol screening result in negative labeling effects? Results of the Massachusetts Model Systems for Blood Cholesterol Screening Project. Several previous studies that looked at the effects of labeling individuals as hypertensive found increases in psychosocial distress, diminished feelings of well-being, or absenteeism. Other studies found no such effects. Thus far, similar studies relating to labeling for high blood cholesterol levels have not been published. The Massachusetts Model Systems for Blood Cholesterol Screening Project investigated whether labeling effects occurred as a result of the community-based screening, education, and referral programs it conducted in Worcester and Lowell. Nine questions concerning perceptions of physical and psychological well-being were asked on a questionnaire given to screening participants. The same questions were asked as part of a follow-up questionnaire given to all individuals identified as having high blood cholesterol levels at one of the screenings. Comparison of the baseline and follow-up results did not demonstrate significant overall negative effects among any age, sex, racial, income, or educational groups. On the contrary, responses to many of the questions revealed small but statistically significant improvements in perceptions of physical and psychological well-being. The absence of negative labeling effects may be attributable to the positive, supportive approach to participant counseling taken by the project. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of left atrial appendage aneurysm. Intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm is rare. We describe the transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiographic findings in a 42-year-old man with atrial arrhythmia and an abnormal left atrial appendage on chest roentgenogram. Presence of an intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm was confirmed at surgery. 
Exposure of the intracavernous carotid artery in aneurysm surgery. The pterional intradural approach was used in five cases of large and giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms and in two cases of intracavernous aneurysms that arose from the anterior siphon knee in the cavernous sinus (CS) and extended into the carotid cistern. In four cases of large carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms removal of the anterior clinoid process and the roof of the optic canal gave easy access to the pericarotid ring. The anteromedial part of the pericarotid ring was dissected to expose the extradural portion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) proximal to the neck and to make enough room between the wall of the CS and the extradural portion of the ICA, thus allowing easy clipping of the neck. In one case of a giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysm extending into the CS with an extradural origin of the ophthalmic artery and in two cases of an intracavernous aneurysm arising from the siphon knee, neck clipping was performed by opening the lateral wall and roof of the CS after removal of the optic strut. The opening of the lateral wall anterior to the 3rd nerve facilitated wide exposure of the anterior siphon knee. The horizontal portion of the intracavernous ICA as well as the whole aspect of the aneurysm could be exposed as a result of the extended opening of the cavernous roof anterior to the posterior clinoid process. Successful operative results were obtained in all seven patients. A visual field detect as an operative complication was noted in one patient. No disturbance of ocular movements was noted. 
Anti-atherosclerotic and vasculoprotective actions of calcium antagonists. Treatment of hypertension may prevent many of the complications attributable to blood pressure elevation, particularly those that are "pressure-related," such as stroke. However, the atherosclerotic complications of hypertension, e.g., coronary artery disease manifested as coronary morbidity and mortality, have not been reduced significantly with antihypertensive therapy. This disappointing outcome may reflect the adverse metabolic effects of the traditional therapies, diuretics and beta blockers, and their lack of specific vasoprotective properties. Increasing attention is thus being paid to the newer antihypertensive agents, which typically have fewer adverse effects and perhaps more physiologic mechanisms of antihypertensive action. Since calcium plays a key role in the genesis of atherosclerosis, calcium antagonists may positively affect the course of vascular disease. Investigators have observed that calcium antagonists display clear antiatherosclerotic properties in experimental as well as clinical studies. In one recently published clinical study, coronary artery disease was shown to develop more slowly, with a slower progression of individual stenoses, higher regression rate and less frequent occurrence of new lesions in patients treated chronically with verapamil compared to those receiving conventional therapies. Other similar investigations are currently under way to evaluate the antiatherogenic properties of calcium antagonists, including the Frankfurt Isoptin Progression Study (FIPS), the Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS), the International Nifedipine Trial on Atherosclerosis Coronary Therapy (INTACT), and the large-scale Montreal Heart Institute Study. Results of these studies, which use precise end points such as myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction and peripheral vascular disease, may revolutionize the treatment of hypertension by identifying therapeutic approaches that control both the pressure-related and atherosclerotic complications of the disease. 
Are blood pressure levels increasing in Denmark? The Copenhagen City Heart Study is a prospective cardiovascular population study designed to evaluate the incidence of and risk factors for cardiovascular disease. A random population sample comprising approximately 20,000 individuals was invited to participate. Blood pressure was measured, and information regarding the use of antihypertensive medication was collected in an initial survey during the period 1976-1978 (attendance rate 74%) and from a second survey during the period 1981-1983 (attendance rate 70%). A significant increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure between survey 1 and survey 2 was found among both men and women greater than 40 years of age and not using antihypertensive medication. The increase in blood pressure in the follow-up survey could not be explained by changes in methods, changes in the prescription of antihypertensive medication, or selection bias. Factors associated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were examined by multiple linear regression analysis. Both increase in body mass index and increase in alcohol consumption were positively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, while use of antihypertensive medication, a high value of body mass index at survey 1 and a high level of education were negatively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Female sex and advanced age were also negatively correlated with changes in diastolic blood pressure. Consumption of tobacco and alcohol, income and changes in consumption of tobacco were not significantly correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. 
Implantation of an endoluminal prosthesis at the distal anastomosis of a bypass graft for abrupt closure following balloon angioplasty. A coronary Wallstent was implanted in a 10-year-old saphenous vein bypass graft following a PTCA that was complicated by abrupt closure. Anterograde flow was restored and no myocardial necrosis resulted. One week later, bypass surgery was performed due to a bleeding complication associated with the anticoagulation regimen. 
Noninvasive assessment of cerebral collateral blood supply through the ophthalmic artery. We assessed the potential of 2-MHz pulsed-wave transorbital Doppler ultrasonography to delineate the role of the ophthalmic artery as a source of collateral cerebral blood supply by comparing oculopneumoplethysmography, transorbital Doppler ultrasonography, periorbital continuous-wave Doppler ultrasonography, and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in 25 patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and five controls with 10 normal internal carotid arteries. Systolic ophthalmic artery blood velocity was reduced ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion (38.2 +/- 10.2 cm/sec) compared with the contralateral and control velocities (46.0 +/- 10.3 and 47.5 +/- 6.8 cm/sec, respectively; p less than 0.05). Ophthalmic systolic pressure measured by oculopneumoplethysmography was 94.7 +/- 13.2 mm Hg ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 108.4 +/- 15.3 mm Hg on the contralateral side (p less than 0.01). Transorbital and periorbital Doppler ultrasonography detected reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion in 44.0% and 40.0% of the patients, respectively. Systolic middle cerebral artery blood velocity was 55.2 +/- 22.3 cm/sec ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 79.4 +/- 23.5 cm/sec on the contralateral side (p less than 0.05) and 101.2 +/- 18.9 cm/sec in the controls (p less than 0.05). Reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow was associated with a low middle cerebral artery blood velocity and lack of major intracerebral collaterals. Transorbital Doppler ultrasonography permits noninvasive evaluation of the ophthalmic artery. 
Risk stratification in survivors of acute myocardial infarction: routine cardiac catheterization and angiography is a reasonable approach in most patients [editorial] Noninvasive risk assessment in survivors of AMI can effectively subdivide patients into groups with differing risk profiles after hospital discharge, but some patients at risk for late death or recurrent AMI may be incorrectly identified; data from cardiac catheterization and angiography provide complementary and generally more powerful prognostic information. Many patients may derive particular benefit from early cardiac catheterization and angiography, including: (1) patients with AMI complicated by recurrent myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure, and/or complex ventricular arrhythmias; (2) patients with abnormal or inconclusive results of noninvasive testing or those patients unable to perform an exercise test; (3) patients with abnormal left ventricular global systolic function and those with increased left ventricular end-systolic volume; (4) "young" patients (younger than 50 years of age?); (5) older patients (older than 65 to 70 years of age?); (6) patients with non-Q wave AMI; and (7) patients who are receiving thrombolytic therapy. Performance of early cardiac catheterization and angiography in virtually all survivors of AMI, with selective use of appropriate noninvasive tests, may provide a more efficacious means of risk assessment after AMI; if all tests are performed judiciously, the cost of such an approach need not be excessive. A combination of invasive and selected noninvasive tests probably provides optimal information. The risks to the routine performance of diagnostic cardiac catheterization and angiography in all survivors of AMI are: (1) adequate care and attention may not be paid to proper performance of the procedure(s) and to detailed and proper analyses of the data; (2) the need for additional noninvasive testing in selected patients may be ignored; and most importantly, (3) premature or unnecessary revascularization procedures may be performed subsequently. For optimal patient care, the clinician must obtain all necessary data, avoid unnecessary and repetitive tests, know the accuracy of individual tests at his or her own facility, interpret all data in proper context, and then counsel patients objectively about available management strategies. With this approach, all patients who might appropriately benefit from coronary artery revascularization will be correctly identified, and patients who are truly at very low risk (minimal residual coronary artery disease and preserved left ventricular function particularly if associated with a patent infarct-related artery) may be similarly identified and managed appropriately with elimination of unnecessary additional testing and pharmacologic therapy. Finally, whatever approach to risk stratification one chooses for an individual patient, the importance of and the need to correct and/or ameliorate risk factors for coronary artery disease must be recognized and undertaken. 
Clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in tibial disease and the results of surgery. Bypass vein grafts to the infrapopliteal arteries now achieve a 5-year cumulative patency equivalent to that of vein grafts to the popliteal arteries. The technique of in situ vein grafting to the tibial arteries is described and the results are presented. The 5-year cumulative patency for such bypasses and the 5-year limb salvage in the same patients have both been approximately 80%. These results coupled with those reported from other centers that have sizable experience in tibial artery reconstruction suggest that there has been real progress over the past decade in the salvage of lower extremities in patients with far advanced peripheral vascular disease through the use of autogenous venous bypass grafts. 
Improvement of systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion by serial echocardiograms in selected patients treated for unstable angina. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of antiischemic treatment on left ventricular function in selected patients with unstable angina pectoris that was due to severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing and to identify subgroups liable to an adverse outcome (mean term 2.7 years). Effect of antiischemic treatment on systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion was studied in 35 patients who had unstable angina pectoris and an electrocardiogram that indicated severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing. Treatment consisted of either a revascularization procedure (17 patients) or antianginal drug therapy (18 patients). All patients underwent a two-dimensional echocardiographic study within 48 hours (mean 20 hours) of entry into the study. This study semiquantitatively analyzed systolic performance of the ischemia-related segments by calculation of a total wall motion score. In 16 patients this investigation was combined with a continuous detailed recording of only the apical interventricular septal wall motion. This detailed study included measurements for regional function by providing a typification of the pattern of systolic and early diastolic excursion of the endocardial border of the apical interventricular septum. A repeat ultrasonic study was performed at least 1 month (median 2 months, 7 days) after admission. Results of the systolic wall motion analyses of all 35 patients showed, in both treatment groups, a significant improvement in systolic wall motion of the anterior and apical segments (mean total wall motion score at early study vs late study: revascularization, 6.9 vs 2.2 and medical therapy, 4.6 vs 1.0). 
Identification of viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. Comparison of thallium scintigraphy with reinjection and PET imaging with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose In patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction, the distinction between ventricular dysfunction arising from myocardial fibrosis and ischemic, but viable, myocardium has important clinical implications. By positron emission tomography (PET), enhanced fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in myocardial segments with impaired function and reduced blood flow is evidence of myocardial viability. Reinjection of thallium-201 at rest immediately after stress-redistribution imaging may also provide evidence of myocardial viability by demonstrating thallium uptake in regions with apparently "irreversible" defects. To compare these two methods, we studied 16 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction, 27 +/- 9%), all of whom had irreversible defects on standard exercise-redistribution thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. Thallium was reinjected immediately after the redistribution study, and SPECT images were reacquired. The patients also underwent PET imaging with FDG and oxygen-15-labeled water. A total of 432 myocardial segments were analyzed from comparable transaxial tomograms, of which 166 (38%) had irreversible thallium defects on redistribution images before reinjection. FDG uptake was demonstrated in 121 (73%) of these irreversible defects. Irreversible defects were then subgrouped according to the degree of thallium activity, relative to peak activity in normal regions. Irreversible defects with only mild (60-85% of peak activity) or moderate (50-59% of peak) reduction in thallium activity were considered viable on the basis of FDG uptake in 91% and 84% of these segments, respectively. In contrast, in irreversible defects with severe reduction in thallium activity (less than 50% of peak), FDG uptake was present in 51% of segments. In such severe defects, an identical number of segments (51%) demonstrated enhanced uptake of thallium after reinjection. In these severe "irreversible" defects, data on myocardial viability were concordant by the two techniques in 88% of segments, with 45% identified as viable and 43% identified as scar on both PET and thallium reinjection studies. These observations suggest that thallium imaging can be used to identify viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. Most irreversible defects with only mild or moderate reduction in thallium activity represent viable myocardium as confirmed by FDG uptake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
The effect on skin blood flow of short-term venous hypertension in normal subjects. Plugging of skin capillaries by activated white blood cells is one of the proposed mechanisms by which skin damage may be initiated in chronic venous insufficiency. The aim of this study was to determine whether a microcirculatory deficit was induced in the skin by raising the venous pressure proximally for thirty minutes. Seventeen subjects with no evidence of venous or arterial disease had laser Doppler velocimetry performed in the goiter region of the leg; 8 different subjects had the measurement done on the dorsum of the hand. Peak hyperemic response following three minutes of ischemia was measured before and after a thirty-minute period of sustained venous hypertension applied by a proximal tourniquet inflated to 80 mm Hg. A decrease in the peak flow: baseline flow ratio (median ratio 2.25 before, 1.70 after, p less than 0.02) and an increase in the time taken to reach maximal hyperemia (median time ten seconds before, twenty seconds after, p less than 0.01) were observed after the period of venous hypertension in the lower limb. The second parameter, but not the first, was significantly affected in the upper limb. The authors conclude that a microvascular deficit in the skin is demonstrable after a short period of venous hypertension. This is consistent with the white-cell-trapping theory, but other possible explanations are discussed. 
Survival rates from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: recommendations for uniform definitions and data to report. Survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest vary widely among locations. We surveyed the definitions used in published studies of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Data from 74 studies involving 36 communities showed survival rates ranging from 2% to 44%. There were five different case definitions and 11 different definitions of survivors. The absence of uniform definitions prevents meaningful intersystem comparisons, prohibits explorations of hypotheses about effective interventions, and interferes with the efforts of quality assurance. The most satisfactory numerator for a survival rate appears to be survival to hospital discharge; the most appropriate denominator appears to be witnessed adult cardiac arrest of presumed heart disease etiology, with ventricular fibrillation as the initial identified rhythm. Proposed definitions for the data emergency medical services systems should report as they examine their cardiac arrest survival rates are presented. 
Branch retinal vein occlusion: the pathogenetic role of blood viscosity. The pathogenesis of branch retinal vein occlusion has not been completely clarified. The role of abnormal blood viscosity in the appearance and evolution of the disease has recently been advocated. We studied 54 patients with long-standing branch retinal vein occlusion from a hemorrheologic point of view. Depending on the extension of retinal ischemia, two subgroups were identified. Hematocrit, blood and plasma viscosity, whole blood filterability, cell deformability, and fibrinogen levels were investigated. Thirty-five subjects of similar age, sex, and risk factors of diabetes and hypertension served as controls. Our results showed that blood viscosity is higher in patients with occlusion and particularly in those with severe retinal ischemia. Statistical analysis showed a direct correlation between blood viscosity and hematocrit. 
Venous air embolism. Diagnosis by spontaneous right-sided contrast echocardiography. This report describes the definitive diagnosis of venous air-embolism by documentation of spontaneous echo contrast in the right cardiac chambers following removal of a jugular venous catheter in a patient with hepatic failure. This complication was potentiated by the presence of concurrent hepatic coagulopathy which prejudiced effective hemostasis at the central venous puncture site. 
Effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. A meta-analysis by anatomic location of infarction [published erratum appears in Ann Intern Med 1991 Mar 15;114(6):522] PURPOSE: To determine the effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior and acute inferior myocardial infarctions. DATA IDENTIFICATION: A literature search of English-language studies on the use of intravenous streptokinase in the treatment of suspected acute myocardial infarction for the period 1966 to 1989 using Medlars II and the bibliographies of relevant articles. In a number of instances, additional details on early mortality by location of myocardial infarction were provided by the authors. STUDY SELECTION: Of 140 originally identified articles, 6 that specifically met our inclusion criteria were selected: randomized trials that used intravenous streptokinase in a dose of 1.5 million units, with or without additional agents, compared with a group that differed only by the absence of streptokinase. Trials were selected by review of the methods section without regard for the results. DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted independently by two observers using specific methodologic criteria for infarct location and early mortality. After they conferred, the observers agreed completely on the data. RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: Among the 9155 patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction, the mortality rate in the control group was 17.4%. In contrast, patients treated with streptokinase had a 12.5% mortality. The mean risk difference was -4.8% (95% CI, -7.5% to -2.1%) and the summary risk ratio was 0.72 (CI, 0.65 to 0.79). A total of 9650 patients with suspected inferior infarction had a mortality rate in the control group of 7.6% [corrected]. The mortality for streptokinase-treated patients was 6.6%. The mean risk difference was -0.8% (CI, -1.8% to 0.2%) and the summary risk ratio was 0.87 (CI, 0.76 to 1.01). CONCLUSIONS: Intravenous streptokinase clearly confers a protective effect against early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction. The magnitude of this effect is on the order of a 5% absolute reduction in risk of death by 21 to 35 days. For these patients, 21 need to be treated to save 1 additional life. For patients with suspected acute inferior infarction, the benefit of treatment on reducing early mortality is of smaller magnitude and less certain. These patients have an estimated absolute reduction of early mortality of approximately 1%, which would require treating 125 patients to save 1 additional life. 
Mapping of a functional autoimmune epitope on the beta 1-adrenergic receptor in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The presence and properties of serum autoantibodies against beta-adrenergic receptors in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were studied using synthetic peptides derived from the predicted sequences of the human beta-adrenergic receptors. Peptides corresponding to the sequences of the second extracellular loop of the human beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors were used as antigens in an enzyme immunoassay to screen sera from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (n = 42), ischemic heart disease (n = 17), or healthy blood donors (n = 34). The sera of thirteen dilated cardiomyopathy patients, none of the ischemic heart disease patients, and four of the healthy controls monospecifically recognized the beta 1-peptide. Only affinity-purified antibodies of these patients had a inhibitory effect on radioligand binding to the beta 1 receptor of C6 rat glioma cells. They recognized the receptor protein by immunoblot and bound in situ to human myocardial tissue. We conclude that a subgroup of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy have in their sera autoantibodies specifically directed against the second extracellular loop of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor. These antibodies could serve as a marker of an autoimmune response with physiological and/or pathological implications. 
Beta 2-microglobulin predicts survival in primary systemic amyloidosis. PURPOSE: The study assessed whether beta 2-microglobulin levels predict survival or response in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis without associated multiple myeloma. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study group consisted of 131 untreated patients with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis diagnosed and evaluated at the Mayo Clinic. No patient had multiple myeloma. The minimum follow-up of surviving patients is 8 years. No patient was lost to follow-up. RESULTS: The median survival of patients with an increased beta 2-microglobulin level was 10.8 months, compared with patients with a normal beta 2-microglobulin level (less than or equal to 2.7 micrograms/mL, 0.23 mumol/L) of 32.9 months (p less than 0.001). In a multivariate proportional-hazards model, the best model included congestive heart failure (p less than 0.0001) and increased beta 2-microglobulin levels (p less than 0.05). After adjustment for the presence of congestive heart failure, beta 2-microglobulin level remained significant. When the analysis was restricted to those patients with normal renal function, the median survival of those with an elevated beta 2-microglobulin level was 9.1 months versus 39.4 months for those with a normal level (p less than 0.001). The serum level of beta 2-microglobulin was increased in patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria with or without renal insufficiency (p = 0.05). CONCLUSION: The serum beta 2-microglobulin level should be measured routinely in all patients with primary systemic amyloidosis because it provides a useful objective factor to identify subsets of patients with this disease who have unfavorable outcomes. 
Right coronary artery injury during tricuspid valve annuloplasty. An unusual complication after tricuspid valve annuloplasty is described where a ring suture ligated right coronary artery and precipitated myocardial infarct and patient death. The need for caution to prevent this complication with such surgery is emphasized. 
The Framingham Disability Study: relationship of various coronary heart disease manifestations to disability in older persons living in the community. The relation between coronary heart disease and disability was examined in 2,576 community-dwelling women and men ages 55-88 years. These Framingham Study participants were originally recruited in 1948-51 for an examination of cardiovascular disease. Twenty-seven years later, remaining members of the cohort were interviewed to ascertain physical abilities, and a score on a disability scale was assigned. Multivariate logistic analyses examined disability in relation to uncomplicated angina pectoris (AP), complicated AP, and coronary heart disease other than AP, controlling for possible confounders. In younger and older women and men, uncomplicated and complicated AP were associated with disability. Coronary heart disease other than AP was associated with disability only in the younger men. Congestive heart failure predicted disability only in the women. These results suggest that onset of AP should be recognized as a critical point in the development of disability and that AP is a better predictor of disability than is myocardial infarction or coronary insufficiency. 
Multiple breakpoint method for measuring effect of antibiotics on endocarditis strains of streptococci. The activity of penicillin alone and combined with aminoglycoside on endocarditis strains of streptococci was examined. Good assay reproducibility was obtained by the use of logarithmic phase cultures standardised by opacity, careful inoculation of well-plates, removal of antibiotic by membrane transfer and incubating survival counts in hydrogen plus carbon dioxide. The use of 10-fold intervals for penicillin concentration simplified assay design without loss of efficiency. 
Prevalence of symptoms of Raynaud's phenomenon in general practice. OBJECTIVE--To investigate the prevalence of Raynaud's phenomenon in the populations of five general practices. DESIGN--Two populations studied. A questionnaire was given to all new patients attending five general practices over four weeks, and the same questionnaire was sent by post to a random sample of adults from two of the practices. SETTING--General practices in inner London, Merseyside, and Cheshire. SUBJECTS--1532 Patients who completed questionnaires (1119 who attended the surgeries (response rate unknown) and 413 respondents to the postal survey (response rate 69%)). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Response to questionnaire on symptoms of Raynaud's phenomenon: patients were regarded as having the disease if they had episodes of blanching of the fingers that were precipitated by cold and accompanied by sensory symptoms (pins and needles or numbness). Subsequent interview and clinical appraisal of patients with the disease according to their responses to the questionnaire. RESULTS--The prevalence of Raynaud's phenomenon was 11% (26/231) and 19% (34/182) respectively in men and women who completed the postal questionnaire and 16% (56/357) and 21% (157/762) respectively in those who completed the questionnaire when attending their general practice. Thus the overall rates were slightly higher in women, but there was no effect of age even after adjustment of the rates for practice and method of survey. CONCLUSION--The prevalence of Raynaud's phenomenon is high compared with the low number of patients who seek treatment for the disease. 
Inflation pressure requirements during coronary angioplasty. To examine the balloon inflation pressures required for successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), the maximal inflation pressure required for 477 coronary lesions in 200 consecutive patients was determined retrospectively. When graded balloon inflations just sufficient to achieve full expansion were used, the maximal inflation pressure used was less than or equal to 8 atm in 412 stenoses (86%) and was less than or equal to 10 atm in 463 stenoses (97%). Successful PTCA was achieved in 98% of lesions with a 3.5% major procedural complication rate. In a second group of 100 patients studied prospectively, the inflation pressure required to achieve full balloon expansion was less than or equal to 8 atm in 214 of 232 stenoses (92%) and less than or equal to 10 atm in 228 stenoses (98%). Thus, PTCA of coronary stenoses can be achieved with high success rates and low complication rates when graded inflations to pressures just sufficient to achieve full balloon expansion are performed. Most coronary stenoses will respond to pressures less than or equal to 8-10 atm. 
Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm: an indication for the retroperitoneal approach. In three recent cases, one of which is described in this report, we have found the retroperitoneal approach to have the following significant and distinct advantages over the transabdominal repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms: (1) The posterolateral aspect of the aorta characteristically is not significantly involved by the inflammatory process, whereas the anterior aspect is. (2) The duodenum does not need to be dissected away from the aorta and, in fact, is not seen. (3) The left renal vein moves up off the neck of the aneurysm with forward mobilization of the kidney, facilitating proximal control. Now that the computerized tomography scan has become the preferred preoperative imaging technique for abdominal aortic aneurysms, the diagnosis of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm can routinely be made before elective operation allowing the retroperitoneal approach to be selected. 
Ventricular stroke work loss: validation of a method of quantifying the severity of aortic stenosis and derivation of an orifice formula Because aortic stenosis results in the loss of left ventricular stroke work (due to resistance to flow through the valve and turbulence in the aorta), the percentage of stroke work that is lost may reflect the severity of stenosis. This index can be calculated from pressure data alone. The relation between percent stroke work loss and anatomic aortic valve orifice area (measured by planimetry from videotape) was investigated in a pulsatile flow model. Thirteen valves were studied (nine human aortic valves obtained at necropsy and four bioprosthetic valves) at stroke volumes of 40 to 100 ml, giving 57 data points. Valve area ranged from 0.3 to 2.8 cm2 and mean systolic pressure gradient from 3 to 84 mm Hg. Percent stroke work loss, calculated as mean systolic pressure gradient divided by mean ventricular systolic pressure x 100%, ranged from 7 to 68%. It was closely related to anatomic orifice area with an inverse exponential relation and was not significantly related to flow (r = -0.15). An orifice formula was derived that predicted anatomic orifice area with a 95% confidence interval of +/- 0.5 cm2 (orifice area [cm2] = 4.82 [2.39 x log percent stroke work loss], r = -0.94, SEE = 0.029). These results support the clinical use of percent stroke work loss as an easily obtained index of the severity of aortic stenosis. 
Tachycardia during reversal of one-kidney, one-clip hypertension in conscious rats. The efferent sympathetic activity of the heart was investigated during reversal of one-kidney, one-clip (1K,1C) hypertension in conscious, freely moving rats using changes in heart rate as an index. One-kidney, one-clip hypertensive rats presented marked tachycardia during the first 8 h after unclipping. Mean arterial pressure fell 28% 3 h after unclipping and 37% 8 h after unclipping. In a separate experiment, short term infusion (15 min) of sodium nitroprusside in conscious freely moving rats produced similar tachycardia in hypertensive and sham-operated rats. The present results indicate that the baroreceptor reflex of the heart was operating normally during the prompt reversal of hypertension after unclipping. 
A prospective study of sodium-lithium countertransport and hypertension in Utah. A 7-year prospective study of a cohort of 1,458 normotensive adults from Utah pedigrees, screened from 1980 to 1985, was done to determine whether baseline levels of sodium-lithium countertransport were associated with an increased risk of future hypertension. Subsequent new hypertension (n = 39) was ascertained in 1989 from detailed follow-up medical questionnaires (67% response). Previous segregation analyses on a subset of these pedigree members who responded (n = 342) using family relationships in addition to countertransport levels have shown statistically inferred major gene segregation of sodium-lithium countertransport levels. In the normotensive adults inferred by segregation analysis to carry the recessive major gene for high sodium-lithium countertransport, new-onset hypertension occurred in 18.8% (3 of 16) compared with 3.7% (12 of 326) in the low sodium-lithium countertransport genotype group (relative risk, 4.6 [1.6, 13.9]; p = 0.03). However, an elevated baseline sodium-lithium countertransport level without genotype information from segregation analysis did not increase the risk of future hypertension in the complete cohort of adult pedigree members (relative risk, 1.02 [0.85, 1.22]). Adjustment for other risk factors reduced the relative risk to 0.90 (0.72, 1.11). We conclude that the presence of a major gene for sodium-lithium countertransport or another closely linked gene, rather than the actual level of sodium-lithium countertransport, may increase the risk of hypertension onset. High sodium-lithium countertransport levels do not increase the risk of future hypertension for individuals in whom only polygenic and environmental effects determine sodium-lithium countertransport level. 
Increase of intraplatelet free calcium ion during extracorporeal circulation with a hollow fiber oxygenator: arterial filter and dynamics of platelet thrombosis on oxygenator and filter in a pig model. Intraplatelet free calcium (IPFC) ions provide a common pathway for platelet activation leading to thrombosis and embolization. IPFC levels were determined by chlorotetracycline fluorometry during extracorporeal circulation (ECC) with systemic heparin in eight Yorkshire pigs (weighing 30-40 kg; 3 control and 5 ECC); the ratio of slow phase organelle calcium sequestration to fast phase platelet-membrane binding is an index of free calcium. During 3 hr of ECC with a hollow fiber oxygenator (HFO) (Bentley CM-50) and AF (Bentley 1025), seven blood samples were collected 5 min before and during ECC. The platelet deposition (CPM/microCi) on HFO (PDHFO) was simultaneously measured with In-111-labeled autologous platelets (300-400 microCi) and a Geiger probe detector at -5, 0, 5, 30, 45, 60, 120, and 180 min. During ECC, IPFC and HFO thrombus increase significantly (p less than 0.05) at 45 min with respect to control IPFC values of 0.4 +/- 0.1, suggesting direct participation of calcium activated platelets in thrombosis on HFO. The decline of IPFC is due to extrusion and sequestration by dense granules, and decline in HFO thrombus is due to embolization. On the other hand, the embolus in the arterial filter was trapped in a linear fashion, with a consistent increase with time of ECC. 
The agent of bacillary angiomatosis. An approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens BACKGROUND. Bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts. The agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with Warthin-Starry staining, but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified. This bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease. METHODS. In attempting to identify this organism, we used the polymerase chain reaction. We used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16S ribosomal RNA genes of eubacteria to amplify 16S ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis. The DNA sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms. Normal tissues were studied in parallel. RESULTS. Tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16S gene sequence. A sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions. No related 16S gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues. These 16S sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism, most closely related to Rochalimaea quintana. CONCLUSIONS. The cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism, closely related to R. quintana. This method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause. 
Calcium and blood pressure. An epidemiologic perspective. We reviewed the research literature on the epidemiologic relationship between blood pressure levels and calcium, with an emphasis on dietary intake. A conceptual framework for causal inference is summarized; then the designs and results of observational and intervention studies are presented. Of 25 reports of observational studies relating intake of calcium or calcium-rich foods to blood pressure, the majority found some evidence of an inverse association. However, many analyses did not support this relationship, and only two studies have confirmed the inverse association with a prospective design. Nineteen randomized controlled clinical trials of calcium supplementation have been reported, excluding those exclusively in pregnant women. Eleven of these showed no significant effects on blood pressure; in two trials, both systolic and diastolic pressure were significantly reduced; and in the remainder results were equivocal. Pooled analyses yielded estimates of a small (1.8 mm Hg), significant reduction in systolic blood pressure, but no effect on diastolic pressure. Epidemiologic relationships with serum and urinary calcium, and the possible mechanisms of these effects, are also discussed. We conclude that the evidence from studies in humans is suggestive, but not conclusive, regarding a role for calcium in hypertension. Recommendations for further epidemiologic studies are presented. 
Functional significance of myocardial perfusion defects induced by dipyridamole using thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and two-dimensional echocardiography. The mechanisms responsible for inhomogeneous myocardial blood flow after oral administration of a large dose (300 mg) of dipyridamole were assessed in 27 patients with serial thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and simultaneous 2-dimensional echocardiograms. Myocardial tomographic images were obtained 50 minutes and 3 to 4 hours after administration of dipyridamole. Two-dimensional echocardiograms were recorded at baseline and then every 15 minutes for 60 minutes. Dipyridamole caused only a mild reduction in blood pressure (from 129 +/- 18 to 126 +/- 16 mm Hg) and a mild increase in heart rate (from 69 +/- 15 to 73 +/- 4 beats/min). Sixteen patients had perfusion defects after dipyridamole by SPECT, which underwent partial or total filling-in. Fourteen of these patients (87.5%) had either a new abnormality or further deterioration of a preexisting wall motion abnormality by 2-dimensional echocardiography, and thus were considered to have developed transient ischemia during dipyridamole administration. Ten of 11 patients (91%) with normal perfusion or fixed defects by SPECT had no further deterioration in wall motion after oral dipyridamole, and were thus considered to have no evidence of myocardial ischemia. In conclusion, most patients with transient thallium-201 defects after dipyridamole develop transient worsening of resting wall motion by 2-dimensional echocardiography, suggestive of true myocardial ischemia. Because myocardial oxygen demand, as indicated by the heart rate-blood pressure product, did not change significantly, the mechanism of myocardial ischemia in these patients is likely to be diminished regional blood flow related to a "subendocardial steal" induced by dipyridamole. 
Native valve endocarditis due to Pseudallescheria boydii in a patient with AIDS: case report and review. A 53-year-old man with AIDS developed mitral valve endocarditis due to infection with the fungus Pseudallescheria boydii. A limited number of cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by this organism have been described. We report a unique case of pseudallescheria infection of a native valve and describe this disease in a patient with AIDS. 
Patch aortotomy for aortic valve replacement after previous coronary artery bypass grafting. Exposure for aortic valve operations after previous coronary artery bypass grafting may be technically difficult owing to the presence of patent vein grafts on the proximal aorta. A patch or "island" aortotomy technique that allows excellent exposure of the aortic valve is presented here. In select patients this approach may facilitate cardioplegia administration. 
Pericarditis with tamponade due to cytomegalovirus in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. A 35-year-old male homosexual with AIDS presented with headache and fever and was found to have cryptococcal meningitis. During the patient's hospital course, his hemodynamic status deteriorated as a result of pericardial tamponade. Antemortem analysis of the fluid was unrevealing; however, postmortem examination of the pericardium revealed typical intranuclear inclusions of cytomegalovirus infection. Cytomegalovirus should be included in the differential diagnosis of pericardial effusion in patients with AIDS. 
Prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women. To better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy, we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women, age greater than or equal to 65 years, who participated in the multicenter prospective Study of Osteoporotic Fractures. Overall, 13.7% of women reported current use of oral estrogen; 10.9% took estrogen alone and 2.8% took estrogen opposed by progestin. Four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds. Current use declined sharply with age from 17% at age 65 to 4% at age greater than or equal to 85. The primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause. Estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese. Furthermore, estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation. A diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use, but only 24% of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy. We conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the United States use estrogen replacement therapy. Selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease. In consideration of the distribution of these selection factors, estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures. 
Pulmonary artery-bronchus ratios in patients with normal lungs, pulmonary vascular plethora, and congestive heart failure. The pulmonary artery-bronchus ratio (ABR), defined as the external diameter of a pulmonary artery divided by the external diameter of its accompanying bronchus, was measured in the upper and lower lung zones on frontal chest radiographs in the following groups of subjects: erect healthy subjects, erect subjects with pulmonary vascular plethora, erect subjects with clinical evidence of decompensated left-sided congestive heart failure (CHF), supine normal subjects, and supine subjects with clinical evidence of decompensated CHF. Characteristic vascular patterns were found in each group. The positive predictive value of an abnormal vascular pattern determined by means of changes in the ABR on the erect chest radiograph was 100%, with the negative predictive value of a normal pattern being 97%. The erect chest radiograph was 93% accurate in distinguishing between plethora and CHF. The positive predictive value of an abnormal vascular pattern on the supine chest radiograph was 100%, with the negative predictive value of a normal vascular pattern being 97%. Measurements of ABR can be a helpful adjunct to the interpretation of supine and erect chest radiographs. 
Is sick sinus syndrome an adenosine-mediated disease? Effects of intravenous aminophylline on sick sinus node function after pharmacologic autonomic blockade. To assess the effects of intravenous aminophylline on the sinus node, 12 patients with clinical and Holter monitor-documented sick sinus syndrome were studied (1) during the control state, (2) after pharmacologic autonomic blockade and (3) 5 min after intravenous administration of aminophylline. The effects of aminophylline on sinus node function were compared with those after pharmacologic autonomic blockade. No significant improvement of sinus node function was found after intravenous aminophylline administration with a mean sinus cycle length and a mean maximum CSRT of 968 +/- 218 and 1832 +/- 1036 ms, respectively. The mean serum theophylline level was 10.9 +/- 1.7 micrograms/ml. Since aminophylline is an adenosine receptor antagonist, these findings suggest that intrinsic adenosine may not play an important role in pathogenesis in patients with chronic and advanced sick sinus syndrome. 
Aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta. Analysis of 40 necropsy patients. Clinical and necropsy findings are described in 40 patients who had aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta. Their ages at death ranged from 39 to 91 years (mean, 66 years); 24 (60%) were men and 16 (40%) were women. Systemic hypertension was present by history in 33 patients (83%) and the hearts were of increased weight in 78%. Of the 40 patients, 31 (78%) had no operative intervention, while 9 (22%) underwent operation for aortic dissection. Of the 31 patients without operative therapy, the diagnosis of aortic dissection was established in life in 9 patients (29%) and at necropsy in 22 (71%). The interval from aortic dissection to death was 30 days or less in 13 patients (42%); rupture of the false channel was the cause of death in 9 patients (69%), renal failure in 2 (15%), and the cause was unclear in 2 (15%). The interval from aortic dissection to death was more than 30 days in 18 (58%) of the 31 patients without operative therapy. The cause of death in these 18 patients was related to the dissection in 11 (61%) (rupture of the false channel in 5; renal failure from dissection in 3, and rupture of the false channel of a second acute dissection in 3), but in the other 7 patients (39%) death was unrelated to the dissection but a nonfatal complication, specifically stenosis of the true channel from compression by a thrombus-filled false channel, occurred in 4 of these 7 patients. Thus only 3 (10%) of the 31 patients without operative therapy had no complications of aortic dissection. All nine patients who underwent operation had had an aortic dissection within 30 days, and the operation was performed because of a major complication of the dissection. Four patients survived 8 to 84 months after the operation. Thus early operative intervention (before the appearance of complications) appears justified in patients with aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the descending thoracic aorta to prevent rupture of the false channel acutely or after initial healing; to prevent renal failure from compression of renal arteries by an aneurysmal false channel; to prevent true channel stenosis from compression by a thrombus-filled false channel; and possibly to prevent the recurrence of acute dissection. 
Outcomes of direct coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in candidates and non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy. Coronary angioplasty without prior thrombolytic therapy was performed in 383 patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Patients were divided into 2 groups depending on whether they were candidates or non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy. Patients were not considered thrombolytic candidates if they: (1) presented in cardiogenic shock, (2) were greater than or equal to 75 years of age, (3) had had coronary artery bypass surgery or, (4) had a reperfusion time of greater than 6 hours. Thrombolytic and nonthrombolytic candidates had similar rates of reperfusion (92 vs 88%), nonfatal reinfarction (6.0 vs 5.9%) and recurrent myocardial ischemia (1.8 vs 0%). Thrombolytic candidates had a lower mortality rate (3.9 vs 24%, p less than 0.0001) and a lower incidence of bleeding (4.6 vs 10.9%, p less than 0.05). Improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction at follow-up angiography was 4.4% in thrombolytic and 10.5% in nonthrombolytic candidates (p less than 0.002). Ejection fraction improved most in patients with anterior wall AMI (7.7% in thrombolytic candidates, 15.1% in nonthrombolytic candidates) and in patients with reperfusion times greater than 6 hours (14.2%). These outcomes suggest that direct coronary angioplasty is a viable alternative method of reperfusion in patients with AMI who are candidates for thrombolytic therapy. Nonthrombolytic candidates are a high-risk group of patients. Direct coronary angioplasty may be beneficial in certain subgroups, especially for patients in cardiogenic shock and for patients presenting greater than 6 hours after the onset of chest pain with evidence of ongoing ischemia. 
Usefulness of digital angiography in the assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction. With modern digital cardiac systems the image data are digitized on-line and in real-time, allowing the replay and subsequent interpretation and analysis during or directly after the cardiac catheterization procedure. In this study we have evaluated the advantages and limitations of a manual tracing technique for left ventricular digital angiograms on the Phillips DCI system. Thirty-three patients who were catheterized for suspected coronary artery disease were studied. The manual tracings were performed by a senior cardiologist and an experienced function-analyst. It was found that the short- and long-term intraobserver variabilities in the assessment of the global ejection fraction were very small; short-term mean difference +/- standard deviation (correlation coefficient): 0.5 +/- 2.7 (r = 0.97) global EF%-units; long term; 0.7 +/- 2.7 (r = 0.96) EF%-units. The interobserver variabilities (5.1 +/- 4.8 (r = 0.93) EF%-units) were slightly higher than the intraobserver variabilities. A decrease by 25% in the amount of contrast medium administered did not significantly influence the variabilities in the contour tracings, which would suggest the use of smaller doses. At the average, the cardiologist and the function-analyst required 6 and 11 min of analysis time for a left ventricular study, respectively, emphasizing the need for further developments towards automated contour detection. Finally, an excellent correlation was found with a standard off-line cinefilm analysis procedure. Thus, it may be concluded that quantitative digital left ventricular angiography based on manual tracing of the outlines performed immediately following the cardiac catheterization (post-processing) is feasible as a routine procedure for the assessment of left ventricular function. 
Swan-Ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm. Swan-Ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation. This patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation, control of pulmonary hypertension, reversal of anticoagulation, mitral valve re-replacement, and transcatheter embolization. The pertinent literature is reviewed. 
Thallium-201 stress scintigraphy in Takayasu arteritis. Thirty-eight women with Takayasu arteritis were studied using thallium-201 stress myocardial scintigraphy to assess the prevalence and pathophysiology of the perfusion abnormality. Twenty (53%) had abnormal scintigraphic findings (group A). Abnormal scans were divided into 3 groups: permanent defects in 6, reversible defects in 7 and slow washout in 7. The remaining 18 patients had normal scintigrams (group N). Group A had a tendency to be older and to have a high prevalence of complicated significant aortic regurgitation. Interventricular thickness plus left ventricular posterior wall thickness (26 +/- 7 vs 17 +/- 2 mm, p less than 0.01) and left ventricular mass (267 +/- 121 vs 133 +/- 39 g, p less than 0.01) were all greater in group A on echocardiography. The mean value of the central aortic pressure in systole was 170 +/- 15 mm Hg in the 7 catheterized patients in group A. Coronary ostial stenoses were present in 2 group A patients who showed reversible defects on scintigrams. These data indicate that the abnormal perfusion detected by imaging in patients with Takayasu arteritis was responsible for a decrease in coronary reserve or myocardial damage, or both, due to long-standing systemic hypertension or aortic regurgitation. Coronary artery disease should be considered if a reversible defect is present. 
Paradoxic air embolism in the absence of an intracardiac defect. A 58-year-old man experienced paradoxic air embolism with passage of air from the systemic venous to the systemic arterial circulation with subsequent stroke and death. No intracardiac shunt was present. Pulmonary fibrosis concomitant with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension appears to have been responsible for the air traversing the pulmonary capillary bed. This unusual outcome of a complicated central venous catheterization must be borne in mind and guarded against in similar patients. 
Endothelial-derived relaxing factor released by endothelial cells of human umbilical vessels and its impairment in pregnancy-induced hypertension. The principal objective of this study was to determine and compare the capability of human umbilical vessels of normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients to produce and to release the endothelial-derived relaxing factor. A bolus of bradykinin injected in the perfusion system of human umbilical vessels induces a release of a relaxant factor, detectable by bioassay, that is pharmacologically similar to the endothelial-derived relaxing factor. Human umbilical cords were collected from normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients. In the latter group the release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor is extremely reduced. In fact, in umbilical vessels collected from normal parturients, bradykinin at a dose of 20 pmol produces a release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor equivalent to a relaxation induced by 59.9 +/- 11.0 and 30.8 +/- 11.4 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate for the artery and vein, respectively. The same dose of bradykinin in umbilical vessels, collected from pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients, produces a release equivalent to 6.6 +/- 2.2 and 5.7 +/- 3.5 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate equivalent for the artery and vein, respectively. Neither an increasing bolus of exogenous bradykinin or an infusion of superoxide dismutase or L-arginine was able to restore the production of endothelial-derived relaxing factor to normal levels. Our results indicate a probable alteration of endothelial cell numbers or an alteration of the enzymatic pathway, probably due to cytotoxic endogenous factors produced in pregnancy. 
Right ventricular systolic function during exercise with and without significant coronary artery disease. To evaluate the effects of exercise and coronary artery disease on right ventricular (RV) systolic function, rest and exercise biplane RV angiograms were recorded in 20 patients undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization. Thirteen patients had exercise angiograms of sufficient quality to undergo analysis and were classified into 2 groups. Group 1 had no or only mild coronary artery disease; group 2 had significant coronary artery disease as manifested by new, exercise-induced, left ventricular regional wall motion abnormalities. RV systolic pressure increased in both groups during exercise: 33 to 57 mm Hg in group 1 (p = 0.0002) and 33 to 55 mm Hg in group 2 (p = 0.0004). Pulmonary resistance did not change in group 1 during exercise but increased in group 2 (3.2 to 4.8 Wood units, p = 0.04). RV ejection fraction increased slightly, but not significantly, during exercise in group 1, but decreased in group 2 (73 vs 58% with exercise [p = 0.01]). The change in RV ejection fraction from rest to exercise correlated closely with the change in pulmonary resistance from rest to exercise (r = -0.89, p less than 0.0001). RV regional wall motion analysis demonstrated a generalized decline in regional ejection fraction in group 2 during exercise, even in patients without right coronary artery disease. In conclusion, there is a decline in RV ejection fraction during exercise in patients with significant coronary artery disease. The generalized reduction in regional RV ejection fraction coupled with the close correlation with the change in pulmonary resistance suggests that increased afterload, rather than RV ischemia, is the cause. 
Platelet aggregation is not necessary for occurrence of Raynaud's phenomenon: a clinical history and laboratory results. "Raynaud's phenomenon (R.P.) is characterized by a spastic vasoconstriction of hand and/or feet extremities leading to painful ischemic attacks. In the pathogeny of this syndrome the role of a platelet hyperactivation was evidenced. Nevertheless, the responsibility of platelet aggregation remains controversial. We report here the case of a patient presenting with a Glanzmann thrombasthenia defined by the complete lack of platelet aggregation, and showing a typical RP which was confirmed by the measurement of hand temperature and the decrease of digital and hand blood flow. Thus, the description of this case shows that platelet aggregation by itself is not necessary for the occurrence of RP, and encourages for therapeutic purposes the development of vasodilatators rather than platelet antiaggregants agents.". 
Mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology. A new vascular disorder with generalized deposition of abnormal amounts of acid mucopolysaccharide (AMPS) material in arteries, veins, and vasanervorum has been observed in a large number of autopsies at the author's institution. It is unlike any of the known vascular diseases and has emerged as a distinct disorder of vascular connective tissue. This has been named "mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology." This hitherto unreported entity is described here. 
Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis in Hong Kong Chinese. Fifty-two Hong Kong Chinese cases of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis at autopsy were reviewed to ascertain if there was any difference in autopsy incidence, associated diseases, age and sex incidence, distribution of infarcts, and pattern of valve involvement compared with that in previously reported series. The overall autopsy incidence was 0.68%, within the range of previous reports. Forty-one cases (79%) were associated with malignant neoplasms; the remaining 11 cases were associated with miscellaneous disorders. Adenocarcinoma was associated with 27 (52%) of the cases. Unusual findings were the association of five cases with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and four cases with esophageal squamous carcinoma. This is explicable on the basis of a higher incidence of these two tumors in Hong Kong Chinese than in Western populations, ie, the source of most other reported series. Sex and age incidence, the distribution of infarcts, and the pattern of valve involvement were similar to those reported in other series of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis. 
Diagnostic efficiency of troponin T measurements in acute myocardial infarction BACKGROUND. The present study was designed to evaluate the efficiency of a newly developed troponin T enzyme immunoassay for the detection of acute myocardial infarction. METHODS AND RESULTS. The study comprised 388 patients admitted with chest pain and suspected myocardial infarction and 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and additional suspected myocardial cell damage. Troponin T was elevated to more than twice the analytical sensitivity of the assay (0.5 microgram/l) in all patients with non-Q wave (range, 1.2-5 micrograms/l) and Q wave infarction (range, 3-220 micrograms/l). Troponin T appeared in serum as early as 3 hours after onset of pain in 50% of the patients and remained elevated in all patients for more than 130 hours, revealing release kinetics of both free cytosolic and structurally bound molecules. The diagnostic efficiency of troponin T was superior to that of creatine kinase-MB (98% versus 97%) and remained at 98% until 5.5 days after admission, if patients with unstable angina were excluded from analysis. In the 79 patients with unstable angina, troponin T was elevated (range, 0.55-3.1 micrograms/l) in at least one blood sample from each of 37 patients (56%). Circulating troponin T was correlated to the presence of reversible ST segment or T wave changes on the electrocardiogram (p less than 0.005) and to the frequency of in-hospital complications. In the 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and suspected additional cardiac muscle damage, troponin T was the most useful test; its efficiency was 89% or 94% (depending on the discriminator value used) as compared with 63% for creatine kinase-MB. CONCLUSIONS. Thus, the data of the study indicate that the newly developed troponin T test improves the efficiency of serodiagnostic tools for the detection of myocardial cell necrosis as compared with conventionally used cardiac enzymes. 
Contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase C to renin release in spontaneously hypertensive rats. This study was designed to evaluate the contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase C to renin release from isolated glomeruli of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR, Okamoto and Aoki). Male 7-week-old SHR and age-matched control Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were used in this study. Isolated glomeruli were sealed in the superfusion chamber and perfused with Krebs-Ringer solution at a constant flow of 0.3 mL/min. Renin release was increased by calmodulin inhibitor, W-7, and protein kinase C inhibitor, H-7, in both SHR and WKY. SHR showed higher maximal levels of renin release by W-7 and lower maximal levels by H-7 compared to WKY. These results indicate that calmodulin and protein kinase C play inhibitory roles in renin release from juxtaglomerular cells. The calmodulin-mediated suppression mechanism in renin release appears to be augmented in the SHR, whereas the protein kinase C-mediated system is attenuated. 
Cardiac transplantation in female Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. A young woman with humeroperoneal muscular dystrophy and contractures received a heart transplant for a severe dilated cardiomyopathy. Cardiac histopathology consisted of myocyte hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis, and nuclear hyperchromaticity without mitochondrial abnormalities. Myopathy and heart disease were not clinically evident in her family, although three relatives had unexplained shortened Achilles tendons without weakness. Tendon contractures may be a partial expression of this myopathic disorder, suggesting an autosomal dominant inheritance with variable penetrance. A muscular dystrophy clinically similar to that of the Emery-Dreifuss (EDMD) type can thus occur in women. Rather than the cardiac arrhythmias typical of EDMD, a dilated cardiomyopathy may occur and present with severe congestive heart failure. This is the first report of cardiac transplantation in such a case. 
Chronic calcium channel blockade prevents the progression of myocardial contractile and electrical dysfunction in the cardiomyopathic Syrian hamster. The programmed onset of myocardial dysfunction and its progression to congestive heart failure in the cardiomyopathic Syrian hamster is hallmarked by alterations in myocellular calcium regulation. To determine whether calcium channel blockade is effective in halting the progressive depression of myocardial contractile performance in this animal model of congestive heart failure, oral verapamil therapy was instituted at 50 days of age, and treatment continued for various durations until the time of study at either 150 or 250 days of age. Left ventricular papillary muscle isometric and isotonic performance, as well as transmembrane electrical characteristics, was depressed in diseased hamsters at 150 days of age and deteriorated further by 250 days of age. These changes were evidenced by prolongation of contraction duration, a marked depression in the load-velocity relation, and a significant prolongation in the repolarization phase of the transmembrane action potential. Myocardial functional and electrical alterations associated with the progression of life in myopathic hamsters were completely halted by verapamil therapy that was continuous from 50 days after birth until death by diastolic arrest, at 150 or 250 days of age. However, premature termination of verapamil treatment before death resulted in a progressive renewal of the functional and electrical alterations for the duration of drug termination. It is concluded that the pathological changes seen during the lifetime of the cardiomyopathic hamster can be prevented by continuous calcium channel blockade and that intermediate prevention can be attained by protracted verapamil therapy. Thus, chronic verapamil therapy may be a useful adjunct in the prevention of human congestive heart failure of similar etiology. 
An inconsistent relationship between insulin and blood pressure in three Pacific island populations. The evidence linking insulin to blood pressure is controversial, and results for groups similarly categorized by body mass, glucose tolerance and hypertensive status are often contradictory. We have investigated the relationship in three population-based samples of Micronesian (Nauru), Polynesian (Western Samoa) and Melanesian (New Caledonia) Pacific islanders, who are known to be susceptible to obesity, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), hyperinsulinaemia and hypertension. After controlling for age and body mass index (BMI), mean fasting and 2-hr (post 75 g glucose) insulin levels were not significantly different between hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects, in any population or glucose tolerance sub-group, excepting 2-hr insulin in New Caledonians with normal glucose tolerance. Similarly, there were no strong trends for a higher prevalence of hypertension amongst those with insulin levels in the upper quartile of the distribution of each population, although it was apparent in some BMI/glucose tolerance sub-groups of two populations. Multiple linear regression analyses also showed an inconsistent and where present, weak, independent association between insulin and blood pressure in models predicting both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. We therefore conclude that the hypothesis implicating insulin as a major determinant of blood pressure and as the pathophysiological link between obesity, NIDDM and hypertension is not strongly supported either by the literature or the present data. 
Prediction of outcome by prenatal Doppler analysis in a patient with aortic stenosis. Stenosis of the aortic valve (pressure drop 50 mm Hg) was diagnosed prenatally by Doppler echocardiography in a 33 week old fetus. Measurement of time-velocity integrals through the tricuspid and mitral valves indicated a significantly higher flow in the right heart. The pressure drop across the aortic valve in the 3 hour old infant was 80 mm Hg. The findings in this patient suggest that the usually accepted theory that prenatally the ventricles function in parallel should take into account the chronology of filling and ejection. In this patient the ability of a ventricle to generate a prenatal transvalvar pressure gradient was evidence that the size, compliance, and contractility of the ventricle were sufficient to maintain good function. 
Accuracy and reproducibility of quantitative coronary arteriography using 6 and 8 French catheters with cine angiographic acquisition. To determine the suitability of 6 French catheters for quantitative coronary arteriography, the relative accuracy and reproducibility of one type of these catheters was compared to that obtained with standard 8 French catheters in 20 stenoses. Duplicate injections with polyurethane 6 French catheters were obtained using hand and power injection technique with cineangiographic acquisition (four 6 French catheter injections total per stenosis). Measurements of both percent diameter stenosis and absolute dimensions were compared to those obtained with hand injection and cine acquisition using 8 French catheters as a "gold standard." While the reproducibility of dimension determination with the 6 French catheter was generally similar to that obtained with the 8 French catheter (0.27 +/- 0.23 mm for absolute diameter and 8.1 +/- 7.4% for percent diameter stenosis), accuracy was significantly less for the 6 French catheter for measurement of absolute dimensions. Thus, while apparently well suited for serial measurements of the same stenoses, 6 French catheters may not be as accurate in the determination of absolute artery dimensions as 8 French catheters. 
Iliac artery stenosis and occlusion: preliminary results of treatment with Gianturco expandable metallic stents. Ten patients with atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the iliac artery were treated with Gianturco expandable metallic stents. In the five cases of stenosis, only balloon dilation was performed prior to placement of stents. The five patients with occluded arteries were given intraarterial infusions of urokinase before balloon dilation and stent placement. Clinical symptoms improved in all patients, and no technical failures or complications occurred. Doppler ankle-brachial index studies were performed in nine cases, and in all nine cases the indexes improved after stent placement. During follow-up of 2-18 months (mean, 10.3 months), all arteries remained patent. Follow-up angiograms showed slight intimal thickening and no restenosis. Long-term follow-up and more clinical experience will be necessary to evaluate the efficacy of this stent. However, preliminary results suggest that the Gianturco expandable metallic stent is of value in the treatment of arterial occlusive disease. 
Cardioprotective effects of amlodipine on ischemia and reperfusion in two experimental models. The cardioprotective effect of amlodipine, a long-acting dihydropyridine derivative, was studied in 2 experimental models of ischemia and reperfusion. Isolated and blood-perfused feline hearts were made globally ischemic for 60 minutes and then reperfused for 60 minutes. Alterations of left ventricular developed pressure and compliance were monitored in both amlodipine-treated hearts and saline-treated control animals. Changes in perfusion pressure indicated that amlodipine significantly reduced myocardial oxygen consumption and coronary vascular resistance. Furthermore, a progressive increase in resting left ventricular diastolic pressure indicated that amlodipine, administered before the onset of global ischemia, attenuated the development of ischemic contracture. Return of contractile function 60 minutes after reperfusion and maintenance of tissue concentrations of electrolytes were significantly better in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals. In intact canine hearts, regional myocardial ischemia was induced for 90 minutes, followed by 6 hours of reperfusion. Although the hemodynamic variables and the size of the region of risk did not differ significantly between treated animals and control animals, the infarct size was significantly smaller in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals, and a gradual reduction in coronary blood flow was observed in the control group that was prevented in the amlodipine group. A comparison of these findings with those observed with oxygen radical scavengers also is discussed. A detailed report of these studies was published in The American Journal of Cardiology (1989;64:101I-116I). This review is included here to maintain continuity of the symposium for the convenience of the reader. 
Risk of cardiovascular mortality in alcohol drinkers, ex-drinkers and nondrinkers. Lower cardiovascular mortality rates in lighter drinkers (versus abstainers or heavier drinkers) in population studies have been substantially due to lower coronary artery disease (CAD) mortality. Controversy about this U-shaped curve focuses on whether alcohol protects against CAD or, because of other traits, whether abstainers are at increased risk. Inclusion of ex-drinkers among abstainers in some studies has led to speculation that this might be the trait increasing the risk of abstainers. This new prospective study among 123,840 persons with 1,002 cardiovascular (600 CAD) deaths showed that ex-drinkers had higher cardiovascular and CAD mortality risks than lifelong abstainers in unadjusted analyses, but not in analyses adjusted for age, gender, race, body mass index, marital status and education. Use of alcohol was associated with higher risk of mortality from hypertension, hemorrhagic stroke and cardiomyopathy, but with lower risk from CAD, occlusive stroke and nonspecific cardiovascular syndromes. Subsets free of baseline cardiovascular or CAD risk had U-shaped alcohol-CAD curves similar to subsets with baseline risk. Among ex-drinkers, maximal past intake and reasons for quitting (medical versus non-medical) were unrelated to cardiovascular or CAD mortality. These data show that: (1) alcohol has disparate relations to cardiovascular conditions; (2) higher cardiovascular mortality rates among ex-drinkers are due to confounding traits related to past alcohol use; and (3) the U-shaped alcohol-CAD relation is not due to selective abstinence by persons at higher risk. The findings indirectly support a protective effect of lighter drinking against CAD. 
Cineangiography of the heart in a single breath hold with a segmented turboFLASH sequence. Six healthy volunteers and three patients with cardiac anomalies were studied in a comparison of segmented turboFLASH (fast low-angle shot) cine, a method of magnetic resonance imaging that permits an entire series of high-resolution cine images to be obtained in one breath hold, with standard cine. Segmented turboFLASH uses a gradient-echo sequence designed for short imaging times in combination with a segmented data acquisition method. Presaturation pulses were applied to eliminate the blood pool signal; the signal-to-noise ratio was assessed with a phantom. Standard hardware and image reconstruction methods were used. The breath-hold images consistently showed reduced ghosting and blurring from respiration. Because a very short echo time was used, segmented turboFLASH was relatively insensitive to dephasing caused by local field disturbances or flow. The authors conclude that, by reducing imaging times and eliminating respiratory artifact, segmented turboFLASH can be useful for performing cine studies of the heart and great vessels. 
Mental stress as a provocative test in patients with various clinical syndromes of coronary heart disease. To assess the prevalence of mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia and investigate the pathogenetic mechanisms by which emotional stress may induce myocardial ischemia, we studied 372 patients with angina pectoris who underwent mental arithmetic and exercise stress testings. Hyperventilation tests were also performed in 176 patients, and 340 patients underwent coronary arteriography. Sixty-one patients showed significant ST segment abnormalities during mental arithmetic and exercise stress testings (group 1). Two hundred eleven patients had negative responses to mental stress but positive exercise tests (group 2), whereas both tests were negative in 100 patients (group 3). Mental stress induced significant increases in heart rate and systolic blood pressure in the three groups of patients; however, group 1 patients had higher increases in rate-pressure product (mm Hg x beats/min) than group 2 and group 3 patients (14,909 +/- 3,894 versus 12,985 +/- 2,900 versus 12,724 +/- 4,400 mm Hg x beats/min, p less than 0.01). Group 1 patients had shorter exercise durations than group 2 or group 3 (4.06 +/- 1.55 versus 7.65 +/- 3.07 versus 13.9 +/- 5.31 minutes, p less than 0.01), although rate-pressure products at peak exercise were similar in groups 1 and 2 (20,277 +/- 6,058 versus 20,768 +/- 3,864, p = NS) and significantly higher in group 3 (26,221 +/- 7,100/mm Hg x beats/min, p less than 0.01). 
Physician practice for cardiovascular disease risk-factor reduction in six upper Midwestern communities. Preventive practice for coronary heart disease risk is increasingly accepted in the medical community. To determine the extent and characteristics of treatment advice for high blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and cigarette smoking, 274 randomly selected primary care physicians were interviewed by telephone in six Midwestern cities. Participation in the survey was 90%. Reported care for high blood pressure was consistent with national guidelines. Management of high blood cholesterol varied significantly among physicians and frequently differed from national recommendations. Although consensus existed on the importance of advising cigarette smoking cessation, reported approaches differed. The results observed indicate improved preventive practice compared with earlier surveys and recent national reports. Continued improvement, however, is needed in cholesterol and smoking-cessation management. 
Biochemical evidence of sympathetic hyperactivity in human hypertension. Radiotracer measures of norepinephrine overflow to plasma are well suited for studying both human sympathetic nervous system responses to mental stress and sympathetic nervous pathophysiology in human hypertension. With an experimental laboratory stressor (cognitive challenge), we noted a preferential activation of the cardiac sympathetic outflow; however, in fainting reactions ("vasovagal syncope"), which occur infrequently during the course of central venous catheter placement under local anesthesia, the converse was seen--an almost total withdrawal of cardiac sympathetic activity. In primary human hypertension (particularly in younger patients), a differentiated activation of the sympathetic outflow to the heart and kidneys is present, based on measurements of norepinephrine spillover to plasma. It is uncertain whether this is attributable to behavioral factors and represents a component of the defense reaction. We previously reported overflow of norepinephrine into the cerebrovascular circulation (with high internal jugular venous sampling) in humans. Because this is resistant to ganglion blockade, brain neurons--not the cerebrovascular sympathetics--are the presumed source. In a preliminary study, we found higher rates of norepinephrine spillover into the cerebrovascular circulation in patients with essential hypertension than in healthy subjects, suggesting that an underlying increase in central nervous system norepinephrine turnover may be the basis for the increased sympathetic outflow. 
Is adenosine 5'-triphosphate derangement or free-radical-mediated injury the major cause of ventricular dysfunction during reperfusion? Role of adenine nucleoside transport in myocardial reperfusion injury. The aim of this study was to determine the dual role of ATP as an energy substrate and as a major source of oxygen-derived free-radical-mediated reperfusion injury by using adenine nucleoside blocker, p-nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBMPR), and adenosine deaminase inhibitor, erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (EHNA). In a randomized study, 16 dogs were instrumented with minor-axis LTZ-piezoelectric crystals and intraventricular pressure transducers to monitor, off bypass, left ventricular performance by using a sensitive and load-independent index of contractility (slope of the stroke work-end-diastolic length relation). Hearts were subjected to 60 minutes of normothermic global ischemia and 120 minutes of reperfusion. Normal saline without (Group 1, n = 8) or with (Group 2, n = 8) NBMPR and EHNA was infused in three boluses into the cardiopulmonary bypass reservoir before ischemia and reperfusion. Transmural serial biopsies were obtained before and during ischemia and reperfusion and analyzed for myocardial adenine nucleotide pool intermediates by using high-performance liquid chromatography. In the control group, three hearts developed ischemic contracture and another three hearts exhibited cardiogenic shock during reperfusion. In the EHNA/NBMPR-treated group, left ventricular performance recovered within 30 minutes of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 vs. control). Myocardial ATP was depleted to 20% of normal in both groups by the end of ischemia (p less than 0.05). Intramyocardial adenosine in the EHNA/NBMPR-treated group was 12-fold greater (15.09 +/- 1.6 nmol/mg protein) than the control group at the end of the ischemic period (p less than 0.05). Inosine was about fourfold higher in the control group (19.07 +/- 1.50 nmol/mg protein) compared with the drug-treated group (p less than 0.05). During reperfusion, myocardial ATP levels increased to approximately 50% of normal in the EHNA/NBMPR group while remaining depressed (20% of normal) in the control group. Thus, despite the dramatic loss of myocardial ATP during ischemia, complete recovery of ventricular performance and significant repletion of ATP during reperfusion were observed when adenosine transport and deamination were modulated during ischemia and reperfusion. These results suggest that 1) the myocardium may have more ATP than is needed for basic cardiac functions and 2) washout of ATP diffusible catabolites is detrimental to ventricular performance during reperfusion. Specific blockade of nucleoside transport resulted in complete functional recovery despite low but critical ATP levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Ischaemic left ventricular failure: evidence of sustained benefit after 18 months' treatment with xamoterol. The long term effects of treatment with xamoterol in 14 patients aged 44-73 with mild to moderate heart failure as a result of ischaemic heart disease are reported. After 18 months' treatment with xamoterol, patients were assessed in a randomised double blind crossover comparison of xamoterol (200 mg twice a day) and placebo, each given for one month. Compared with placebo, xamoterol significantly increased exercise duration and work done on a bicycle ergometer and reduced the maximum exercise heart rate. Assessment of symptoms and activities at 12 months by visual analogue and Likert scales showed a trend towards the relief of symptoms of breathlessness and tiredness and an improvement in activity. There was an improvement in the clinical signs of heart failure and no haemodynamic deterioration over a 12 month period as assessed by ejection fraction. The improvement in exercise tolerance, symptoms, and activities was sustained for 18 months without side effects or development of tolerance. 
A new method for estimating preexcitation index without extrastimulus technique and its usefulness in determining the mechanism of supraventricular tachycardia. The preexcitation index has been shown to be useful in determining the mechanism of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) and the site of the accessory pathway in atrioventricular (AV) reentrant tachycardia. To test whether a preexcitation index could be computed analytically instead of by scanning the whole SVT cycle with extrastimuli, 19 patients with SVT were studied. The new index was computed using the following formula: (AV conduction time during SVT) + (ventriculoatrial conduction time during ventricular pacing at the SVT cycle length) - (SVT cycle length). There was a strong correlation between the preexcitation index determined by the extrastimulus technique and the new index in 15 patients in whom the preexcitation index could be determined (r = 0.99, p less than 0.01). The value on the new index was greater than 90 ms only in patients with dual AV nodal pathways. In the 4 patients in whom the preexcitation index could not be determined by the extrastimulus technique, the new index could differentiate AV reentrant tachycardia (index for 2 patients, 60 and 60 ms, respectively) from AV nodal reentrant tachycardia (index for 2 patients, 100 and 105 ms, respectively). In conclusion, the new index provided help in determining the mechanism of SVT, even when retrograde atrial preexcitation by a ventricular extrastimulus did not occur. 
Angina, ischemia, and effort tolerance with vasodilating beta-blockers. beta-Blockers are known to suppress exercise-induced ischemia but give rise to such problems as fatigue or dyspnea on effort and also bradycardia. In a series of double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of celiprolol (a cardioselective beta 1-blocker with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory properties) in patients with hypertension and angina and in normal volunteers, it was found that celiprolol did not produce bradycardia when given in combination with verapamil. Celiprolol did reduce exercise-induced ischemia, but there was no reduction in cardiac output at rest or on exercise compared with placebo. Compared with atenolol, celiprolol produced less dyspnea and fatigue at submaximal levels of exercise. It is concluded that celiprolol possesses certain differences, compared with conventional beta-blockers, that may be of direct clinical benefit. 
Subacute poisoning with phosalone, an organophosphate insecticide. An illness characterized by weakness, dizziness, and gastrointestinal symtoms was identified among a crew of 30 migrant field-workers employed by a grape grower in Madera County, California, during August 1987. The onset of symptoms occurred between August 24 and August 30 and a median of 9 days from the date of first employment. The first crew member sought medical treatment on August 26, and 10 crew members were admitted to hospital between August 27 and August 30. For most workers, gastrointestinal and constitutional symptoms resolved shortly after admission, but 4 patients had episodes of severe sinus bradycardia persisting for several days. On the day of admission, transient atrioventricular dissociation developed in 2 persons. Interviews with 16 crew members not admitted to the hospital identified only 1 additional worker ill with gastrointestinal symptoms, but all 16 had moderate to severe inhibition of both plasma and red blood cell cholinesterase. Four other workers who were tested but not interviewed also had cholinesterase depression. The crew had had exposure since August 19 to the organophosphate insecticide phosalone, which was last applied to the vineyard on July 21, or 29 days earlier. Although this is the first report unequivocally linking phosalone to field-worker poisoning, the delayed onset and nonspecific nature of the symptoms associated with subacute poisoning may have hindered the recognition of previous similar episodes. 
Prostaglandins, the kidney, and hypertension Prostaglandins are part of the family of oxygenated metabolites of arachidonic acid known collectively as eicosanoids. While they are formed, act, and are inactivated locally and rarely circulate in plasma, they can affect blood flow in some tissues and so might contribute to the control of peripheral vascular resistance. Few studies have shown any derangement of total body prostaglandin synthesis or metabolism in hypertension, but increased renal synthesis of one prostanoid, thromboxane A2, has been noted in spontaneously hypertensive rats and some hypertensive humans. This potent vasoconstrictor may account for the increased renal vascular resistance and suppressed plasma renin activity seen in many patients with hypertension. Increased renal vascular resistance could increase the blood pressure directly as a component of total peripheral resistance or indirectly by increasing glomerular filtration fraction and tubular sodium reabsorption. Specific thromboxane synthesis inhibitors not only decrease renal thromboxane production but also increase renal vasodilator prostaglandin synthesis when prostaglandin synthesis is stimulated. This redirection of renal prostaglandin synthesis toward prostacyclin might be of benefit in correcting a fundamental renal defect in patients with hypertension. 
Value and limitations of Doppler pressure half-time in quantifying mitral stenosis: a comparison with micromanometer catheter recordings. The purpose of this study was to compare the Doppler and catheterization pressure half-time methods of estimating mitral valve area with valve areas obtained by the Gorlin equation in a group of patients with clinically significant mitral stenosis. Data were analyzed from 67 consecutive patients who were undergoing continuous-wave Doppler examination and catheterization with micromanometer catheters. Doppler pressure half-time was calculated as the interval between peak transmitral velocity and velocity divided by the square root of 2, as measured from the outer border of the spectral envelope. Doppler mitral valve area (MVA) was obtained with the equation: MVA = 220 divided by pressure half-time. For catheterization data, the pressure half-time was measured directly from simultaneously recorded left ventricular and left atrial pressure (18 patients) or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (49 patients). The catheterization half-time was taken as the time required for the peak pressure gradient to fall to one half of the initial value. Calculations of the mitral valve area at catheterization were obtained by the Gorlin equation with pressure gradient and cardiac output determinations. Mitral valve area as determined by the Gorlin equation for all cases ranged from 0.4 to 2.0 (mean = 1.03 +/- 0.37) cm2. Linear regression analysis that compared cardiac catheterization and Doppler half-times yielded r = 0.68. For the subgroup of patients with sinus rhythm, the correlation improved to r = 0.76. 
Aspirin in the primary prevention of angina pectoris in a randomized trial of United States physicians. PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to examine the effect of low-dose aspirin (325 mg on alternate days) on the primary prevention of angina pectoris in the United States Physicians' Health Study. Despite a postulated role of platelets in atherogenesis and myocardial ischemia, the effect of chronic platelet inhibition on the development of clinical angina pectoris is unknown. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The Physicians' Health Study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial among 22,071 male physicians aged 40 to 84 years, free from previous myocardial infarction, stroke, and transient cerebral ischemia at entry, and followed for an average of 60.2 months. The 21,738 physicians who were also free from angina pectoris at baseline constituted the study population for the present analyses. RESULTS: During 106,652 person-years of follow-up, 331 patients with confirmed angina pectoris were diagnosed, 194 of whom underwent a coronary revascularization procedure (coronary artery bypass graft surgery or coronary angioplasty). As compared to participants assigned placebo, the relative risk of confirmed angina pectoris in the aspirin group was 1.10 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.88 to 1.38). For coronary revascularization, the relative risk was 1.19 (95% CI, 0.88 to 1.59). After simultaneous control for other coronary risk factors in a proportional-hazards model, these relative risks remained near unity at 1.07 (95% CI, 0.84 to 1.36) and 1.11 (95% CI, 0.81 to 1.52), respectively. When the risks of angina pectoris were examined according to year of randomization in the trial, there was no pattern of increasing benefit with longer duration of treatment. CONCLUSION: These randomized trial data indicate that chronic platelet inhibition with low-dose aspirin for an average duration of 60.2 months does not reduce the incidence of angina pectoris. 
Anaphylactoid reactions during hemodialysis on AN69 membranes in patients receiving ACE inhibitors. We report five life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurring within the very first minutes of hemodialysis on polyacrylonitrile (AN69) capillary dialyzers in three patients receiving ACE inhibitors. Such reactions were not observed either in patients treated with ACE inhibitors but dialyzed on other membranes (N = 9), nor in patients on AN69 who did not receive ACE inhibitors (N = 19). These anaphylactoid reactions could be due to bradykinin accumulation, as a result of both increased synthesis--by interaction of blood with the AN69 polymer--and catabolism blockade by ACE inhibitors. 
Fibrin- and fibrinogen-related antigens in patients with venous disease and venous ulceration. Abnormalities in systemic fibrinolysis have been implicated in the pathogenesis of venous ulceration. Patients with venous disease have a prolonged euglobulin lysis time and elevated plasma fibrinogen levels, yet little is known about the metabolism of fibrinogen and fibrin in such patients. In this study, we have used a technique that involves electrophoresis and densitometric analysis of captured fibrin-related antigens to measure the concentration and proportions of the individual fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products in patients with venous disease of the lower extremity. As a group, patients with venous disease had markedly elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and D-dimer, the terminal degradation product of cross-linked fibrin. Levels of D-monomer, the breakdown product of fibrinogen and non-cross-linked fibrin monomer, and a measure of fibrinogenolysis were normal in all patients. In patients with ulcers, the levels of D-dimer were disproportionately higher than expected from fibrin monomer levels. On an individual basis, significant elevations of D-dimer were present in six (55%) of the 11 patients with venous disease with ulcers and in three (43%) of the seven patients with venous disease without ulcers. We conclude that patients with venous disease have uniform evidence for enhanced fibrin formation, as evidenced by elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and D-dimer. This is regardless of whether the venous disease is accompanied by ulceration. 
Prostacyclin-to-thromboxane A2 ratio in arteriogenic impotence. It has been suggested that penile hypercoagulability predisposes to aging penile vascular changes and impotence, and that elevated thromboxane A2 during erection may contribute to hypercoagulability and atherosclerosis. Since the ratio of the prostacyclin concentration to the thromboxane A2 concentration is constantly maintained in normal hemostatic responses, an imbalance between thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin may be a factor to initiate vascular diseases and decrease blood flow. We assess the usefulness of the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane A2 ratio in penile blood during erection for diagnosis of arteriogenic impotence. The ratio in the arteriogenic impotence group was significantly lower (p less than 0.01) than in the psychogenic and venogenic impotence groups. Therefore, the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane A2 ratio seems to be useful to diagnose arteriogenic impotence. 
Evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus. White diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD). The natural history of CAD in insulin-dependent (ID) and noninsulin-dependent (NID) diabetes mellitus (DM) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients. In both IDDM and NIDDM, the risk of CAD increases with lengthening duration of diabetes; the risk, however, does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of CAD, suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for CAD only in a subset of patients. This is consistent with the hypothesis that the diabetic milieu has an impact on the progression of atherosclerotic lesions but not on their initiation. This hypothesis is corroborated further by the observation that CAD does not occur in diabetic patients in populations with a low risk of CAD among nondiabetic patients. The component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown. There is evidence, however, of a direct or indirect role of hyperinsulinemia in this process. 
Effects of doxazosin on serum lipids: a review of the clinical data and molecular basis for altered lipid metabolism. The goal of antihypertensive treatment must be not only the reduction of high blood pressure, but also the effective management of elevated cholesterol levels and other risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD). In controlled clinical trials, doxazosin has been shown to have antihypertensive efficacy comparable with other classes of antihypertensive agents and to lower the levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides while increasing the levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Doxazosin appears to inhibit the development of CHD on two fronts. First, doxazosin binds to the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor and inhibits the receptor-mediated responses to epinephrine and norepinephrine. Second, doxazosin has direct and indirect effects on lipid metabolism by increasing LDL receptor activity, decreasing intracellular LDL synthesis, reducing the synthesis and secretion of very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and stimulating lipoprotein lipase activity. Doxazosin may also inhibit platelet aggregation. Long-term studies will determine how these actions translate into reductions in the morbidity and mortality rates of CHD. First-year results from the Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS) have demonstrated expected reductions in blood pressure for all antihypertensive agents studied. The lipid changes have varied with the type of antihypertensive treatment and have been favorable for doxazosin. 
Antihypertensive therapy. To stop or not to stop? The benefits of continuous antihypertensive therapy have been extensively documented. However, lack of compliance with the prescribed regimen, excessive cost, and troublesome adverse effects of some antihypertensive agents led to the consideration of intermittent therapy or even complete discontinuation of therapy as an effective alternative to lifelong medication. Prospective studies dealing with this subject reported inconsistent results. Nevertheless, they allowed us to identify selection criteria of candidates for step-down or discontinuation of antihypertensive therapy. Such candidates include patients with mild essential hypertension who have one or more of the following characteristics: young age, normal body weight, low salt intake, no alcohol consumption, low pretreatment blood pressure, successful therapy with one drug only, and no or only minimal signs of target organ damage. Stopping antihypertensive therapy without subsequent rise in arterial pressure was shown to be possible in a subset of patients with mild essential hypertension for a period of months to years. This approach appears to be safe, provided that blood pressure is monitored frequently, and may improve compliance, save treatment costs, and reduce adverse effects of certain drugs, although its long-term consequences for morbidity and mortality remain to be determined. 
Ceftriaxone-sulbactam combination in rabbit endocarditis caused by a strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae producing extended-broad-spectrum TEM-3 beta-lactamase. We studied the activity of the combination of sulbactam and ceftriaxone against a Klebsiella pneumoniae strain producing TEM-3, a new extended-broad-spectrum beta-lactamase, in an endocarditis model. In vitro, ceftriaxone was strongly inactivated in the presence of TEM-3 (MBC, 128 micrograms/ml with an inoculum of 5 x 10(5) CFU/ml). A marked inoculum effect was demonstrated with sulbactam: effective concentrations of inhibitor needed to reduce the MIC and MBC of ceftriaxone to similar levels increased from 1 microgram/ml in the presence of an inoculum of 5 x 10(5) CFU/ml to 20 micrograms/ml in the presence of an inoculum of 1 x 10(7) CFU/ml. In vivo, sulbactam given at 200 mg/kg of body weight every 12 h, a dosage higher than that previously reported to be effective against rabbit endocarditis caused by other microorganisms, was not sufficient to restore the complete activity of ceftriaxone given at 30 mg/kg once daily for 4 days. This insufficient activity may be correlated with the presence of a high level of beta-lactamase inside the vegetations, as indicated by a quantitative in vitro assay of beta-lactamase activity in the cardiac vegetation, suggesting an insufficient inactivation of the extended-broad-spectrum beta-lactamase in vivo. 
The effects of phenylephrine on right ventricular performance in patients with pulmonary hypertension Pulmonary hypertension causes right ventricular ischemia and failure as a result of increased afterload combined with reduced coronary blood flow. Increasing coronary driving pressure by raising aortic pressure with phenylephrine has been shown to reverse right ventricular ischemia from pulmonary hypertension in animals. Since vasodilators often fail to reduce afterload, we tested whether raising the coronary driving pressure would improve right ventricular function in man. Ten patients with pulmonary hypertension had hemodynamics and right ventricular coronary driving pressure measured before and 10 minutes after a steady state was reached with a phenylephrine infusion titrated to raise aortic pressure by 25 percent. Phenylephrine caused a significant (p less than .01) increase in mean aortic pressure (84 to 108 mm Hg) and right ventricular coronary driving pressure (46 to 69 mm Hg). In response, there was a significant (p less than .01) rise in mean pulmonary artery pressure (58 to 67 mm Hg), right ventricular end-diastolic pressure (10 to 16 mm Hg) and wedge pressure (5 to 9 mm Hg), and an insignificant fall in cardiac output (3.26 to 3.09 L/min) and pulmonary artery O2 saturation (57 to 49 percent). Although phenylephrine increased right ventricular coronary driving pressure, it worsened right ventricular function as manifest by a rise in end-diastolic pressure and fall in cardiac output. Any benefit of raising right ventricular coronary driving pressure may have been offset by alpha vasoconstriction of right ventricular coronary blood flow and/or pulmonary arterial vasoconstriction. Phenylephrine does not appear to be a useful therapy of right ventricular failure from pulmonary hypertension in patients who fail vasodilators. 
Effects of atenolol alone, nifedipine alone and their combination on ambulant myocardial ischemia. The effects of atenolol (100 mg/day) and nifedipine (20 mg 3 times daily) and their combination on ambulant myocardial ischemia were investigated using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. Eighteen men with symptomatic coronary artery disease, exercise-induced ischemia and minimal symptoms, underwent 4 blinded treatment periods of 2 weeks' duration (2 placebo, 1 atenolol, 1 nifedipine). Those that did not have ischemia eliminated by monotherapy received combination therapy with both drugs. Forty-eight-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring was used to quantitate ischemic parameters at the end of each period. Both nifedipine and atenolol as monotherapy reduced the number of ischemic episodes and the average duration of each episode compared with placebo (p less than 0.05). Compared with placebo, nifedipine reduced the total duration of ischemia (p less than 0.05) but the effect of atenolol on ischemia duration was of borderline significance (p = 0.066). There were no differences in reduction of ischemic parameters when atenolol was compared with nifedipine (difference not significant). In the 9 patients who continued to have ischemia with monotherapy, combination therapy eliminated it in 2 and reduced the duration by greater than 50% in the remaining patients compared with placebo. In conclusion, monotherapy with nifedipine or atenolol is similarly effective in eliminating or reducing ambulant ischemia. Combination therapy can provide additional benefit in those with continued ischemia. 
Coronary artery calcification detected by CT: clinical significance and angiographic correlates. Cardiac computed tomography (CT) to detect coronary calcification was performed on 161 patients undergoing coronary angiography for proven or suspected coronary artery disease. Among 108 patients in whom coronary calcifications was identified, 90% had significant coronary stenosis angiographically (greater than 75% stenosis), and 80% of 121 patients with significant coronary stenosis showed calcification by CT. The relationship between the calcification site and the significance in stenosis of each vessel was determined. Calcification was present in 133 arteries among 205 stenotic coronary arteries (sensitivity = 65%) as compared with 59 of 439 entire arteries with normal coronary angiograms (specificity = 87%). In the younger age group the sensitivity of calcification for stenosis of each coronary artery was lower and the specificity and predictive value were generally higher than those in the elderly group. These results demonstrate that CT is a valuable procedure for detecting coronary arterial disease, since this examination is easy to conduct, noninvasive, and widely applicable for screening a large population. 
Value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation: case report. A case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported. A spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging. Early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery. The vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed. The role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed. 
Pharmacology of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as a guide to their use in congestive heart failure. The pharmacokinetics of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are difficult to assess for several reasons. First, these compounds exert their influence by inhibiting an intermediary enzyme of a cascade of enzymatic events, whose rate-limiting enzyme (renin) is not directly affected by ACE inhibition. Second, renin and angiotensin I accumulate during ACE inhibition and a change in the dose of an ACE inhibitor could produce sudden shifts of angiotensin I to angiotensin II. Third, components of the circulating renin system require the interaction of several organ systems and effector sites. Fourth, the kinetics of ACE inhibitors can be influenced by the organ systems responsible for drug absorption, metabolism and excretion, and the functional status of these systems can be affected by the heart failure process. Fifth, at least some portion of the cardiovascular effects of ACE inhibitors is influenced by the contributions of other systems whose physiologic effects may be of importance in some patients with congestive heart failure. Sixth, the potential impact of tissue-bound ACE is not yet fully understood. Finally, for appropriate drug dosing, the effects of aging on the heart failure process, the extent of renin system activity, and the disposition of ACE inhibitors need to be considered. Because of their complex pharmacokinetics, treatment with ACE inhibitors has been guided by their pharmacodynamic and clinical characteristics. 
Renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy Renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized, but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions. In a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period, 85 (16 per cent) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function. Twenty-one (4 per cent) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ACE inhibitor treatment; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology. Following withdrawal of the ACE inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients. We also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and, although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated, 58 (14.5 per cent) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology. A further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ACE inhibitor therapy; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn. These observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ACE inhibitors may result in serious complications. Methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested. 
Impact of a public cholesterol screening program. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) has endorsed physician case finding as the primary method to detect individuals with elevated cholesterol levels. Despite this recommendation, promotional and for-profit public screening programs have flourished. We surveyed participants of a mall-based cholesterol screening program 1 year after their screening. Sixty-four percent of those screened had not previously known their cholesterol levels. Those who were newly screened were less likely to benefit from this testing than the general public, since they were older (mean age, 55.3 years), more likely to be female (67.4%), and nonsmokers (88%). Screenees had excellent recall of their cholesterol level (mean absolute reporting error, 0.24 mmol/L [9 mg/dL]) and a good understanding of cholesterol as a coronary heart disease risk. Those with elevated cholesterol levels reported high distress from screening but no reduction in overall psychosocial well-being and an actual decrease in absenteeism. Only 53.7% of all who were advised to seek follow-up because of an elevated screening value had done so within the year following the screening program. However, of those with values greater than 6.2 mmol/L (240 mg/dL), 68% had sought follow-up. Many of those who participate in public screening programs have been previously tested, fall into low-benefit groups, or fail to comply with recommended follow-up. We therefore conclude that cholesterol screening programs of the type now commonly offered are unlikely to contribute greatly to the national efforts to further reduce coronary heart disease. 
Evaluation of drug therapy for treatment of hypertensive urgencies in the emergency department. Oral nifedipine (N) and clonidine (C) are often used in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies; however, until recently, there were no comparative studies using the same patient population. The authors reviewed the records of hypertensive patients treated in the emergency department between October 1, 1987 and September 30, 1988. Selected patients had a diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of greater than 115 mm Hg without evidence of acute end organ damage. Patients were stratified into three treatment groups: N, C, and group 3 (G3). G3 received a variety of drug therapies but not exclusively N or C. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), DBP, mean arterial pressure (MAP), percent decrease in MAP (%MAP), time to lower blood pressure, admissions, and discharges were evaluated. Efficacy and safety were defined as reaching a DBP less than 110 mm Hg but %MAP of no greater than either 25% or 40%, respectively. Thirty-five N, 32 C, and 27 G3 patients were identified with no statistical difference between groups in race, gender, pretreatment SBP, DBP, or MAP. N, C, and G3 significantly reduced SBP, DBP, and MAP (P less than .01). Comparing N, C, and G3, no differences were observed in %MAP, admissions, discharges, efficacy, or safety. Time required to decrease blood pressure differed between all three groups (44 +/- 32 N v 77 +/- 57 C v 152 +/- 94 min G3) (p less than .05). These results indicate that N, C, and a variety of drug therapies are equally effective and safe in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies. 
Gonococcal endocarditis: twenty-five year experience. Gonococcal endocarditis is a devastating albeit rare complication of disseminated gonorrhea. It virtually disappeared as a disease entity with the advent of antibiotic therapy. Recently, it has reappeared with surprisingly high frequency for unclear reasons. Since 1983, the authors have observed six episodes of this disease in five patients, the largest series reported to date. It is predominantly a disease of young people without underlying valvular heart disease. Characteristic clinical features include a high frequency of congestive heart failure and nephritis and a proclivity for aortic valve involvement, commonly with associated ring abscess, and large vegetations. Genitourinary symptoms, arthralgias, and rash are uncommon. Previously undescribed features include involvement of all four valves simultaneously, recurrence on an aortic valve prosthesis, and a high frequency of terminal complement deficiencies. Precipitous hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy is not uncommon, and overall mortality rate remains an alarming 19%. 
Implications of echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in contemporary medical patients: detection before hemodynamic embarrassment. Identification of suspected pericardial tamponade and the decision to perform invasive drainage of the pericardial space have historically been based on classic bedside findings. Two-dimensional echocardiography has improved detection of pericardial effusion, but it may be excessively sensitive in evaluation of patients for hemodynamic embarrassment. Therefore, 50 consecutive medical patients were examined who were identified by echocardiography to have probable tamponade (defined as the presence of right heart chamber collapse in the presence of a pericardial effusion) and who underwent combined right-sided cardiac catheterization and percutaneous pericardiocentesis. All patients had elevated pericardial pressure. However, many had minimal evidence of hemodynamic compromise (94% had systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100 mm Hg and 58% had a cardiac index greater than or equal to 2.3 liters/min per m2). Pericardiocentesis resulted in hemodynamic improvement, but frequently did not alleviate dyspnea or correct tachycardia. Patients with malignancy as the cause of tamponade had a high mortality rate (the cumulative probability of survival in such patients was only 17% at 1 year). Echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in medical patients results in the identification of a substantial subset of patients with only subtle evidence of hemodynamic compromise. This subset of patients differs sharply from medical patients described in previous reports with classic tamponade. Although the patients can be managed by invasive catheter pericardiocentesis with few complications, the natural history and the optimal management strategy for this group are not resolved. 
Studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart. II. Evidence for importance of amino acid metabolism in tolerance to ischemia. This study tests the importance of amino acid transamination in determining the tolerance of immature hearts to ischemic damage. Amino acid transamination was inhibited metabolically by pretreatment with aminooxyacetic acid. The aminooxyacetic acid dose and duration were determined by incubating in vitro tissue homogenate and showing that an 8 mmol/L AOA dose for 5 minutes blocked 90% of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activity. Control studies in nonischemic hearts showed that coronary perfusion with aminooxyacetic acid for 5 minutes did not impair myocardial performance. In contrast, pretreatment of immature puppies with aminooxyacetic acid severely impaired recovery after 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia (30% versus 85% recovery in untreated hearts, p less than 0.05). Biochemical analyses of hearts undergoing ischemia showed aminooxyacetic acid to limit lactate production, impair glutamate utilization, prevent alanine production, and limit succinate accumulation (p less than 0.05). These data suggest that amino acid transamination is an important adaptive process in the immature heart that improves its resistance to ischemic damage. 
Early outcome after placement of a metallic intracoronary stent: initial Mayo Clinic experience After percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, 3 to 7% of patients have in-hospital coronary closure, and the risk of subsequent myocardial infarction is high, even with an urgent bypass operation. Disrupted coronary morphologic integrity, particularly with large dissections, may be associated with an increased risk of acute coronary closure. A percutaneously placed coronary vascular stent may rapidly alleviate acute or threatened coronary closure and could reduce morbidity. Between October 1989 and June 1990, placement of a balloon-expandable, flexible metallic coil (Gianturco-Roubin) coronary stent was attempted 16 times in 15 Mayo Clinic patients--for treatment of actual or threatened abrupt coronary closure in 10 patients, for primary treatment of a lesion judged to be at high risk for dissection with conventional balloon angioplasty in 1, and for elective treatment of restenotic lesions in 5. Placement of the stent was successful in 15 attempts (94%). Associated complications, which were uncommon, were similar to those noted after balloon angioplasty. No early deaths occurred, and no patient required coronary artery bypass grafting. Stents were successfully placed in both urgent and elective circumstances in native coronary arteries and saphenous vein grafts, and they were used in primary atheromatous and restenotic lesions. Our initial experience with this metallic coil stent indicates that it is efficacious for vascular disruption that is threatening or causing coronary closure after angioplasty. Furthermore, elective placement of a stent may be safely undertaken in patients with high-risk coronary lesions or recurrent restenotic lesions. The long-term outcome in all groups of patients who receive coronary stents is unknown. 
Noninvasive detection of occlusive disease of the carotid siphon and middle cerebral artery. Recently, transcranial Doppler sonography has been introduced into clinical practice for noninvasive investigation of the large intracranial arteries. To determine its accuracy for detection of stenosing or occluding lesions, 133 consecutive patients were studied by both transcranial Doppler sonography and selective cerebral arteriography. Statistical analysis of findings was done separately for various arterial segments. High values for sensitivity and specificity were found for detecting obstruction of the carotid siphon and main stem of the middle cerebral artery. Diagnostic reliability of transcranial Doppler sonography was also confirmed by the calculation of a chance-corrected measure of agreement (kappa), which was close to + 1 in all subanalyses. Transcranial Doppler sonography seems to be a valuable tool for noninvasive detection of intracranial lesions of the middle cerebral artery and carotid siphon. 
Origin and significance of diastolic Doppler flow signals in the left ventricular outflow tract. Diastolic Doppler flow signals (greater than or equal to 0.2 m/s) in the left ventricular outflow tract have not been well characterized, and their origin and significance remain controversial. Fifty-nine patients (55 +/- 16 years of age) with technically good Doppler echocardiographic studies were studied prospectively. There were 14 normal subjects, 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, 10 with dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 with other cardiac disease. The rhythm was sinus in 55 and atrial fibrillation in 4. Two distinct Doppler flow signals were detected in the left ventricular outflow tract during diastole. These were termed E' (early) and A' (active) because they occurred 40 to 100 ms after higher velocity mitral inflow E (passive filling) and A (atrial contraction) signals. Among 59 patients, E' signals were present in 48 (81%) and had a mean velocity of 0.41 +/- 0.23 m/s. In 55 patients with normal sinus rhythm, A' signals were present in 52 (95%) and had a mean velocity of 0.52 +/- 0.24 m/s. No A' signals were present in the four patients with atrial fibrillation. The E' and A' velocities by pulsed wave Doppler ultrasound were low at the left ventricular apex and increased along the basal septum in the left ventricular outflow tract. Prominent A' velocities (greater than or equal to 0.45 m/s) were seen in 62% of patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, 50% of normal subjects and 10% of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. The A' velocity was higher in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (0.63 +/- 0.26 m/s) than in those with a normal heart (0.45 +/- 0.16 m/s; p less than 0.05) or dilated cardiomyopathy (0.25 +/- 0.13 m/s; p less than 0.01). The major determinants of diastolic outflow tract velocity were the mitral inflow E and A velocities and left end-diastolic dimension, particularly when combined (r = 0.64, p less than 0.0001 for E'; r = 0.72, p less than 0.0001 for A'). Distinctive E' and A' Doppler outflow tract signals result from mitral inflow and may be detected in most patients with normal heart size. These E' and A' velocities increase from apex to base and are more prominent in patients with a small, normally contracting heart or left ventricular hypertrophy. 
The antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide is not prostacyclin dependent. We tested the hypothesis that vascular prostacyclin synthesis is stimulated by hydrochlorothiazide and could account for some of the drug's antihypertensive effect. We studied 13 patients with mild essential hypertension in a randomized, double-blind design to assess the effects of indomethacin on hydrochlorothiazide's ability to lower blood pressure, alter body weight, stimulate plasma renin activity, and modulate vascular prostacyclin biosynthesis as assessed by the urinary excretion of the major enzymatically produced metabolite of prostacyclin, 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1 alpha), measured by GC/MS. Administration of hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg daily for 2 weeks, was associated with a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in both supine (systolic, 148 +/- 3 to 136 +/- 3 mm Hg; diastolic, 97 +/- 2 to 94 +/- 3 mm Hg) and upright (systolic, 151 +/- 4 to 131 +/- 2 mm Hg; diastolic, 103 +/- 2 to 97 +/- 3 mm Hg) positions. Hydrochlorothiazide administration resulted in a 1 kg weight loss and stimulation of plasma renin activity from 1.7 +/- 0.4 to 5.3 +/- 1.1 ng angiotensin I/ml/hr. However, the urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha was unchanged after administration of hydrochlorothiazide (86 +/- 13/ng/gm creatinine during placebo, 74 +/- 13 ng/gm during week 1 of hydrochlorothiazide, and 70 +/- 9 ng/gm during week 2 of the drug). Administration of indomethacin, 50 mg twice a day, resulted in greater than 60% inhibition of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha excretion but did not affect the antihypertensive response to hydrochlorothiazide. Indomethacin did not oppose the diuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide as assessed by weight loss but did attenuate the rise in plasma renin activity. Our data demonstrate that the blood pressure-lowering effect of a thiazide diuretic does not require enhanced prostacyclin synthesis and the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin does not antagonize the antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide. 
High NaCl diet enhances arterial baroreceptor reflex in NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity is blunted in the NaCl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR-S) compared with either the NaCl-resistant spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR-R) or the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat. In the current study, the effect of dietary NaCl supplementation on arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate was assessed in SHR-S and control SHR-R and WKY rats. Male SHR-S, SHR-R, and WKY rats were fed diets containing either 1% or 8% NaCl beginning at 7 weeks of age and were studied at age 9-10 weeks. Arterial baroreceptor reflex-mediated changes in lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate were recorded in conscious, unrestrained rats during phenylephrine-induced (15-40 micrograms/kg/min) and nitroprusside-induced (15-300 micrograms/kg/min) changes in mean arterial pressure. SHR-S maintained on a 1% NaCl diet had blunted baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during acute increases in MAP compared with SHR-R and WKY rats (p less than 0.05). After ingestion of the 8% NaCl diet, this blunting was absent, indicating enhancement of baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity. SHR-S maintained on a 1% NaCl diet also had blunted arterial baroreceptor control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during nitroprusside-induced decreases in mean arterial pressure compared with WKY rats, but this was not significantly altered during ingestion of the 8% NaCl diet. 
Management of mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta after heart-lung transplantation. A 19-year-old woman underwent heart-lung transplantation for obstructive bronchiolitis. Eleven days later mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta occurred. Emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted via the femoral vessels and the chest was reopened under cardiac massage. Perforation of the aorta at the site of insertion of the cardioplegic cannula in the donor aorta was seen. Under circulatory arrest the infected area was excised, a pericardial patch plasty was performed, and the region was covered with a muscle flap. Postoperatively, Candida albicans was found in the excised specimen of the aorta, in drainage fluid, and in the bronchoalveolar lavage. High doses of antimycotics were administered intravenously and for irrigation of the mediastinum, which resulted in an eradication of fungi in all cultures 7 days later. Six weeks after reoperation the patient was discharged home, and she remains well 9 months postoperatively. 
The addition of doxazosin to the treatment regimen of patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockers. When doxazosin was given to patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockade, blood pressure was normalized in 94% of the 34 patients (blood pressure less than or equal to 140/85 mm Hg). This reduction in blood pressure was obtained with doxazosin in combination with metoprolol or oxprenolol at a mean final daily dose of 1.3 mg or pindolol or atenolol at 2.0 mg/day. Exercise-induced increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was also lower with combined beta-blocker and doxazosin therapy than with beta-blocker alone. After 12 weeks of treatment, the combination of doxazosin and beta-blocker significantly reduced total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. All side effects were mild and only one patient was withdrawn from therapy. 
The yield of cholesterol screening in an urban black community. BACKGROUND: While the distribution of cholesterol levels have been well studied in the general population, little is known about cholesterol and other cardiovascular disease risk factors in screenings held in an urban Black community. This study was designed to determine the yield of cholesterol screening in this community. METHODS: Screening took place in eight community sites. Serum total cholesterol was measured using a rapid capillary technique. Blood pressure was taken according to national guidelines and the average of two to three measurements were used. Standard interviews were used to determine the presence of cardiovascular risk factors by history. RESULTS: Of the 562 individuals screened, 44.9 percent had cholesterol levels requiring referral for follow-up care. Of those with total cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.21 mmol/L, 66.4 percent were previously undetected and more than half also had blood pressure levels greater than or equal to 140/90 mmHg on screening; 45 percent of all participants had blood pressure greater than or equal to 140/90 on screenings. Of those with a history of elevated total cholesterol levels, none had levels below 5.17 mmol/L at the time of screening. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple risk factors are highly prevalent in the urban Black community during cholesterol screening programs. Findings suggest the need for cholesterol programs incorporating blood pressure screening in the urban Black community. 
Vascular flow capacity of hindlimb skeletal muscles in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Total and regional skeletal muscle flows (radiolabeled microspheres) were determined in isolated maximally vasodilated hindquarters of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and age-matched (11-12 mo) normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) to assess the vascular flow capacity of the skeletal muscle vascular beds. Vascular flow capacity was estimated by measuring total hindquarters and regional muscle blood flows (under conditions of maximal vasodilation with papaverine or papaverine plus isoproterenol) over a wide range of perfusion pressures in WKY and SHR. Capillary exchange capacity was estimated by determining the capillary filtration coefficient. Isogravimetric capillary pressures and segmental vascular resistances were determined in each hindquarter. Isogravimetric flows and capillary pressures were not different between WKY and SHR. However, total and precapillary vascular resistances were significantly elevated in SHR, and postcapillary resistances were not different compared with WKY. Maximal capillary filtration coefficient values for the SHR group averaged 20% lower than WKY values, suggesting that hypertension was associated with a reduction in the microvascular surface area available for fluid exchange and, therefore, the capillary exchange capacity. Over the perfusion pressures studied, total hindquarters flows averaged 60% lower in SHR than in WKY. Flows to individual skeletal muscles averaged 76% lower in SHR than in WKY regardless of the muscle fiber type. Thus, modifications exist in the hindlimb skeletal muscle vasculature of SHR that reduces the capillary exchange capacity and limit the capacity of deliver flow at a given perfusion pressure gradient. 
Use of a guiding catheter for contralateral femoral artery angioplasty. We describe a unique method employing a transseptal sheath as a "guiding catheter" that allows contralateral retrograde femoral artery access to perform balloon angioplasty of proximal superficial femoral artery lesions. This technique simplifies arterial access, provides support for crossing lesions, and allows angiographic visualization of target lesions during the procedure. 
Improved morphologic characterization of atrial septal aneurysm by transesophageal echocardiography: relation to cerebrovascular events. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was performed in 23 consecutive adult patients with an atrial septal aneurysm. In three patients with a cerebrovascular event the diagnosis was established by the transesophageal approach only. Interatrial shunting on transthoracic imaging with use of echocardiographic contrast imaging or Doppler color mapping, or both, was detected in 7 (41%) of 17 patients. On performing contrast imaging in combination with color flow mapping during transesophageal echocardiography, positive shunting was demonstrated in 15 (83%) of 18 patients. Echocardiographic identification of multiple fenestrations (n = 4) and thrombus within the aneurysm (n = 2) could be achieved for the first time by transesophageal ultrasound application. Cerebrovascular events occurred in 12 (52%) of 23 patients and were regarded as being definitely thromboembolic in 10 (43%); 8 (67%) of the 12 patients had repeated cerebral events. Except for mitral valve prolapse in one patient, no other potential cardiac source of embolism could be identified despite the use of transesophageal echocardiography. A thickening of the aneurysmal membrane greater than or equal to 5 mm was found in 9 (75%) of 12 patients with versus 3 (27%) of 11 patients without a cerebrovascular event (p less than 0.05); this proved to be the only significant difference between the two patient groups. The mechanism of embolization may be both primary thrombus formation within the aneurysm and paradoxic embolization through an interatrial communication as demonstrated by the findings in two patients. It is concluded that atrial septal aneurysm is a cardiac abnormality with thromboembolic potential. In patients with this lesion and a history of an embolic event, long-term anticoagulant therapy is indicated. 
Coronary dynamics and mental arithmetic stress in humans. Incidence and mechanisms of psychological stress-induced myocardial ischemia were investigated in a population of 63 patients using mental arithmetic. Fifty subjects (group 1) were selected as a consecutive population of ischemic patients with electrocardiographic documentation of ischemia at rest, on effort, or both. Mental arithmetic induced increases in heart rate, blood pressure, and rate-pressure product in all patients. Transient ischemic electrocardiographic changes occurred in 22 patients (44%; positive mental arithmetic), the majority of whom had both resting and exercise angina. In negative mental arithmetic tests, peak rate-pressure product was always lower than that achieved during exercise (mean +/- SD, 11.9 +/- 3 versus 21.3 +/- 5, p less than 0.01). Of the 22 patients with positive mental arithmetic tests, ischemia occurred in only six, at a rate-pressure product equal to or more than the one achieved during exercise (21.1 +/- 5 versus 19.4 +/- 4, p less than 0.01), suggesting an increase in myocardial O2 demand exceeding the limited increase in flow; in the remaining 16 patients, rate-pressure product values were significantly lower (14.8 +/- 3 versus 22.7 +/- 6, p less than 0.01), suggesting a primary reduction in coronary blood flow that is probably related to an increase in coronary tone. To assess the possible site of such a vasoconstriction, the effect of mental arithmetic on large coronary artery diameter was tested in 13 additional unselected patients (group 2) undergoing coronary angiography for a chest pain syndrome. 
Diagnosing Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis by detecting antibodies against S. aureus capsular polysaccharide types 5 and 8. Consecutive serum samples from patients with Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis or septicemia or non-S. aureus endocarditis and febrile nonsepticemic controls were tested for antibodies against S. aureus capsular polysaccharide (CP) types 5 and 8 by ELISA. The upper normal antibody levels were defined as the upper 99.5% confidence limits of the values from the febrile controls. All available patient isolates were tested for the presence of CP type 5 or 8 (85% of the isolates expressed either serotype), and all five patients with S. aureus endocarditis had positive antibody levels against the corresponding serotype within the first 10 days of infection. Three other endocarditis patients lacked isolates for CP testing but two of these were positive. Positive antibody levels were found in 0 of 28 septicemia patients, in 1 of 12 non-S. aureus endocarditis patients, and in 3 of 37 febrile controls. Thus, testing for anti-CP 5 or 8 antibodies, especially together with CP serotyping of the patient's isolate, seems to provide important information in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in patients with S. aureus septicemia. 
Acute aortic valvular incompetence following blunt thoracic deceleration injury: case report. Blunt trauma leading to aortic valvular incompetence is rarely encountered, with 27 cases reported to date. All cusps and commissures are involved to a similar degree. Treatment includes either reattachment of cusps to the annulus (80% recurrence of incompetence) or valvular replacement (no recurrence). Valve replacement is the treatment of choice for these patients. 
Critical ischemia times and survival patterns of experimental pig flaps. Previous work on critical ischemia time suggested (1) a greater susceptibility of myocutaneous flaps over skin flaps to the ischemia reperfusion injury and (2) that duration of ischemia may affect the survival area of a flap. Using a pig model, 55 animals were operated on and the critical ischemia times and survival patterns of the buttock skin (n = 85) and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous (n = 88) island flaps were determined after being submitted to 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 hours of normothermic ischemia. The average critical ischemia times (CIT50) were determined to be 9 and 10 hours for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps, respectively. Percentage of total area surviving (%TAS) in those flaps which did survive was adversely affected by increases in the ischemic interval in both flap models. A statistically significant decrease in percentage of total area surviving was found after 6 and 8 hours of ischemia for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps, respectively. 
Cor triatriatum: clinical presentation and surgical results in 12 patients. Twelve patients with cor triatriatum have been seen at our institution since 1979. The clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, and surgical results are outlined in this retrospective review. Operation is the treatment of choice for this rare congenital cardiac defect. One patient died 1 day before scheduled operation, and 2 patients died postoperatively, yielding a surgical mortality rate of 17% and an overall mortality rate of 25%. Resection of the obstructing atrial membrane was performed using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases. Left atriotomy was performed in 6 patients, and right atriotomy was performed in 7. The two postoperative deaths occurred in patients who had serious associated cardiac defects. Associated anomalies include atrial septal defect, persistent left superior vena cava, and partial anomalous pulmonary venous return. The postoperative course has been excellent in all 9 surviving patients; all remain asymptomatic. Cor triatriatum is amenable to surgical repair with excellent results when diagnosed early and when not complicated by other severe cardiac anomalies. 
Relation of left ventricular mass and geometry to morbidity and mortality in uncomplicated essential hypertension. OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognostic significance of left ventricular mass and geometry in initially healthy persons with essential hypertension. DESIGN: An observational study of a prospectively identified cohort. SETTING: University medical center. PATIENTS: Two hundred and eighty patients with essential hypertension and no pre-existing cardiac disease were evaluated using echocardiography between 1976 and 1981. Two hundred and fifty-three subjects or their family members (90%) were contacted for a follow-up interview an average of 10.2 years after the initial echocardiogram was obtained; the survival status of 27 patients lost to follow-up was ascertained using National Death Index data. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Left ventricular mass exceeded 125 g/m2 in 69 of 253 patients (27%). Cardiovascular events occurred in a higher proportion of patients with than without left ventricular hypertrophy (26% compared with 12%; P = 0.006). Patients with increased ventricular mass were also at higher risk for cardiovascular death (14% compared with 0.5%; P less than 0.001) and all-cause mortality (16% compared with 2%; P = 0.001). Electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy did not predict risk. Patients with normal left ventricular geometry had the fewest adverse outcomes (no cardiac deaths; morbid events in 11%), and those with concentric hypertrophy had the most (death in 21%; morbid events in 31%). In a multivariate analysis, only age and left ventricular mass--but not gender, blood pressure, or serum cholesterol level--independently predicted all three outcome measures. CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiographically determined left ventricular mass and geometry stratify risk in patients with essential hypertension independently of and more strongly than blood pressure or other potentially reversible risk factors and may help to stratify the need for intensive treatment. 
Increased erythrocyte sodium-lithium countertransport activity in essential hypertension is due to an increased affinity for extracellular sodium. 1. Sodium-lithium countertransport activity in a standard assay, its sodium affinity constant and maximum velocity were measured in erythrocytes from normal subjects and from essential hypertensive patients with and without a family history of hypertension. 2. In normal subjects the sodium concentration used in the standard assay was similar to the sodium affinity constant so that the activity measured in this assay was less than the maximum velocity. 3. In patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history, 33% had a sodium-lithium countertransport activity greater than the upper limit of the normal control range (0.4 mmol of Li+ h-1 l-1 of cells). 4. The reason for the raised sodium-lithium countertransport activity was an increased sodium affinity (lower sodium affinity constant) at the outside ion-binding site. 5. Of the patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history but sodium-lithium countertransport activity within the normal range in the standard assay, 30% also had a low sodium affinity constant. 6. A low sodium affinity constant at the outside site of the sodium-lithium countertransporter may be a more specific indicator for a group of patients with inherited hypertension than the standard sodium-lithium countertransport activity assay. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura related to ticlopidine 4 patients had typical features of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) after 3 to 8 weeks of ticlopidine therapy. In 2 ticlopidine was the only medication taken before TTP; in another, rechallenge with drugs other than ticlopidine that the patient had been taking did not produce relapse. In all patients the delay between start of ticlopidine and TTP was in the same range as the latent period before ticlopidine-induced neutropenia. No relapse occurred in the 4 to 43 months of follow-up in the 3 surviving patients. 
Superior hypophyseal artery aneurysm. Report of two cases. Two cases of saccular intracranial aneurysms arising from the superior hypophyseal artery take-off from the internal carotid artery are presented. The angiographic findings and technical details of the operative approach are discussed. Particular attention is focused on the use of fenestrated angled clips. 
Capabilities of supine exercise electrocardiography versus exercise radionuclide angiography in predicting coronary events. The ability of supine exercise electrocardiography and exercise radionuclide angiography to predict time to subsequent cardiac events (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction or late coronary bypass grafting or angioplasty) were compared in 265 patients with normal resting electrocardiograms who were not taking digoxin. All patients had undergone coronary catheterization and were initially treated medically. Follow-up study was performed at a median of 51 months. Separate logistic regression models, which had been previously developed to predict 3-vessel or left main coronary artery disease (CAD), were compared using a Cox regression analysis to predict time to a subsequent cardiac event. The exercise electrocardiography model, consisting of the magnitude of ST depression, exercise heart rate and patient gender, was a powerful predictor (chi-square = 30.8, p less than 0.0001) of subsequent events. The exercise radionuclide angiography model, which included the exercise response of the pressure-volume ratio in addition to the exercise electrocardiography variables, had similar prognostic power (chi-square = 31.8, p less than 0.0001). In a separate analysis considering only cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction, the exercise electrocardiography model remained a significant predictor of events (chi-square = 12.2, p less than 0.001). None of the radionuclide angiography variables added significantly to the prognostic power of the exercise electrocardiography model. Thus, in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram who are not taking digoxin, the supine exercise electrocardiography model that predicts 3-vessel or left main CAD also predicts future cardiac events. Exercise radionuclide angiography does not provide any additional prognostic information in such patients. 
Subaortic obstruction: intraoperative echocardiography as an adjunct to operation. Fourteen patients undergoing operation for subaortic obstruction (membranous obstruction in 11 patients, tunnel obstruction in 2 patients, obstruction due to reduplicated mitral valve tissue in 1 patient) were evaluated by intraoperative epicardial echocardiography. In all 9 patients with "discrete" obstruction who underwent prebypass epicardial echocardiography, the septal and lateral attachments of the lesion were correctly demonstrated. The precise extent of tunnel stenosis was seen in both patients. The lateral attachment of the membrane in 4 patients and multiple extensions in another 2 were identified by the epicardial study (having been missed on precordial echocardiography). The discrete membrane was enucleated in 10 of the 11 patients and was partially resected in 1. One tunnel obstruction was completely relieved; the other was partially relieved. Reduplicated mitral valve tissue in the remaining patient was completely resected. Epicardial imaging after bypass showed remnants of the membrane in 2 patients. Intraoperative Doppler echocardiography and color flow imaging confirmed the absence of clinically significant residual gradients (less than 20 mm Hg) in all but 1 patient with tunnel obstruction. Epicardial imaging provided excellent morphological information about obstructive lesions of the left ventricular outflow tract and enabled immediate assessment of surgical repair. 
Morphometry of the subepithelial circulation in sheep airways. Effect of vascular congestion. In order to quantitate the subepithelial microvascular volume and its relation to the airway lumen, we conducted a morphometric analysis of the vascular compartment in the wall of the trachea (within a 55-microns depth from the epithelial basement membrane) and of 1.0 and 0.5-mm bronchioles of sheep. The lungs were fixed by bronchial and pulmonary artery perfusion with glutaraldehyde under three experimental conditions: (1) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm Hg pulmonary artery pressure, 20 mm Hg (control); (2) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm Hg, pulmonary artery pressure, 40 mm Hg (pulmonary hypertension, PH); (3) bronchial artery pressure, 100 mm Hg, pulmonary artery pressure, 40 mm Hg (pharmacologic vasodilation with sodium nitroprusside, PH + V). Venous pressures were atmospheric. Under control conditions, the microvascular volume fraction comprised 12, 16, and 15% of the subepithelial tissue in the trachea and 1-mm and 0.5-mm bronchioles, respectively. PH increased the microvascular volume fraction in the bronchioles (p less than 0.05), but it had no effect on the microvasculature in the trachea. PH + V approximately doubled the microvascular volume fraction in the trachea and the bronchioles. PH increased the mean wall thickness, and PH and PH + V decreased the airway cross-sectional area in the 1-mm bronchioles. These observations demonstrate that the microvasculature constitutes a considerable volume fraction of the subepithelial airway tissue and that vascular congestion can narrow the bronchiolar lumen. 
Diet, smoking, and alcohol: influence on coronary heart disease risk. The Framingham study on coronary heart disease (CHD) has shown that life-style, particularly diet, smoking, and alcohol consumption, has a great impact on the incidence of CHD. Blood lipoproteins, rather than total blood cholesterol, have been found to be more accurate predictors of CHD risk. Blood triglyceride, previously considered to have little bearing on CHD risk, was found to have a negative impact in many cases. A population subgroup with high triglyceride greater than or equal to 1.7 mmol/L (greater than or equal to 150 mg/dL), low high-density lipoprotein less than or equal to 1.04 mmol/L (less than or equal to 40 mg/dL), increased insulin resistance, and a higher incidence of diabetes mellitus has been found to be at increased risk for CHD. Diet intervention trials have shown that a reduction in total cholesterol and saturated fat consumption produced reduction in CHD incidence proportionate to the fall in cholesterol. Cigarette smoking increased CHD risk moderately; those who smoked one pack per day had twice the risk of nonsmokers. Alcohol consumption actually lowered CHD incidence in the Framingham study; however, when alcohol consumption was greater than two drinks per day, a rise in mortality from cancer and stroke was observed. 
Nifedipine protects the heart from the acute deleterious effects of cocaine if administered before but not after cocaine. BACKGROUND. We tested the hypothesis that nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, could ameliorate the toxic effects of cocaine on the myocardium. METHODS AND RESULTS. In an initial protocol, anesthetized dogs were pretreated with nifedipine or saline and then administered cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.v. bolus). Coronary blood flow, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and the first derivation of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt) were measured at baseline, 2 minutes, and 15 minutes after cocaine administration. Nifedipine pretreatment prevented the early cocaine-induced decrease in coronary blood flow and improved left ventricular dP/dt compared with untreated control animals. After cocaine, ejection fraction fell in the saline group to 37 +/- 3% but increased in the nifedipine group to 59 +/- 4% (p less than 0.05). In a second protocol, vehicle or intravenous nifedipine was administered after an infusion of cocaine (10 mg/kg). In contrast to pretreatment, there was no significant improvement in left ventricular function or coronary blood flow in nifedipine-treated versus control animals. Data from the study also suggested that cocaine acts directly on the myocardium. Within seconds of cocaine bolus administration, coronary blood flow in control animals increased to a peak level 59 +/- 14% higher than before cocaine and left ventricular dP/dt decreased by 23 +/- 5%, providing evidence that cocaine causes direct depression of myocardial function independent of a decrease in myocardial blood flow. CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that nifedipine administered as a pretreatment protects against the depression of myocardial function and decrease in coronary blood flow caused by acute cocaine administration. However, when nifedipine is given after cocaine, no improvement is seen. Cocaine has a direct negative inotropic effect on the heart that is independent of a decrease in coronary blood flow. 
Efficacy of ibopamine in the treatment of heart failure. Loss of myocardial contractility, reflexly enhanced vasoconstriction, and neuroendocrine excitation are the pathophysiologic hallmarks of low-output heart failure. Drugs that counter both consequences afford considerable therapeutic potential in retarding and perhaps even in staying the consequences of the syndrome. Ibopamine possesses such potential through its unique ability to stimulate both dopaminergic- and beta-adrenoreceptors in the heart and circulatory system. Stimulation of dopaminergic- receptors and beta 2-adrenoreceptors results in vasodilatation in all regional vascular territories. beta 2-Adrenoreceptor agonist activity also affords mild positive inotropic activity in the heart, whereas stimulation of presynaptic dopaminergic- receptors (DA2) attenuates the increased sympathetic neural outflow. The drug also suppresses the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in addition to having a direct natriuretic activity. The pharmacodynamic effects of ibopamine, exerted through its metabolite epinine, are translated into measurable therapeutic benefits in patients with chronic heart failure. The increase in peripheral blood flow induced in all regional vascular territories, including the kidneys, is associated with increased cardiac output and stroke volume and reduction in left ventricular pressure work, wall stress, and myocardial oxygen consumption. Plasma norepinephrine, angiotensin, and aldosterone are also reduced, and renal sodium excretion is enhanced. These hemodynamic and neuroendocrine activities, which are not subject to tolerance during sustained administration of the drug, are accompanied by clinically significant improvement in symptoms, exercise tolerance, and the New York Heart Association classification of disability. More important, no proarrhythmic effects have been observed during sustained treatment, and the minimal side effects observed during long-term treatment enhance the safety profile of the drug. 
Echocardiographic left ventricular mass and electrolyte intake predict arterial hypertension. OBJECTIVE: To identify predictors of arterial hypertension. PATIENTS: One hundred thirty-two normotensive adults from a large employed population. METHODS: Echocardiography, standard blood tests, and 24-hour urine collection, at baseline and after an interval of 3 to 6 years (mean, 4.7 +/- 0.8 years). RESULTS: At follow-up, 15 subjects (11%; 7 men, 8 women) had a systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm Hg or a diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mm Hg or both (mean, 143 +/- 7 and 87 +/- 6 mm Hg, respectively). At baseline, subjects who developed hypertension had a greater left ventricular mass index than those who did not (92 +/- 25 compared with 77 +/- 19 g/m2 body surface area; P less than 0.005) and higher 24-hour urinary sodium/potassium excretion ratio (3.6 +/- 1.7 compared with 2.6 +/- 1.4; P less than 0.04); there were no differences in race, initial age, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, coronary risk factors, or plasma renin activity. The likelihood of developing hypertension rose from 3% in the lowest quartile of sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index to 24% in the highest quartile (P less than 0.005); a parallel trend was less regular for quartiles of the sodium/potassium excretion ratio (P less than 0.04). In multivariate analyses, follow-up systolic pressures in all subjects and in the 117 who remained normotensive were predicted by initial age, systolic blood pressure, black race, and sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index; final diastolic blood pressure was predicted by its initial value, plasma triglyceride levels, urinary sodium/potassium ratio, low renin activity, black race, and plasma glucose level. CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiographic left ventricular mass in normotensive adults is directly related to the risk for developing subsequent hypertension. Left ventricular mass improves prediction of future systolic pressure, whereas diastolic pressure is more related to initial metabolic status. Black race is also an independent determinant of higher subsequent blood pressure. 
Effect of drug and diet treatment of mild hypertension on diastolic blood pressure. The TAIM Research Group. The Trial of Antihypertensive Interventions and Management is a multicenter randomized trial designed to examine the diastolic blood pressure response of various combinations of pharmacological and dietary interventions in the treatment of mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 90-100 mm Hg). Eight hundred and seventy-eight participants at 110-160% of ideal weight were randomly allocated to nine drug/diet treatment groups receiving either a placebo, chlorthalidone (25 mg), or atenolol (50 mg), combined with a usual, a weight loss, or a low sodium/high potassium diet. The primary outcome was diastolic blood pressure change from baseline to 6 months. Seven hundred and eighty-seven participants had follow-up data. The mean baseline diastolic blood pressure was 93.8 mm Hg; 55.9% of the participants were male, and the weight loss diet group lost an average of 4.7 kg. Multiple comparisons were accounted for in the analysis. A significantly greater lowering of diastolic blood pressure (12.4 mm Hg) was achieved in the atenolol group compared with either the low sodium/high potassium diet group (7.9 mm Hg, p = 0.001) or weight loss group (8.8 mm Hg, p = 0.006). Adding weight loss to chlorthalidone significantly enhanced blood pressure lowering (15.1 mm Hg) when compared with the diuretic alone (10.8 mm Hg, p = 0.002), but adding a low sodium/high potassium diet (12.2 mm Hg, p = 0.029) did not. In the short-term treatment of mild hypertension where diastolic blood pressure is the sole consideration, drugs outperform diet, and weight loss is beneficial, especially with diuretics. 
Palliative repair of aortic atresia associated with tricuspid atresia and transposition of the great arteries. Successful palliative repair of aortic atresia and hypoplastic aortic arch associated with tricuspid atresia in a neonate is described. The repair consisted of reconstruction of the hypoplastic aortic arch with an equine pericardial patch, division of the patient ductus arteriosus, connection of the pulmonary artery to the aorta, implantation of the proximal part of the ascending aorta into the main pulmonary artery, and anastomosis of a polytetrafluoroethylene graft 5 mm in diameter between the right ventricular outflow tract and the central pulmonary artery, which was transferred anteriorly to the main pulmonary artery. 
Pharmacologic irreversible narrowing in chronic cerebrovasospasm in rabbits is associated with functional damage. We studied isolated basilar artery segments from a rabbit model of chronic cerebrovasospasm. Autologous blood placed around the basilar artery of rabbits killed 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 9 days later caused narrowing of the segments with a biphasic time course. The first (immediate) phase was reversed by intra-arterial papaverine; the second phase exhibited an increasing component of narrowing that was papaverine-insensitive. Based on the passive force/length curves, basilar artery segments became increasingly stiff over 9 days. By contrast, the segments' contractility decreased. Responses of the basilar artery segments were greater over the first few days, but then became less than that of saline-injected controls. Contractions in response to norepinephrine and potassium were reduced. Endothelium-based acetylcholine-induced vasodilation progressively diminished, as did the response to sympathetic nerve stimulation. There was a negative correlation between artery wall stiffness and contractility. The papaverine-insensitive component of angiographic narrowing correlated directly with loss of contractility and with artery wall stiffness. These results are consistent with the conclusion that increased artery wall stiffness is a primary determining factor in the arterial narrowing of chronic cerebrovasospasm. 
Regeneration of myocardial phosphocreatine in pigs despite continued moderate ischemia. The effects of 1 hour of mild and moderate reductions in coronary blood flow on myocardial high-energy phosphate levels were evaluated. Thirty anesthetized pigs were instrumented with left anterior descending arterial and venous catheters, crystals for instantaneous wall thickness, and a fluid-filled occluder. Measurement of myocardial blood flow was performed with microspheres, and a series of myocardial biopsies also was performed. In 10 pigs, overall coronary blood flow was lowered by 22%, with a fall in subendocardial-to-subepicardial flow ratio from 1.11 to 0.54 and in wall thickening from 33% to 15%. Subendocardial flow fell 48%. Coronary blood flow and thickening were constant during 1 hour of ischemia. Phosphocreatine (mumol/g wet wt) in the subendocardial third of the ischemic zone fell from 7.6 to 3.8 at 5 minutes of ischemia (p less than 0.005 versus control) and returned to normal (7.9) at 60 minutes (p = NS), despite ongoing ischemia. Subendocardial ATP (mumol/g wet wt) fell slowly from 4.3 and leveled off at 2.1 at 60 minutes of ischemia (p less than 0.001 versus control). Similar regeneration of phosphocreatine was found in seven additional pigs, with a 43% transmural reduction in coronary blood flow and a 66% reduction in subendocardial flow. No significant changes in ATP and phosphocreatine were noted in two different control groups (n = 13 pigs). The regeneration of phosphocreatine despite ongoing ischemia and low ATP levels was not related to changes in myocardial oxygen demand or consumption, or in regional function during the period of ischemia. This may reflect 1) a successful downregulation of the energy needs of the ischemic myocardium to maintain cell viability, or 2) a metabolic abnormality in the ability of the cells to produce ATP primarily or by use of phosphocreatine. 
Passive smoking and heart disease. Epidemiology, physiology, and biochemistry. The evidence that ETS increases risk of death from heart disease is similar to that which existed in 1986 when the US Surgeon General concluded that ETS caused lung cancer in healthy nonsmokers. There are 10 epidemiological studies, conducted in a variety of locations, that reflect about a 30% increase in risk of death from ischemic heart disease or myocardial infarction among nonsmokers living with smokers. The larger studies also demonstrate a significant dose-response effect, with greater exposure to ETS associated with greater risk of death from heart disease. These epidemiological studies are complemented by a variety of physiological and biochemical data that show that ETS adversely affects platelet function and damages arterial endothelium in a way that increases the risk of heart disease. Moreover, ETS, in realistic exposures, also exerts significant adverse effects on exercise capability of both healthy people and those with heart disease by reducing the body's ability to deliver and utilize oxygen. In animal experiments, ETS also depresses cellular respiration at the level of mitochondria. The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ETS also accelerate, and may initiate, the development of atherosclerotic plaque. Of note, the cardiovascular effects of ETS appear to be different in nonsmokers and smokers. Nonsmokers appear to be more sensitive to ETS than do smokers, perhaps because some of the affected physiological systems are sensitive to low doses of the compounds in ETS, then saturate, and also perhaps because of physiological adaptions smokers undergo as a result of long-term exposure to the toxins in cigarette smoke. In any event, these findings indicate that, for cardiovascular disease, it is incorrect to compute "cigarette equivalents" for passive exposure to ETS and then to extrapolate the effects of this exposure on nonsmokers from the effects of direct smoking on smokers. These results suggest that heart disease is an important consequence of exposure to ETS. The combination of epidemiological studies with demonstration of physiological changes with exposure to ETS, together with biochemical evidence that elements of ETS have significant adverse effects on the cardiovascular system, leads to the conclusion that ETS causes heart disease. This increase in risk translates into about 10 times as many deaths from ETS-induced heart disease as lung cancer; these deaths contribute greatly to the estimated 53,000 deaths annually from passive smoking. This toll makes passive smoking the third leading preventable cause of death in the United States today, behind active smoking and alcohol. 
Spinal cord arteriovenous malformation with an associated lymphatic anomaly. Case report. Spinal cord arteriovenous malformations (AVM's), like other vascular anomalies of the central nervous system, can be associated with similar vascular lesions of the skin and viscera. A 7-year-old girl, who presented with rapidly progressing paraplegia, was found to have a spinal cord AVM, cutaneous angioma, and a chylous malformation of the lymphatic system. She had previously undergone treatment for a posterior thoracic cutaneous angioma. At surgery, upon incision of the paravertebral muscle fascia, viscous pale fluid was encountered emanating from a foramen in the thoracic lamina. The spinal AVM was resected in spite of concern that the abnormality represented spinal osteomyelitis. Postoperatively, there was full return of function in the lower extremities, along with recurrent episodes of chylothorax, which slowly came under control with dietary manipulation. A review of the anatomy of the thoracic duct and nontraumatic causes of chylothorax is presented, and the association of cutaneous and central angiomas is discussed. Finally, the treatment of chylothorax is delineated. 
Percutaneous transaortic closure of postinfarctional ventricular septal rupture. We report a case of successful closure of a postinfarctional ventricular septal defect by means of the transaortic approach with a balloon catheter. This method brought about substantial improvement in cardiopulmonary function before an elective operation and made it possible to successfully perform the operation on the patient, an 81-year-old woman, on the 22nd day of admission. 
Calcitropic hormones, platelet calcium, and blood pressure in essential hypertension. Plasma ionized calcium, platelet cytosolic calcium (using the fura-2 method in gel-filtered platelets), parathyroid hormone (both the intact hormone and a midmolecule portion), calcitriol, and calcidiol were measured in 19 untreated male patients with essential hypertension and 19 age-matched normotensive male research subjects. Mean levels of platelet cytosolic calcium, parathyroid hormone, calcitriol, and calcidiol were all significantly higher, whereas plasma ionized calcium was significantly lower, in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group. Both platelet cytosolic calcium and intact parathyroid hormone were positively correlated with mean arterial pressure (r = 0.58, p less than 0.001; r = 0.54, p less than 0.001, respectively), whereas plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated with mean arterial pressure (r = -0.60, p less than 0.001) in the combined group of all study subjects. All three of these correlations were significant in the hypertensive group alone but not in the normotensive group alone. When analyzed with plasma ionized calcium, body mass index, serum calcitriol, and calcidiol in a multivariable regression model, the significance of the partial regressions of platelet cytosolic calcium and parathyroid hormone with mean arterial pressure persisted. Intact parathyroid hormone was positively correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium (r = 0.43, p less than 0.01) and plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium (r = -0.44, p less than 0.01). These results confirm previous reports of disturbances of calcium metabolism in essential hypertension and suggest that the elevated platelet cytosolic calcium observed in essential hypertension may be linked to one or more of these alterations of calcium metabolism. 
Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty in surgical high risk patients. Among 126 consecutive patients undergoing percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty, 34 were judged to be at high risk for surgery on the basis of age greater than 70 years (n = 13), New York Heart Association functional class IV (n = 11), ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% (n = 3), severe pulmonary hypertension (n = 7), need for associated coronary bypass (n = 4) or additional valve surgery (n = 20) or severe pulmonary disease (n = 3). Baseline features of the high risk group were substantially worse than those of the other patients: age (65 +/- 11 versus 49 +/- 12 years; p = 0.0001) and echocardiographic score (9.4 +/- 1.8 versus 8.2 +/- 1.5; p = 0.005) were higher, whereas cardiac output (2.9 +/- 0.9 versus 4.1 +/- 1.2 liters/min; p = 0.0001) and mitral valve area (0.9 +/- 0.4 versus 1.1 +/- 0.3 mm2; p = 0.002) were lower. Three high risk patients experienced technical failures and three others had major complications. Among the remaining 28 patients, 18 (65%) had a complete hemodynamic success, 4 (14%) an incomplete success and 6 (21%) hemodynamic failure. Stepwise logistic regression analysis retained echocardiographic score as the only factor independently predictive of success. The percent increase in mitral valve area also correlated with echocardiographic score (r = 0.51, p less than 0.01). 
Clinical efficacy of flosequinan in heart failure. The effects of the new arterial and venous vasodilator flosequinan have been evaluated in a variety of ways in different groups of patients with chronic heart failure. Flosequinan improved the central hemodynamic effects of heart failure in one group, with benefits still apparent up to 24 hours after a single oral dose. In another group it also improved calf blood flow and, therefore, blood flow to skeletal muscle. Also, using a number of different tests, it improved the exercise performance of the patients. In a further group the improvement in exercise tolerance produced was similar to that of captopril. Flosequinan has the necessary properties of a drug that is likely to be of benefit in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure. 
Regional changes in creatine kinase and myocyte size in hypertensive and nonhypertensive cardiac hypertrophy. Several intracellular enzymes have been shown to have altered total activity or isoenzyme composition in cardiac hypertrophy. This study tests the hypothesis that the accumulation of the fetal-type (BB + MB) creatine kinase (CK) isoenzymes in hypertrophied adult myocardium is related to an increase in blood pressure. Consideration was made for the location, size, and hemodynamic load of the myocytes. By using the two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) rat model of renal hypertension with and without hydralazine treatment, CK (total and isoenzyme), lactate dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase activities and myocyte size were measured. An increased heart weight/body weight ratio occurred in both untreated 2K1C rats (4.15 +/- 0.09) and hydralazine-treated 2K1C rats (4.12 +/- 0.13) as compared with control rats (3.25 +/- 0.10). Blood pressure was high only in untreated 2K1C rats (196 +/- 9 mm Hg), as compared with hydralazine-treated 2K1C rats (142 +/- 6 mm Hg) and control rats (135 +/- 3 mm Hg). Myocytes were isolated from five ventricular regions: left ventricular epicardial and endocardial free wall, left and right halves of the interventricular septum, and right ventricular free wall. Regional differences in normal and hypertrophied myocardium were demonstrated for morphological and biochemical parameters, with the greatest changes occurring in left ventricular endocardium. The shift in CK isoenzyme expression toward accumulating more BB + MB was greater in "hypertensive hypertrophy" (untreated 2K1C rats) than in "nonhypertensive hypertrophy" (hydralazine-treated 2K1C rats). Calculations incorporating isolated myocyte volume showed that the cellular content of total CK remained the same during the hypertrophic process, accounting for a decrease in the tissue activity. Measurement of lactate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activities suggests that hypertrophied myocardium has relatively higher glycolytic capacity and that this effect is exacerbated in the presence of high blood pressure. We conclude that increased blood pressure is more closely linked to the fetal CK isoenzyme shift than is hypertrophy alone. 
Low-dose aspirin. II. Relationship of angiotensin II pressor responses, circulating eicosanoids, and pregnancy outcome. Forty pregnant women (28 to 32 weeks' gestation) were given low-dose aspirin therapy (81 mg/day) from the time of enrollment until delivery; circulating eicosanoid levels and angiotensin II pressor responses were measured before and after 1 week of aspirin therapy. Subsequent clinical outcome was correlated with these results. All women had significant reductions in serum and plasma thromboxane B2 levels with aspirin treatment (p less than 0.01). Eleven women who remained sensitive to the pressor effects of angiotensin II (effective pressor dose less than 10 ng/kg/min) after 1 week of low-dose aspirin treatment exhibited significant decreases (p less than 0.05) in plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (264 +/- 119 vs 161 +/- 31 pg/ml, mean +/- SD) and prostaglandin E2 (476 +/- 174 vs 351 +/- 112 pg/ml) levels. In contrast, patients who were either nonsensitive (refractory) to angiotensin II (n = 18; greater than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min) before aspirin or became nonsensitive after aspirin administration (n = 11) had no change in either plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha or prostaglandin E2 concentrations. The occurrence of pregnancy-induced hypertension was 100% in the women who remained angiotensin II sensitive during aspirin therapy as compared with 36% and 39% in the other two groups (x2 = 16.14; p less than 0.001). Thus during low-dose aspirin therapy a failure to develop refractoriness to infused angiotensin II is associated with a nonselective inhibition of eicosanoids and the almost certain development of pregnancy-induced hypertension. These observations may reflect a basic defect in vascular adaptation to pregnancy. 
Reduction in infarct size by the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine in dogs with coronary artery occlusion. It has been suggested that activation of tissue phospholipases may contribute to the development of ischemic cell injury. In the present study we sought to assess whether administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine would reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary artery occlusion. In open-chest, anesthetized dogs the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated, and technetium-99-labeled albumin microspheres were injected into the left atrium to measure the area at risk. The animals were then randomly divided into a control group (n = 8) and a group receiving quinacrine (5 mg/kg intravenous bolus followed by a 40 micrograms/kg/min infusion for 6 hours; n = 9). The animals were killed 6 hours after occlusion, and the infarcted area was delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. The extent of the risk region was similar in the two groups (32.3 +/- 2.1% of the left ventricle in control dogs and 34.2 +/- 3.4% in quinacrine-treated dogs). Infarct size was 86.4 +/- 8.8% of the risk region in control animals, whereas in treated dogs it averaged 62.3 +/- 6.4% of the risk region (p = 0.05). No differences were found in heart rate, arterial pressure, and rate-pressure product between the two groups. Thus administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis in a model of fixed coronary artery occlusion. Preservation of membrane phospholipids, reduced formation of lipoxygenase metabolites, or both may mediate this phenomenon. 
Electrocardiographic subset analysis of diltiazem administration on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction. The Multicenter Diltiazem Post-Infarction Trial Research Group. The effect of diltiazem on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was assessed in 2,377 patients enrolled in the Multicenter Diltiazem Post-Infarction Trial and subsequently followed for 25 +/- 8 months. The study population included 855 patients (36%) with at least 1 prior AMI before the index infarction and 1,522 patients (64%) with a first AMI, of whom 409 (27%) had a first non-Q-wave AMI, 664 (44%) a first inferior Q-wave AMI, and 449 (30%) a first anterior Q-wave AMI. This post hoc analysis revealed that, among patients with first non-Q-wave and first inferior Q-wave AMI, there were fewer cardiac events during follow-up in the diltiazem than in the placebo group, and that the reverse was true for patients with first anterior Q-wave AMI or prior infarction. The diltiazem:placebo Cox hazard ratio (95% confidence limits) for the trial primary end point (cardiac death or nonfatal reinfarction, whichever occurred first) was: first non-Q-wave AMI-0.48 (0.26, 0.89); first inferior Q-wave AMI-0.66 (0.40, 1.09); first anterior Q-wave AMI-0.82 (0.51, 1.31); and prior AMI-1.11 (0.85, 1.44). Use of cardiac death alone as an end point gave an even more sharply focused treatment difference: first non-Q-wave AMI-0.46 (0.18, 1.21); first inferior Q-wave AMI-0.53 (0.27, 1.06); first anterior Q-wave AMI-1.28 (0.68, 2.40); prior infarction-1.26 (0.90, 1.77). Further analysis revealed that these differences in the effect of diltiazem in large part reflected the different status of the 4 electrocardiographically defined subsets in terms of left ventricular function. 
Efficacy of propafenone in preventing ventricular tachycardia: inverse correlation with rate-related prolongation of conduction time The efficacy of propafenone in preventing induction of ventricular tachycardia was evaluated in 25 consecutive patients (mean age 62 +/- 8 years) with remote myocardial infarction who underwent programmed electrical stimulation for ventricular arrhythmia using up to three extra-stimuli after basic drive at the right ventricular apex. In nine patients (Group A), propafenone prevented induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia (noninducible in four, nonsustained [less than 30 s] in five). In the other 16 patients (Group B), sustained ventricular tachycardia was still inducible; in 11 of the 16, the tachycardia configuration was unchanged but the cycle length was significantly longer (431 +/- 99 versus 284 +/- 44 ms, p less than 0.001). Propafenone did not significantly affect either sinus cycle length or AH and HV intervals. However, it prolonged QRS duration during sinus rhythm equally in both groups of patients. With ventricular pacing, propafenone also prolonged right ventricular effective and functional refractory periods and surface QRS duration. There was greater lengthening of the paced surface QRS duration when drug therapy was ineffective (for example, +35 +/- 12 ms in Group A versus +69 +/- 23 ms in Group B at a basic drive of 400 ms, p less than 0.01). Drug-induced prolongation of a paced QRS complex greater than 40 ms had a 94% positive predictive value for drug failure to prevent induction of ventricular tachycardia. Drug-induced percent prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length in Group B did not correlate well with percent QRS prolongation. 
Improvement in early diastolic filling dynamics after aortic valve replacement. With use of ultrafast computed tomography, 13 patients undergoing aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis were prospectively followed to evaluate the relation between left ventricular mass and diastolic function. Studies were done before intervention, and then at 4 and 8 months later. Mass decreased from 161 +/- 11 g/m2 (+/- standard error of the mean) at baseline to 106 +/- 5 g/m2, and then to 97 +/- 7 g/m2 at 4 and 8 months, respectively, in 12 patients who demonstrated significant (greater than 20%) mass regression after operation. One patient failed to show significant changes in mass. Diastolic function, as defined by the peak filling rate of early diastole, improved (p less than 0.02) in the group with mass regression, from 2.11 +/- 0.17 s-1 at baseline to 2.12 +/- 0.23 s-1, and then to 2.62 +/- 0.26 s-1 at 4 and 8 months, respectively. Improvement in the time to peak filling rate was also noted. Heart rates were unchanged, whereas end-diastolic volumes decreased and ejection fractions increased slightly. Postoperative increase in peak filling rate correlated with regression of ventricular mass to within normal range (+/- 2 standard deviations) and attainment of New York Heart Association class I status by 8 months (p less than 0.02). Thus, improvement in diastolic function can be seen after aortic valve surgery and is associated with improved functional class. Diastolic function improves later than the regression in wall mass and may imply a delayed remodeling of the ventricle. 
Long-term follow-up in isolated ventricular septal defect considered too small to warrant operation. An isolated ventricular septal defect (VSD) was diagnosed in 70 patients (39 men and 31 women, mean age 29 years, range 10-64 years). Surgery was judged unnecessary. The follow-up period was at least 10 years, or until death or 31 December 1988, comprising a mean duration of 21 (range 6-29) years. The mortality was 11/69 (one lost to follow-up), and was not significantly higher than in a matched 'normal' group. Six deaths were cardiac, four of which could probably be related to the VSD. The follow-up study revealed that: (1) 14 (22%) subjects had major, VSD-related complications, and cardiac surgery was indicated in eight patients; (2) six (10%) had minor complications. By the end of 1988, 24% of subjects had significant dyspnoea, 22% had chest pain and 19% used cardioactive drugs. Only 33% were receiving regular cardiac control in a hospital. Thus unoperated adults with a small VSD should be monitored closely, since this condition is far from benign. 
Progression of peripheral occlusive arterial disease in diabetes mellitus. What factors are predictive? The clinical, biochemical, and vascular laboratory measurements potentially associated with the development and/or progression of peripheral occlusive arterial disease (POAD) were assessed during a 4-year period in 110 normal control subjects, 112 patients with POAD without diabetes mellitus, 240 patients with diabetes mellitus without POAD, and 100 patients with diabetes mellitus and POAD. Age, history of hypertension or coronary heart disease, history of cigarette smoking, presence of POAD, systolic blood pressure, and beta-thromboglobulin level were associated with progression of POAD. A multivariate logistic regression model indicated that the presence of diabetes mellitus or POAD or both at baseline, decreased postexercise ankle-brachial index, increased arm systolic blood pressure, and current smoking were independently associated with progression of POAD. This study suggests that cessation of smoking and control of hypertension are essential treatment modifications to decrease the risk of progression of peripheral vascular disease in diabetic patients. 
Estrogen and coronary heart disease in women. We review herein the evidence that estrogen is protective against the development of cardiovascular disease in women. To our knowledge, no studies in women have looked at endogenous estrogen levels as predictors of cardiovascular disease. Studies of surrogate measures of endogenous estrogen such as parity, age at menarche, and age at menopause have provided inconsistent results. Current use of oral contraceptives increases risk in older women who smoke cigarettes, but most studies of past use show no increased risk. Most, but not all, studies of hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women show around a 50% reduction in risk of a coronary event in women using unopposed oral estrogen. These important observations need to be confirmed in a double-blind, randomized clinical trial, since the protection is biologically plausible and the magnitude of the benefit would be quite large if selection factors can be excluded. 
Coronary artery dilatation requiring high inflation pressure. A patient with rigid coronary lesions refractory to balloon dilatation is described. A Cordis Orion fixed wire balloon able to withstand 20 bar was required for successful dilatation. 
Effect of hemodialysis on protein C, protein S, and antithrombin III levels. We studied the effect of hemodialysis on natural coagulation inhibitors including protein C (PC), protein S (PS), and antithrombin III (AT III), as well as the correlations between the antigen level (immunological activity) and functional activity of individual coagulation inhibitor. Plasma AT III, PS, and PC were measured in 20 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis immediately before, during, and after dialysis treatment. These values were compared with those obtained from 20 matched healthy controls. Plasma PC and total PS antigen levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay. The plasma AT III antigen level was determined by Laurell rocket immunoelectrophoresis. Functional activities of PC and AT III were determined by the amidolytic method. Free PS antigen level was quantitated by measuring the free PS-related antigen after the sample was treated with polyethylene glycol to remove the C4b-binding protein. Uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis had a higher total PS antigen level, but a lower free PS antigen level compared with the controls. Both the antigen level and functional activity of AT III in uremic patients were significantly lower than those of controls. Their predialysis plasma PC antigen level and functional activity were not different from those of normal controls. A significant correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of PC, PS, and AT III was demonstrated in healthy controls, but not in hemodialysis patients. No significant change in the level of AT III or PS was observed with hemodialysis, but a progressive increase of functional activity of PC was documented with hemodialysis. Furthermore, the coefficient of correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of PC improved significantly with dialysis treatment. 
Intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect: evaluation with Doppler color flow mapping In children with a ventricular septal defect, transseptal blood flow has been demonstrated angiographically to be bidirectional in all but the smallest defects. To investigate this phenomenon noninvasively, two-dimensional Doppler color flow echocardiography was used in 77 patients (aged 1 day to 15.5 years, mean 24 months). During isovolumetric contraction, flow was seen from the left to the right ventricle in 82 (98%) of 84 studies. During isovolumetric relaxation, right to left flow was noted in 72 (96%) of 75 studies. During early diastole in patients with an isolated defect, flow was initially from the right to the left ventricle and subsequently reversed to become left to right in 29 (91%) of 32 studies. In patients with concomitant right ventricular volume overload, flow across the ventricular defect was from the right to the left ventricle throughout diastole in 30 (86%) of 35 studies. In each of four patients with d-transposition of the great vessels and each of two patients with 1-transposition of the great vessels, blood flow was from the morphologic left ventricle to the morphologic right ventricle during isovolumetric contraction and from the morphologic right ventricle to the morphologic left ventricle during isovolumetric relaxation. These results demonstrate 1) the complex nature of intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect as previously shown by angiography; 2) an intrinsic functional difference in the contractile and relaxation properties of the morphologic left and right ventricles; and 3) differences in diastolic blood flow patterns between children with an isolated defect and those with a ventricular septal defect and right ventricular volume overload (p = 0.0001). 
Echocardiographic definition of the left ventricular centroid. II. Determination of the optimal centroid during systole in normal and infarcted hearts. Although two-dimensional echocardiography is widely used in both clinical and experimental evaluations of regional cardiac wall motion, there is no established clinical method for quantitative analysis of the wall motion, not even for the normal radial motion observed in short-axis images. Measurement of radial wall motion requires determination of a centroid from which the radii emanate. Depending on its definition, the centroid is variously affected throughout systole by cardiac translation, regional wall motion and any shift of the subject position or transducer. A floating centroid is defined relative to the ventricular walls frame by frame, whereas a fixed centroid never moves with respect to the transducer. Evaluation of the best approach to definition of a centroid was previously presented (part I, this issue). The next question is how to use the centroid. This study examines which of four centroid applications provides the best reference for quantifying regional wall motion during systole. Method 1 is a floating centroid (defined separately for every image frame), method 2 uses the end-diastolic centroid as a fixed reference for all image frames, method 3 uses the end-systolic centroid as a fixed reference and method 4 uses the average as a fixed reference. Wall motion was measured with respect to each of these centroids by determining radial wall motion from end-diastole to end-systole and correlating radial motion throughout the cardiac cycle with that in normal control hearts. 
Cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine IgG3 rheumatoid factor: skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms. MRL-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis. Similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody (mAb)--6-19 (gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain), exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-IgG2a rheumatoid factor (RF) activities--derived from the MRL-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse. To determine the role of RF and/or IgG3 Fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mAb-induced tissue lesions, a 6-19-J558L hybrid mAb (gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the J558L myeloma. Here we report that the 6-19-J558L hybrid mAb, which loses the RF activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity, fails to induce skin vascular lesions. However, it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mAb. Further, we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen, IgG2a, in mice by treatment with anti-IgM antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions. Our results indicate that both RF and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mAb are required for the development of skin vasculitis, but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions. In addition, cDNA cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mAb has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration, suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies. 
Differences in QRS configuration during unipolar pacing from adjacent sites: implications for the spatial resolution of pace-mapping. To examine the spatial resolution of unipolar pace-mapping, 12 lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) recorded during pacing from each of the poles of a quadripolar catheter (5 mm interelectrode distance) were examined. Unipolar pacing was performed from each of the poles at late diastolic threshold, twice threshold and 10 mA at a cycle length of 500 ms. In 15 patients, pacing was performed at the right ventricular apex and in 14 at various left ventricular sites. Pacing from the distal catheter pole at threshold (index ECG) was used to simulate the site of origin of ventricular tachycardia, and all other ECGs were compared with the index ECG. Electrocardiograms were evaluated by two independent observers for 1) minor configuration differences (notch, new small component, change in the amplitude of individual components or change in QRS shape); 2) major differences in configuration (new large component, marked change in the amplitude of an existing component or two minor changes); and 3) peak to peak changes in amplitude. Minor differences in configuration were seen in a mean 2.4 +/- 1.9, 4.6 +/- 2.4 and 4.4 +/- 2.9 leads during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the distal electrode (index site). Major differences in configuration were seen in a mean of 0.3 +/- 0.5, 2.1 +/- 2.1 and 3.7 +/- 2.3 leads during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the index site. Differences in amplitude were seen in a mean of 3.1 +/- 2.2, 5.6 +/- 2.5 and 6.8 +/- 3.0 leads per ECG during pacing at 5, 10 and 15 mm from the index ECG pacing site, respectively. 
Myocardial infarction in the young adult. CAD in young male adults below the age of 40 years has generally been found to be associated with the usual risk factors associated with CAD. In a lesser number of young adults, MIs may be related to cocaine use. Sympathomimetic effects and increase in myocardial oxygen demand are factors considered responsible for acute MI in cocaine-abusing patients. In young adults who are asymptomatic following an acute MI and who are able to pass treadmill exercise stress tests at levels of Bruce stage 4 have been shown to have normal coronary arteriograms. Thus this subset should not require routine coronary angiograms following an acute MI. 
Circadian variations in myocardial ischemia. Implications for management. Extended ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in the patient's customary environment provides clear evidence of circadian patterns in myocardial ischemic episodes. In patients with effort angina, the highest activity occurs between 6 AM and noon. This coincides with peaks in diurnal variation of frequency of acute myocardial infarction, stroke, and sudden death. A number of potential underlying common triggering mechanisms, including catecholamine secretion, sympathetic nervous system activity, blood pressure, heart rate, cortisol secretion, and aggregability of platelets, exhibit similar surges. As a result of these coinciding morning peaks, myocardial oxygen demand is increased and oxygen supply reduced after a person arises in the morning. Attention to this vulnerable period is merited in the timing and choice of medication, both to prevent or reduce ischemia and to modify potential disease-triggering mechanisms. 
Conservative management of asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm. Historical review shows that the treatment of popliteal aneurysm has developed by trial and error and there is disagreement about the proper management of the symptomless patient. In 1981 a policy of conservative management for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm was adopted in this unit. Since that time we have also managed nine patients with thrombosed popliteal aneurysms by arteriography and low-dose intra-arterial streptokinase. Six patients treated within 72 h of occlusion achieved significant (70-100 per cent) lysis, but streptokinase was ineffective in those treated 10 or more days after the thrombosis. Of the six patients with significant lysis, three were treated by elective reconstruction and two by anticoagulation. One patient who had significant lysis died. Vascular patency of all five successfully treated limbs was maintained and no limb loss occurred in those who presented late and failed to achieve significant lysis. These results reinforce the view that thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for thrombosed popliteal aneurysms. The low complication rate for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms and the advent of safe, effective thrombolysis indicate that operation for symptomless popliteal aneurysm is no longer required. 
Immunosuppressive therapy in the management of acute myocarditis in children: a clinical trial. To assess whether steroid therapy influenced the clinical course of myocarditis in a pediatric population, findings in 13 consecutive infants and children (8 female, 5 male) with biopsy-proved myocarditis were reviewed. The mean age was 5.7 +/- 4.8 years (range 1.1 to 14.8). Congestive heart failure was present in all as were ST-T wave changes, cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema on chest roentgenogram. Echocardiography demonstrated pericardial effusion in five patients and mitral regurgitation in eight. Mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 34 +/- 12%. Prednisone was administered to all patients; one patient also received azathioprine. There was one death. All survivors showed clinical improvement with normalization of ECG changes, heart size and systolic function. No significant side effects occurred. Repeat myocardial biopsy in eight patients demonstrated improvement in all eight and elimination of the inflammatory infiltrate in six. Immunosuppressive therapy in this pediatric population appeared useful in improving the clinical course and cardiac function in acute myocarditis with no adverse side effects. 
Alterations in endocardial vascular resistance after reperfusion in a low flow, high demand model of ischemia: effects of dipyridamole and WEB-2086, a platelet-activating factor antagonist. To determine if alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance could occur in the type of myocardial ischemia present in severe angina pectoris, regional perfusion and function were studied in 35 conscious sedated dogs. A stenosis producing severe hypokinesia of the perfused segment was created for 2 h on the left anterior descending coronary artery and 10 episodes of 1 min of high demand ischemia (atrial pacing at a rate sufficient to induce dyskinesia in the hypoperfused segment) were superimposed before reperfusion. The dogs were randomized into three treatment groups: control (n = 13), dipyridamole (n = 10) or WEB-2086 (n = 12), an antagonist of the effects of the endogenous platelet-activating factor. During stenosis, residual endocardial blood flow in the ischemic but nonnecrotic area averaged 0.72 +/- 0.14, 0.38 +/- 0.13 and 0.68 +/- 0.17 ml/min per g in the control, WEB-2086 and dipyridamole groups, respectively. Twenty-four hours after reperfusion, endocardial blood flow in the ischemic area was significantly lower in control dogs (1.04 +/- 0.15 ml/min per g) than in dogs treated with WEB-2086 (1.44 +/- 0.28 ml/min per g; p less than 0.03) or dipyridamole (3.00 +/- 0.83 ml/min per g; p less than 0.01). Accordingly, in control dogs, endocardial coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area was increased after reperfusion from 85 +/- 11 to 124 +/- 27 mm Hg/(ml/min per g) (p less than 0.05) after 24 h. In contrast, coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area remained unchanged in dogs receiving WEB-2086 (77 +/- 8 to 79 +/- 9 mm Hg/(ml/min per g); p = NS) and it decreased significantly in dogs receiving dipyridamole (72 +/- 8 to 44 +/- 8 mm Hg/(ml/min per g); p less than 0.01). Regional function after 24 h remained depressed in all three groups. These data indicate that low flow, high demand ischemia induces alterations in the subendocardial microvasculature. Such alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance might play a role in several forms of ischemic heart disease such as in severe angina, but they appear susceptible to improvement by therapeutic interventions that influence granulocyte and platelet activation. 
Clinical experience with technetium-99m teboroxime, a neutral, lipophilic myocardial perfusion imaging agent. Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) teboroxime is a new technetium-based myocardial perfusion imaging agent (investigational code = SQ30217 [Cardiotec, Squibb Diagnostics]). A member of a class of neutral, lipophilic, technetium-containing complexes known as boronic acid adducts of technetium dioxime (BATO) complexes, this agent is chemically very different from the cationic tracer thallium-201 (Tl-201) and from the cationic technetium complex Tc-99m sestamibi (Cardiolite, Du Pont Imaging Agents). Tc-99m teboroxime has high myocardial extraction, rapid blood clearance, little lung uptake and rapid myocardial washout. A biexponential pattern of myocardial washout is demonstrated in animals and in man. Effective half-lives of the 2 washout components in man are 5.2 minutes and 3.8 hours and represent approximately 66 and 33% of the myocardial activity, respectively. The first half-life for the myocardium is approximately 11 minutes. As the agent washes out of the heart, hepatic uptake occurs, peaking at about 5 minutes after injection. The liver is the major organ of excretion and receives, along with the large bowel, the largest radiation dose. Rapid imaging protocols using standard cameras have achieved good myocardial counts from 3 planar views acquired over a 4- to 5-minute period or for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images acquired over a 10-minute period. An entire stress/rest procedure can be completed in 1 hour. Analysis of data from 155 patients from 4 centers using planar or SPECT imaging showed a sensitivity and specificity for blinded readings of 82 and 91%, respectively, when compared against overall clinical impression. 
Dietary preference for sweet foods in patients with dementia Using a telephone survey, patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (n = 31) and vascular dementia (n = 14) were compared with elderly normal controls (n = 43) in preferences for different foods. Patients with Alzheimer's disease had a greater preference than normal controls for relatively high-fat, sweet foods and for high-sugar, low-fat foods, but did not significantly differ in preference for other foods, including those high in complex carbohydrates and protein. Vascular dementia patients showed a similar pattern, not significantly different from that for Alzheimer's patients. Results did not consistently support a hypothesis that increased sweet preference is a nonspecific form of disinhibited behavior related to declining mental status, nor was a hypothesis relating sweet preference to serotonin activity within the brain consistently supported. Results provide preliminary evidence that craving for sweet food may be a significant part of the clinical syndrome of dementia, but further research is needed to delineate the psychological and biological mechanisms accounting for it. 
Comparison of thallium-201 and technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography for estimating the extent of myocardial ischemia and infarction in coronary artery disease. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using thallium-201 (Tl-201) was compared with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (Tc-99m MIBI) in 24 patients with coronary artery diseaes. Patients exercised to the same work load as each isotope was studied. Normal and hypoperfused left ventricular mass was determined with an automated method. Estimated total left ventricular mass was similar for both stress/redistribution Tl-201 and stress/rest Tc-99m MIBI images. The mean estimated defect size in the redistribution Tl-201 images was 32 +/- 34.7 vs 33 +/- 38.4 g in the resting Tc-99m MIBI studies (difference not significant). The individual determinations of defect mass were highly correlated (r = 0.93; p less than 0.0001). Estimated defect size in the stress Tl-201 images (52 +/- 46.2 g) was significantly larger than the exercise Tc-99m MIBI estimates of defect mass (42 +/- 39.9 g; p less than 0.05). A linear correlation existed between stress thallium and technetium estimates of defect size (r = 0.85) but 15 of 24 Tc-99m MIBI defects were smaller than the Tl-201 defects. Partial redistribution of Tc-99m MIBI could explain the discordance. Stress Tc-99m MIBI SPECT defect size determined by visual interpretation or by the use of isocount analysis may be smaller than what is seen with stress Tl-201 SPECT. 
Two cases of spontaneous internal carotid artery occlusion due to giant intracranial carotid artery aneurysm. Although spontaneous thrombosis of a giant intracranial aneurysm is relatively common, occlusion of its parent artery is rare. We describe two recent patients in whom the parent artery spontaneously occluded. One patient had severe stenosis of the left internal carotid artery, with delayed appearance of a faint shadow of vascular widening near the posterior clinoid process. One month later, complete occlusion of the left internal carotid artery was shown angiographically. The second patient had dysarthria and left hemiparesis, resulting in the diagnosis of a left internal carotid artery giant aneurysm. He had suffered an episode of visual disturbance of the right eye 5 years before. Angiography showed the right cervical internal carotid artery to be occluded. We believe the mechanism of parent artery occlusion in our two patients to be due first to stretching of the internal carotid artery by the enlarged aneurysm, followed by compression of the internal carotid artery by the aneurysm itself. Next, the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve are involved, and, finally, thrombosis of the aneurysmal cavity extends into the internal carotid artery itself. 
Regional ischemia in cerebral venous hypertension due to embolic occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus in the rat. To determine the pathophysiological changes in brain tissue that characterize damage following cerebral venous hypertension, a model of cerebral venous hypertension in the rat was devised. This experimental model has the advantage of simultaneously measuring the regional changes in cerebral blood flow as well as the metabolism. The ischemic area demonstrated by the accumulation of NADH is confined to the cerebral cortex and becomes enlarged in proportion to the increase in venous pressure. This metabolic disturbance appears even in the very early period following cerebral venous hypertension. These pathophysiological features are different from those observed in the case of intracranial hypertension. 
Serial Doppler echocardiographic follow-up of left ventricular diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis. A spectrum of left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities noted on Doppler echocardiography has been demonstrated in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. To determine how these filling abnormalities evolve over time and the significance of any change, serial pulsed wave Doppler studies of left ventricular inflow were performed over 12.6 +/- 4.9 months in 41 consecutive patients (36 men and 15 women, mean age 59 +/- 11 years) with typical two-dimensional echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement. The measurements were peak left ventricular inflow in early diastole (E) and atrial contraction (A) velocities, E/A ratio, deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time. Patients were classified by mean left ventricular wall thickness into an early group (less than 15 mm) of 24 patients and an advanced group (greater than or equal to 15 mm) of 17 patients. The total group showed an increased E/A ratio (1.7 +/- 0.9 versus 1.4 +/- 0.9, p = 0.009) and decreased deceleration time (164 +/- 57 versus 174 +/- 51 ms, p = 0.11) at follow-up compared with baseline study. The early group showed significant changes in the E/A ratio (1.6 +/- 1.0 versus 1.2 +/- 0.7, p = 0.001) between the two studies. Seven patients (29%) in the early group showed a change from an abnormal relaxation or "normal" pattern to one of restriction, coincident with increased symptoms in six of these patients. Fifteen (88%) of the 17 patients in the advanced group did not show significant changes in the measures during the follow-up study, but these patients already showed a restrictive pattern. 
Determinants of the ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation. Determinants of the ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation were examined in 52 patients. Thirty-three patients had structural heart disease and none had an accessory atrioventricular (AV) connection. The AV node effective and functional refractory periods, the shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction, the AV node conduction time and indexes of concealed conduction in the AV node were measured in the baseline state (36 patients) and after modification of sympathetic tone by infusion of isoproterenol or propranolol (8 patients each). Atrial fibrillation was then induced with rapid atrial pacing, and the mean, shortest and longest ventricular cycle lengths were measured. Variables that correlated most strongly with the mean RR interval during atrial fibrillation were the AV node effective refractory period (r = 0.93; p less than 0.001), AV node functional refractory period (r = 0.87; p less than 0.001) and shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction (r = 0.91; p less than 0.001). The AH interval during sinus rhythm (r = 0.74; p less than 0.001) and during atrial pacing at the shortest cycle length with 1:1 conduction (r = 0.52; p less than 0.001) had weaker correlations. Measures of concealed conduction did not improve the prediction of the mean or longest ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation. In conclusion, the refractory periods and conductivity of the AV node are the best indicators of the potential of the node to transmit atrial impulses to the ventricles during atrial fibrillation. The degree of concealed conduction in the AV node is a less important determinant of the mean ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation. 
Atrioventricular plane displacement in severe congestive heart failure following dilated cardiomyopathy or myocardial infarction. Echocardiographic recording of the atrioventricular (AV) plane displacement during the cardiac cycle was used to assess left ventricular (LV) global function in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). The study population consisted of 70 patients with chronic CHF (NYHA functional groups III and IV) following dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or myocardial infarction (MI), and 35 age-matched healthy subjects. The AV plane displacement was recorded from the apical 4- and 2-chamber views at four LV sites located about 90 degrees apart and representing the septal, anterior, lateral and posterior parts of the LV wall. A mean value was calculated from the above sites (AV-mean). Patients with CHF showed a significant generalized reduction of AV plane displacement compared to healthy subjects (5.6 mm vs. 14.5 mm, P less than 0.001). Thirty CHF patients also underwent radionuclide angiography in order to determine the ejection fraction (EF). The correlation between AV-mean and EF was good (r = 0.82, P less than 0.001). The selection of an AV-mean of less than 7 mm to define a severely depressed LV function (EF less than 30%) gave a sensitivity of 92% and a specificity of 67%. It is concluded that the AV plane displacement can be used to estimate LV systolic function in patients with CHF. 
Quantitative echocardiographic analysis of global and regional left ventricular function: a problem revisited. We recorded two-dimensional echocardiograms simultaneously with the respiration measurements of 20 normal subjects and 20 patients with anterior myocardial infarction. The apical long-axis and four-chamber views were quantitatively analyzed. Measurement variability of global ejection fraction and regional ejection fraction of 100 regions was calculated during inspiration and at end-expiration for two observers. To minimize variability, the endocardial contour was redefined and traced with an improved computer-assisted tracing system. Variability (absolute mean difference) between two beats at end-expiration was significantly less than during inspiration (p less than 0.05): for ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 3.4% and the variability during inspiration was 6.4% (mean, 54%; SD, 7%); for regional ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 11.8% and the variability during inspiration was 21.5% (mean, 56%; SD, 15%). Intraobserver and interobserver variability values of one beat at end-expiration for ejection fraction were 3.1% and 3.8%, respectively, and 9.5% and 12.8%, respectively, for regional ejection fraction. Variability in patients with myocardial infarction was comparable. This method of recording respiration and analyzing left ventricular function at end-expiration, with a new contour definition and tracing system, provides a measurement variability that is considerably less than that reported in previous echocardiographic studies and that is comparable to angiographic methods. 
Utility of computed tomography for surveillance of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. Preliminary report. To assess the ability of computed tomography to predict the potential for expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms, we analyzed the computed tomographic scans of 30 patients who had two or more abdominal computed tomographic scans at least 6 months apart between 1979 and 1989. Clinical variables and 10 defined objective characteristics of computed tomography were evaluated. Twenty-five men and five women with abdominal aortic aneurysms ranging from 30 to 64 mm (mean, 45 mm) were followed up with serial computed tomographic scans for a mean (+/- SE) of 26 +/- 3 months. In 19 patients, enlargement of aneurysm diameter of 3 mm or more on serial computed tomographic scans was noted, whereas in 11, there was little or no expansion. Of the clinical variables studied, only serum cholesterol correlated with an increased risk of expansion. Thrombus area, measured by computed tomography, was 7.3 +/- 0.9 cm2 in enlarging aneurysms vs 4.3 +/- 0.9 cm2 in stable aneurysms. Based on these preliminary data, we conclude that computed tomography may provide valuable information about the likelihood of future expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. 
A long-term study of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension in general medical practice. This study assessed the long-term (54 weeks) antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension, defined as sitting and standing diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mm Hg. Of the 153 patients who successfully completed an initial 14-week trial, 61 continued uninterrupted into a 40-week extension study. Optimal antihypertensive efficacy was achieved by week 12 and maintained in all patients for the duration of 1 year. The final mean sitting blood pressure was 148/84 mm Hg and was reduced from a mean baseline level of 173/102 mm Hg. Occasional decreases in heart rate were observed, but these were not considered to be clinically relevant (1 to 3 beats/min). The mean final dose of doxazosin for patients evaluable for efficacy was 2.4 mg/day; 91.7% of patients were taking less than or equal to 4 mg/day. No increase in daily maintenance dose was observed from the initial phase to the long-term extension study. After 1 year of treatment, 93.3% of patients were considered a therapeutic success (sitting diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg reduction from baseline or less than or equal to 90 mm Hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction). In no patients was there a worsening in the severity category of the hypertension. Total serum cholesterol concentrations were reduced significantly (6.6% p = 0.03) at the end of week 14. Reductions in total serum cholesterol levels persisted throughout the extension study, with a final reduction of 5.4%. 
The surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation. IV. Surgical technique. The operative technique for the current surgical procedure of creating an electrical maze for the treatment of atrial fibrillation is described in a sequential fashion. The accompanying diagrams of the procedure are drawn from the view of the operating surgeon. 
Pulmonary function and cardiovascular risk factor relationships in black and in white young men and women. The CARDIA Study Pulmonary function is known to be related inversely to incidence of coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive lung disease, lung cancer, and death from all causes. Reasons for some of these associations are poorly understood. Relationships between cardiovascular disease risk factors and pulmonary function were examined in 5,115 18- to 30-year-old black and white male and female participants in the study of Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA). Forced expiratory volume in 1 s adjusted for height (FEV1/Ht2) was significantly lower in smokers than nonsmokers and in persons who reported shortness of breath; FEV1/Ht2 was correlated positively with a history of strenuous physical activity, duration of exercise on the treadmill, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. It was associated negatively with skinfold thicknesses, serum triglycerides, fasting serum insulin, and the Cook Medley scale of hostility. The association between pulmonary function and heart disease risk may reflect associations with physical fitness, vigor, fatness, and lipid profiles, as well as with cigarette smoking. 
A double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension. Two hundred sixty-six patients took part in a multicenter comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin. Both drugs produced a significant reduction (p less than 0.001) in blood pressure and no increase in heart rate. Blood pressure was considered "markedly decreased" or "decreased" in 70.8% of patients treated with doxazosin and 70.0% of patients treated with prazosin. No statistically significant between-group differences in antihypertensive efficacy were observed. Both doxazosin and prazosin were well tolerated; seven patients (5.6%) in each group had the therapy withdrawn. 
Arginine vasopressin gene expression in chronic cardiac failure in rats. Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is known to be increased in patients and experimental animals with chronic cardiac failure (CCF). The importance of an increase in biosynthesis of AVP in the hypothalamus has, however, not heretofore been investigated and is the purpose of the present study. CCF secondary to infarction of myocardial tissue was induced by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery and sham operated animals served as controls. Four weeks later hypothalamic AVP mRNA was determined by solution hybridization using sense and anti-sense strand RNA. The blood pressure was lower in CCF than sham animals (131.2 +/- 3.1 vs. 112.8 +/- 4.0 mm Hg, P less than 0.05) and the total heart, and right and left ventricle weights were significantly higher in CCF rats. Plasma AVP was higher in CCF (sham 6.78 +/- 0.30; CCF 11.46 +/- 0.64 pg/ml, P less than 0.001) and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide was also higher in CCF than sham animals (205 +/- 36 vs. 554 +/- 56 pg/ml, P less than 0.001). The AVP mRNA in hypothalamus was significantly higher in CCF than sham animals (55.5 +/- 3.7 vs. 95.9 +/- 4.0 pg/micrograms total RNA, P less than 0.001). There was no difference in beta-actin mRNA in the hypothalamus of sham and CCF rats, indicating that the AVP-mRNA increase was specific in CCF. These results therefore demonstrate that increased AVP biosynthesis in the hypothalamus, in addition to release of the hormone from the posterior pituitary, may occur in CCF. 
Experimental cardiac tamponade: correlation of pressure, flow velocity, and echocardiographic changes. Seven episodes of experimental cardiac tamponade were induced in five anesthetized closed-chest dogs. Simultaneous pericardial and intracavitary pressures were synchronized with superior vena caval and transvalvular pulsed-Doppler flow tracings. The earliest indication of tamponade was the development of a negative transmural right atrial pressure that occurred during early ventricular diastole and was associated with echocardiographic evidence of right atrial collapse. This was also associated with reversal of diastolic flow in the superior vena cava and with diminished early diastolic flow velocity across the tricuspid as well as the mitral valve. During more advanced cardiac tamponade, the transmural right atrial pressure became negative during both early and late ventricular diastole as well as during isovolumic ventricular systole. This was associated with a disappearance of early diastolic ventricular filling and right ventricular diastolic collapse as observed on two-dimensional echocardiography. In hypotensive cardiac tamponade (cardiac output diminished by 70%), the decreased transmural right atrial pressure that developed during ventricular systole was accompanied by diminished antegrade flow in the superior vena cava. In advanced and hypotensive tamponade, ventricular filling occurred mainly during atrial contraction. 
Protein phosphorylation during ischemia. Many investigations have shown that calcium and adenosine triphosphate are crucial to central nervous system functions. It is probable that alterations of these substances during central nervous system ischemia are involved in the processes that cause irreversible neural damage. Calcium regulates several protein kinases that are responsible for phosphorylation of proteins vital for many central nervous system functions. Using a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model, we found protein kinase C and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase were severely affected during the first hour of ischemia. Protein kinase A was not significantly affected. The time course of lost protein kinase C enzyme activity closely corresponded to irreversible loss of neurologic function, and there is evidence that protein kinase C inhibitor activity is generated. Also, drugs that inhibit protein kinase C increased neurologic damage when administered during the early phases of ischemia. These results suggest that protein phosphorylation, particularly by protein kinase C, is critical to maintenance of neurologic function. 
Dialysis considerations in the elderly patient. This brief review discusses several aspects of dialytic care pertinent to the older dialysis patient. Heart disease, nutrition, and the quality of life for these patients are considered. 
Clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in New Zealand. This study investigated the safety and efficacy of doxazosin treatment in a large population of patients (n = 336) with essential hypertension and assessed the effect of doxazosin on the serum lipid profile and the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease. Patients were assigned to two groups: those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm Hg (group 1) and those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure less than 95 mm Hg (group 2) that was controlled by previous antihypertensive therapy. Doxazosin treatment (monotherapy in 76.2% of patients) significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced the blood pressure of patients in group 1 (-23/-17 mm Hg) after 10 weeks and maintained the control of blood pressure for patients in group 2. Heart rate was essentially unchanged in both groups. Mean final daily doses of 3.6 and 3.2 mg were achieved in groups 1 and 2, respectively. Treatment with doxazosin improved the severity category of hypertension for 88.4% of patients in group 1; 87.3% of patients were considered a therapy success. Doxazosin had a favorable effect on the serum lipid profile in both groups of patients. The majority of lipid changes achieved statistical significance and resulted in a significant 27% decrease in the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease. Doxazosin was well tolerated; only 24.1% of patients had side effects that were related or possibly related to treatment. In nine (2.7%) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and 26 (7.7%) patients withdrew from doxazosin therapy because of side effects. 
Cardiac rehabilitation after coronary artery bypass grafting: effects on exercise performance and risk factors. After coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), 49 nonselected patients followed a cardiac rehabilitation program that included medical follow-up and physical training, both in outpatient groups and on an individual basis at home. The effect of the program on exercise test variables, coronary risk factors, and medication one year after surgery was compared to a nonexercised control group (n = 98). The study group showed less increase in the rate-pressure product, indicating a favorable effect on myocardial oxygen consumption (0.7 +/- 5.4 vs 2.8 +/- 5.6, p less than .05); a lower frequency of angina at exercise testing (6% vs 18%, p less than .01); a reduction in resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure (9/4mmHg, p less than .01); fewer smokers (6% vs 17%, p less than .05); and fewer patients taking long-acting nitrates (0% vs 10.2%, p less than .05). It is suggested, therefore, that an organized cardiac rehabilitation program may be advantageous after CABG. 
Arterial aneurysms in children: clinicopathologic classification. Thirty-one arterial macroaneurysms in 23 pediatric-aged patients (16 boys and 7 girls) were treated at the University of Michigan. The average age at time of diagnosis was 10.2 years (range 6 months to 18 years). Vessels involved the aorta (4), as well as hepatic (1), splenic (2), gastroepiploic (1), renal (12), iliac (1), superficial femoral (4), popliteal (1), brachial (1), radial (2), and ulnar (2) arteries. Twelve children exhibited overt clinical manifestations including presence of a mass (7), local pain (3), hematemesis (1), and painless obstructive jaundice (1). Eleven children had asymptomatic lesions. Aneurysm existence was confirmed by arteriography or operation. All but one child underwent surgical therapy, with 20 long-term survivors (mean follow-up 3.5 years). One operative death occurred and one death occurred 6 years after surgery. This experience and a review of previously reported cases served as a basis for categorization of childhood aneurysmal disease as true aneurysms associated with (I) arterial infection, (II) giant-cell aortoarteritis, (III) autoimmune connective tissue disease, (IV) Kawasaki's disease, (V) Ehlers-Danlos syndrome or Marfan's syndrome, (VI) other forms of noninflammatory medial degeneration, (VII) arterial dysplasias, (VIII) congenital-idiopathic factors, as well as (IX) false aneurysms associated with extravascular events causing vessel wall injury or disruption. Knowledge of the varied clinicopathologic characteristics of arterial aneurysms in children is important in treating these patients. 
Immediate regional endocardial surface expansion following coronary occlusion in the canine left ventricle: disproportionate effects of anterior versus inferior ischemia. The exact time of onset of functional expansion after acute myocardial infarction/ischemia remains unclear in spite of its potential link to chronic pathologic infarct expansion and its potential implications for therapy. To examine this early change in ventricular morphology, 14 open-chest dogs were studied with two-dimensional echocardiography before and after occlusion (10 minutes) of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD, n = 7) or circumflex artery (CIRC, n = 7). The endocardial surface area (ESA) and the area of abnormal wall motion (AWM) were reconstructed from the echocardiographic data using a previously reported technique for quantitatively mapping the ESA and extent of AWM. For the total group (N = 14), the mean ESA before occlusion was 48.9 +/- 9.8 cm2, increasing to 65.7 +/- 18.9 cm2 at 10 minutes occlusion (p less than 0.001). For the LAD subgroup, the mean ESA before occlusion was 50.7 +/- 9.3 cm2, increasing to 79.1 +/- 14.1 cm2 at 10 minutes following occlusion (p less than 0.001). For the CIRC subgroup, the mean ESA before occlusion was 47.1 +/- 10.8 cm2, increasing to 52.3 +/- 12.6 cm2 at 10 minutes after occlusion (p less than 0.001). The ESA increase for the LAD subgroup was significantly larger than that of the CIRC subgroup (LAD range 14.5 to 49.9 cm2 versus CIRC range 1.5 to 9 cm2, p less than 0.0001). Coronary occlusion resulted in similarly sized regions of AWM for both subgroups (LAD, 31.3 +/- 12.2 cm2 versus CIRC, 25.9 +/- 10.3 cm2, p = n.s.). For the LAD group, the largest increase in endocardial circumference occurred within the zone of AWM at the apex (39.9 +/- 12%). The endocardial surface area therefore expands immediately after coronary occlusion and the magnitude of this process is primarily related to the site (anteroapical) rather than to the extent of AWM. 
Ventricular tachycardia in two patients with AIDS receiving ganciclovir (DHPG). We report two cases of patients who developed ventricular tachycardia while receiving intravenous infusions of ganciclovir [9-(1,3-dihydroxy-2-propoxy)methylguanine, DHPG]. Worsening cytomegalovirus infection prompted renewal of ganciclovir therapy under close cardiac monitoring in one of these patients, and ventricular tachycardia recurred. The close temporal relationship between administration of the drug and onset of the arrhythmias in conjunction with the absence of other factors known to predispose to arrhythmias suggest that ganciclovir may have played a role in the development of arrhythmias in these patients. The clinical courses of the patients are discussed, as are autopsy results. 
Detection and quantitation of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction using a new video intensity technique for regional wall motion evaluation. Eighty patients with ischemic heart disease and 17 normal subjects were evaluated for left ventricular regional wall motion by means of a new method. The wall motion analysis is based on video intensity. This technique uses a temporally sliding analysis to evaluate the cardiac cycle in 100 msec intervals. Presence of coronary artery disease was defined as more than 50% measured diameter stenosis. Wall motion abnormalities in regions perfused by stenotic vessels were most common in early diastole (76%). Sensitivity of this method at rest in patients with coronary artery disease was 79.7% (p less than 0.0001) and overall accuracy was 84.2% (p less than 0.0001). Abnormalities in both systole and diastole were more common in regions perfused by severe lesions (greater than 75%) than in those perfused by moderately stenotic (less than 75%) vessels (p less than 0.05). A comparison of the new method with phase and amplitude analysis was performed in 15 patients and with two-frame analysis in 40 patients. This new method yielded a higher sensitivity than either of the other two methods. 
Early and late tamponade with the Novacor left ventricular assist system. Cardiac tamponade can be a major complication after implantation of the Novacor left ventricular assist system (LVAS). Between 1987 and 1989, 14 patients received an LVAS as a bridge to cardiac transplantation: 3 developed early tamponade (33 +/- 12 hr postoperatively) and 5 were diagnosed with a late tamponade (9.4 +/- 3.2 days postoperatively). One patient had both early and late tamponade. Early tamponade was more common in those with increased perioperative blood loss (5,270 +/- 1,942 ml vs. 1,420 +/- 1,160 ml in other patients, p less than 0.05). Early tamponade was suggested by reduction in mean arterial pressure (74 +/- 1 to 64 +/- 3 mmHg), LVAS output (5 +/- 0.5 to 2.7 +/- 0.7 L/min), LVAS stroke volume (55 +/- 4 to 23 +/- 5 ml), and an increase in central venous pressure (13 +/- 1 to 21 +/- 1 mmHg, p less than 0.05 for all values). Late tamponade was associated with a marked rise in central venous pressure (14 +/- 1 to 22 +/- 2 mmHg, p less than 0.05), with only a mild decrease in LVAS output (4.9 +/- 1 to 3.8 +/- 0.9 L/min) and stroke volume (49 +/- 8 to 36 +/- 3 ml), without a significant change in mean arterial pressure. Two of these five late episodes occurred in patients who were anticoagulated with heparin (PTT 52 and 100 sec), and in one other with warfarin (PT 27 sec, PTT 55 sec); two patients were not on any anticoagulants. Surgical drainage of pericardial effusions, and especially of clotted blood found frequently posterior to the left ventricle in the space created by the LVAS decompressed left ventricle, resulted in an immediate return of all hemodynamic measurements to normal in both early and late tamponade. 
Physiologic peripheral pulmonic stenosis in infancy. We studied 14 premature infants with the clinical diagnosis of peripheral pulmonic stenosis (PPS) and 15 normal full-term neonates by echocardiographic Doppler examinations. The PPS group had an average main pulmonary artery (PA) diameter similar to the control group (0.91 vs 0.96 cm, difference not significant), but had smaller branch PA diameters: right PA = 0.41 vs 0.50 cm, p less than 0.001, and left PA = 0.41 vs 0.49 cm, p less than 0.001. The PPS group also had greater peak velocities in the main PA (76 vs 63 cm/s, p less than 0.05), right PA (193 vs 118 cm/s, p less than 0.001) and left PA (187 vs 123 cm/s, p less than 0.001). Similarly, the ratio of peak velocity in the branch/main PA was greater for the PPS group: right/main PA peak velocity = 2.91 vs 1.92, p less than 0.01, and left/main PA peak velocity = 2.73 vs 1.99, p less than 0.05. The calculated right ventricular output for the PPS group was more than the control group: 437 vs 261 ml/min/kg, p less than 0.001. Hematocrits were not done on the control group, but the PPS group had an average hematocrit which was low (34%). It is concluded that patients with PPS have mild underdevelopment of the PA branches, with consequent increased flow velocity and turbulent flow. This turbulent flow may be contributed to by increased cardiac output and mild anemia. 
Doppler diagnostics, indications, and control of surgical treatment in patients with carotid pathology. Major stroke is a relatively common cause of death or disabling invalidism in patients with atherosclerosis. In a large percentage of cases it is caused by stenotic/thrombotic processes in carotid arteries and this emphasizes the importance of the problem of early diagnosis and treatment of carotid pathology. Recently Doppler sonography has become a leading non-invasive method of early screening of stenotic processes in carotid arteries. The aim of the present study was to ascertain the diagnostic abilities of Doppler sonography for screening of carotid pathology, assessment of extra-cranial and intracranial hemodynamics, defining of indications, and control of vascular reconstructions of carotids. 
The pharmacology of aspirin, heparin, coumarin, and thrombolytic agents. Implications for therapeutic use in cardiopulmonary disease. The modern treatment of cardiopulmonary disease is increasingly predicated on the goal of dissolving the offending clot to establish vascular patency as rapidly as possible and then preventing rethrombosis. The availability of thrombolytic agents has made this therapeutic approach possible and the adjunctive use of heparin, coumarin, and aspirin has increased the efficacy of lytic drugs. The administration of any of these medications is associated with inherent risks, which are enhanced when they are used concomitantly. An understanding of coagulation and an appreciation of the pathophysiologic processes of the thrombotic events occurring in cardiopulmonary disease states are critical to the formulation of innovative therapeutic regimens that maximize efficacy and safety. Furthermore, knowledge of the comparative pharmacology of the various thrombolytic agents is useful in explaining the benefits and complications observed in clinical trials. 
Characteristics of biliary lipid metabolism after liver transplantation. Biliary lipid metabolism was studied after 10 liver transplantations with continuous drainage of bile. Within 3 wk after transplantation, the new liver produced bile with concentrations of biliary lipids in agreement with those reported for T-tube bile in cholecystectolized nontransplanted subjects. Although changes in biliary lipid composition occurred swiftly in response to various forms of disturbed liver function, they did not provide substantially more information than did standard serum tests or simple measurements of bile flow in most patients. Secretion rates of phospholipids and cholesterol were found to be completely bile acid dependent. For each micromole of bile acids, 0.22 and 0.08 mumol of phospholipids and cholesterol were secreted, respectively. When bile flow was related to bile acid output, a linear relationship was found (r = 0.89), with a positive intercept indicating a bile acid-independent bile flow of approximately 44 microliters/min. Analysis of individual bile acids showed almost exclusively primary bile acids. The relative proportion of chenodeoxycholic acid was more prominent during the first days after transplantation. Different explanations for this are discussed. 
Fasting in vivo delays myocardial cell damage after brief periods of ischemia in the isolated working rat heart. To assess the effects of fasting on recovery of function and exogenous glucose metabolism after 15 minutes of total ischemia, we perfused isolated working rat hearts from fed and fasted animals. Hearts were perfused in a recirculating system with bicarbonate buffer containing glucose (10 mM). Mechanical performance, release of marker proteins for ischemic membrane damage (lactate dehydrogenase, myoglobin, citrate synthase), and the concentrations of lactate and glucose in the perfusion medium were measured serially. Tissue metabolites were also measured. Fasting raised the myocardial glycogen content by 25%. Cardiac performance of perfused hearts from fed and fasted animals was the same during the preischemic and the post-ischemic period. The time of return of function to preischemic values was significantly less in hearts from fasted rats (2.3 versus 7.8 minutes, p less than 0.025). The release of cytosolic and mitochondrial marker proteins was significantly lower in hearts from fasted rats than in hearts from fed rats. Glucose metabolic rates during control and reperfusion were unchanged for hearts from fasted rats, but decreased for hearts from fed rats during reperfusion. The adenine nucleotide content at the end of ischemia was higher in hearts from fasted animals than in hearts from fed animals. We conclude that increasing glycogen levels prior to ischemia improves recovery of function, lessens membrane damage, and prevents loss of adenine nucleotides. 
Therapy of ischemic cardiomyopathy with pentoxifylline. Abnormal blood rheology is a known characteristics of coronary artery disease. The authors evaluated the effects of pentoxifylline on the exercise capacity ejection fraction and symptoms of 9 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. All patients had signs and symptoms of left ventricular dysfunction. All had at least two major vessels obstructed as determined by coronary angiography. Pentoxifylline 400 mg three times daily was administered for twelve weeks. Seven of 9 patients responded with increases in ejection fraction and exercise tolerance. Exercise tolerance correlated with improvement or lack of improvement in ejection fraction. For all patients at twelve weeks post-therapy mean ejection fraction increased 9.8% over baseline (p = .07), total treadmill time increased 15% (p = .27), and mean double product increased 13% (p = .03). Anginal symptoms were significantly improved over baseline at twelve weeks of therapy (p greater than .001), as well as dyspnea on exertion (p = .03). Pentoxifylline was well tolerated. Pentoxifylline may benefit ischemic cardiomyopathy by improving coronary perfusion owing to favorable alterations in hemorheologic properties. 
A study of the effectiveness of the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine as vasospasm prophylaxis in a rabbit model of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm occurring after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is unknown. Several lines of experimentation have suggested a free radical mechanism in the etiology of vasospasm. Iron is an important catalyst in the generation of free radicals and lipid peroxides in response to tissue injury. We hypothesize that the elaboration of iron from the subarachnoid clot might result in enhanced generation of free radicals and lipid peroxidation. If so, then treatment with deferoxamine, an iron-chelating compound, might reduce the formation of free radicals and thereby ameliorate vasospasm. This hypothesis was examined in a rabbit model of experimental cerebral vasospasm. New Zealand White rabbits were divided into the following experimental groups: control (normal) animals (n = 7), control animals treated with deferoxamine (n = 3), animals subjected to SAH and killed on Day 2 (n = 7), animals subjected to SAH on Day 2 and treated with deferoxamine (n = 9), animals subjected to SAH killed on Day 3 (n = 7), and animals subjected to SAH on Day 3 and treated with deferoxamine (n = 7). Deferoxamine treatment (50 mg/kg/8 hours) was begun 16 hours before the induction of SAH and continued until the animals were killed by perfusion fixation. The basilar artery caliber was assessed using morphometric techniques. The diameter of the basilar arteries in the control animals was 0.64 +/- 0.02 mm. Deferoxamine treatment alone did not alter the artery diameter. 
Methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment. The example of age and sex. This article addresses the methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment. There have been reports to suggest that a high sodium intake is a cause of elevated blood pressure and trials to indicate that a reduction in sodium intake may reduce blood pressure that is already high; the implications of these findings are discussed. Many studies on sodium sensitivity suffer from what could be called the "normal probability fallacy"; without appropriate control conditions, an intervention such as sodium restriction may incorrectly be assigned to a more pronounced response in a subgroup of the study population. As an example, findings are reviewed of age and sex as determinants of a response of blood pressure to variations in sodium intake. The limited data available suggest that subjects that are older and have higher blood pressure levels seem to benefit more from a reduction in sodium intake. In addition, elderly subjects at a high dietary sodium intake may have a higher risk of developing hypertension. Findings in both nonexperimental and experimental studies tend to support this view. Findings on sex differences are less consistent. A systematic approach to the assessment of factors and mechanisms responsible for sodium sensitivity in some subjects is needed to determine who might benefit most. Until more data are available, there is little basis to discriminate sodium-sensitive from sodium-resistant hypertensive subjects. 
Surgery for Ebstein's anomaly: the clinical and echocardiographic evaluation of a new technique. Ten consecutive patients (age range 4 to 44 years, mean 22) underwent surgical repair of Ebstein's anomaly by vertical plication of the right ventricle and reimplantation of the tricuspid valve leaflets. No patient died during or after operation. Intraoperative postbypass echocardiography documented a good result in nine patients but severe tricuspid regurgitation in one patient, who then underwent prosthetic valve replacement during a second period of cardiopulmonary bypass. Two of four patients who had had right ventricular papillary muscle dysfunction in the early postoperative period showed improved papillary muscle function with concomitant reduction of tricuspid regurgitation 6 months later. All patients were evaluated clinically and by echocardiography 2 to 23 months later. All patients showed clinical improvement, seven by one functional class and three by two classes. All were in sinus rhythm. The mean cardiothoracic ratio decreased by 6% (p less than 0.05). On bicycle ergometry performed in six patients, peak oxygen consumption exceeded 20 ml/kg per min in five. Tricuspid regurgitation diminished in eight patients (by three grades in two patients, by two grades in five and by one grade in one patient); it remained unchanged in two. Comparison of preoperative and postoperative pulsed Doppler flow velocities across the pulmonary valve showed an increase in the peak velocity of flow across the valve (mean 83 +/- 14 versus 97 +/- 11 cm/s, p less than 0.005) and a decrease in the time to peak velocity (mean 130 +/- 16 versus 91 +/- 23 ms, p less than 0.05). 
Clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic correlations in chronic congestive heart failure: conflicting results may lead to inappropriate care. PURPOSE: Clinical and radiographic examinations are commonly used for estimating severity and titrating therapy of chronic congestive heart failure. The purpose of this study was to establish the relationship between findings on history, physical examination, chest roentgenogram, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-two consecutive patients with chronic congestive heart failure, referred for evaluation for heart transplantation, were studied; all patients underwent history, physical examination, upright chest roentgenogram, and cardiac catheterization. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 +/- 0.06. Patients were divided into three groups according to their PCWP: Group 1, normal PCWP (less than or equal to 15 mm Hg, n = 19); Group 2, mild to moderately elevated PCWP (16 to 29 mm Hg, n = 15); Group 3, markedly elevated PCWP (greater than or equal to 30 mm Hg, n = 18). RESULTS: Physical and radiographic signs of congestion were more common in the groups with higher PCWP, but they could not be used to reliably separate patients with different filling pressures. Physical findings (orthopnea, edema, rales, third heart sound, elevated jugular venous pressure) or radiographic signs (cardiomegaly, vascular redistribution, and interstitial and alveolar edema) had poor predictive value for identifying patients with PCWP values greater than or equal to 30 mm Hg. These findings had poor negative predictive value to exclude significantly elevated PCWP (greater than 20 mm Hg). Radiographic pulmonary congestion was absent in eight (53%) patients in Group 2 and seven (39%) in Group 3. In patients in Group 2 and 3, those without radiographic congestion were in a better New York Heart Association functional class (3.5 +/- 0.5 versus 2.8 +/- 0.6, p less than 0.01). There was good correlation between right atrial pressure and PCWP (r = 0.64, p less than 0.001). A normal right atrial pressure had no predictive value, but a pressure greater than 10 mm Hg was seen in all but one patient with a PCWP value greater than 20 mm Hg. CONCLUSION: Clinical, radiographic, and hemodynamic evaluations of chronic congestive heart failure yield conflicting results. Absence of radiographic or physical signs of congestion does not ensure normal PCWP values and may lead to inaccurate diagnosis and inadequate therapy. It is not known whether therapy aimed at normalizing PCWP is superior to relieving clinical and radiographic signs of congestion. 
Relation between intraventricular pressure and volume in diastole. The pressure-volume curves for 10 patients with various types of heart disease were studied throughout mid to late diastole when both pressure and volume were increasing. The results were used to test a currently held theory that the form of this relation is exponential. It was found that for the patients examined this hypothesis was not valid. 
Hemodynamic and endocrine effects of mental stress in untreated borderline hypertension. Mental arithmetic and mirror tracing were compared in 40 untreated patients with borderline hypertension, tested in random sequence in standardized protocols. Both tasks significantly increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac index, plasma renin, and decreased peripheral resistance. Mental arithmetic also increased cholesterol, triglycerides and HDL; plasma catecholamines were not changed significantly. Lipid changes were correlated with blood pressure changes. These methods will be useful in exploring the relationships between hemodynamic reactivity to stress, and the presence and progression of atherosclerosis, as well as testing the effects of antihypertensive drugs on stress-induced changes that may influence atherosclerotic complications of hypertension. 
Cardiac involvement in AIDS. Cardiac involvement in AIDS may occur at any stage of HIV disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy, potentially lethal arrhythmia, or pericardial effusion and tamponade. The heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome. Although often clinically unobtrusive, cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of AIDS. 
Factors determining success and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation. Factors thought to affect the success of and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation were studied in 80 (49 male, 31 female) patients aged 21-88 (mean 61.5 years). Transthoracic impedance was measured in advance of the countershock using a 30 kHz low amplitude AC current passed through self-adhesive ECG/defibrillator pads (diameters 8-12 cm) applied to the chest in the antero-posterior (AP) position in 57 patients and the anteroapical (AA) position in 23 patients. Mean transthoracic impedance for all patients was 69.3 +/- 16 (SD) ohms (range 39-131 ohms), but transthoracic impedance was significantly greater in the AA than the AP position (75.4 +/- 13 vs. 66.7 +/- 16 ohms, p = 0.02). Initial energy was 50 J (delivered) and was gradually increased to a maximum of 360 J if required. Cardioversion was successful in 73 of 80 (91.2 per cent), and low energy shocks (less than or equal to 200 J) were successful in 45 of 80 (56.2 per cent) patients. Using single factor analysis, sex, left atrial enlargement, electrode pad positions, aetiology of atrial fibrillation, presence of left ventricular failure, and prior treatment with verapamil or beta-adrenergic blockers were not significant determinants of cardioversion success or success of low energy shocks but prior treatment with digoxin was, both for cardioversion success and success at low energies. In patients with transthoracic impedance less than or equal to 70 ohms, low energy shocks were more often successful (33 or 50, 66 per cent) than in patients with transthoracic impedance greater than 70 ohms (12 of 30, 40 per cent), p = 0.04. Using univariate analysis, cardioversion success with low energy shocks was not only significantly associated with prior treatment with digoxin but also with the duration of atrial fibrillation (24 hours to one month and one month to three years) and for shocks of less than or equal to 100 J, with prior treatment with amiodarone. Multifactorial linear regression analysis selected, in rank order, only duration of atrial fibrillation of 24 hours to less than one month and one month to three years as significant predictors of both cardioversion success irrespective of shock strength, and success of low energy shocks. 
Cardiac echinococcosis: the diagnostic value of computed tomography scanning. The diagnosis of cardiac hydatid disease is a difficult one. Conventional and specific cardiac investigations are not pathognomonic of this disease. In this report, the diagnostic value of computed tomography (CT) scanning was prospectively investigated in seven patients. In five patients, the diagnosis was confirmed surgically. The CT-information obtained correlated accurately to the operative findings. In all the patients, CT-densities of the lesions were measured and were found to coincide with values of mean CT-densities of hydatid cysts elsewhere in the body. The capability of measuring tissue densities is unique to CT-scanning and have been emphasized in this report. 
Clinical and anatomical considerations for surgery in aortoiliac disease and results of surgical treatment. A variety of surgical procedures are available for the treatment of occlusive disease involving the aorta and iliac arteries. Use of the most appropriate operation in each patient, determined principally by disease location and patient risk, can provide highly effective relief of disabling claudication or limb-threatening ischemia with low morbidity and mortality rates. The excellent, durable results of current surgical practice should serve as the standard with which newer treatment modalities must be compared. 
Light scattering detection of microemboli in an extracorporeal LVAD bovine model. Thromboembolization studies were performed on two calves supported by extracorporeal left ventricular assist devices (LVAD) using a light scattering (He Ne Laser) microemboli detector (LSMD). The LSMD system was placed on the outflow cannula of the LVAD in the extracorporeal loop of each animal. The measurements included the size, number, and rate of production of circulating microemboli in the range 20 microns less than microemboli diameter less than 1,000 microns. These data were compared to independently and concurrently obtained measurements of emboli shear rate (CPF), platelet count, red blood count (RBC), leukocyte count (WBC), plasma free hemoglobin, factors XIII, X, and V, and sorbitol dehydrogenase. Embolic number and volume were seen to be most dynamic in the very early phases of acute thromboembolization (0-40 minutes) with a peak embolic response within the first 30 minutes. The dynamics of reduced emboli volume, rather than number, may be implicated in the later stages of the thromboembolic passivation of these ventricles. The LSMD results generally showed an inverse correlation of microemboli volume rate with CPF measurements for each ventricle. LSMD, CPF, and leukocyte and platelet counts, showed a direct correlation with reduced counts for each additional ventricle for both calves. Factor XII was seen to have a more direct correlation in time with LSMD measurements for each ventricle than other parameters under investigation. This study represents the first time laser scattering and filtration methods have been applied simultaneously with hematologic assays in order to study the dynamics of device associated thrombogenesis. 
Plaque morphology and pathologic changes in arteries from patients dying after coronary balloon angioplasty Morphologic correlates of pathologic success or failure were studied at autopsy in 28 patients with 40 coronary arteries that had been subjected to balloon angioplasty. The presence of the following histologic features was evaluated: plaque concentricity or eccentricity, calcification, fibrous or fibropultaceous plaque, medial disruption, luminal thrombus and inflammation. Angioplasty was considered successful (residual cross-sectional luminal area greater than 25%) on pathologic examination in 14 arteries and unsuccessful in 26 arteries. Eccentric plaques were more likely to be successfully dilated than were concentric lesions (p less than 0.05). Six (50%) of 12 fibropultaceous plaques were successfully dilated compared with only 8 (29%) of 28 fibrous plaques. Moderate to severe calcification did not preclude morphologic success. Medial stretching or dissection, or both, was more often associated with a successful result. Thus, plaque morphology may be an important determinant of pathologic outcome after coronary angioplasty. 
Balloon valvuloplasty for fungal endocarditis induced stenosis of a bioprosthetic tricuspid valve. Palliative treatment was provided without complications by double balloon valvuloplasty of a stenotic porcine tricuspid valve in a patient with fungal endocarditis. With two 15 mm diameter valvulotomy balloons the peak tricuspid gradient decreased from 21 to 7 mm Hg and valve area increased from 0.3 to 1.2 cm2. After the procedure the patient clinically improved; however, valve replacement was not performed as planned because the patient developed an intracranial hemorrhage. She subsequently died of complications of fungemia. The present report demonstrates the possible use of valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in selected patients with valvular stenosis involved with endocarditis. 
Effects of the phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine on injury in ischemic and metabolically inhibited adult isolated myocytes. The phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine has been shown to delay cell death of metabolically inhibited cultured cardiomyocytes. The present study was initiated to determine if mepacrine also delays cell death and development of osmotic fragility of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic adult rat cardiomyocytes. Isolated myocyte suspensions were incubated with 3 mmol/l (millimolar) iodoacetic acid and 6 mmol/l amytal (inhibited) or were pelleted into a slurry and layered with oil (ischemic) in the presence and absence of 10 or 50 mumol/l (micromolar) mepacrine. Rates of contracture, cell viability as determined by trypan blue permeability, cell viability after osmotic swelling in 170 mOsm media (osmotic fragility), and cell morphology were monitored. Mepacrine had no effects on rates of contracture, but was found to significantly delay cell death during isotonic incubations of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic cells. In contrast, mepacrine had no effect on the development of osmotic fragility. Incubation of metabolically inhibited myocytes in calcium-free media did not delay contracture or cell injury, but did attenuate the protective effects of mepacrine. This study confirms previous reports that mepacrine protects cells from injury, extends the observations of protection to ischemic isolated adult myocytes, but shows that development of osmotic fragility is not inhibited by mepacrine. 
Preliminary results of the Norwegian doxazosin postmarketing surveillance study: a twelve-week experience. The study was designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in the control of blood pressure in general medical practice; the results presented concern the first 748 patients evaluated over a 12-week period. Blood pressure was significantly reduced after treatment with doxazosin (-13/-9 mm Hg), and heart rate was not significantly altered. In addition, doxazosin significantly reduced total cholesterol levels (-6.7%), reduced triglyceride levels (-19.8%), increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (+2.5%), and the high-density lipoprotein:total cholesterol ratio (+9.7%). The calculated risk of coronary heart disease was reduced by 20.5% over a 12-week period. Thirty-five percent of patients reported at least one side effect, and the number of patients experiencing severe adverse reactions was small. Twenty patients (2.7%) discontinued treatment because of adverse events, and 2.7% had the dose of doxazosin reduced. 
Venous ulcers: pathophysiology and medical therapy. Venous ulcers may occur as a result of lower extremity calf pump failure, with ensuing edema, trapping of white blood cells and deposition of pericapillary fibrin. Acute, smaller lesions are easily treated with adequate compression and occlusive dressings. Larger, more chronic wounds often benefit from some form of external compression. Occlusive dressings and local wound care are most effective when used simultaneously with compression. Sequential compression pumps merit study and may prove to be of therapeutic and prophylactic value. In refractory cases, long-term use of compression devices may be required to prevent ulcer recurrence. 
Replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis. Septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand. Despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery. At operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium. Nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation. 
Enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic responsiveness in cardiomyopathic hamster cardiac myocytes. Relation to the expression of pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. The pathogenesis of the myopathy occurring in the heart of the cardiomyopathic strain of the Syrian hamster is not well understood but is believed to be associated with abnormal calcium handling by myopathic cells. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the cardiomyopathy occurring in strain BIO 14.6 animals is associated with an enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium, whether a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein is involved in coupling the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor to changes in intracellular calcium and whether enhanced alpha 1 responsiveness is associated with an increase in the level of expression of the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor or in the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein or proteins. To test the hypothesis that the cardiomyopathic state is associated with a greater alpha 1-receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium, we studied the effect of phenylephrine (in the presence of propranolol) on time-averaged cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in isolated cardiac myocytes from cardiomyopathic and age-matched control hamsters. Phenylephrine caused a greater increase both in time-averaged [Ca2+]i (an increase of 48 +/- 8% versus 12 +/- 3%, p less than 0.01) and in contractility (+181 +/- 22% versus +35 +/- 9%, p less than 0.01) in cardiomyopathic than in normal cardiac myocytes. Exposure to pertussis toxin (200 ng/ml for 3 hours) attenuated the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated increase in contractility and time-averaged [Ca2+]i in both cardiomyopathic and normal cells. The level of pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein, as determined by pertussis toxin-mediated [32P]ADP-ribosylation, was 1.6-fold higher in cardiomyopathic versus normal hamster hearts. The density of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, as measured by the antagonist radioligand [3H]prazosin and the affinity of the receptor for agonist and antagonist were similar in myopathic and normal heart membranes. Thus, in cardiac myocytes from hamsters, the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated effects on [Ca2+]i and contractility appear to be mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein or proteins. In myocytes from cardiomyopathic hamsters, these alpha 1-adrenergic effects were increased in magnitude, as was the level of pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein, but there was no measurable alteration in the density or ligand binding properties of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. 
Myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system. A myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system for patients treated in a coronary care unit is described. The prognostic significance of 22 variables, all which were available on admission, were analyzed. A prognostic index was then constructed by a modified stepwise logistic regressional analysis technique. The variables that were used in the scoring system were Killip hemodynamic class, infarct location, and the maximal ST segment elevation in a single lead. The scoring system was validated in an independent group of patients, including a group of patients treated with intravenous streptokinase. The scoring system may prove to be useful for individual patient prognostication and management strategies, and for the quantification of infarct severity for use in clinical studies. 
Hypertension as an unusual feature in an outbreak of tetrodotoxin poisoning. We report an outbreak of tetrodotoxin poisoning resulting from consumption of ovaries of an unidentified species of fish. Thirty victims manifested the typical neurologic symptoms of tetrodotoxin poisoning. Although hypotension is the classically described blood pressure reaction, eight individuals developed hypertension (average blood pressure 192/110 mm Hg); one died of acute pulmonary edema. Semi-quantitative tetrodotoxin bioassay of two uneaten ovaries revealed tetrodotoxin concentrations of 54 Mouse Units/gm and 287 Mouse Units/gm, respectively. To gain insight into the unusual phenomenon of hypertension observed in our outbreak, we interviewed the victims, performed a funduscopic exam for hypertensive retinopathy and checked their blood pressure periodically in the ensuing year. Mild hypertension evidenced by retinopathy and elevated blood pressure was found in all seven who manifested hypertension during the acute event and survived. We postulate that individuals with pre-existing hypertension responded to the relatively small doses of tetrodotoxin with a dramatic rise in blood pressure. This resulted in the fatal outcome for one individual with severe coronary artery disease. Hypertension should be recognized as a possible feature of tetrodotoxin poisoning, especially in predisposed individuals. 
Abdominal aneurysms in childhood: report of a case and review of the literature. Abdominal aneurysms are rare in children and are usually found in association with congenital cardiac or aortic malformations, connective tissue disorders, trauma, or previous arterial catheter placement. A 4-year-old girl who had a common iliac artery aneurysm, who had no history of arterial catheter placement or trauma, and who had no evidence of Marfan's or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, arteritis, coarctation of the aorta, or other diseases associated with childhood aneurysms is presented. Resection of the aneurysm and arterial reconstruction were performed without the use of prosthetic material or vein graft. Pathologic examination showed no evidence of inflammation or medial degeneration in any of the layers of the arterial wall. This is the fourth report found in the literature of documented idiopathic abdominal aneurysm in a child. The conditions associated with abdominal aneurysms in childhood are discussed, and the literature is reviewed. 
The daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of long-term three times daily administered isosorbide dinitrate Three times daily administration of isosorbide dinitrate may avoid much of the tolerance seen with more frequent dosing. To determine the daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of three times daily isosorbide dinitrate, eight men with stable exertional angina and a positive exercise test were studied. The subjects had demonstrated increased exercise duration in response to oral isosorbide dinitrate therapy and absence of complete tolerance to long-term three times daily isosorbide dinitrate. Treadmill exercise to onset of angina was performed over 2 days at 8 AM, 9 AM, 11 AM, 1 PM, 2 PM, 4 PM, 6 PM and 7 PM. On one day each patient received isosorbide dinitrate at 8 AM, 1 PM and 6 PM in a previously titrated dose (mean 27.5 mg), which had been taken three times daily for at least 2 weeks. On the other day at the same hours each patient received double blind a placebo identical in appearance to isosorbide dinitrate. One hour after the 8 AM dose of isosorbide dinitrate, mean systolic blood pressure at rest had fallen by 19 mm Hg and mean exercise time to angina increased by 200 s. However, by 11 AM exercise time had returned to control level. One hour after the 1 PM dose of isosorbide dinitrate, exercise time increased by a mean of 150 s but was again at control level 2 h later. 
Clinical diagnosis of tamponade in Malawi. A consecutive series of 25 Malawian patients with tamponade secondary to tuberculosis were compared to 25 patients with congestive cardiac failure, without pericardial effusion in a retrospective study. More patients with tamponade had an impalpable apex beat (21/1), pulsus paradoxus (13/0), soft heart sounds (13/2), paradoxical rise in jugular venous pressure (6/0), and fewer had a murmur (1/14). All these results are significant (p less than 0.05) by the chi 2 test with Yates' correction. The presence of two or more of these discriminating physical signs has a positive predictive value of 75 per cent, and a negative predictive value of 99.5 per cent for the diagnosis of tamponade. Clinical diagnosis of tamponade by primary health care personnel in Malawi should be possible, and lead to earlier treatment. 
Occlusive vasculopathy in systemic lupus erythematosus. Association with anticardiolipin antibody Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and with antiphospholipid antibody are subject to sudden occlusion of multiple blood vessels. We describe two patients with systemic lupus erythematosus with acute, catastrophic, widespread non-inflammatory visceral vascular occlusions associated with high-titer antiphospholipid antibody. The histopathologic features clearly distinguished these patients from classic systemic lupus erythematosus vasculitis. We further suggest that, based on a probable pathogenesis related to the presence of antiphospholipid antibody, and based on the non-inflammatory vascular occlusion, steroids and other immunosuppressive medications are of limited value. Plasmapheresis along with anticoagulant therapy should be considered. 
Thoracic epidural anesthesia improves global and regional left ventricular function during stress-induced myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. The aim of the present investigation was to study the effects of high thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA), including the cardiac sympathetic segments, on ischemic ST-segment changes and left ventricular global and regional wall motion abnormalities. Ten patients with a two- or three-vessel coronary artery disease, all treated with the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol because of severe stable angina pectoris, performed two identical exercise stress tests, the first without TEA (control exercise) and the second with TEA (TEA exercise). Before each stress test, intravenous metoprolol was given to achieve maximal or near maximal beta-adrenoceptor blockade. Systolic and diastolic arterial pressures (radial artery cannula), heart rate, and rate-pressure product, as well as global and regional ejection fractions, using equilibrium radionuclide angiography in the left anterior oblique projection, were measured at rest and during maximal exercise. ST-segment analysis (V3 or V5) was performed, and the regional wall motion score was calculated at control exercise and TEA exercise. Intravenous metoprolol or intravenous metoprolol plus TEA at rest did not cause any significant changes of any of the variables. During TEA exercise, systolic arterial pressure, diastolic arterial pressure, and rate-pressure product, but not heart rate, were significantly lower compared to control exercise. The global and anterolateral ejection fractions were significantly higher (52.8% versus 46.5% and 53.2% versus 46.0%, respectively, P less than 0.05), and the regional wall motion score was significantly lower (8.8 versus 11.8, P less than 0.01) during TEA exercise than during control exercise. ST-segment depression was significantly lower during TEA exercise (-1.03 versus -1.84 mV, P less than 0.01). 
Sodium-calcium interactions and salt-sensitive hypertension. In humans with essential hypertension, salt-induced increases in blood pressure have been reported to correlate directly with salt-induced increases in intracellular free calcium [( Ca2+]i) in circulating mononuclear cells. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that salt-induced increases in [Ca2+]i mediate the phenomenon of salt sensitivity. Circumstantial evidence suggests that salt-induced increases in intracellular sodium or in plasma levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D might mediate salt-induced increases in [Ca2+]i and blood pressure. However, in humans with salt-sensitive hypertension, it remains to be determined: (1) whether salt-induced increases in white blood cell [Ca2+]i reflect corresponding increases in vascular smooth muscle [Ca2+]i; (2) whether salt-induced increases in [Ca2+]i are a cause or consequence of salt-induced increases in blood pressure; and (3) whether salt-induced increases in 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D or intracellular sodium precede salt-induced increases in [Ca2+]i. 
Fate of patients undergoing transluminal angioplasty for lower-limb ischemia. A prospective study of 370 patients who underwent 500 percutaneous transluminal angioplasties (PTAs) for lower-limb ischemia over a 7-year period was performed. A 97% follow-up rate was achieved. The first PTA was successful in 188 patients (51%). Of the failures, 31% were failed attempts at dilation and 73% occurred within 1 month of intervention. Of the patients with failed PTA, 39% underwent bypass surgery and 24% underwent amputation. The 30-day mortality rate was 3%, with 1% of the deaths attributed to PTA. The survival rate at 5 years for the successes was double that for the failures (P less than .0005). The best results were in femoropopliteal stenoses with two or three patent calf vessels (cumulative patency rate, 78% at 3 years) and the worst in femoropopliteal occlusions with one or no patent calf vessels (cumulative patency rate, 25% at 3 years). Log rank tests on the life-table data were used to show factors favoring a good outcome. It is concluded that PTA is the treatment of first choice in suitable patients and, although the failure of intervention in critical ischemia has a significant risk, it is a valuable addition to the therapeutic options in patients with little chance of surgical treatment. 
Semi-closed, ex-situ, non-reversed or reversed autogenous vein grafting. A technique for femoro-distal arterial bypass. A technique is described for femoro-distal grafting in which vein is removed through very small incisions using the Mayo vein stripper, valves are ablated with the vein "ex-situ", and the graft is inserted non-reversed or reversed according to arbitrary criteria as to its diameter, with the distal anastomosis performed under tourniquet control. Early experience with 35 consecutive vein grafts showed no serious technical problems, satisfactory results and excellent patient acceptance. 
Weight gain at the time of menopause. We studied prospectively the weight change and the effect of weight change on changes in coronary heart disease risk factors in a population-based sample of 485 middle-aged women. All women were studied first in 1983 to 1984, when they were premenopausal and aged 42 to 50 years, and then restudied in 1987. Women gained an average of 2.25 +/- 4.19 kg during this 3-year period; 20% of women gained 4.5 kg or more, and only 3% lost 4.5 kg or more. There were no significant differences in weight gain of women who remained premenopausal and those who had a natural menopause (+2.07 kg vs +1.35 kg). Weight gain was significantly associated with increases in blood pressure and levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and fasting insulin. Weight gain is thus a common occurrence for women at the time of menopause and is related to the changes in coronary heart disease risk factors observed during this period. Efforts to lose weight or to prevent weight gain may help to mitigate the worsening in coronary heart disease risk factors in middle-aged women. 
Predictors of long-term survival after percutaneous aortic valvuloplasty: report of the Mansfield Scientific Balloon Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry. Percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty was used to prospectively treat 492 elderly, symptomatic, nonsurgical patients suffering from severe aortic stenosis in 27 centers in North America and Europe. At 1 year the overall survival rate was 64% and the event-free survival rate (survival free of valve replacement or repeat valvuloplasty) was 43%. Clinical, catheterization and procedural variables were assessed to define prognostic variables. Univariate analysis revealed that patients who survived had a lesser frequency of previous myocardial infarction (2% versus 6%, p less than 0.005), lower incidence of severe ventricular dysfunction (22% versus 48%, p less than 0.001) and lower incidence of symptoms of heart failure (60% versus 75%, p less than 0.02). History of angina (56% versus 45%, p = NS) and syncope (23% versus 16%, p = NS) were similar for both groups. Values obtained at cardiac catheterization that differed in survivors and nonsurvivors included lower pulmonary artery systolic pressure (43 +/- 1 versus 54 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.001), lower mean pulmonary artery pressure (28 +/- 1.0 versus 36 +/- 1.0 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and larger initial valve area (0.52 +/- 0.01 versus 0.47 +/- 0.02 cm2, p = 0.006). Discriminate function analysis was performed to identify variables that independently predicted improved probability of survival. Eight variables were significantly and independently predictive. These included age, initial cardiac output, initial left ventricular systolic pressures, initial left ventricular end-diastolic pressures, presence of coronary artery disease, New York Heart Association dyspnea classification, number of balloon inflations and final valve area. 
Mitral stenosis: evaluation with MR imaging after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty. To evaluate the pathoanatomic findings of mitral valve stenosis and changes after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty (PBV), magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was performed in 23 patients. The patients were imaged with a 2.0-T system within 1 week before and 3-10 days after PBV. The angle of the interatrial septum was measured on the transverse image to facilitate a successful transseptal puncture. On MR images, the mean transverse and anteroposterior diameters of the left atrium at the level of the aortic root in the ventricular diastolic phase decreased significantly after PBV. Areas of flow-related intraluminal signal intensity detected in the left atrial cavity of 17 patients (74%) before the procedure disappeared in 15 patients after the procedure. Other MR imaging findings after PBV were the disappearance of intraluminal signal intensity in the pulmonary artery, normal curvature of the interatrial and interventricular septa, and pericardial effusion as a complication. MR imaging was thought to provide useful information before and after PBV in patients with mitral stenosis. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in the awake elderly patient: its role in the clinical decision-making process. To assess the impact on the management and safety of transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) in the elderly population, the results and limitations of this technique were retrospectively analyzed in 88 patients. TEE was indicated whenever the transthoracic approach was not diagnostic or was inconsistent with the clinical setting. The most frequent clinical indications were to investigate the source of emboli, assess valvular regurgitation, and identify valvular vegetations. In 72 patients (82%) TEE significantly influenced management decisions. In selected patients TEE avoided the use of more invasive diagnostic procedures. Adverse effects included occasional premature atrial or ventricular beats (11 patients), sinus bradycardia (six patients), and protracted nausea (one patient). We conclude that in elderly patients with cardiovascular diseases, TEE plays a significant role in the decision-making process without adding a significant risk. 
Direct vasopressor effect of recombinant human erythropoietin on renal resistance vessels. The contractile properties of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) on isolated resistance vessels of renal and mesenteric vascular beds were studied in an in vitro model using a small vessel myograph. Under isometric conditions, rHuEPO caused a contraction of this vasculature in a concentration range between 10 U/ml and 200 U/ml. A maximal active wall tension of 1.52 +/- 0.19 mN/mm was obtained under a rHuEPO dose of 200 U/ml. In Ca2+ free solution, the pressor response to high rHuEPO-concentrations was attenuated, and the response to low rHuEPO concentrations was abolished. In the presence of verapamil, phentolamine and saralasin, rHuEPO-induced contractions were not affected significantly. A dose-dependent vasodilatation of mounted vasculature to acetylcholine (ACh) indicated that endothelium remained intact in our preparations. rHuEPO-induced vessel contraction was not abrogated after an enzymatical removal of endothelium by collagenase, confirming that the described contractile responses are endothelial independent. These findings suggest that a direct vasopressor effect of rHuEPO on proximal resistance vessels may contribute to development of hypertension seen in rHuEPO-treated hemodialysis patients. 
Mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in aortic regurgitation: importance for predicting the functional response to aortic valve replacement To test the hypothesis that the combined use of the time-varying elastance concept and conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations would elucidate differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in severe, chronic aortic regurgitation and therefore predict the functional responses to aortic valve replacement, 31 control patients and 37 patients with aortic regurgitation were studied. The studies included micromanometer left ventricular pressure determinations, biplane contrast cineangiograms under control conditions and radionuclide angiograms under control conditions and during methoxamine or nitroprusside infusions with right atrial pacing. The patients with aortic regurgitation were classified into three groups: Group I had normal Emax and stress-shortening relations, Group II had abnormal Emax but normal stress-shortening relations and Group III had abnormal Emax and stress-shortening relations. The left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes showed a progressive increase and the ejection fraction showed a progressive decrease from Group I to III; these values differed from those in the control patients (p less than 0.001). In Group I, there was a decrease in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.05) but no significant change in ejection fraction (61 +/- 7% versus 63 +/- 4%) after aortic valve replacement. In contrast, in Group II, reduction in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.01) was associated with an increase in ejection fraction from 50 +/- 8% to 64 +/- 11% (p less than 0.01). Finally, in Group III, reduction in left ventricular volumes (p less than 0.05) was associated with a further decrement in ejection fraction from 35 +/- 13% to 30 +/- 13%. Group I patients had compensated adequately for chronic volume overload. However, Group II had left ventricular dysfunction that was associated with an increase in the left ventricular volume/mass ratio compared with that in the control patients and Group I (p less than 0.05 for both), suggesting inadequate hypertrophy and assumption of spherical geometry. Finally, irreversible myocardial dysfunction had supervened in Group III. In conclusion, a combined analysis of left ventricular chamber performance using the time-varying elastance concept and myocardial performance using conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations provides complementary information that elucidates differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction and therefore predicts the functional response to aortic valve replacement. 
The role of duplex scanning in the selection of patients for transluminal angioplasty. As part of our initial evaluation to determine whether patients with lower extremity ischemia are candidates for intervention, arterial duplex examinations are performed in the noninvasive vascular laboratory. Patients with isolated short stenoses on the duplex examination are referred for transluminal angioplasty. One hundred thirty-four arteriograms were performed for ischemic peripheral vascular disease in 122 patients between July 1987 and March 1990. One hundred ten (82%) of the arteriograms were preceded by a lower extremity arterial duplex evaluation. Fifty cases (45%) were scheduled for transluminal angioplasty based on the findings of the duplex examination. Transluminal angioplasty was performed in 47 of 50 cases (94%). No significant differences in age, sex, or diabetes were found between the patients who were referred for transluminal angioplasty and those who were not. These data demonstrate that duplex scanning of the lower extremities allows the detection of lesions that will be amenable to transluminal angioplasty. We think that duplex scanning should become the standard screening tool for detection of treatable lower extremity lesions. 
Exercise capability in heart failure: is cardiac output important after all? The exercise capability of 39 patients with severe chronic heart failure was assessed in several ways and compared with measurements of cardiac output. The relation between cardiac index and exercise tolerance measured on a treadmill was poor (r = 0.191, p = 0.245). However, exercise tolerance measured with a series of self-paced corridor walk tests showed moderate correlations with cardiac index (r = -0.404, p = 0.015 to r = -0.516, p = 0.001) and customary activity assessed by step counting correlated better with cardiac index (r = 0.537, p less than 0.001). Cardiac output therefore seems to be a factor determining patients' exercise capability when they choose their own walking speed but not when they undergo formal treadmill tests in the laboratory. 
Transesophageal echocardiography in critically ill patients. The feasibility, safety and clinical impact of transesophageal echocardiography were evaluated in 51 critically ill intensive care unit patients (28 men and 23 women; mean age 63 years) in whom transthoracic echocardiography was inadequate. At the time of transesophageal echocardiography, 30 patients (59%) were being mechanically ventilated. Transesophageal echocardiography was performed without significant complications in 49 patients (96%), and 2 patients with heart failure had worsening of hemodynamic and respiratory difficulties after insertion of the transesophageal probe. The most frequent indication, in 25 patients (49%), was unexplained hemodynamic instability. Other indications included evaluation of mitral regurgitation severity, prosthetic valvular dysfunction, endocarditis, aortic dissection and potential donor heart. In 30 patients (59%), transesophageal echocardiography identified cardiovascular problems that could not be clearly diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography. In the remaining patients, transesophageal echocardiography permitted confident exclusion of suspected abnormalities because of its superior imaging qualities. Cardiac surgery was prompted by transesophageal echocardiographic findings in 12 patients (24%) and these findings were confirmed at operation in all. Therefore, transesophageal echocardiography can be safely performed and has a definite role in the diagnosis and expeditious management of critically ill cardiovascular patients. 
Baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity is potentiated at early phase of two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt hypertension in conscious rabbits. Conscious normotensive and two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt hypertensive rabbits were studied to determine the sensitivity of the arterial baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and heart rate. The relations of the mean arterial pressure-RSNA and mean arterial pressure-heart rate were examined over a wide range of blood pressures produced by infusions of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin. The maximum slope obtained by logistic function analysis was considered to represent the baroreflex sensitivity. In the early hypertensive group (n = 8; mean arterial pressure +/- SEM, 88 +/- 2 mm Hg) on day 5 after renal clip application, the maximum slope of the mean arterial pressure-RSNA relation was -11.3 +/- 1.2, which was significantly greater than that of the sham normotensive group (-6.9 +/- 0.3, p less than 0.05). The maximum slope (-4.3 +/- 0.2) of the mean arterial pressure-RSNA relation in the late hypertensive group (n = 8; mean arterial pressure, 96 +/- 3 mm Hg) on day 21 after renal clipping was significantly smaller than that of another sham group (-7.2 +/- 0.2, p less than 0.05). In contrast to these changes in the baroreflex control of RSNA, the control of heart rate was attenuated according to the magnitude of mean arterial pressure. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the potentiated baroreflex, the effects of endogenous neuropeptides were investigated. First, plasma concentrations of angiotensin II and arginine vasopressin that are known to affect the baroreflex were determined. Plasma concentrations of vasopressin (3.1 +/- 0.6 pg/ml) as well as of angiotensin II (34 +/- 7 pg/ml) were increased in the early hypertensive group, and the plasma vasopressin returned to a similar level to the sham group in the late hypertensive group (1.3 +/- 0.4 pg/ml). Second, to study endogenous effects of these neuropeptides on the baroreflex, the maximum slopes of the baroreflex curves during infusions of antagonists for the peptides were determined in the early hypertensive group. The maximum slope of mean arterial pressure-RSNA during intravertebral arterial [Sar1, Ala8]-angiotensin II (-16.4 +/- 1.5) was significantly greater (p less than 0.05), whereas the maximum slope during intravertebral arterial infusion of d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)arginine vasopressin (-4.7 +/- 0.5) was significantly smaller (p less than 0.05) than that during vehicle infusion (-11.3 +/- 1.2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS). 
Converting enzyme inhibitors and renal function in essential and renovascular hypertension. Converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) are useful in the treatment of hypertension. However, acute renal deterioration may occur in some conditions in association with the crucial role of angiotensin in the regulation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR), such as volume depletion, severe stenosis of both renal arteries, and stenosis of a single functioning kidney. CEI-induced acute renal failure can develop in the absence of a fall in systemic pressure, is facilitated by prior sodium depletion, and is reversible upon discontinuation of treatment. In a personal study conducted in 28 patients with CEI-induced renal dysfunction (reversible after discontinuation of CEI), the incidence of stenosis of large renal vessels was 61%, whereas 39% of these subjects had no significant renal artery abnormalities. Although the occurrence of such a complication is not a convincingly accurate predictor of the existence of renovascular hypertension, angiographic detection of renal artery stenosis (bilateral or on a single-functioning kidney) may be justified in some of these patients. 
Carotid endarterectomy: a ten-year analysis of outcome and cost of treatment. Between 1978 and 1988, 215 patients with an average age of 67 years, underwent 246 carotid endarterectomies. Two hundred ten (85.4%) patients were symptomatic, and 36 (14.6%) were asymptomatic. Six patients (2.4%) had a postoperative stroke, and all had immediate reoperation. One of these patients died (30 day mortality rate, 0.4% for the series), and two (0.8%) recovered completely, whereas three (1.2%) had a mild permanent neurologic deficit. Two patients (0.8%) had nonfatal myocardial infarction. Mean follow-up of 42.2 months (range, 1 to 126 months) was achieved. At 5 and 8 years actuarial survival rates of 82% and 66% and stroke-free survival rates of 67% and 37% were observed. Actuarial stroke free rates of 90% at 5 and 8 years were noted. By introducing and observing guidelines that required preoperative study of most clearly defined classes of patients before admission for surgical treatment, the average length of stay for carotid endarterectomy was lowered from 9.5 days in the first 5 years of the study to 5.8 days in the second 5 years (p = 0.001). Average hospital charges, expressed in constant dollars, decreased from $3113 in the first 5 years to $2620 in the second 5 years (p = 0.02) despite an 88% inflationary increase in medical consumer price index. This experience shows that the length of hospitalization of patients with carotid endarterectomy can be reduced and the cost of admission lowered without untoward effect on perioperative morbidity and mortality rates. 
Increased extravascular lung water in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure after acute myocardial infarction. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical characteristics of increased extravascular lung water (EVLW) in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) in the early phase of acute myocardial infarction. DESIGN: Consecutive sample for descriptions of the clinical features of medical disorders. SETTING: A general medicine group practice in a university hospital. PATIENTS: Sixteen patients with low PAOP (less than 18 mm Hg) on the initial measurement obtained within 12 hr of chest pain onset. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: EVLW was measured by the thermal indocyanine green dye double-indicator dilution method. QRS score was obtained on hospital day 7 from the Selvester's QRS Scoring System. Eleven (69%) patients had increased EVLW greater than 7 mL/kg despite low PAOP. EVLW had no significant correlation with PAOP and the difference between plasma colloid osmotic pressure and PAOP, but did have a significant correlation with pulmonary vascular resistance index (r2 = .31, p less than .05), and QRS score (r2 = .45, p less than .005). CONCLUSIONS: Larger infarcts led to increased EVLW even with low PAOP, and the accumulation of increased EVLW around the small arterioles might have led to increased pulmonary vascular resistance. 
Clinical antecedents to in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest. While the outcome of in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest has been studied extensively, the clinical antecedents of arrest are less well defined. We studied a group of consecutive general hospital ward patients developing cardiopulmonary arrest. Prospectively determined definitions of underlying pathophysiology, severity of underlying disease, patient complaints, and clinical observations were used to determine common clinical features. Sixty-four patients arrested 161 +/- 26 hours following hospital admission. Pathophysiologic alterations preceding arrest were classified as respiratory in 24 patients (38 percent), metabolic in 7 (11 percent), cardiac in 6 (9 percent), neurologic in 4 (6 percent), multiple in 17 (27 percent), and unclassified in 6 (9 percent). Patients with multiple disturbances had mainly respiratory (39 percent) and metabolic (44 percent) disorders. Fifty-four patients (84 percent) had documented observations of clinical deterioration or new complaints within eight hours of arrest. Seventy percent of all patients had either deterioration of respiratory or mental function observed during this time. Routine laboratory tests obtained before arrest showed no consistent abnormalities, but vital signs showed a mean respiratory rate of 29 +/- 1 breaths per minute. The prognoses of patients' underlying diseases were classified as ultimately fatal in 26 (41 percent), nonfatal in 23 (36 percent), and rapidly fatal in 15 (23 percent). Five patients (8 percent) survived to hospital discharge. Patients developing arrest on the general hospital ward services have predominantly respiratory and metabolic derangements immediately preceding their arrests. Their underlying diseases are generally not rapidly fatal. Arrest is frequently preceded by a clinical deterioration involving either respiratory or mental function. These features and the high mortality associated with arrest suggest that efforts to predict and prevent arrest might prove beneficial. 
Frequency of success and complications of coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel. The authors of this study hypothesized that percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel, whether isolated or associated with a bifurcation stenosis, was associated with reduced procedural success and increased in-hospital complications. One hundred six patients with 119 ostial branch stenoses were compared with 1,168 patients who underwent angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses. An ostial branch stenosis was defined as a stenosis in the proximal 3 mm of a major branch vessel (diagonal [n = 58], posterior descending [n = 21], obtuse marginal [n = 34] and intermediate [n = 6]). The ostial branch stenosis was isolated in 61% of the patients and associated with a bifurcation stenosis in 39%. Despite a balloon to artery ratio of 1.05:1, angiographic success was 74% of ostial branch stenoses versus 91% of nonostial stenoses (p less than 0.01). Furthermore, angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses resulted in a complication rate of 13 versus 5% for angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses (p less than 0.01). Therefore, angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses results in decreased procedural success and significant residual stenosis despite adequate balloon sizing, suggesting arterial elastic recoil and a significant increase in complications. 
Coronary vasodilation is impaired in both hypertrophied and nonhypertrophied myocardium of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a study with nitrogen-13 ammonia and positron emission tomography. To assess regional coronary reserve in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, regional myocardial blood flow was measured in 23 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 12 control subjects by means of nitrogen-13 ammonia and dynamic positron emission tomography. In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at baseline study, regional myocardial blood flow was 1.14 +/- 0.43 ml/min per g in the hypertrophied (20 +/- 3 mm) interventricular septum and 0.90 +/- 0.35 ml/min per g (p less than 0.05 versus septal flow) in the nonhypertrophied (10 +/- 2 mm) left ventricular free wall. These were not statistically different from the corresponding values in control subjects (1.04 +/- 0.25 and 0.91 +/- 0.21 ml/min per g, respectively, p = NS). After pharmacologically induced coronary vasodilation (dipyridamole, 0.56 mg/kg intravenously over 4 min), regional myocardial blood flow in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy increased significantly less than in control subjects both in the septum (1.63 +/- 0.58 versus 2.99 +/- 1.06 ml/min per g, p less than 0.001) and in the free wall (1.47 +/- 0.58 versus 2.44 +/- 0.82 ml/min per g, p less than 0.001). In addition, patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who had a history of chest pain had more pronounced impairment of coronary vasodilator reserve than did those without a history of chest pain. After dipyridamole, coronary resistance in the septum decreased by 38% in patients without a history of chest pain, but decreased by only 14% in those with such a history (p less than 0.05). Coronary resistance in the free wall decreased by 45% in patients without and by 27% in those with a history of chest pain (p = 0.06). 
Critical aortic stenosis in early infancy. Anatomic and echocardiographic substrates of successful open valvotomy. To establish noninvasive criteria by which to manage infants with critical aortic stenosis, we examined 20 heart specimens from infants under 3 months of age and reviewed the clinical course and real time echocardiograms of 20 patients in the same age group. All 20 infants underwent open valvotomy, and in five cases both echocardiographic and postmortem measurements were available for the same heart. The anatomic specimens showed a spectrum of valvular, ventricular, and vascular abnormalities that could be accurately identified by echocardiography. A small left ventricular cavity was usually associated with a narrow ventriculoarterial junction, small ascending aorta, and narrow subaortic region. In these hearts, the mitral valve had a single or grossly hypoplastic papillary muscle with short or "arcuate" tendinous cords. A dilated left ventricular cavity had wider inflow and outflow orifices, and the tension apparatus of the mitral valve was either normal or supported by hypertrophic papillary muscles, at the other end of the spectrum. The survivors (n = 15) and nonsurvivors (n = 5) of open valvotomy showed significant differences in the echocardiographic dimensions of the left ventricle (p less than 0.005), the subaortic region (p less than 0.05), the ventriculoaortic junction (p less than 0.05), the ascending aorta (p less than 0.005), and the mitral valve orifice (p less than 0.001). Moreover, the papillary muscle of the mitral valve was invariably single or hypoplastic with short tendinous cords in the early nonsurvivors. Infants with unfavorable cardiac anatomy tended to present earlier (p less than 0.05) and to have a lower systemic blood pressure (p less than 0.05), and they required prostaglandin E2 to maintain right ventricular support of the circulation through a persistent arterial duct. This study suggests that patients with a small left ventricle (echocardiographic inflow dimension less than 25 mm), a narrow ventriculoaortic junction (less than 5 mm), and a small mitral valve orifice (less than 9 mm) will not achieve a satisfactory surgical result from aortic valvotomy. Such patients should be considered for cardiac transplantation or the Norwood-type of palliation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome. 
Fatal pulmonary embolism caused by streptokinase treatment of deep venous thrombosis of the leg? During the last 10 years, four of 150 (2.7%) patients with deep venous thrombosis (DVT) treated with streptokinase (SK) at our department have died of pulmonary embolism (PE). A retrospective study of 1393 DVT patients treated with heparin during the period 1973-1986 showed that five (0.36%) of these patients died of PE while still on heparin. In this paper we describe the four patients treated with SK who developed fatal PE. In our opinion this increase in mortality does not warrant the use of SK in routine treatment of DVT of the leg before a proper trial has been conducted to compare the frequencies of pulmonary embolism after both treatments. 
Characterization of spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with coronary artery disease. To characterize the change in cycle length and QRS morphology before spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT), electrocardiograms were recorded and VT cycle length measured for the periods 31 to 21 and 11 to 1 beats before termination in 55 episodes from 28 patients with coronary artery disease. Beats 31 to 21 were designated as a period of stable arrhythmia and served as a reference for changes occurring just before termination. Forty-four episodes of VT occurred in the setting of antiarrhythmic drug therapy; 11 episodes occurred in patients not treated with antiarrhythmic drugs. Variability in cycle length was indexed by the standard deviation of the mean cycle length and by the percentage of consecutive cycles varying by greater than or equal to 40 ms (% greater than or equal to 40 ms). There was greater variability just before termination (standard deviation of the mean cycle length, 25.8 ms; % greater than or equal to 40 ms, 16.7%) than during the stable period (standard deviation of the mean cycle length, 8.5 ms; % greater than or equal to 40 ms, 5.4%; p less than 0.001 for both). This was true irrespective of antiarrhythmic drug use, although the differences in the standard deviation of the mean cycle length for beats 11 to 1 and for beats 31 to 21 were greater for the antiarrhythmic drug group (29.6 vs 8.9 ms, p less than 0.001) than for the group not receiving antiarrhythmic drugs (11.0 vs 6.7 ms, difference not significant). No specific patterns of cycle length variability characteristic of VT termination were found. 
Expandable venous stents for treatment of the Budd-Chiari syndrome. The goals of treatment of the Budd-Chiari syndrome are relief of portal hypertension, relief of inferior vena cava syndrome, if present, and preservation of hepatic function. This study presents a patient with clinical resolution of the Budd-Chiari syndrome after placement of expandable metallic stents in the inferior vena cava and hepatic veins. A 26-year-old man with severe ascites and lower extremity edema but with relatively preserved hepatic function had a small gradient across a suprahepatic caval web, large gradients across an intrahepatic caval stenosis and the left hepatic vein, and an occluded right hepatic vein. Under angiographic control, web and caval stenosis were balloon-dilated, and modified Gianturco expandable metallic stents were placed in the intrahepatic vena cava. The left hepatic vein was dilated twice and a stent was placed. All gradients were completely eliminated. There were no complications and after 1 year, the stents have fully expanded without migration, edema and ascites have resolved, hepatic function has normalized, and the patient has returned to work. This new technique provides a simple, safe, effective, relatively inexpensive, and potentially long-lasting treatment for selected patients with the Budd-Chiari syndrome. 
Early and late effects of captopril treatment after large myocardial infarction in rats. The early (after 21 days) and late (after 4 months) effects of continuous treatment with captopril on left ventricular performance, weight and volumes were studied in rats with myocardial infarction. Early effects were examined in rats subjected to coronary ligation and randomized to either immediate treatment with captopril (2 g/liter drinking water) starting 2 h after surgery or no treatment. After 21 days, the treated group showed reductions in mean arterial, left ventricular systolic and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures compared with untreated rats. Right and left ventricular weight and left ventricular volumes were decreased and the ejection fraction index was increased by captopril treatment. To study the late effects of captopril, a second group of rats was randomized to immediate captopril treatment (starting 2 h after surgery), delayed captopril treatment (starting 21 days after surgery) or no treatment. When studied after 4 months of treatment, rats started on captopril treatment 2 h after infarction showed no differences compared with rats started on treatment 21 days after infarction. Treatment with captopril for 4 months produced changes that were similar to those in rats treated for 21 days. Captopril treatment improved hemodynamic function after myocardial infarction in rats examined after either 21 days or 4 months of treatment. The extent of the benefit was similar in the two treatment periods. Initiation of captopril therapy immediately after infarction did not appear to produce a greater effect than treatment started at 21 days after infarction in rats studied after the drug had been administered for 4 months. 
Ultrasonic integrated backscatter two-dimensional imaging: evaluation of M-mode guided acquisition and immediate analysis in 55 consecutive patients. We have shown previously that cardiac cycle-dependent integrated backscatter characterizes the physical state of myocardium in patients with ischemic heart disease and cardiomyopathy. In the present study the clinical applicability of M-mode guided two-dimensional integrated backscatter imaging was defined in evaluation of 55 nonselected patients. The mean amplitude of cyclic variation of integrated backscatter in normal segments (long-axis view) was as follows: basal septum, 4.2 +/- 1.3 dB (mean +/- SD; n = 27), mid-septum, 4.5 +/- 1.0 dB (n = 26), basal posterior, 4.8 +/- 1.0 dB (n = 30), and mid-posterior, 4.8 +/- 1.2 decibels (n = 27). The respective mean delay values (R wave to nadir) were as follows: 0.89 +/- 0.09, 0.84 +/- 0.09, 0.86 +/- 0.09, and 0.85 +/- 0.12. At least one cardiac cycle could be analyzed fully in 62% of patients. Limitations included technically difficult two-dimensional echocardiography, inadequate M-line orientation, technically remediable errors, or poor quality integrated backscatter images. In abnormal segments (n = 13) cyclic variation was reduced and delay was prolonged (1.2 +/- 1.1 dB and 1.21 +/- 1.1, respectively). Intraobserver and interobserver variability for amplitude measurements were modest, with respective correlation coefficients of r = 0.93; r = 0.72. The findings demonstrate that M-mode--assisted integrated backscatter is a practical approach for characterization of regional myocardial properties promptly and at the bedside in a large portion of patients with cardiac disease. 
Streptococcal endocarditis temporally related to transesophageal echocardiography. A case of streptococcal sanguis endocarditis temporally related to a transesophageal echocardiogram is reported; and the literature on the incidence of bacteremia occurring during transesophageal echocardiography is reviewed. On the basis of this case and review of the literature, a reevaluation of the current guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis during this procedure is recommended. 
The association of skin color with blood pressure in US blacks with low socioeconomic status To determine the association of skin color, measured by a reflectometer, with blood pressure in US blacks, we studied a community sample of 457 blacks from three US cities. Persons taking antihypertensive medications were excluded. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were higher in darker persons and increased by 2 mm Hg for every 1-SD increase in skin darkness. However, the association was dependent on socioeconomic status, whether measured by education or an index consisting of education, occupation, and ethnicity, being present only in person with lower levels of either indicator. Using multiple linear regression, both systolic and diastolic blood pressure remained significantly associated with darker skin color in the lower levels of socioeconomic status, independent of age, body mass index, and concentrations of blood glucose, serum urea nitrogen, serum uric acid, and urinary sodium and potassium. The association of skin color with blood pressure only in low socioeconomic strata may be due to the lesser ability of such groups to deal with the psychosocial stress associated with darker skin color. However, these findings also are consistent with an interaction between an environmental factor associated with low socioeconomic status and a susceptible gene that has a higher prevalence in persons with darker skin color. 
Trochanteric fractures. Mobility, complications, and mortality in 607 cases treated with the sliding-screw technique. Six hundred seven trochanteric fractures (563 patients) were treated with a sliding-screw technique and followed clinically and roentgenographically for at least one year. Of 351 patients admitted from their homes, 209 (60%) were discharged to their homes after an average of 18 days in the hospital. During the first year another 61 (17%) patients returned home after rehabilitation in a geriatric ward. Of 446 patients walking without support or with one cane before surgery, 360 (80%) had regained the same mobility after one year. The one-year mortality rate was 18%, while the ten-year rate was 74%. Compared with a control cohort, the mortality rate was increased during the first two years after fracture. The increase in mortality was influenced by advanced age, admission from long-term care institutions, male gender, and ambulatory or nonambulatory status before surgery. Forty-five (7.4%) were reoperated, 17 because of technical complications, three because of infection, and three because of nonunion. No further nonunions occurred. The deep infection rate was nine of 339 (2.7%) before and two of 268 (0.8%) after the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis. Thromboembolic complications decreased from 4.1% to 1.2% after the introduction of dextran 70 as thromboembolic prophylaxis. 
Electrocardiographic signal-averaging during atrial pacing and effect of cycle length on the terminal QRS in patients with and without inducible ventricular tachycardia. Electrocardiographic signal-averaging during sinus rhythm (61 to 99 beats/min) and atrial pacing (100 to 171 beats/min) were performed to determine the effect of heart rate on late potentials in 15 patients without (group 1) and 7 patients with (group 2) inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). In sinus rhythm (79 +/- 12 vs 77 +/- 12 beats/min, difference not significant), the duration of the low-amplitude signal less than 40 microV was longer in group 2 than group 1 (43 +/- 21 vs 26 +/- 8 ms, p = 0.034) and more patients had late potentials (57 vs 7%, p = 0.021), but QRS duration (121 +/- 32 vs 98 +/- 19 ms) and terminal voltage (33 +/- 33 vs 50 +/- 26 ms) were not significantly different. With atrial pacing in group 1 (128 +/- 16 beats/min), 3 patients developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal QRS duration consistent with a late potential, but mean total and terminal durations were unchanged. Terminal voltage increased (50 +/- 26 to 59 +/- 40) but not significantly. With atrial pacing in group 2 (119 +/- 12 beats/min) all patients either had a late potential or developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal QRS duration (p = 0.001 vs group 1). Root mean square (p = 0.001 vs group 1). Root mean square voltage decreased (33 +/- 23 to 22 +/- 23) and became significantly different from group 1 (p = 0.017). Mean QRS duration, root mean square terminal voltage and low-amplitude terminal QRS duration, however, were unchanged. 
Awareness of hypertension increases blood pressure and sympathetic responses to cold pressor test. The present study was aimed at examining the effects of awareness of hypertension on blood pressure and sympathetic responses to the cold pressor test. Nineteen-year-old men with similarly elevated mean blood pressure at a medical screening, but without knowledge of this, were randomized into two groups. The first group (n = 16) was sent a letter saying that their pressure was too high, and the second (n = 13) was sent a neutral letter. Information increased mean blood pressure both after 15 min sitting, by an average of 11.5 mm Hg (P less than .01), and after 30 min supine rest, by an average of 4.5 mm Hg (P less than .05). Changes in heart rate (8.4 +/- 2.4 v 1.9 +/- 1.7 beats/min) and plasma epinephrine (0.11 +/- 0.04 v 0.01 +/- 0.03 nmol/L) during execution of a cold pressor test were significantly greater in the informed group (P less than .05). Plasma dopamine was lower in the informed group (P less than .05). Thus, psychological stress caused by the awareness of hypertension may increase blood pressure and sympathetic responses to a provocative maneuver. Ideally, studies on sympathetic function in essential hypertension should be undertaken on subjects unaware of their blood pressure status. 
Reperfusion adjunctive therapy. The beneficial effects of coronary thrombolytic therapy may be enhanced by certain adjunctive therapies. Some of these are of proven value, some appear to offer no benefit in spite of theoretical advantages, and some remain to be evaluated in clinical trials. Acetylsalicylic acid markedly enhances the mortality reduction of thrombolytic therapy and should be used routinely. There is a strong theoretical rationale for the use of heparin, but evidence for its benefit exists primarily in small angiographic trials, and convincing clinical benefit has not yet been demonstrated. Early intravenous beta-blockers were shown in the prethrombolysis era to confer modest benefit, but extensive data on their adjuvant use with thrombolysis are available from only one trial. Intravenous nitrates were demonstrated to reduce mortality in the prethrombolysis era, and are soon to be evaluated in trials employing thrombolytic therapy. The calcium channel blockers, in spite of a variety of theoretical benefits, have proved to be of no value acutely, and in the subacute setting, only diltiazem appears to confer benefit in the subgroup of patients with non-O-wave infarction. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are likely to be of value in survivors of acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction, and benefits observed with acute use in experimental infarction are now being evaluated in clinical trials. 
Endocarditis in the 80s in a general hospital in Auckland, New Zealand. The clinical and investigative features of 102 episodes of infective endocarditis were analysed retrospectively. The most frequent presenting symptoms (malaise, fever, sweats, myalgia, weight loss) were non-specific. Fever, cardiac murmur, tachycardia, vascular phenomena and a change in mental state were the most common physical signs at admission. Anaemia was present in half the episodes and renal and liver dysfunction in about one-third. Streptococci (61) and staphylococci (31) were the causative organisms in all but 10 episodes. The commonest predisposing factors were underlying cardiac disease (52 per cent) and a preceding focus of infection (14.6 per cent). Left ventricular failure (33 per cent) and focal neurological disease (29 per cent) occurred frequently. Valvular surgery was performed in 20 episodes, with two in-hospital deaths. Overall hospital mortality was 27.5 per cent and death was most commonly neurological (11/28). A higher mortality was associated with elevated total white blood count, microscopic haematuria, renal or liver dysfunction at admission, S. aureus endocarditis, the development of left ventricular failure or focal neurological disease, age greater than or equal to 60 years and persistence of fever after one week of antibiotic therapy. The absence of both renal dysfunction at admission and subsequent microscopic haematuria identified a group with a very low hospital mortality (4.7 per cent). The three-year mortality of the entire group was 43.5 per cent. 
Racial and ethnic modifiers of the salt-blood pressure response. The relation between sodium and blood pressure is a centuries-old question. A substantial body of epidemiological and experimental data has accumulated that strongly implicates NaCl as having a causal role in the genesis of arterial hypertension. Prospective studies that have been performed in diverse populations that have manipulated NaCl exposure by diet or infusion have repeatedly documented an NaCl pressor effect. Further, similar studies in biracial populations have also demonstrated a greater prevalence of "salt sensitivity" in blacks compared with whites. The reasons for this observation are not entirely clear; however, intrinsic or hypertension-induced renal abnormalities that limit natriuretic capacity, reduced Na+,K(+)-ATPase pump activity, other membrane ion transport disturbances, differential exposure to psychological stressors, greater insulin resistance, and dietary factors (reduced Ca+ and K+ intake) have all been suggested as possibly playing a role. Salt sensitivity appears to be a widespread phenomenon. However, it is critically important to determine what factors account for racial differences in salt sensitivity. Moreover, the prevalence of salt sensitivity in the general population is unknown. Current definitions of salt sensitivity are varied and unidirectional. In comparison with bidirectional criteria (blood pressure increase with salt loading and blood pressure decrease with salt restriction), they are probably inadequate to identify salt-sensitive individuals who manifest less extreme blood pressure change after dietary sodium or plasma volume manipulations. More sensitive criteria for diagnosing salt sensitivity will facilitate a better understanding of racial and ethnic differences in the prevalence of salt sensitivity. 
Circumferential quantitative analysis of planar 201T1 myocardial scintigraphy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Methodology for the computer analysis of 201T1 myocardial perfusion images has been developed by several laboratories. Substantial evidence of the advantage of this approach over visual inspection alone has been reported. The currently available computer analyses use different algorithms to analyze 201T1 kinetics in the myocardium. The authors evaluated and compared two widely used software programs, Medical Data System (MDS): a mean-count profile, and the Cedars Sinai (CS): a maximal-count profile, of planar 201T1 scintigraphy for their ability to detect coronary artery disease (CAD). 
National Education Programs Working Group report on the management of patients with hypertension and high blood cholesterol. Cardiovascular diseases are responsible for nearly one of every two deaths in the United States, and have been estimated to cost more than $127 billion annually. Epidemiologic data have shown that persons with fewer or lower levels of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease are less likely to have a cardiovascular event. In addition, the greater the level of any single risk factor, the greater is the chance of incurring disease. Moreover, a combination of risk factors creates a synergistic effect, further increasing risk. Conversely, reducing the number and level of risk factors prevents death and disability from cardiovascular diseases. This report addresses the management of patients with several cardiovascular risk factors, placing a special emphasis on hypertension and high blood cholesterol. Nonpharmacologic therapy, in the form of proper diet, exercise, and smoking cessation, is the foundation for management of both hypertension and high blood cholesterol. Clinicians should use these nondrug measures as definitive or adjunctive therapy. Pharmacologic agents can be very beneficial in managing the risks imposed by elevated levels of blood pressure or blood cholesterol. In selecting medications, it is important to weight their benefits, costs, and potential untoward effects. Clinicians must consider these issues in managing patients with several risk factors but should not avoid managing any risk factor or quickly dismiss any particular mode of therapy simply because of the potential for adverse effects. 
Potential role of the tissue renin-angiotensin system in the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure. The circulating renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays an important role in the maintenance of cardiovascular homeostasis. It has recently been demonstrated that endogenous RAS exist in target tissues that are important in cardiovascular regulation. This article reviews the multiple effects of angiotensin II in target tissues, the evidence for the presence of functional tissue RAS and the data that suggest a role for these tissue RAS in the pathophysiology of heart failure. Activation of circulating neurohormones is predictive of worsened survival in heart failure; however, cardiac and renal tissue RAS activities are also increased in the compensated stage of heart failure, when plasma renin-angiotensin activity is normal. It is hypothesized that the plasma RAS maintains circulatory homeostasis during acute cardiac decompensation, while changes in tissue RAS contribute to homeostatic responses during chronic sustained cardiac impairment. This concept of different functions of circulating and tissue RAS in the pathophysiology of heart failure may have important pharmacologic implications. 
Avoiding interpretive pitfalls when assessing arrhythmia suppression after myocardial infarction: insights from the long-term observations of the placebo-treated patients in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Pilot Study (CAPS) The Cardiac Arrhythmia Pilot Study (CAPS) was a 1 year trial that analyzed the safety and effectiveness of arrhythmia suppression in 502 patients surviving acute myocardial infarction who had greater than or equal to 10 ventricular premature depolarizations/h or greater than or equal to 5 runs of ventricular tachycardia on a Holter recording obtained 6 to 60 days after the acute infarction. Because 100 of these patients received placebo in a double-blind fashion for 1 year, a comprehensive objective analysis was performed of spontaneous arrhythmia changes based on real data rather than statistical estimates. In the CAPS placebo group, 19% developed some serious clinical event in 1 year (death, heart failure, proarrhythmia) that could likely be attributable to antiarrhythmic drug toxicity. A significant reduction in the frequency of ventricular premature depolarizations (p = 0.004) occurred in the first few weeks of "therapy" with a further significant (p less than 0.04) decrease between 3 to 12 months. After initiation of placebo antiarrhythmic therapy, 27% had "apparent ventricular premature depolarization suppression" (greater than or equal to 70% reduction) after one Holter recording evaluation and nearly half (48%) after six Holter recordings to assess suppression were performed. 
Regulation of expression of M, B, and mitochondrial creatine kinase mRNAs in the left ventricle after pressure overload in rats. Pressure overload of the left ventricle induces synthesis of creatine kinase isoenzymes. To determine whether this response is associated with an altered pattern of creatine kinase gene expression, we induced arterial hypertension in rats by suprarenal aortic banding. After 4 days, left ventricular myocardium from hypertensive (n = 7) and normotensive, sham-operated (n = 5) rats was analyzed for isoenzyme activities by chromatography; M and B creatine kinase subunit protein by Western blot; and M, B, and mitochondrial creatine kinase mRNA by Northern blot. Although total creatine kinase activity increased in hypertensive (1,096 +/- 214 IU/g left ventricle) compared with normotensive rats (648 +/- 81 IU/g left ventricle, p less than 0.01), the relative proportions of the cytoplasmic and mitochondrial isoenzymes did not change. The mass of M and B subunits increased 1.9- and 2.7-fold, respectively, in hypertensive compared with control rats. Similarly, the mRNA for M and B subunits as well as mitochondrial creatine kinase increased 2.6-, 1.6-, and 1.8-fold, respectively, in hypertensive rats compared with control rats. Thus, increased energy requirements in acute pressure overload are met by generalized induction of creatine kinase mRNA and subunit protein and not by an isoenzyme switch. 
Hypertension: racial differences. Racial differences in the prevalence, course, and pathophysiologic characteristics of hypertension in black and white populations are reviewed. Accumulated epidemiologic data indicate that the prevalence of hypertension among blacks is greater than that among whites in almost all age- and sex-matched groups. Hypertensive blacks have a higher incidence of left ventricular dysfunction, stroke, and renal damage, but a lower incidence of ischemic heart disease, than do hypertensive whites. A significant pathophysiologic difference between blacks and whites is salt sensitivity; normotensive, as well as hypertensive, blacks tend to be salt sensitive. Blacks also tend to have lower renin levels than do whites, while dopamine response to a salt load is diminished among blacks as compared with whites. These differences and others lead to the recommendation that hypertension among blacks should be managed initially with salt restriction; if dietary control is insufficient, administration of an antihypertensive agent with 24-hour efficacy, which lowers vascular peripheral resistance, promotes sodium excretion, and potentially improves renal hemodynamics, is recommended. A calcium channel blocker may satisfy these requirements. 
Accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting physiologically significant coronary arterial lesions. The accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary artery stenosis has been assessed previously by comparing the exercise test with a coronary arteriogram. The inherent inaccuracy of visually determined percent diameter stenosis measurements might have lead to the conclusion that the exercise electrocardiogram was less accurate than it truly was. To determine the accuracy of the exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary stenosis, we studied 40 patients with one-vessel, one-lesion coronary artery disease, a normal resting electrocardiogram, and no hypertrophy or prior infarction. Each patient underwent exercise electrocardiography (Bruce protocol) that was interpreted as abnormal if the ST segment developed 0.1-mV or greater depression 80 msec after the J point. The physiological significance of each coronary stenosis was assessed by measuring of coronary flow reserve (peak divided by resting blood flow velocity) in the stenotic artery using a Doppler catheter and intracoronary papaverine (normal, 3.5 or greater peak/resting velocity). The percent diameter and percent area stenosis produced by each lesion were determined using quantitative angiography (Brown/Dodge method). Of the 17 patients with reduced coronary flow reserve (3.5 or greater peak/resting blood flow velocity) in the stenotic artery, 14 had an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram (sensitivity, 0.82; 95% confidence interval, 0.70-0.94). Conversely, 20 of 23 patients with normal coronary flow reserves had normal exercise tests (specificity, 0.87; 95% confidence interval, 0.77-0.97). The exercise electrocardiogram was abnormal in each of 11 patients with markedly reduced coronary flow reserve (less than 2.5 peak/resting velocity) and in three of six patients with moderately reduced reserve (2.5-3.4 peak/resting velocity). The products of systolic blood pressure and heart rate at peak exercise were significantly correlated with coronary reserve in patients with truly abnormal exercise tests. In comparison, the sensitivity (0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.46-0.76) and specificity (0.73; 95% confidence interval, 0.60-0.86) of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a 60% or greater diameter stenosis may be significantly lower (p less than 0.05). Exercise electrocardiography, therefore, was a good predictor of the physiological significance (assessed by coronary flow reserve) of a coronary stenosis in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram and no hypertrophy or prior infarction. Its value in a broader and larger patient population will require further study. These results, however, underscore the importance of a physiological gold standard in assessing the accuracy of noninvasive studies for detecting coronary artery disease. 
Clot-trapper device for transjugular thrombectomy from the inferior vena cava. The clot-trapper device for transjugular thrombectomy was used in 10 dogs with acute thrombosis and two dogs with chronic thrombosis. In eight of these animals, the clots were trapped with the clot-trapper device, then a mechanical thrombectomy device was used to destroy the clots. In 10 animals, including eight with in vitro thrombi and two with in situ thrombi, thrombi were efficiently trapped with the clot-trapper device. In two animals, pulmonary embolism occurred because of a discrepancy between the diameter of the inferior vena cava and the diameter of the bag opening. After increasing the size of the loop to match the diameter of the inferior vena cava, trapping of all thrombi was possible in both experiments (acute and chronic thrombosis). The clot-trapper device, in conjunction with an embolectomy balloon catheter and/or a mechanical thrombectomy device, facilitates the removal of thrombi from the inferior vena cava and iliac veins. 
Prevalence of Raynaud phenomenon in the adult population of South Carolina. A prevalence estimate for Raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of South Carolina was based on data obtained from respondents in a statewide health survey, followed by face-to-face interviews and clinical screening for Raynaud phenomenon, using a screening procedure developed by the authors. The survey obtained 5246 personal interviews from a probability sample of over 3000 households, and 494 survey subjects participated in the clinical screening. The prevalence estimates and their standard errors were computed using survey case weights, design-based estimation, and logistic modelling techniques. The prevalence of Raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of South Carolina was determined to be 3.5%, with a standard error of 0.6%. Prevalence was higher for females (4.3%, SE = 0.7%) than for males (2.7%, SE = 0.6%). These figures are much lower than most estimates in the existing literature on Raynaud phenomenon. 
Thallium reinjection after stress-redistribution imaging. Does 24-hour delayed imaging after reinjection enhance detection of viable myocardium? BACKGROUND. Thallium reinjection immediately after conventional stress-redistribution imaging improves the detection of viable myocardium, as many myocardial regions with apparently "irreversible" thallium defects on standard 3-4-hour redistribution images manifest enhanced thallium uptake after reinjection. Because the 10-minute period between reinjection and imaging may be too short, the present study was designed to determine whether 24-hour imaging after thallium reinjection provides additional information regarding myocardial viability beyond that obtained by imaging shortly after reinjection. METHODS AND RESULTS. We studied 50 patients with chronic stable coronary artery disease undergoing exercise thallium tomography, radionuclide angiography, and coronary arteriography. Immediately after the 3-4-hour redistribution images were obtained, 1 mCi thallium was injected at rest, and images were reacquired at 10 minutes and 24 hours after reinjection. The stress, redistribution, reinjection, and 24-hour images were then analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively. Of the 127 abnormal myocardial regions on the stress images, 55 had persistent defects on redistribution images by qualitative analysis, of which 25 (45%) demonstrated improved thallium uptake after reinjection. At the 24-hour study, 23 of the 25 regions (92%) with previously improved thallium uptake by reinjection showed no further improvement. Similarly, of the 30 regions determined to have irreversible defects after reinjection, 29 (97%) remained irreversible on 24-hour images. These findings were confirmed by the quantitative analysis. The mean normalized thallium activity in regions with enhanced thallium activity after reinjection increased from 57 +/- 13% on redistribution studies to 70 +/- 14% after reinjection but did not change at 24 hours (71 +/- 14%). In regions with irreversible defects that were unaltered by reinjection, mean regional thallium activity did not differ from the reinjection to the 24-hour studies (57 +/- 17% and 58 +/- 17%, respectively). Twenty-four-hour imaging after reinjection showed improvement in only four of 35 irreversible regions (involving three of the 50 patients). CONCLUSIONS. These data indicate that thallium reinjection at rest after 3-4 hours of redistribution provides most of the clinically relevant information pertaining to myocardial viability in regions with apparently irreversible thallium defects. Hence, thallium reinjection may be used instead of 24-hour imaging in most patients in whom a persistent thallium defect is observed on conventional redistribution images. 
Primary defect in alpha-adrenergic responsiveness in patients with varicose veins. Responsiveness of superficial hand veins to local infusions of noradrenaline was compared in patients with primary varicose veins and in healthy volunteers by use of the dorsal hand vein technique. Patients with varicose veins required significantly higher doses of noradrenaline for half-maximal venoconstriction than the dose required by control subjects (geometric mean, 11.6 ng/min in patients compared with 4.8 ng/min in control subjects; p = 0.006). Noradrenaline responsiveness in varicose veins was not significantly different from hand vein responsiveness in the same patients. Our findings indicate a constitutional decrease in venous alpha-adrenergic receptor responsiveness in patients with varicosities. Dilation of varicose veins does not further affect noradrenaline-induced venoconstriction. 
A blood-liquid interface for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation with excellent antithrombogenicity. The authors verified the excellent antithrombogenicity of a blood-liquid interface (BLI) and introduced an oxygenator based on the principle of gas exchange across direct BLI. In a newly developed oxygenator, three layers of liquid flowed horizontally, contacting one another: O2 saturated silicone oil on the top, O2 saturated fluorcarbon at the bottom, and blood in the middle. Gas exchange was carried out across both direct BLIs. This system provided excellent antithrombogenicity as well as good gas exchange. The results indicate that this method will become a promising modality for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation. 
Giant-cell arteritis of the uterus with associated temporal arteritis: a case report. Giant-cell arteritis involving the uterus was identified incidentally upon hysterectomy and anterior colporrhaphy for uterine prolapse. Subsequently, the patient was found to have giant-cell temporal arteritis presenting with fever of unknown origin. Fourteen previous cases involving the female genital tract have been reported. There appears to be an association between constitutional symptoms of fever, weight loss, malaise, headache, and polymyalgia rheumatica in elderly women with uterine prolapse and giant-cell arteritis of the genital tract. The rare presentation of giant-cell arteritis in the female genital tract does not support invasive costly evaluation in asymptomatic patients. However, a thorough investigation for involvement of other sites, including appropriate treatment for generalized disease, should be undertaken. 
The determinants and prognostic significance of serum uric acid in elderly patients of the European Working Party on High Blood Pressure in the Elderly trial. Determinants and risks associated with serum uric acid were investigated in 822 elderly hypertensive patients treated with hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene or placebo. Pretreatment serum uric acid levels were significantly higher in men than in women and had positive correlation with serum creatinine. After adjustment for serum creatinine, positive correlations of serum uric acid with body weight and fasting blood glucose in women and with serum cholesterol in men were significant. During follow-up, serum uric acid increased significantly in the treated patients, but remained unchanged in the placebo group. Total, cardiovascular, and noncardiovascular mortality were unrelated to initial serum uric acid levels. One placebo patient and seven treated patients developed gout. Of those seven, most were male patients and had significantly higher serum levels of uric acid and creatinine than the other patients. Gender and renal function were the major determinants of serum uric acid in elderly hypertensive patients. 
Quadricuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation diagnosed by Doppler echocardiography: report of two cases and review of the literature. Two cases of patients with quadricuspid aortic valve diagnosed by Doppler echocardiography are presented. Aortic regurgitation was detected by pulsed Doppler echocardiography in both patients. Because they were young patients, this aortic regurgitation indicated that aortic regurgitation is not necessarily a late-developing event, as has been thought previously. 